

=== FILE: 23 Trenbolone Case Reports Analyzed ｜ TL;DR - It’s Poison!! Or Is It？ [g-pKdoQ-ycw].txt ===

 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl For you guys, fresh off the presses, a study which indexes all relevant human case reports where Tremblone was a contributing factor to hospital admittance or even death. Yes, Tremblone was being used when these subjects passed away. Now, was it the sole root cause or did these patients pass away from a horrible bout of Trencoff? There's only one way to find out. Let's dive into the study together and see if we still want to use Tremblone after we're done reading, reviewing, and analyzing this study and painstakingly trying to come up with ways to justify further Tremblone news going forward. This literature review was performed by Lucas Casiri Camara, Diogo Pinto da Costa Viana, and Lucio de Sousa Monte Alto, who are all from Brazil. Fingers crossed I didn't butcher your guys' names. I tried my absolute best to pronounce these names correctly. This is like my 10th take already, but I have limited understanding of Portuguese. Desculpe. Anyway, this study is titled Adverse Effects of Tremblone, a Structured Review of Case Reports in Humans. It was published on March 14th, 2025, so that's a little bit over a month ago, and it was published in the World Journal of Pharmaceutical Science and Research. Let's dive into it. Here in the introduction, the researchers mentioned that Tremblone is being used to improve feed efficiency in cattle, and due to its potent anabolic properties, increasing body weight and overall muscle mass in these animals, it quickly gained interest in the bodybuilding community. Even though there is no regulatory agency which approved Tremblone for human usage, and the human clinical trial data is extremely limited. Which isn't exactly true. Tremblone hexhydrobenzocarbonate was actually approved for human medical treatments in France between the 1980s and 1979, after which it was voluntarily discontinued, likely due to heavy abuse by the bodybuilding community. And from France, Parabolin, which was the brand name, found its way all over the world and was readily used in the bodybuilding community, as many of the IFP pros have documented in the early to late 1990s. It was produced by Laboratories NECMA, aka NECMA Pharmaceuticals. Unfortunately, we only have the front page of the medical insert available. I was never able to find the back page of the medical insert, which might contain references or citations to human studies or human clinical trials. These were unfortunately never published, not to be found anywhere, but they might be sitting in a vault within Merck Animal Health USA, who owns the rights to Tremblone acetate, and still produces various veterinary Tremblone products to this day. Anyway, I discuss all of this in the Tremblone deep dive video, gift I want to watch if you haven't already. Further on in the introduction, the researchers mentioned that in the animal studies, there are clear observed adverse effects and toxicity concerns. Now, these toxicity concerns are mostly coming from the animals surrounding the cattle ranches where Tremblone acetate is being administered to cattle, and then they basically pee out the Tremblone or the Tremblone metabolites. It's seeping into the groundwater, and thus all of the surrounding animals are polluted with Tremblone or Tremblone metabolites. And the adverse effects observed in animals are rarely reported, to be honest, from all of the studies that I read. And mostly, these animal models look into feed efficiency. How much extra meat can this cow produce when we supplement a little bit of Tremblone sandwich in for the same amount of food, right? They gain 25% more muscle by the addition of Tremblone, and that's a lot more cost effective. Now, obviously, there are concerns from the lack of human clinical data or overall safety data in human subjects. And thus, they aim to provide a comprehensive literature review of all of the human case reports to identify patterns of adverse effects and provide clinically relevant information for safer usage in patients. Then again, Tremblone users and abusers are not patients. We don't use Tremblone for medical conditions. Medical conditions we don't suffer from. And Tremblone users don't suffer from cachexia or states of undernutrition and are certainly not elderly. When you're old, you shouldn't be using Tremblone. You should just relax on TRT only. Tremblone we don't use following a major surgery. We use BPC-157, TB-500, GHK-Copper, growth hormone, anivar, and collagen peptides, allegedly. Tremblone we don't use to resolve extensive burns or bed sores. And when we are senile or we have glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, we don't use Tremblone for that. And if we do use Tremblone, most bodybuilders don't limit themselves to 76 milligrams per bolin yielding 50 milligrams net Tremblone per injection done every 15 days to every month. So the medical treatment dosages, which were at one point or another approved in France up until 1997, we completely forego. And the dosages we take in most instances are far, far, far, far higher. The researchers looked for applicable human case reports on PubMed, Embase, and Central, using various keywords related to the Tremblone sandwich. They aim to obtain relevant information, including patient gender, age, history of Tremblone use, their medical history and history of other drug use or abuse, the affected organs, laboratory findings, toxicology screening, and even organ imaging. So they were very thorough. I got to give them credit for that. That's not something I did for the Tremblone deep dive because I felt that the Tremblone case reports were a little bit all over the place and not exactly what I was aiming for, for the Tremblone deep dive. So we got to give these guys some credit because they did all the work for us. And I'm just here analyzing their results. In the results of this study, the researchers indexed the adverse findings in table two. You see here that all patients were male. No surprise there. Women shouldn't be using Tremblone unless they compete in a bodybuilding competition, but we'll save that for a different discussion in a different video. Eight men were between 20 to 30 years old. Ten men were between 30 to 40 years old. Two between 40 and 50 years old. And two were close to 60 years old. Imagine taking Tremblone when you're 60 years old. Again, you should stick to TRT and TRT only when you're over 50, 55 years old, in my opinion. That's exactly what I'm going to do. So I got about 15 years left. To be fair, though, the adverse effects are kind of all over the place. They aren't very consistent. There are six instances of cardiovascular disease, half of which were determined posthumously after death. And as we all know, cardiovascular or heart disease, left ventricular hypertrophy or heart failure doesn't happen overnight. That happens over a multitude of different years. Not acutely as you're taking Tremblone. So was Tremblone a contributing factor? Very likely. But was it the sole root cause of cardiovascular disease, heart failure or even death? Probably not. There were five instances of liver-related complications, most of which have reported polypharmacy, long-term steroid use or abuse in general, or the use of other ergogenic aids, as well as chronic alcohol consumption while using Tremblone. Again, liver-related complications could be caused by a multitude of different factors, including lifestyle choices, right? When you're taking Tremblone, you shouldn't be drinking alcohol, especially not chronically and insane high dosages. Because that's the Ziz way, that's the Gen Pop way. If you're a little bit older, take care of your health, take care of your liver, especially when you're using Tremblone. Because as you'll see from the study, Tremblone might have a modifying effect on bile acid secretion. If you're not supplementing with TUTCA, then liver health obviously is going to take a turn for the worst. Even though the animal models show that Tremblone is somewhat liver safe. There were three instances of kidney injury, one of which was actually related to rhabdomyolysis. Kidney injury can be caused by chronic oxidative stress or chronically elevated blood pressure, just like chronically elevated blood pressure can have a negative effect on heart health in your cardiovascular system, which can occur with any kind of steroid. This is well documented with a couple different steroids, including Nandrolone. And kidney injury in general is very well documented with BOLDENON, both in animal models and human subjects. I already made a deep dive describing the human subject and the animal models in a two-parter deep dive. But these studies have not been reproduced in other steroids. So you might say that BOLDENON is absolutely deleterious and terrible for kidney health. But if these same studies, these same models have not been reproduced in the other steroids, then all you have to go with is case reports. And you might be able to say that BOLDENON is deleterious for your health and Tremblone, due to the case reports, is also deleterious for your health. But if kidney injury has never been studied in Mastroone or Primabolin or testosterone or the other steroids, that doesn't mean that those steroids are safe for your kidneys. Absence of evidence doesn't equal evidence of absence, right? Keep this in mind going forward. I don't think that any steroid is kidney safe if you don't manage your oxidative stress or your blood pressure. What is interesting, though, and I'm sure some of you guys can relate to this to a certain extent, five cases of brain trauma, mostly manifesting psychological issues and disorders, which, well, it's very likely related to Tremblone. I mean, the documented cases anecdotally and even in the scientific evidence regarding Tremblone's terrible negative effects on your mood and your overall composure is extensive. Let's be honest. And these case reports are basically the worst of the worst. What can happen while using Tremblone? We'll dive into that a little bit more later on. And there are a few single case reports with a wide range of adverse effects, including acne, eye herpes, diabetes, injection depot complications resulting in necrosis, which is very likely related to some random underground lab that's completely unsterile or produced in synthetic carrier oil, literally dissolving the muscle from the inside or the bacteria eating away at the muscle from the inside. And Tremblone, there's even one case report resulting in pancreatitis. I think all of these case reports can be explained away. They aren't solely related to Tremblone. Well, maybe the acne is. Don't watch. Don't read that case report. It's absolutely disgusting, brutal graphic imagery. We're not going to show to you guys, but the citations are all linked down below in case you want to get some snuff in for the day. And there are more case report findings indexed in table three and four, but it's a little bit hard to interpret what the dosage patterns, the toxicology, the polypharmacy, and the patient health background for each commonly reported complication actually is. So I made it very easy for your dopamine depleted, trend brain, and grouped everything together. You're welcome. So let's get started with the cardiovascular related complications. First, being case reports 5, 11, 12, 17, 20, and 22. And doesn't this look nice and tidy and comprehensive? Here we can clearly see that two out of four guys passed away while using Tremblone, which was confirmed during the autopsy. They were around 60 years old. The other two were around 30 years old. So I don't think this can happen to you if you're reasonably young. If you're using Trin into your 30s, you can pass away at any time. Even though, again, I don't think that Tremblone is the sole root cause of these four guys passing away. Three out of four were using other steroids or other ergogenic aids chronically. So again, compounding factors resulting into their demise. Unfortunately, in these deaths, the dosages of Tremblone were not reported. Were they using excessive dosages of Tremblone or just a teeny tad bit, let's say 50 milligrams per week. We'll never know. Unfortunately, in case report, 17 Tremblone dosages ranged between 500 milligrams to 700 milligrams weekly for total cycle duration of six weeks to 10 weeks. This person probably did multiple Tremblone cycles yearly. We'll discuss case 17 a little bit more in depth later on because this is considered a high-dose Tremblone case report. And that's always very interesting to dive into. And in the case of case 20, there's even daily use of Tremblone for over a year. Now, unfortunately, the total weekly intake of Tremblone was not reported. But this person suffered a heart attack at 23 years old after a year long of Tremblone abuse, basically. So this all sounds like chronic Tremblone exposure to me. It's probably not a good idea to take higher doses of Tremblone for longer periods of time, especially when you're six years old combined with polypharmacy. So a little bit caution is advised. Low-dose, short-duration Tremblone is probably the best way to go. Next, our case reports 2, 6, 7, 13, and 19 discussing liver-related complications. Keep in mind that most of the men in these case reports were below 30 years old. So it looks like they don't make those livers like they used to. I mean, my liver is pretty resilient. And I took Tremblone up to 1,000 milligrams weekly. I mean, I was a walking bundle of side effect. Don't do what I did in the past. 1,000 milligrams of Tremblone for four weeks. It was absolute hell, but my liver markers were actually quite acceptable at that time. But I also eat healthy, and I don't drown my sorrows in alcohol-fueled rages like most adolescents do, and then forget to report that during hospital admittance. Dosages ranged between 175 milligrams Tremblone weekly up to 1,000 milligrams Tremblone weekly. Don't worry. We'll discuss case 2 in depth a little bit later on. Case 13 was taking 175 milligrams Tremblone weekly, but he got his Tremblone from Thailand. At age 21, he developed severe cholestasis. I mean, we all know that that Thai trend hits differently. Only case report 7 reported excessive alcohol consumption at 300 milligrams Tremblone weekly, resulting in severe cholestasis and nephropathy. But I suspect all of the other case reports, or at least the guys below 30 years old, that they were using other recreational drugs or alcohol or maybe even combining their Tremblone with Superdrol, which was shown to be liver toxic in every single case report. Yes, 100% of the case reports surrounding Superdrol were about severe liver toxicity. Tremblone and other steroids, as well as arimidex, are known to reduce bile acid production. So take your Tatka, avoid the alcohol, and shut the f*** up, genses. So take your Tatka, avoid the alcohol, and let's see what we can learn from those. Unfortunately, there's not much to go with. Case 4 reported five years of Tremblone use, probably on and off again. And case 7 used 300 milligrams Tremblone weekly and drank alcohol excessively over the weekend. This is probably also not a good idea. And case 8 only did two injections resulting in a rhabdomyolysis. Now, elevated blood pressure, oxidative stress, low antioxidant status, low estradiol levels, dehydration, probably from excessive alcohol consumption, whether that's daily or over the weekend, for example, can all contribute to kidney stress. Is Tremblone terrible for kidneys, or is it terrible lifestyle choices making your kidneys melt? It's probably both, because Tremblone is, in many cases, a terrible lifestyle choice, because they're not doing everything correctly and staying sufficiently hydrated, taking the prophylactic ancillaries to control blood pressure, and doing everything that they need to do to keep their antioxidant status as high as possible, right? So I think Tremblone was a contributing factor, but only because terrible lifestyle choices were in place. I mean, if you don't follow a healthy lifestyle, then Tremblone will f*** your kidneys harder than most steroids will. And getting rhabdomyolysis resulting in acute kidney injury from only two Tremblone injections, as reported in case 8, could be explained by injecting synthetic carrier oils, like glycol or propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, for example, which are synthetic solvents that, again, are literally dissolving you from the inside, resulting in rhabdomyolysis as all of these metabolic waste products, all of these proteins, the creatine and the liver enzymes and all that stuff, is dumping into the bloodstream, and thus are burdening the kidneys, resulting in acute kidney injury, because they can't process all of these metabolic waste products, and these synthetic solvents and the inflammation out from the body fast enough. Now, I couldn't really find much in this case report, so I'm just speculating here, but it's always advised to stay away from synthetic carrier oils and not give yourself rhabdomyolysis from one or two injections, whether that's Tremblone, testosterone, primobolin, mastron, etc. It doesn't really matter, it's not related to Tremblone, it's related to the carrier oils. Lastly, case 1, 15, 16, 21, and 23, which go over psychiatric, psychological, and neurological issues, as well as direct brain injury in the form of eczemic stroke. For 12 weeks consecutively, case 16 resulted in homicide, the deletion of his girlfriend. That's pretty terrible, and there are several reports of men deleting their girlfriends or wives while using steroids, not just Tremblone. Again, that's the worst of the worst case reports that you could possibly have. And when you compare that to murders on alcohol, it's probably a disproportionate amount. So let's be fair here, alcohol murders or recreational drug murders far exceeds steroid murders when you look at the total picture. But I think we can all agree that Tremblone f***s with your mind to a certain extent, just like alcohol f***s with your mind, or recreational drugs f***s with your mind. And the combination of Tremblone with alcohol or Tremblone with recreational drugs or Tremblone alcohol and recreational drugs with an unstable mind is probably a recipe for murderous tendencies or, at the lowest extent, delirium or psychosis, right? So, yeah, a little bit of caution is advised. If you want to use one compound, stick with one. Stick with either train or alcohol or recreational drugs. And if you have an unstable mind, don't use any of these compounds. I'm sure you guys can all agree with that statement. I mean, some people experience these terrible side effects already without taking Tremblone or without taking drugs. These people are just messed up and should be locked up far away from the Tremblone sandwich or the all-you-can-drink alcohol buffet. And again, the rest of the case reports are individual cases of adverse effects that aren't solely related to the usage of Tremblone. Tremblone could be caused by a multitude of different factors, whether that's Tremblone in combination with a multitude of different factors or a multitude of different factors not related to Tremblone. But unfortunately, Tremblone was used at that time. Many of these adverse effects can be caused by other performance-ennouncing drugs, not just steroids or general lifestyle choices. In the discussion, the researchers mentioned that Tremblone abuse was associated with a wide range of adverse health effects, albeit that it's very hard to determine that these adverse effects were solely caused by Tremblone and not an unfortunate result of several circumstances, polypharmacy, lifestyle choices or other factors, all while using Tremblone at that point in time. Here, the researchers also referenced to the best anecdotal Tremblone study we have at this point in time, Timothy Piatkowski's My Mind Pretty Much Went to Mush study, which, like this index of case reports, highlights the correlation between Tremblone and psychological distress and verbal aggression. And I already went through that study extensively here on this YouTube channel, so don't forget to give that video a watch and a like and a comment and a subscribe and share it with all of your friends and follow the citations so you can read that study for yourself and laugh hysterically at the Tremblone quotes that the researchers highlight. And this is pretty funny. I found this in the discussion, which either confirms that the researchers were part of the GH15 boardings back in the day before it got wiped off the internet or they simply forgot to translate Tremblone in Portuguese to Tremblone in English. I think that they visited the GH15 boarding. That's a more likely and more plausible and more interesting explanation. In the conclusion, the researchers mentioned that Tremblone, like other anabolic androgenic steroids, are associated with heart failure, myocardial infarction, cholestatic liver injury, nephropathy, and psychiatric disorders. But they failed to mention that many of these adverse effects can be avoided, can be mitigated, and be resolved with intelligent use, low dose, short duration, Tremblone usage, and using prophylactic ancillaries to control your blood pressure, which already prevents left ventricular hypertrophy and damage to the kidneys. Or ancillaries like cholesterol medications that prevent plaque buildup, further preventing cardiovascular disease down the road. And using TUTCA to prevent liver injury or liver damage or other issues with your digestive tract. And God forbid you use something like a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, like fluvoxamine or vortioxadine, which are very potent regarding neurogenesis, and might be able to offset some of the neurotoxic effects that Tremblone potentiates. Or using a myo-inhibitor, like methylene blue, for example, which might be able to prevent this bronchoconstriction or lack of oxygenation that you get on Tremblone, hindering your endurance and stamina. And of course, the myo-inhibiting effects of methylene blue increase your serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine levels, which can also help you modulate your mood while using Tremblone and offset and mitigate Trenrage altogether. The researchers also mentioned that Tremblone's toxicity is poorly understood due to the lack of clinical evidence performed in humans, which is very, very true. I mean, besides this study and a Timothy Piotrkowski study and a couple studies locked in the Merck Animal Health USA vault, potentially, that's all we basically have to work with. And then there's 900 animal models and in vitro studies that we can learn something from. But I think the bodybuilding community, the fitness community, has done an excellent job on educating everybody that wants to use Tremblone, regarding its potential side effects. I mean, the documented cases anecdotally on Tremblone usage and how to mitigate side effects, aplenty, not only on this YouTube channel in the form of the Tremblone deep dive or other Tremblone videos that I made in the past. You can find videos about Tremblone or Reddit reports on Tremblone or pages upon pages on the steroid forums about Tremblone and how to mitigate the side effects. So even though there's no human clinical data, I think the community has done an excellent job on how to educate everybody else in the community and how to minimize and mitigate side effects regarding Tremblone use, whether that's short-duration, low-dose Tremblone usage or using prophylactic ancillaries regarding harm reduction and risk mitigation. When it comes to Tremblone, I think we have a firm grasp on how to minimize the adverse effects. I agree with the researchers where they mentioned that among most case reports, toxicology screening was not performed, meaning that we can't be 100% sure that Tremblone was even present in their system when all of these adverse effects started to manifest. And they also not reported what the exact Tremblone dosages were or for how long they were taking Tremblone until these adverse effects started to manifest. So a lot of conjecture and incomplete information in these case reports, I would say. And only five out of the 23 case reports, toxicology screening was performed, but it was mostly during the autopsy after the patient had passed away. And the rest of the case reports included self-reported Tremblone usage, but we still don't know exactly sure how much of a contributing factor Tremblone played into the observed adverse effects. Was it Tremblone 100% the root cause of these observed effects or maybe 1%, 5%, 10%? I guess we'll never know. The researchers mentioned that there should be more Tremblone education for the Tremblone users as well as the healthcare providers to minimize risk and reduce harm. But to be fair, the education is already out there, whether that's here on this YouTube channel or on the steroid forums, on Reddit, behind paywall on the membership sites, various anabolics books. There's plenty of steroid education and Tremblone education out there. All you have to do is go out and look and educate yourself. And that being said, the large majority of the Tremblone users, especially the abusers out there, they choose not to educate themselves. They don't do their blood work. They don't manage their blood pressure. They don't live a healthy lifestyle cooking all of their own meals. And they actually take way too much strength to compensate for the lack of effort that they put into the kitchen as well as into the gym. That's the problem here. And that's where most of these case reports are stemming from. If you go through all of the case reports, you see that there's maybe one or two bodybuilders at most. And that brings me to the next fact. The large majority of the Tremblone users out there are basically borderline retarded. Just go to TikTok where you can see the Tremblone challenge, the 30-day Tremblone challenge. None of those guys are bodybuilders. They take Tremblone for the sake of it. They want to experiment with it. They haven't put in the foundation to become a bodybuilder. I mean, Tremblone is meant for bodybuilders, strongmen, or powerlifters at the highest level, especially for competitive athletes. But Tremblone is now being used, being popped as tic-tacs. And this is where most of these case reports and most of the adverse effects are actually stemming from. Again, most people who take Tremblone are actual gym rats and have no business taking Tremblone in the first place. And I really don't think that healthcare professionals have any responsibility educating Tremblone abusers at all. I mean, why would you risk losing your medical license over people who choose to take veterinary drugs themselves? I mean, we decide to take these drugs. We decide to take Tremblone. So it's our responsibility to educate ourselves about harm reduction and risk mitigation with the information, which is provided aplenty all over the internet. Putting the responsibility of education in the hands of a doctor is the easy and the pussy way out. And if you really don't want to educate yourself, do the research and sift through hours and hours and hours of high-quality content, including Tremblone deep dive, which is linked down below. If you don't want to do that, if you want to know what Tremblone actually does, go to a bodybuilding gym or a cattle ranch and ask around there, dude. And again, further human studies will never be performed on Tremblone since it's not an FDA-approved medication in humans, at least not after 1997, that is. And I'm sure those human studies will stay locked in the Merck Animal Health USA vault indefinitely, because from what I've heard, those human studies are kind of immoral and inhumane, like how parabolin treatment affected the fetus during the pregnancy of women who were treated with parabolin for various medical reasons. So long story short, too long didn't read, Tremblone poses significant risk, especially when you take it at higher dosages for longer periods of time. I mean, just look at the case reports and the reports anecdotally of high-dose long-term Tremblone sandwich usage. That's why the exposure duration should be reasonably short at lower dosages, which are still effective if you combine it with other anabolic androgenic steroids or performance-enhancing drugs, which are reasonably anabolic. So maybe six to eight weeks at moderate triple-digit dosages at the end of a contest prep, let's say 150 milligrams, 225 milligrams, maybe 350 milligrams, Tremblone acetate or annotate or hexahydrobenzocarbonate, again, the last couple of weeks of a contest prep, depending on your level of experience and your overall muscularity and what level of competition you're going to compete in, and maybe lower double-digit dosages for, let's say, six to eight weeks, sometimes during an off-season phase, at most 12 weeks, assuming that the dose is very close to the medical dosages used in the 1980s up until 1997. So we're talking about 50 milligrams to 25 milligrams Tremblone acetate per week. Yes, I've done this. It worked great. Still, watch the Tremblone deep dive if you're not entirely sure on why these low-effective dosages actually work. And this is only, only if you have your shit together, you follow a healthy lifestyle, you've got all of the prophylactic ancillaries in place to make sure that all of the side effects, which are commonly associated with Tremblone, even at lower dosages, are completely mitigated. Now, before we close off this video, there's one high-dose Tremblone case report that I want to highlight here, as I didn't include it in the Tremblone deep dive. And high-dose Tremblone usage seems to be one of those elusive subjects that was mostly lost with the GH15 boarding. This study, this case report was performed by Kang et al., published in October 2019, titled Tremblone-induced liver injury. I mean, with that title, it sparks my interest. In this case report, a young and dumb 23-year-old male went to the hospital with complaints of jaundice and general body weakness, which...  autoprilschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschsch admittance his total bit of ruben was 13.44 milligrams per deciliter which is 11 times above the reference range which goes up to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter liver enzymes AST was 159 units per liter which is four and a half times out of the reference range going up to 34 units per liter liver enzyme ALT was 425 units per liter seven half times above the reference range which goes up to 55 units per liter protrombin time was 11 seconds international normalized ratio INR was one and alkaline phosphatase was 142 units per liter which all fall within normal healthy parameters they performed the liver ultrasound showing that the liver was normal size without biliary obstruction three days later they rechecked his blood work parameters total bilirumin fell down to 12.54 milligrams per deciliter still 10 times above the reference range liver enzyme AST fell down to 135 units per liter now only four times out of the reference range ALT fell down to 320 units per liter now a mere six times out of the reference range pro trombin time international normalized ratio and alkaline phosphatase improved slightly but remained within normal healthy parameters so you think he's off the hook right you think that he's improving right wrong 10 days after the initial hospitalization total bilirumin doubled it's doubled to 29.5 milligrams per deciliter close to 25 times out of the reference range the good news is that AST dropped to 78 units per liter and ALT dropped to 123 units per liter so that's only double out of the reference range however though pro trombin time was now 20.1 seconds international normalized ratio INR was 1.85 and alkaline phosphatase jumped up to 242 units per liter all close to double out of the reference range the 23 year old male patient denied further tremolone use but if you have a history of a thousand milligrams tremolone sandwich per week for eight weeks and then you see your liver enzymes and all of your other blood work parameters start improving after hospital admittance what is a 23 year old male to do right we go right back to the trombinone sandwich now he denied any further tremolone use upon physical examination the doctors noted that jaundice had worsened and they wrote him a prescription to audition for the yellow power ranger that's not actually true but that's the least inappropriate joke I can make here he underwent an abdominal MRI which was luckily unremarkable the patient was discharged from the hospital and prescribed ursodiol at 300 milligrams orally twice daily after which the patient's liver chemistry improved in one week and he returned to baseline after one month so what did we learn from this case report say it with me now if you're going to make a dose tremolone then make sure you also make a dose TATCA or ATCA so you don't end up like Timmy and while we're at it there's one more high dose tremolone case report I want to highlight here performed by Bispo et al published on june 21st 2009 titled anabolic steroid induced cardiomyopathy underlying acute liver failure in a young bodybuilder I'm not entirely sure if that guy was young he was 40 years old but it's a bodybuilder nonetheless and again most of the case reports don't really specify if these people were across still gonna pronounce that word strongman power lifters or actual bodybuilders they just reported the age and the gender and that's about it this high dose tremolone case report details a 40 year old male bodybuilder doing short six to ten week cycles consisting of the anabol winstrel anadryl decadurbolin testosterone and tremolone so lots of orals and lots of 19-nors and estrogenic compounds in the mix with a tremolone nthate dosage ranging between 500 milligrams to 700 milligrams weekly it's unclear what this 40 year old bodybuilder was running at the time exactly that he was admitted to the hospital but he self-reported these compounds and specifically mentioned that it was running tremolone between 500 milligrams to 700 milligrams weekly after a month of experiencing various side effects and the full discontinuation of the steroid cycle so he was already off cycle for an entire month he admitted himself to the hospital at the time of admittance liver enzyme AST was 7879 units per liter holy moly liver enzyme ALT was 7125 units per liter i shouldn't be laughing at this but this is insane um total but the rubin was 6.8 milligrams per deciliter serum ammonia was 73 micromoles per liter creatinine was 3.8 milligrams per liter or milligrams per deciliter and lactose deandrogenase was 7 140 units per liter all in indicating acute liver and kidney failure i'll be scared to death if my blood work parameters ended up that high now is tremolone the sole root cause probably not right deanabol, winstrel, anadrol, adegadurbolin, testosterone and tremolone at various doses all mixed together for uh cycles of well at least it was reasonably short six to eight weeks but maybe he was blasting his socks off of 700 milligrams of each of these compounds that's like four to five grams in total i guess we'll never know um he was transferred to the intensive care after hospital admittance where symptoms and signs of congestive congestive heart failure became evident the patient slowly recovered over the course of 16 days so that's a reasonably fast recovery considering how bad his liver enzymes uh and and all the other blood work parameters were which signs of congestive heart failure and full-blown acute liver injury and kidney damage 16 days is a miraculously fast recovery after those 16 days he was discharged with oral anticoagulation medications and again in this case report there's too much polypharmacy and long-term chronic steroid exposure in place to solely lay the blame on tremolone alone and i think we can all agree that juicing hearts for six to eight weeks with only short two to three weeks breaks in between those blasting steroid cycles isn't enough to ensure long-term health i mean i think this guy broke his body himself um due to his own negligence tremolone is the least of his problems and all in all i would say that just 23 case reports showing the deleterious effects of tremolone is actually quite low for the amount of tremolone use and abuse that is occurring worldwide at any given time in the bodybuilding and fitness community i mean 23 case reports uh i would consider that low yeah then again most of the guys that take tremolone they don't admit themselves in the hospital and turn themselves into a worthy subject of a case report which is being published on pubmed or some of the other publication websites and and to be fair i mean i've gone up to a thousand milligrams tremolone per week for four weeks in duration i was a walking bundle of side effects but i did not experience side effects to the point that i needed to admit myself to the hospital and was worthy of a published case report so with that being said i think there's way more um anecdotal reports of adverse effects with tremolone which again you can mitigate and harm reduce and prevent by doing some education about tremolone um in your free time so with that being said the anecdotal evidence regarding tremolone's problematic nature is a plenty with thousands of thousands of reports of guys walking around with trend or trend acne or trend gyno or trend rage or experiencing trend cough and trend sweats or trend inserts your favorite or adverse effect here right these anecdotal reports are all over the place but again with self-education you can mitigate most of these all entirely and if you experience some of these adverse effects and you're not really happy with them then don't take tremolone at all tremolone is meant to be respected if you can't handle the sandwich don't use the sandwich at all or use low dose short duration cycles where the observed effect regarding glucocorticoid receptor inhibition and the anabolic to androgenic disassociation is already observed i'm talking about low and effective dosages of 25 milligrams 50 milligrams 70 milligrams weekly the dosages that nobody in their right mind would believe that you're running especially if you're looking good they would blame you and say that you're running 350 milligrams to 1000 milligrams tremolone per week but you're not right you're doing everything you need to do to stay as healthy as possible and a low and effective dose of tremolone goes a very long way and and it's totally fine if people don't believe you let them abuse tremolone themselves i mean darwinism and karma is always going to win at the end and while they deteriorate their own health through their own doing you're laughing all the way to the bank and getting all the benefits but none of the side effects if you decide to take tremolone yourself please do your blood work you can do that here in thailand you can do that in your home country if you live in the united states you can do that over at meric health they have excellent health care providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results just don't solely rely on them to get your tremolone education in we have this youtube channel we have the steroid boards we have all these anabolics books please do your due diligence just because you're doing blood work while taking tremolone doesn't mean you don't have to get yourself educated you can find all of my sponsors and affiliates down below granamite has the best pre-workouts on the market um especially go well together if you're on the tremolone sandwich so you can mitigate some of this bronco constriction and a lack of stamina that you might have when you're taking even a low dose of tremolone intelligent shop for fragrances and other male beauty products for a better lack of explanation i heard for your over-the-counter supplements needs and if you can't find some of the specific down below in the youtube description section or in the comment section head over to my website vigoroussteve.com i got a boatload of articles that can send you all over the internet for specific things that you're looking for if you're trying to acquire more knowledge right vigoroussteve.com is the best place to acquire more knowledge bookmark that site you won't be disappointed vigorous crew you guys know what to do a front double basket for you guys no tremolone in this picture does test and YK-11 albeit injectable i mean that really works um not as good a strand though but i'm i'm very happy with the injectable YK-11 so far deep drive dropping soon if you're not subscribed yet now is a good time to do so so you don't miss that deep dive thank you guys so much for watching and i'll see you in the next video

=== FILE: 500mg Test E, 500mg Deca, 150mg MENT, NO AI, Estradiol Only 105pg⧸mL... Rookie Gynecomastia Numbers [aNDItlPwCr8].txt ===

 autoprilagu the pre-existing gynecomastia before surgery with these rookie numbers man vigorous steve here with some more blood work and protocol updates and just to clarify at the start of this video the whole reason why i'm doing this operation gyno protocol is to exacerbate the pre-existing gynecomastia which i already had to limit myself to one surgery one to get the job done and never do another surgery to remove gynecomastia ever again because all of the tissue has been grown and removed you hear all these horror stories of guys going in for gyne surgery once twice three times even because the doctor leaves a little bit of tissue behind to prevent the nipple from caving inwards which nowadays you can resolve a little bit of liposuction and just going with the right surgeon with a lot of experience right spending a little bit more money in the process which is fine i don't mind about the money i just want to do it once so i don't have a downtime of recovery three separate times right so here are these horror stories guys going for multiple gunna surgeries the scar gets worse and worse and worse to the point the nipple looks kind of contorted and disgusting so my whole idea is to grow the pre-existing guy now that i have the first time i developed that was when i was 24 years old after i had my motorcycle accident i broke my leg i was out of the gym for a couple months and then when i started training again i got increasingly emotional uh to the point i was almost sobbing and crying on the leg press partially because i was training legs again and i had to stay so focused not to um break my leg again obviously with the plates as still being in there and then i checked my nipple one day and like what the hell dude i have gyno so i went to the doctor the doctor did an ultrasound and he's like yeah you have gyno exactly you've got a comasio tissue did you take steroids it's like no i'm natural you can check my hormone panel i didn't touch any steroids yet which is not what i told them that came a little bit later but i i developed this gyno when i was 24 years old um partially or probably because of a hormonal roller coaster just training insane and then being bedridden for a couple months trying to recover my broken leg and then going back to the gym and getting some body fat in the process obviously when you go from being physically very active to completely sedentary watching anime and you know trying to get this broken leg under control i'm not entirely sure second time third time i developed gynecomastia is when i ran nandrolone and trembalone i always responded a little bit unfavorably to progestogenic 19 or testosterone derivatives so whenever i would add in roloxafene nolvidex primobolin mastrone i would not get that adverse effect of the nandrolone and the trembalone but if i ran that solo which is basically what i'm doing now nandrolone and trestilone which is not trembalone luckily but close enough in those cases the gyno would grow substantially so that's what i'm trying to attempt right now testosterone to bring serum estradiol levels up mandrelone for direct progestogenic signaling and the gynecomastia tissue and to exacerbate the aromatization that testosterone potentiates so test plus deca and a one-to-one ratio um should result in a lot of estrogen you would think and then trestilone besides the progestogenic signaling also converts or aromatizes into 7-alpha methyl estradiol which is pretty terrible for gyno as well as you can read all of the internet anecdotal reports i took trestilone and the next day i had full-blown gynecomastia it doesn't seem to happen for me though and i'm not entirely sure why is that high dose grothermone is that high dose anadrol four times per week is that the YK-11 we'll adjust that as we go through the blood work results but first let me show you guys exactly what i look like right now hopefully i won't make you lose your appetite it's not that bad honestly this is my front double bicep can still pull a vacuum lats are still there biceps are still there um most of the body parts are still there even though i haven't trained lats and rear delts and traps and biceps for the last six seven weeks or so again i've only been focusing on chest triceps a little bit of shoulder work and mostly quads with some ancillary work on the adductors hamstrings and the glutes so i'm actually a little bit leaner than i was after coming back from the united states there was a lot of bloat and water retention from the flight and the cheesecakes and the copious amounts of alcohol that i had while i was there not a good idea but man i need a holiday sometimes also so i'm actually a little bit leaner and i got some veins in my lower legs and arms again um even though i'm eating twice the amount of food as i did before and i'm actually slowly getting leaner and leaner and leaner as this diet's journey offseason is progressing so that's a huge plus for me even though that's not my intention so triceps are improving a little bit quads are definitely improving chest is definitely improving when we look at the back shots there's not really much to see here because again i haven't trained back for the last seven weeks or so and there's a good amount of body fat on the back the lower back the hamstrings and the glutes so uh let's just skip over that but from the front there's some noticeable improvements and it's not bad for the last four to five weeks that i've actually had a proper offseason so here's my current workout split which is exactly the same as i explained in the previous video but let's go over it real quick monday and thursday i train chest triceps shoulders and abs for chest to do three working sets and three back offsets for triceps two working sets one back offsets shoulders two working sets and one back offset and then high volume abs to keep that nice and tight and prevent my stomach from bulging at the end of the day on monday um i would focus on mostly high rep stuff so let's say 10 to 12 reps on most of the exercises and then thursday i would do a little bit lower rep range let's say eight or six to eight reps to focus a little bit more on strength and get a little bit different rep ranges stimulate the different muscle fiber types on tuesday and friday i would train quads with three working sets and three back offsets hamstrings two working sets one back offset adductors warm working set glutes one working set and then calves three working sets again higher rep ranges in the beginning of the week and a little bit lower rep ranges focusing a little bit more on strength at the end of the week because on sunday i have a refeed slash cheat day so this workout split seems to be working quite well and i think i'll keep this workout split going but i'll add in a fifth working uh workout day on saturday focusing on rear delts lats back in general traps and a little bit of biceps because again even now i mean the biceps are still there the lats are still there the rear delts i mean you can see them from the front it's disgusting uh must be the copious amounts of steroids and growth hormone that i'm on to prevent them from shrinking and atrophying during this offseason but again they get plenty of stimulation uh doing the heavy stuff for chest the triceps shoulders and the the legs the lower body so i don't really need them to grow but a little bit of fullness a little bit more detail would be nice but we'll do that when this offseason is done and i'll add in a fifth workout day when the calories come down and we'll change the protocol by that time let's review the diet because the diet has changed quite a bit since the last video uh the last video i think i was eating about 3 300 calories and right now i'm already up to 4 600 calories some days it's even 5 000 calories so i increased uh the eggs from i think three to five whole eggs uh reduced the egg whites a little bit so now it's seven egg whites so it's 12 eggs right but i removed seven yolks uh still eating 100 grams of kale and 100 grams of green beans i removed all of the spices because that was giving me some digestion issues over the last couple of months to the point i suspect i had full-blown candida we'll get that after we discuss the diet so i replaced a lot of the spices that were exacerbating my digestion and giving me terrible bloating uh of the all all of those i bought in the united states so i don't know what you guys are doing with your spices but it's not good man the thai spices that i get here totally fine maybe because i'm used to it but the american spices so half of which contain about a lot of sugar they all went in the trash and then i added in some sauerkraut with every meal to kind of help uh you know with the digestion of carbohydrates uh still using a two milliliters extra virgin olive oil cooking spray with my kale and green beans and then i increased the mixed nuts i think from 30 grams to 60 grams with most meals so you see that meal two has 250 grams of chicken meal three also same amount of vegetables so on the sauerkraut same amount of mixed nuts and then meal four is 300 grams of salmon which pairs better with kimchi compared to sauerkraut so i get some probiotics from kimchi and sauerkraut in over the day still get 60 grams of mixed nuts but sometimes i replace that for the whole avocado and i don't have any vegetables with that meal but i have a little bit of blueberries i had to remove the watermelon and the pineapple because they were bloating me up i'm not sure why maybe it's the watermelon is too high on the fat map even though this amount of mixed nuts and chia seeds is also pretty high up on the fat map scale so there's a certain range what you can eat of these mixed nuts and chia seeds before it goes from low fat map to high fat map simply because of all of the fiber content i mean i'm eating 96 grams of fiber over the day so i might at one point if i want to eat more calories reduce the vegetables maybe one serving of kale and green bean with breakfast and then one serving of of you know a little bit of salad vegetables at the end of the day and then not have anything during the day but it kind of depends on how it goes and how my digestion is taking it now it's 10 times better than it was before with minimal bloating at the end of the day but as soon as i deviate man man on sunday it's the the issue is it's absolutely trash but i still like to go out and eat something a little bit more off menu than i do usually all right where were we last meal 250 grams of beef 50 grams of chicken two whole eggs and a whole avocado with some more sauerkraut resulting in a diet of 4 640 calories 400 grams of protein 130 grams of carbs 95 grams of fiber and 270 grams of fat with let's say a 2 to 1 ratio of omega-3s to omega-6s 28 800 milligrams omega-3s over the day and 14 500 milligrams omega-6s over the day besides the omega-3s and the other fat sources that i get from my supplementation which we'll put on the screen a little bit later on 2700 milligrams of dietary cholesterol so all in all a boatload of calories a boatload of food volume albeit that it's less food volume than eating a similar amount of calories coming from protein carbs and then keeping the fats reasonably low this works very well for me as you can see i'm full as a house could be from the little bit of carbs i had yesterday but the training is absolutely great the contractions are absolutely great the stamina in the gym absolutely great the cognition is great because again this is a ketogenic diet and most of the carbs are coming uh you know from uh slow digesting carbohydrate sources and the fast carbohydrate sources i have around the workout or in the evening when all of my work is already done so this is working pretty well and of course i i might change my workout around to an evening workout depending on how much stuff i have to do over the day generally speaking on monday and tuesday i go to the gym in the morning around three o'clock and then on thursday and friday i go to the gym in the evening around nine o'clock in the evening moving over to the supplementation um you guys always ask me uh steve what's your supplementation plan now i just recorded a video about all the of the over-the-counter supplements which men should be and women should be running year-round depending on the phases of the cycles that they're in so i'll go a little bit more in depth in these upcoming videos discussing the vitamins and the minerals in a separate video compared to the general health supplements like citrus bergamot fish oil and estylcysteine etc it will be two separate videos this is my protocol on the screen right now um give that a read and then watch for those videos to drop where i go a lot more in depth and give some general recommendations on the dosage ranges for each vitamin or micronutrient or health supplements that i would recommend people to take during various phases of their their cruise or their hg monotherapy or their full-blown steroid cycle right let's review the cycle real quick i increased the testosterone from 325 milligrams per week to 500 milligrams per week last week so that's now slowly building up and i removed the bare test of iron for uh belly gas pharma testosterone and itates which is basically my entire cycle is now all underground labs for the first time in years but it seems to be working well so far and everybody in thailand is running belly gas and they're all get great results so might as well join the herd and go full UGL again which i haven't done in a very long time so it's 500 milligrams testosterone and thate 500 milligrams nadrol and decanoate 150 milligrams stress alone acetate 200 milligrams androgel per week so that's 50 milligrams pre-workout four times per week and then 30 milligrams YK-11 on uh basically every single day before i would take it 30 milligrams before bed but now i decided to split it up because i seem to get a little bit better effect taking 15 milligrams in the morning and 15 milligrams in the evening all sublingually because i don't want to pass anything through the liver and potentiate additional liver stress on top of all the other stuff that i'm taking and keeping my digestive tract as good as possible the total weekly steroid intake is 1560 milligrams which is basically the highest i'm willing to go at 41 years old i haven't done this in a very long time where my steroid intake is high but also my food intake is pretty high with all of the peptides that i'm running this is basically the maximum that i think i need for my quads and my chest and my other body parts to grow quite substantially over the next couple of months and otherwise well what more can i do take more growth hormone probably not i can increase the food a little bit from 4 600 to 5 000 which is where i kind of max out and then i would just need to ride that roller coaster of 1500 milligrams steroids and 5000 calories for as long as i can stomach it basically dhea still the same 37.5 milligrams daily murkovitrol 500 ius three times weekly that's HCG for the uninitiated i switch from tiger pharma gh to bella gus pharma gh 10 i use subcutaneous before bed on chest days and 20 i use subcutaneous before bed and court days so one vial on chest day and two vials on court days a total of 60 i use over the week so i take off from the growth hormone on wednesday saturday and sunday and it seems that switching from the belly gus and limiting it to four injections per week really minimizes the water retention now that could be because a belly gus generic growth hormone has more money toll in it which acts as a diuretic or simply some of the binders that were in the tiger pharma growth hormone were a little bit more water retentive than what is in the belly gus so you never really know when you send it for lab testing or you do serum analysis which i did before this bot work which we'll get into you only get the purity and the potency then you see your serum levels but you don't exactly know what the other um 0.5 to 3 percent of the non-purities are so i guess we'll never really know all i can tell you is that i'm a little bit drier on the bed and gus the gh compared to the tiger gh i was running before which gave me terrible edema i mean when i went to dubai or the united states i had terrible edema even though i stopped the tiger gh a week before i went to the united states man edema galore so uh i'm going to continue with the belly gus gh tests very nicely on serum levels i've done it twice now again we'll get to that a little bit later on in the blood work review part of this video but so far i'm happy and i'm not going to switch uh might i take two vows of belly gas gh after chest day let's see and it's reasonably inexpensive ibsen and cralex still 1000 micrograms pre-workout four times per week for total 4000 micrograms weekly and let's see regarding the metabolic modulators injectable carnitine pretty much the same 500 milligrams before facet cardio and again 500 milligrams before the workout slu pp332 i'm keeping in this entire off-season for mitochondrial function and preventing fat gain which i think is contributing quite nicely i feel that i'm getting leaner slowly as this off-season is progressing which sounds counterintuitive but that if i can recomp at 115 kilos then i'm not going to complain 750 micrograms slu pp332 daily mod c one milligram subq upon waking on workout days four times weekly uh really helps with energy levels and mitochondrial function as well i'm taking the modern aminos injectable coinsm q10 300 milligrams uh pre-workout four times weekly alongside uh diisopropyl amine dichloral acetate 50 milligrams on chest day and 100 milligrams on quad day man a combination of condom q10 and uh diisopropyl amine dichloral acetate i have to look at it otherwise i don't know how to pronounce it insane but my workout capacity and the rest time in between sets brutal yeah i i could highly recommend you give that combination a try of course in combination with slu pp332 mod c methylene blue with the mitochondrial up regulation and the atp synthesis and then the atp recycling from dada man it's something else dude i think you got to experience it before you understand um but yeah it's it's it's substantial you feel like a machine in the gym and those workouts are so short it's it's almost a waste of driving to the gym because you're in there for like 45 minutes to one hour you're like that's it that's it i did chest shoulders triceps or i did my quad workout with working sets and back offsets and all that stuff and i'm already done one hour 15 minutes and i used to go to the gym for two hours but now i'm done so fast more time for fun stuff more time for video games uh modern aminos joints of steel with 150 milligrams and sdld glucosamine 40 milligrams chondroitin and 40 milligrams methyl sulfonyl methane msm um one cc morning and evening so i'm doing two cc's per day i'm almost done with my third vial then i'm going to throw in the towel on the joints of steel for a bit to kind of see how my joints and connective tissue respond to this nadrolone plus anadrol plus YK-11 cycle because YK-11 allegedly drives out the joints anecdotally that's what i've heard on you know from many of you guys posting in the comment section and what i read on you know reddit and all the cycle reports that YK-11 joins drives out the joints but i've experienced none of that is that the nadrolone uh keeping the synovial fluid and protecting my joints with enough joint lubrication and the high estradiol which is not as high as expected it to be or the joint of steel i think it's a combination of all but i would say that based on the workload and the stress and the poundages that i subject my connective tissue to with the time under tension and the insane slow rep ranges um right or the high rep ranges but increasingly elevated time under tension which i really tried to build up so we're talking about one minute sets um yeah the joints of steel is something else it's good stuff i'm going to uh take it out about a week from now when i ran out of my third vial so that's 60 milliliters in and then let's see what happens right does the joint pain come back or is this enough to kind of protect my joints for the next couple of weeks months while i'm subjecting myself to crazy poundages in the gym bay or tationelle injectable glutathione 600 milligrams four times per week post-workout before bed uh l-troxin T4 100 micrograms before bed it's tom sartan 40 milligrams upon waking five milligrams nabivalol upon waking 10 milligrams zenomib upon waking 50 milligrams voxamine before bed in combination with five milligrams methylene blue upon waking i'm using the modern aminos formula now because they just released their methylene blue in five milligram and 10 milligram tablets so check out the source list or head over to their website in case you're interested in running the methylene blue stack with slupp332 and mod c i mean modern aminos has got all three they got you covered and use my discount code to save yourself some money because that goes a very long way of course there's some potential ssri and myo inhibiting effects serotonin syndrome drug interactions potentially there at combining fluvoxamine with methylene blue but at a low dose of 50 milligrams fluvoxamine and a low dose of 5 milligrams even 10 methylene blue i have not experienced any kind of negative effects so far which i did experience combining five milligrams of ortioxetine with three milligrams methylene blue i mean that gave me full-blown serotonin syndrome so never again let's see i switched from cerebral isin five milliliters before bed which said two month experiment of cerebral isin has now been concluded to geropharm cortexin 10 milligrams intermuscularly before bed i got about i think five six vials left and then i'll be able to finish the cerebral isin deep dive comparing that to cortexin i'll give you the spoiler alert i don't know this anything switching from cerebral isin to cortexin uh if anything i feel that the cortexin is a little bit less potent regarding neurogenesis and the improvement of sleep quality um i felt better on the cerebral isin but again we got six days left of experimentation and then i'll draw my conclusions after i review the relevant scientific evidence stay tuned for the deep drive might drop sometime in january because well we uh we got the summer coming up and the summer is full with holidays as i also need a holiday once in a while and the nootropics are pretty much the same dihex a new pet bromate and internasal smacks or maybe some alpha gpc or gorilla motor respawn or a combination thereof right it's it depends on the job and what i want to accomplish that day and i'm still running some experiments with amino asylum stampede and the monster pump blend or modern amino zeus juice max drive in the motivator i usually take the motivator before leg day but it's a little bit inconsistent so that's why i didn't include it in the protocol same for stampedes sometimes i feel naughty and i know that i had a boatload of energy and i want a super pump right a massive pump on my chest so instead of having a chest pump to here my tatas are literally here and then imagine what the gyno that's on top of that i mean it's it's obscene dude just literally you're choking yourself with these kinds of pre-workouts uh bathway protocol is still pretty much the same that's coming to a close sometime around christmas time hopefully i can drop that video before christmas so you know exactly how to run under tim DHT cream with bbc157 TB-500 titles growth hormone uh HCG and a bathmate uh so far the community experiment has been going very well i mean i get the daily updates from some of you guys or weekly updates regarding the gains that you've been making on these protocols and again if you want to join or or you don't want to wait for the video to drop the the article is literally on my website and how to combine all these compounds with a little bit of a breakdown and how much money you're going to spend because the full protocol is kind of expensive and it's basically more expensive than the steroid cycle um so yeah if you want to make those pp gains yeah they have to spend some money but hey surgery is more expensive you can always put those beads in there if you want an alternative um i wouldn't do that personally my gains have been uh around the inch mark yeah good stuff um so maybe the the under tim DHT cream is preventing the aromatization of the testosterone into estradiol but we'll get into that because now it's blood work review time your analysis uh pretty much the same specific gravity 1.008 which means i should have drank a little bit more water i'll be honest it should be like 1.003 to 5 but i drank two liters of water i had a cup of coffee before i went in for blood work but maybe i'm um maybe just a little bit dehydrated ph is six a little bit acidic on the urine but nothing crazy and then everything else is pretty much the same as last month right no glucose no protein no blood no nitrates no ketones no urobilinogen no bilirubin no leukocytes and trace amounts of white blood cells for blood cells and episquamas in my urinalysis and everything else is none so all good there uh white blood cell count is in range 6500 cells per cubic millimeter hemoglobin is normal came down a little bit just like hematocrit and real blood cell count came down with let's say two percent compared to last month so that's about four weeks between the previous blood work results these blood work results the mean copulous volume hemoglobin concentration and hemoglobin it's all pretty much the same red cell distribution width came down slightly platelets pretty much the same so there isn't really much to report here and white blood cell count the differential is also pretty much the same so let's not spend too much time here moving over to the blood chemistry and kidney function you see that my blood glucose upon waking my fasting blood glucose is now in the diabetic range of 101 milligrams per deciliter i check my fasting blood glucose levels every single day usually more about 68 to 72 milligrams per deciliter i think that this is because my growth hormone administration i did two and a half hours before going in for blood work because i just wanted to double test the potency of the belly gas gh because well if you're going in for blood work you might as well right so this is the only fluctuation during the week my fasting blood glucose levels are pretty much the same the only difference right now on this blood work compared to what i normally have is that i had a cup of coffee and i took a bolus shot of growth hormone blood-rearing nitrogen came down again protein intake is pretty much the same albeit that my caloric intake is a little bit higher so that's a good reduction it's actually quite low blood-rearing nitrogen for the amount of protein that i eat cryotin came down slightly probably had some lingering creatine monohydrates in my system from the previous blood work which i've now removed entirely since then see results i'm still waiting for because it takes a couple days so i'm expecting that to be around the bottom of the reference range but i'll list those results in the comment section or description section as soon as i get them in fingers crossed i'm not in full-blown kidney failure uric acid came up a little bit it's uh creatine phosphokinase came from let's say 1700 to 2200 units per liter because i'm training a lot harder so that's meant to be expected high sensitivity c-reactive protein is very low so again all the more power for bellicose pharma for using mct oil even though they're high dose concentration formulas contain alpha oleate so personally i avoid those but the normal concentration formulations mct oil no information finally an undergrad lab in asia that gets it unlike all of the other labs which i still see blood work all the time of using lab xyz and then c-reactive protein is like 25 because of the synthetic solvents that they use well we have deep dives on that give it a watch if you haven't already i check my lipase and amylase levels just to make sure that there's no issues with my pancreas because again i was running terzepidide for a while and retriturotide and removing those compounds and some people give some digestive issues which you know i'm trying to tackle boxes to see what the root cause of my digestive issues were after coming back from the united states which i kind of pinpointed down to candida overgrowth so i just wanted to see if there was an issue with my lipase and amylase i haven't run retriturotide for weeks now i haven't touched the zepidide or any kind of glucagon like peptide one receptor agonists combined with GIP and glucagon or not so uh i'm happy to announce that that's totally fine but i did introduce a creon for 40 000 which contains uh pancreatic enzymes to kind of help digest some of the larger meals because i do feel that there's some enzymatic insufficiency because now that i'm eating so much foods um with certain meals right like 1100 calories with breakfast i do feel that i need a little bit of digestive support so i tried several uh digestive enzyme formulas you can buy over at iherb never really worked for me so the pharmaceutical creon 40 000 each containing 400 milligrams pancreatin corresponding to 25 000 units of amylase to help break down carbohydrates 40 000 units lipase help break down fats and 600 units pro taste to help break down protein so i'm taking a creon 40 000 with breakfast post-workout meal and the last meal of the day and it seems to help support my digestion keeping my stomach flat alongside removing all of the simple sugars and the condiments and you think it's off-season right so i'm you know i'm gonna go with copious amounts of ketchup now because i can get away with it no unfortunately not so it's salt and pepper for me and then taking the rest of the flavor from the sauerkraut and the mixed nuts and the chia seeds and well the vegetables which will you guys know that kale pretty freaking bitter but the salt makes up for it and the creon 40 000 helps with the digestion of all of this copious amounts of foods three times per day and just to clarify i did not take creon 40 000 a day before going in for blood work so this lipase and amylase that you see right here is a natural production coming from the pancreas i didn't check my serum electrolytes because i didn't feel need to i mean we all know that it looked like shrek and i'm bloated but i've checked it so many times that i just glanced over it i'll check it again next time serum lipids total cholesterol went up slightly uh well which is to be expected because my steroid dosages went up even though it's only been a week going from what 1100 milligrams per week to 1560 milligrams per week oral intake is exactly  autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl shot of 500 milligrams injectable O-carnitine because you have your routine, right? You wake up, you do your shots, and then instead of going for fasted cardio, you go in for fasted blood work, even though it's not entirely fasted because you had shots of drugs. And this time, I certainly did not take 500 milligrams injectable carnitine before going in for blood work. So maybe that's why my triglycerides are a little bit higher. HDL did not worsen, but I would expect it to come a little bit higher with the copious amounts of healthy fats that I'm eating. Well, at least it didn't get any worse. So HDL is, let's say, 30 milligrams per deciliter. LDL is, let's say, 70 milligrams per deciliter. Lipoprotein OLA, same. APO lipoprotein A1, same. And APO lipoprotein B, pretty much the same. So nothing to see here. Liver panel, pretty much the same besides the liver enzymes that went up slightly, which, again, is to be expected being on a sublingual anadrol and sublingual YK-11. And the training a little bit harder, right? Training intensity has been ramped up quite a bit. And these liver enzymes are also found in skeletal muscle. But I will say that I would expect ALT to be a little bit higher than AST because ALT has a, what, 47-hour half-life. So it takes a lot longer to metabolize from the body if that's elevated from training. Whereas AST has a half-life of 17 hours, give or take. So you would expect that to come down a lot lower. So you would expect an AST half of the ALT if it was really training-related. But it's not fully training-related because, well, as you've seen from the protocol, I'm on, well, 20 different compounds. And they all pass to the liver besides the anadrol and the YK-11, which I take sublingually, but everything else. And that still passes to the liver, let's be honest, just bypassing the first pass. So the second pass is now the first pass, which is at a higher concentration because you prevent the breakdown. You have higher bioavailability by taking it sublingually. So the second pass, which is now the first pass, basically accounts for two passes. And how much of a difference is it going to make? So yeah, I don't expect my liver enzymes to be absolutely normal. And yeah, the elevated AST, even though the half-life is significantly lower than the ALT regarding metabolism from the body, that just shows that it's not all training-related, but also drug-related. Let's be honest. Alkaline phosphatase came down a little bit because I reduced my magnesium glycinate from 300 milligrams to 200 milligrams, which I think is totally fine. Honestly, in gamma GT came up slightly, even though I'm still on top of my carnitine and injectable glutathione and coffee. So no biliary issues as of now. Ferritin and serum iron are normal, both, even though my ferritin dropped from 330 to 156, so this reduction of 50%. Maybe the last time I had some liver inflammation coming back from the United States, and now that I completely revamped my diet and my digestion is finally under control besides Sunday, which is, well, the day when I do blood work, but I go in for blood work before I eat like an animal. Might I still do that, but I need it mentally. Can't live without eating like an animal once in a while. So basically, the last time I suspected a little bit of liver inflammation coming back from the United States, and now it seems that ferritin levels are middle of the range. So with the homocysteine being normal and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein being normal, I don't see any signs of inflammation here. And serum iron is pretty much the same. So that's all good. Thyroid panel, as you guys might have remembered last time, I forgot to take T4 for a week. So my free T4 and total T4 were kind of low, but my total T3 and free T3 were still in range. But now that I started supplementing with 100 micrograms T4 before bed again, alongside these high bolus growth hormone shots four times per week, you see the total T3 and free T3 increase. Or at least the free T3 increase could also be from a reduction of thyroid binding globulin levels by increasing the steroid intake, which is known to reduce thyroid binding globulin and freeing up more thyroid hormones. And by adding in the T4, well, the T4 levels are now almost, well, let's see, total T4 is slightly below the reference range and free T4 is within normal parameters. Thyroid stimulating hormone did increase a little bit, but it's all normal. So again, fluctuations, which is to be expected with some protocol adjustments. Moving over to the sex hormones, cortisol is pretty much the same, 10 to 12 micrograms per deciliter. I would say that that's a normal fluctuation. Don't need to make any affirmative changes by taking a phosphatidylserine and ashwagand the root extract or reducing my training volume and taking a deload, right? I think it's a normal cortisol levels. I'll keep my eye on it. And if I see dramatic changes, cortisol going to 20 or 25 micrograms per deciliter, then yes, maybe I need some phosphatidylserine and a proper deload. Estradale though, surprisingly, a reduction of almost 20% from 127.5 to 104.3 micrograms per milliliter, which I did not expect because I'm on, I was on last time I was on what? 325 tests and 300 nandrolone and 100 deca or 100 tristalone and now increased at the 500 tests, 500 nandrolone and 150 tristalone. And even though it's only been a week, I would expect this estradiol to be like 200, 250. So what's going on here? Is this the growth hormone reducing aromatous enzyme potential, which is not unheard of, no scientific evidence to support that. But I do know people with higher growth hormone intake that they seem to aromatize very little, especially when you use DHC derivatives or estradiol is like four, right? I mean, when Chase was running five grams a test and what is the 18 I use growth hormone per day, estradiol levels were normal, right? Actually quite low for what you would expect on that much growth hormone and that much testosterone. I have seen it with other people as well running pretty high doses of tests and a good amount of growth hormone is that their aromatization is kind of low. Nothing in the scientific evidence is supported with blood work. We can extrapolate something from that. Is it the YK-11 acting as a reversely binding aromatized inhibitor? I don't know. I'm not a biochemist, so I'm not sure if it's structurally capable. The molecule looks kind of funky. I'll tell you that. And it's a progestin. So, you know, some of the progestin-based compounds do have aromatized enzyme inhibiting capabilities. Off the top of my head, I don't exactly remember, but I do know there's a list of progestins which are known to act as aromatized inhibitors as well and then sexual hormone synthesis inhibitors at multiple steps. So, is it the YK-11? I mean, anecdotally, we hear a lot of reports that YK-11 gives you dry joints, dry skin, makes you very tight, you know, alters your libido to a certain extent, but that is usually coming from the guys that run YK-11 solo. If any of you guys have run YK-11 on a testosterone base, did it lower your estradiol levels? I mean, I would like to include that in a YK-11 deep dive. So far, I really like YK-11 in this combination of tests, Nandrol, Tristalone, and Adagyl, because I feel like I'm growing every day. I'm getting stronger every day. And the muscle tightness is nice, but it's not to the point that you would get from Windstraw, right? And again, I'm not running it solo. I don't have any intention to run YK-11 solo. But so far on this off-season stack, I like it. Yeah, I like it a lot. I'm going to be honest. Of course, all the calories that I'm eating, I like also. So yeah, it's the YK-11 reducing my estradiol levels. Is my gear fake? I don't think so. I mean, it's all third-party tested and everybody else is running Billy Gus here and they look exactly like they're supposed to be looking. So I don't know. Is it the Anadrol acting as a reversely binding aromatous inhibitor? Could be. It's a DHT derivative. It could interact with the estrogen receptor, potentially at gynecomastia. I mean, my gyno is growing, but not to the point that I would expect it to, right? The left side has barely grown. The right side has grown quite a bit, but the left side, I don't know. And it's difficult to tell because my body fat levels have changed. So I do feel that they're more sensitive and then it's growing. But I would expect, again, I would expect my SREI levels to be significantly higher by this point. Also based on the fact that I'm running 500 IOS HCT three times per week. I don't know. Maybe as I get older, my aromatous enzyme expression and adipose tissue is magically going down. Progesterone increased. Not sure why. I'm not running pregnenolone. Maybe it's a progesterone and tristalone detecting as progesterone, but then I would have seen that on previous blood work results, which I have not. So I don't know where this progesterone is coming from, but it is an increase of 150%. Prolactin went up almost to the top of the reference range. We're at 17 nanograps for middle eater now. Libido, I will tell you firsthand and erectile quality. Well, maybe it's a DHT protocol, right? The bathmate protocol. I'm talking about estradiol. Maybe it's a topical DHT that I'm applying once or twice per day. Going systemic and acting as a reversely binding aromatized inhibitor. I did not check my serum DHT levels. I should have, no? I know baseline DHT levels, but I don't know where my DHT levels are on 500 marigamstestosterone. And this protocol is almost coming to a close. Hmm. So I could remove the DHT, I could remove the anadrol, and I could remove the YK-11, but all of them are giving me significant gains. Should I add in the Dianabol orally to get some aromatization in the intestinal tract and combining Dianabol with nandrolone and tristalone for sweet estradiol, 7-alpha, methyl estradiol, and methyl estradiol? Gynecomacity gains? My blood pressure is in range. Let me know down below in the comment section if you want me to make some changes, because I'm honestly at a loss for words. This is not what I expected. Anyway, so prolactin is high, but my libido is unaffected. Total testosterone, free testosterone, bioavailable testosterone is undetectably high, so it increased by at least 200% since the last blood work results, and now it's over 3,500 nandagrms per deciliter of my total testosterone. That's the highest that Bria Labs goes. You know, will I ever get 20,000 nandagrms per deciliter? Chase Irons was able to achieve that, but that's not my immediate goal, I would say. SHBG, significant drop from 20 to 8 nmol per liter. It's probably more time on oral steroids and being on higher dosages, obviously. And again, you know, if my estradiol was like 200, 250, my SHBG might have been 15. Maybe I should inject some estradiol valorate. I can get it over the counter here. Estradiol valorate or deannable? I know, you pick and choose. Let me know down below in the comment section which direction I should be going in. Should I remove something or add in something? But I'm only going to add in one thing. Estradiol valorate injections or deannable? Again, the whole goal is to grow gyno. So I do feel I have a little bit of wiggle room to bring my serum estradiol levels up to 200, 250 milligrams per milliliter, which is the highest I would be willing to get it to for comfort to see if I can exacerbate this gyno. But apparently on this protocol, it's not going to happen. So I need to add in something. Let me know down below what you feel suitable. We have about four weeks left to get the job done. DHA sulfate, same. Growth hormone. Again, I did the serum test before. 10 I use intramuscularly right here in the shoulder two and a half hours before drawing blood. The previous time it was 32 nanograms per milliliter and now it's 34 nanograms per milliliter. You see that my IGF-1 levels are nice and high. 434 nanograms per milliliter. Part of the IGF-1 is still lingering from the Friday administration of 20 I use growth hormone. And then some of this is coming and the Increlex probably already has a 36-hour half-life. So some of the Increlex and the IGF-1 pulse that I got from 20 I use growth hormone is still lingering from Friday on Sunday morning. And then additional IGF-1 is being produced from this 10 IU shot that I took two and a half hours pre. IGF-1 binding protein three is still within normal parameters. 3,500 nanograms per milliliter. So a good amount of this IGF-1 is free. Anyway, hemoglobin A1c is 5 or 4.9%. So, so far, so good. So these are the blood work results. I don't think I need to make any protocol adjustments because besides maybe doing estradiol, valerate, or deanabol, adding that in or replacing the anadrol for deanabol. Again, let me know what you prefer. I don't think I need to make any changes, right? I already made some changes last week by increasing the test and the nandrolone and the tristalone with an increment of, let's say, 50%. So 1,500 nanograms is where I'm going to keep it. If you guys want me to take the anadrol out, see if I can get some phenomenal bloody super pumps, turning myself into the Michelin man even further. And if I go with injectable valerate, it's probably going to be one milligram per day and then do blood work two weeks into it just to see how it's going. But two weeks should be enough to kind of assess my response to estradiol, valerate subcutaneously, even though it's an ethyl oleate. I don't really want to use ethyl oleate. I don't know. I kind of shot myself in the foot here, right, with this protocol. Now I've got to see it through. I don't see anything in the blood work that's alarmingly off to the point I need to pull the plug. That mostly has to do with my digestion, but I'm keeping that under control as of now. But again, I do feel that this cycle is coming to a close. And even though I could continue the off-season for, I think, six more months, right, until February, give or take, March, or do a six-month off-season in total, I do feel mentally that I'm ready to pull the plug on the cycle around Christmas time and then kind of detox. Yeah. So let's say I got a month left mentally until, yeah, it's about a month from now. I've got a month left on this cycle mentally. I'm having a lot of fun during the off-season, having a lot of fun training super hard, but I do feel that it's a job. Yeah. I missed the off-season, but I also didn't miss the off-season. Well, I'm sure you guys can relate. Eating all of this food and being a little bit bulky and puffy and not fitting into your clothes and being copious or very, very sweaty at the gym, it has its charms, but it certainly has its downsides. All right. Let's leave it here. This is the update for now. If you want to do your blood work yourself, you can head over to Merrick Health. They have a Black Friday sale on their diagnostic screening and patient care coordinating so they can help you interpret your blood work results. So instead of the 10%, you get 25% with a link down below using Black as your discount code instead of Vigorous. But if the Black Friday deals and the Cyber Monday deals have already been closed, then it's just 10% with code Vigorous. And I'll link all of the other Black Friday deals and Cyber Monday deals down below as well, because Gorilla Mind has got some deals, Intelligent Shop has got some deals, Monored Aminos, Amino Asylum, Cosmic Nootropics. They all have separate deals for some of their products, offering various amounts of discounts, right, with various discount codes. If you can't find them here, you can find them on my website or head over to my Instagram where I probably share those on my stories the entire week. So you can save yourself some money while shopping online, and then you have more money to spend on blood work. Because I know blood work isn't cheap. I do it every single month, and hopefully you do the same. If you start stacking all of these different drugs together, and you want to know the drug interactions and how it affects your body from a health perspective, then well, saving money on the performance-on-one drugs that you can now shuttle to blood work, which you also get a discount on, I mean, sounds like a win-win to me, right? So my affiliates and sponsors are all linked down below. Head off to my website, Vigoroussteve.com, for the ultimate source list or everything you could possibly think about regarding over-the-counter supplements and whatever else we discussed in this video. It's all linked there with discount codes. So, right, yeah, you'll save yourself a buttload of cash if you go through the right channels. Thank you guys so much for watching. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A not-so-high estradiol front double bicycle for you guys. Getting a lot of size, getting super strong, it's a lot of fun. Eating copious amounts of food is less fun, but hey, we need to boost that metabolism, and if I can recompile 4,600 calories, imagine what happens if I pull the calories down to 3,000. Hell yes! I can't wait to be shredded again because right now I'm fluffy AF. Nasty. See you guys in the next video.

=== FILE: Best Dose Of Cerebrolysin (HEAL Your Brain & MAXIMIZE Neurogenesis) Neurotrophic Factor Deep-Dive [jycOQ_t6yZ0].txt ===

 cerebalycin is the rosarose of neurogenesis, it might improve chronic brain fog after vigorous strenuous exercise, improve sleep quality, resolve addiction, oftenotropic effects, improving mood and cognition, all by increasing neurotropic factors in the brain. Turns out that only 15% to 25% peptide content cerebalycin doesn't contain any brain drive neurotropic factor at all, but it might increase BDNF levels by 25-40%, acting as a neurotropic factor secretagoc. Keep watching if you'd like to know more, all will be explained in this cerebalycin deep dive video. Figure of Steve here, so you might have heard about cerebalycin, a water-based mixture of peptides and free amino acids extracted from poor science's ribotissue, aka pig brains. If you're a Muslim, you're Jewish, a 7-day Adventist Christian or Rastafarian, you can basically stop the video right here, because your religious beliefs prevent you from consuming poor products of any kind. I'd still highly appreciate a like and a comment all your way out, I'll see you in the next deep dive video. However, I do feature a direct comparison between cerebalycin and cortexin, which is derived from the cerebal tissue of calves. Feel free to use the timestamps to skip ahead to see if cortexin is a suitable replacement for cerebalycin, but you might want to skip that section altogether if you're a Hindu. Before we get started, I just want to give you a little bit of a heads up. I couldn't find any scientific evidence where cerebalycin was used by athletes, whether that was in the context of increasing performance or improved recovery to reduce brain fog after vigorous, strenuous exercise or to mitigate traumatic brain injury following boxing or mixed martial arts or American football or ice hockey or slap fighting or any kind of contact sports of any form. Neither could I find any conclusive evidence that cerebalycin helps to resolve addiction or offer neutropic effects in people who don't suffer from Alzheimer's disease or dementia. Basically, there's no scientific evidence for most cases where cerebalycin is used by healthy individuals, albeit that there's some evidence where cerebalycin helps with sleep deprivation. Don't worry, we'll get into all of that a little bit later on. Furthermore, you might have heard that cerebalycin contains various neurotropic factors, including brain drive neurotropic factor, ciliary neurotropic factor, glial cell line derived neurotropic factor and nerve growth factor. I was convinced of this myself, but it turns out none of these bio-dentical peptide hormones are contained within the peptide and free amino acid mixture that cerebalycin is made of. So let's have a look into the composition of cerebalycin and see what it actually contains. As always, this deep dive is fully evidence-based with a healthy amount of anecdotal experience mixed in. You can find all citations of what we're going to discuss in this video down below in the YouTube comment section. So without further ado, here's the composition of cerebalycin. Regarding the storage instructions, you can keep it at room temperature, not exceeding 25 degrees Celsius or 77 degrees Fahrenheit, protected from light. Again, cerebalycin and ampules are amber to prevent light from penetrating into the cerebalycin mixture and don't freeze it obviously because it still contains a good amount of bioactive peptides. Cerebalycin comes in various ampule dosages, 2 milliliters, 5 milliliters and 10 milliliters, but the concentration is always the same at 215.2 milligrams per 1 milliliter. Now the peptide content, depending on the scientific evidence that you go with, all of the peptides have a molecular weight less than 10 kilodaltons and the peptide content of cerebalycin is approximately 15 to 25 percent. Passive diffusion of peptide and proteins across the blood-brain barrier is around 400 to 600 daltons or 0.4 to 0.6 kilodaltons, although some peptides and proteins with higher molecular weight can cross the blood-brain barrier via specific transporter mechanisms. Again, depending on the scientific evidence that you go with, the free amino acid content of cerebalycin is anywhere between 75 percent to 85 percent. L-triptophan seems to have the highest molecular weight of all the free amino acids and a molecular weight of 204.23 daltons, which allows L-triptophan and all the other free amino acids to passively diffuse through the blood-brain barrier because the highest it could possibly weigh is 400 to 600 daltons. So let's have a look into the molecular weight of various neurotropic factors to see if they can even pass the blood-brain barrier at all. Brain drive neurotropic factor has a molecular weight of 27 kilodaltons, which is probably too high to pass the blood-brain barrier freely. Therapeutic delivery of BDNF has many obstacles related to its reasonably short in vivo half-life and uncertain blood-brain barrier permeability. BDNF in serum is reasonably unstable and perhaps only a small fraction can cross the blood-brain barrier after administration. Low dose juice of exogenous BDNF have limited permeability and might not have an observed neutropic beneficial effect at all. BDNF is rapidly metabolized by the dipeptidyl peptidyl 4 enzymes. You can block this effect by taking a dipeptidyl peptidyl 4 enzyme inhibitor. Don't worry more on this later, but it seems that exogenous BDNF might not be warranted and it's better to increase BDNF production within the brain directly with the neurotropic factor secretagogue. When we look at the molecular weight of the other neurotropic factors, you see that they can't permeate the blood-brain barrier either. Glow cell line-derived neurotropic factor has a molecular weight of 30 kilodaltons, way too heavy. 7S nerve growth factor, there's several different kinds as a molecular weight of 140,000 kilodaltons, way too heavy. Beta nerve growth factor has a molecular weight of 13 to 14 kilodaltons and L cell nerve growth factor has a molecular weight of 160,000 kilodaltons approximately. Pro-nerve growth factor has a molecular weight of 32 kilodaltons. Ancillary neurotropic factor has a molecular weight of 23 kilodaltons. All of these neurotropic factors way too heavy to pass the blood-brain barrier. So you'd need to increase Neurotropic factor concentrations in the brain by taking a Neurotropic factor secretagogue. And that brings us to the actual composition of cerebalycin. Again, depending on the scientific evidence that you go with, cerebalycin might contain anywhere between 638 to 810 separate peptides, mainly derived from tubulin alpha 1A chain or tubulin alpha 1B chain, phosphidietyl inosital bifosphate 3-kinase catholic subunit gamma, actin myelin basic protein, and uncharacterized peptides I3-LNP3 or F1S3X7. Four of these peptide fragments have been investigated regarding potential therapeutic benefits. So the first one, it's all letters, so we're not going to attempt to pronounce that. One of them might have potential beneficial effects for multiple sclerosis as a treatment option. Two of them might be neuroprotective and have potential anti-inflammatory effects, and another one of them might be neuroprotective and has potential antioxidant properties. And again, in these studies investigating the composition of cerebalycin, no precursor or fully bioidentical peptide hormones like brain derived Neurotropic factor, ciliary Neurotropic factor, glial cell line derived Neurotropic factor, or nerve growth factor, were detected. I brief you all want to highlight the studies which investigated the composition of cerebalycin. First one is from Gevaart et al., published on May 28, 2015, titled, peptide profiling of internet-uptaided cerebalycin, just like I always do, using high-performance liquid chromatography, electrospray, ionization, ion trap, and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography, ion mobility, quadruple time of flight mass, spectrometry, I guess they were very, very thorough in analyzing the internet-obtained cerebalycin samples. In this study, the researchers brought cerebalycin online, just like the rest of us, and analyzed the content with high-performance liquid chromatography, ultraviolet, mass spectrometry, and compared the results with the sequences of Neurotropic factors, including BDNF, GDNF, NGF, and CNTF. In the results of the study, you can see that the percentage of various peptides that were identified in the cerebalycin sample, which are mainly derived from tubulin alpha-1A chain, tubulin alpha-1B chain, phosphate-detail inocital, bifosphate-3-keyingase, catalytic subunit gamma, actin, myelin basic protein, and these undercharacterized peptides with funky names. Of these peptide sequences, peptide myelin basic protein fragment, 114 to 126, was also studied for its possible role in the development of the autoimmune disease, multiple sclerosis. It is hypothesized that this fragment of myelin basic protein could possibly be useful as a potential treatment for multiple sclerosis. So with the results of this study, I looked for potential beneficial effects of the other identified peptide fragments contained within cerebalycin. Some of them might act as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and offer antihypertensive effects. Some of them might have potential antimicrobial activity and offer immunomodulating effects. They might act as an antioxidant, some of them offer mineral chelating activity or even contribute to collagen synthesis. None of which sounds very familiar to an enhanced effect regarding neurotropic factor activity in the brain, but let's proceed anyway. In the conclusion, the researchers mentioned that they identified 638 unique peptides within the cerebalycin samples, none of which had known neutropic effects, and none of them were stemming from precursor peptides like BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, and GF. However, a more recent study contests these results regarding the beneficial neutropic effects of cerebalycin by doing a nano-liquid chromatography mass spectrometry analysis of their own. Unfortunately, the full publication of this study is locked behind the $50 paywall. I was still able to access it fully, but unfortunately I can't share the entire study with you guys, so let's just go over the abstract real quick, which basically tells you everything you need to know. This study was performed by Young et al. published in 2023, so it's very recent. Titled Optimized Approach for Active Peptide Identification in Cerebralycin by Using Nano-Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry. This study detected 810 unique peptides within cerebalycin, two of which could offer potential anti-inflammatory effects, and the other could have potential antioxidant effects. These three peptides might be the neuroprotective components within cerebalycin, albeit that a lot more scientific evidence still needs to be performed on which peptide chain might actually offer potential neuroprotective and antioxidant effects, because well, a three peptides out of 810, I would say that that scientific evidence is a little bit thin. Needless to say, the scientific evidence regarding the beneficial effects of cerebalycin in human subjects and animal models extensive, so let's proceed anyway. Based on this scientific evidence and all of the scientific evidence which is coming in this deep dive, don't you worry, I'm going to have to conclude that cerebalycin's beneficial effects probably come from acting as a neurotropic factor secretagogue, similar to how some acts saline, dihexa, new pept or other new tropics which are known to increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in the brain act. And this could come by providing the peptide fragments or the free amino acids, which either directly influence neurotropic factor secretion in the brain or contribute to the production of neurotropic factors by acting as their building blocks. If you'd like to see a comprehensive deep dive on which neurotropic compounds increases neurotropic factors the most, comparing cerebalycin to some acts of saline, dihexa, new pept, etc., just let me know down below in the comment section, I would gladly make that comparison video so you know which compound increases BDNF, GNDF, CNTF and NGF the most. But what do these freaking neurotropic factors actually do and how do they work? And I'm glad to ask, here's a brief rundown of what the function and the role of all these neurotropic factors are and what you could potentially expect from cerebalycin administrations. So here's the function of indulgently produced neurotropic factors. The case with brain drive neurotropic factor is that it's involved in learning memory and moods. Brain drive neurotropic factor promotes new nerve cell differentiation, growth, survival and neurogenesis and BDNF is expressed throughout the brain and sensor nervous system. Ciliary neurotropic factor is involved in motor neuron, sensory neuron and glyosal differentiation and survival. Ciliary neurotropic factor aids in myelin production and repair. And CNTF aids in neuron regeneration following injury. Glyosaline drive neurotropic factor is involved in neuron function, regeneration, growth and survival in the brain, sensory nervous system and peripheral nervous system. But this mostly involves dopaminergic neurons. Glyosaline drive neurotropic factor supports neuronal glial interactions and GDNF is essential for nervous system health. Nerve growth factor is involved in the transmission of touch, temperature and pain. Nerve growth factor regulates growth and maintenance of neurons and NGF is commonly elevated in people who recently have fallen in love. And these growth factors aren't exactly neurotropic factors, but it seems that cerebalycin has a modulating effect on these peptide hormones. I felt it was only fair to include them here. It modulates insulin like growth factor one, which is involved in growth, development and metabolism of nerve cells. Cerebalycin modulates vascular endothelial growth factor, which is involved in the formation of new blood vessels, aka angiogenesis and cerebalycin modulates. Turmeric crosses factor alpha, which is involved in the immune system acts as a pro inflammatory cytokine is produced by microfaces, telympocytes and natural killer cells. And while BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, NGF and IGF-1 are continuously expressed within a normal healthy brain, VE, GF and TNFA are only produced during the healing process of an injured brain. And BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, NGF, IGF-1 and VE, GF all have anti inflammatory properties, while TNFA operates as a pro inflammatory messenger. So don't be discouraged Cerebalycin doesn't contain direct neurotropic factors. There's plenty of scientific evidence that shows that cerebalycin can increase neurotropic factors in the brain, albeit that this is all stemming from animal models, because while the animals are euthanized and the brain is homogenized and they can actually check for a neurotropic factor content after various cerebalycin administration protocols, whether when it comes to human subjects, they can only check for neurotropic factors, potentially stemming from the brain in serum. So we're going to have to go with the animal models in combination with the human data to come to a some sort of suitable solution and explanation of how much particular neurotropic factors increase during particular cerebalycin treatments. Cerebalycin increases brain drive neurotropic factor by 5.4 nanograms per milliliter in the serum of healthy individuals. This is observed after four weeks on 20 milliliters, cerebalycin by intravenous infusion for four weeks continuously. Now this is stemming from a Russian study, which was available as a full publication. You can find it down below in case you're interested. I ran it through three translation softwares, but unfortunately the baseline parameters of brain drive neurotropic factor before the cerebalycin treatment was initiated are unknown. So if you go with the healthy adults reference range on average for brain drive neurotropic factor with a range of 14.5 to 21.57 nanograms per milliliter, that results in a brain drive neurotropic factor increase of 25 to 37.2%. Again, I understand that I'm extrapolating dubiously here, but if it's not contained within the scientific evidence, then we're going to go with the next best thing with the average reference range of healthy individuals regarding their BDNF levels in serum. In another study, cerebalycin was shown to increase brain drive neurotropic factor by 41.2% in the serum of Alzheimer's patients. This was observed after eight weeks on 10 milliliters cerebalycin by intravenous infusion five times weekly on week one to four and week 13 to 16 of the studies that it took an eight week break in the middle of the treatment. Brain drive neurotropic factor increased by 50.3% when cerebalycin was combined with five milligrams of the nasa pill at week one to four and 10 milligrams to nasa pill week 13 to 16. So every time cerebalycin was administered, they either received 500 grams of the nasa pill or 10 milligrams to nasa pill and keep in mind that the nasa pill is a medication to treat Alzheimer's disease and dementia by acting as a reversely binding acetylcholine estrus inhibitor and thus increasing acetylcholine levels in the brain in a dose dependent fashion. Cerebalycin also increases brain drive neurotropic factors by 20 to 30% after a hippocompal neural stem cell grafts in an animal model using mice as the animals of choice, which was observed after one to nine months on five milliliters per one kilogram of body weight through intrapuratonal injection, which is straight into the abdomen, which translates to 0.4 milliliters of cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration, which is very comparable to intrapuratonal administration for humans because I highly doubt that you're going to shoot your cerebalycin intrapuratonally. So let's stick with intramuscularly instead. And this is with using dose cow to get the human equivalent dose, meaning that a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would need to administer 40 milliliters cerebalycin intramuscularly to get a similar effect. Cerebalycin increases brain drive neurotropic factor by 30% in the brain after seizures stemming from an animal model using rats, which is observed after seven days on 2.5 milliliters cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight, again by intrapuratonal injection. So if we extrapolate that to the human equivalent dose using dose cow, that's also 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily again for humans cerebalycin increases brain drive neurotropic factor gene expression by 18% after cellular oxidative stress stemming from an in vitro study using mouse neuro blastoma cell lines. But this is nothing compared to a 91% increase in brain drive neurotropic factor with the CDCOLIN aka CDP-COLIN groups. So maybe extrapolating from the scientific evidence, albeit highly dubiously, a combination of cerebalycin with the nasophil increasing acetylcholine levels in the brain has a heightened response to an increase in brain drive neurotropic factors, albeit in serum, right, based on human subjects. And in this in vitro study, CDCOLIN increases brain drive neurotropic factors by a factor of almost five. So I would say that there's something to say to combine cerebalycin with something that increases acetylcholine levels in the brain and whether that's the nasophil or CDCOLIN, I'll leave that entirely up to you. Cerebalycin increases glial cell line drive neurotropic factors by 130 to 160% in the brain stemming from an animal model using mice. This is observed after three months of five milliliters per one kilogram of body weight, again by intrapuretonal injection, which translates again to 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans, meaning 40 milliliters cerebalycin if you're 100 kilograms. Cerebalycin increases nerve growth factor by 30% in the brain from an animal model using mice, and this was observed after three months on five milliliters per one kilogram of body weight by intrapuretonal injection daily, again 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans. Cerebalycin offers similar effects to celerine neurotropic factor, glial cell line drive neurotropic factor and insulin like growth factor 1 and 2 in the brain stemming from an in vitro study using cultured adult rat hippocompol progenitor cells. Cerebalycin increases insulin like growth factor 1 by 2.5 to 3.1% in the serum of Alzheimer's patients. I would say that that's negligible. It's observed after 12 weeks on 10 milliliters, 30 milliliters or 60 milliliters five times weekly at week 1 to 4 and 10 milliliters, 30 milliliters and 60 milliliters two times weekly from week 5 to 12. There's a 2% increase of insulin growth factor 1 in the placebo group, which is very comparable to the cerebalycin group, and a 3.3% reduction in the 30 milliliters cerebalycin group. So if you want to go with this scientific evidence regarding an increase in IGF-1 levels, either less or more, right? But nothing between don't find the middle ground. You either take 10 milliliters cerebalycin five times per week or 60 milliliters because well, increase of 2.5% or 3.1% negligible results. If you want an increase in IGF-1 levels, spend your money on growth hormone. And on the other side of that, cerebalycin was shown to lower insulin growth factor 1 levels by 2.9% in the serum of diabetic rats, which again was observed after four weeks on 2.5 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight by intrapartisanal injection daily, which translates to 0.4 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily for humans. Cerebalycin lowers tumor and across this factor alpha by 1.3% to 10.6% in the serum of Alzheimer's patients. This was observed after 12 weeks on 10 milliliters, 3 milliliters or 60 milliliters five times weekly from week 1 to 4 and 10 milliliters, 30 milliliters or 60 milliliters two times weekly at week 5 to 12. Now there's a 12.6% increase in tumor necrosis factor alpha in the placebo group and a 1% increase in the 30 milliliters cerebalycin group. So and if this sounds low, a mere reduction of 10.6% in the 60 milliliters cerebalycin group, keep in mind that there's a 12.6% increase in the placebo group, meaning a 23.2% gap between the placebo group and the cerebalycin group. So technically you could say that cerebalycin at 60 milliliters five times weekly for four weeks and then two times weekly for another eight weeks lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha by 23.2% again compared to the placebo aka baseline groups and cerebalycin lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha by 18% in the serum of diabetic rats and it lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha by 20% in the brain after seizure. I mean you convert that to the human equivalent dose, it's exactly the same as all of the other dosages which I mentioned earlier 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily. Now I know this isn't very actionable and tangible information to help you decide on a particular dosing protocol so I took the liberty to summarize all scientific evidence and combined the therapeutic dosages investigated in human subjects with the human equivalent dose stemming from the animal models and give you some sort of dosing guidelines based on body weights with 10 kilogram increments. So here are the neurotropic factor modulating cerebalycin dosages fully evidence-based. If you want a 20% to 41% increase in brain drive neurotropic factor you'll have to go with either 10 milliliters to 20 milliliters cerebalycin by intravenous infusion five times weekly or 0.4 milliliters cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight with intramuscular administration daily and if you want to increase your brain drive neurotropic factor to 50.3% then you need to combine cerebalycin with five milligrams to 10 milligrams to nasa pill at least five times weekly to increase your acetylcholine levels in the brain. If you want 130 to 160% increase in glous cell line drive neurotropic factor you stick with the exact same dosing guidelines of 0.4 milliliters cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily. If you want a 30% increase in nerve growth factor same dosing guidelines and if you want a 1.3 to 23.2% reduction in tumor necrosis factor alpha albeit that the higher percentage is a little bit duper extrapolated. Then you go with either 10 milliliters cerebalycin or 60 milliliters cerebalycin intravenously five times weekly or again the exact same dosing guidelines based on body weight mentioned earlier. That means that the dosage ratio is for cerebalycin or anywhere between 10 milliliters to 60 milliliters either by intramuscular administration or intravenous infusion five times weekly or again 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily which results for 100 kilogram bodybuilder again in a 40 milliliters cerebalycin administration intramuscularly or intravenously if you do so prefer five times weekly up to daily the rest of the calculations are on the screen and basically all these dosages falls within the guidelines of 10 milliliters to 60 milliliters cerebalycin daily by intramuscular administration or intravenous infusion. Since cerebalycin is considered a biohacking compound let's take that biohacking to the next level and prevent the breakdown of neurotropic factors in the hypothalamus and the neurons glial cells and inothelial cells of the blood brain barrier as well as in the bloodstream and various other tissues of the body by combining cerebalycin with the dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitor. Dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes break down various growth factors and neurotropic factors including the ones that cerebalycin are known to increase within the brain and the bloodstream whether the peptide fragments contained within cerebalycin are substrates for the dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes that I couldn't verify. Dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors are a class of medications used to treat type 2 diabetes. They work by preventing the breakdown of two incontinence, glucogonol like peptide 1 and glucosdependent insulin tropic polypeptide also known as castric inhibitory polypeptide abbreviated to GIP in both instances which means that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors might lower appetite by increasing GLP-1 and GAP levels in the bloodstream. Although the scientific evidence is a little bit thin on this subject I was able to find a couple studies that show that prove that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in the serum of patients with either type 2 diabetes or Alzheimer's disease and might offer neuro protection overall and this has been scientifically proven for linagliptin, cytacliptin and vildagliptin but I couldn't find any evidence that this is the case for the other dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors of which there are many. It seems that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors are associated with improved vascular function by increasing vascular endothelial growth factor levels and are also known to increase insulin growth factor levels in serum but I couldn't find any direct scientific evidence that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors influence ciliary neurotropic factor or cell line derived neurotropic factor or nerve growth factor so at least for brain drive neurotropic factor we've got that covered in case we want to combine cerebral ison with a dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitor and this might get a substantial beneficial effect from the dose of cerebral ison that we decide to go with so here's a comprehensive list of growth factors and neurotropic factors which are broken down by the dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes it breaks down angiopoietin ciliary neurotropic factor epidermal growth factor erythropoietin albeit that if you go through all the inserts of dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors they're not known to increase hematocytes and overall rib blood cell counts. Dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes break down fibroblasts growth factor 1 to 23 glucose dependent insulin and tropic polypeptide aka gastric inhibitory polypeptide abbreviated to GIP and glucagon like peptide 1 abbreviated to GLP-1 it breaks down growth hormone releasing hormones so if you take a DP4 inhibitor you see that growth hormone levels in serum tend to go up and then downstream insulin growth factor 1 levels go up and then by taking an inhibitor you prevent the breakdown of IGF-1 making it go up more increasing overall insulin sensitivity and improving glucose homeostasis well beyond the inhibition of the breakdown of GIP and GLP-1 so again these medications are quite powerful and the dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes break down hepatocyte growth factor insulin growth factor 1 and 2 like I mentioned earlier mechanogrow factor, mouse statin, brain drive neurotropic factor, nerve growth factor, trombopoietin and vascular endothelial  growth factor. So based on basic human biology, by taking an inhibitor, you might prevent the breakdown of either of these growth factors and neurotropic factors. Here are all the FDA-approved dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors and numerically recognized dosing protocol to manage. Type 2 diabetes. The details are on the screen. We don't need to mention all of that. What I would like to mention is that linae-glyptin and c-taclyptin are often combined with sodium glucose-co-transporter type 2 inhibitors. So you might want to read the package insert before you start trying either c-taclyptin or linae-glyptin, which might be combined with an S-T-L-T-2. And thus, serum glucose and serum sodium levels tend to go down quite dramatically, but that results in better glucose homeostasis. But we're taking these to prevent the breakdown of brain-drive neurotropic factor, which might be heightened by taking cerebrolysin and thus get a synergistic effect. Now, these various dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors have various dosing protocols, administration frequencies, half-lives and active-lives, so please do additional research if you decide to go with the dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitor alongside your cerebrolysin protocol. Unfortunately, I couldn't find an established half-life or active-life of cerebrolysin. This study shows that electrical activity of the brain revolving around short-term memory increased 15 minutes after cerebrolysin administration, peaked around two hours and lasted until eight hours after the administration. But again, this is an animal model and these results might not translate into humans. And this is the only scientific evidence that we have regarding the duration of action of cerebrolysin. Cerebrolysin's neurotropic activity can be detected in the bloodstream for up to 24 hours. After a single administration, this suggests that the peptide fragments of cerebrolysin remain biological active for at least one day. And this is further confirmed by the dosing protocols which are used medically with daily or at least five times a weekly administrations. Cetagliptin, aka genuvia, seems to be the most promising dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitor regarding its beneficial effects by increasing brain drive, neurotropic factor, vascular endothelial growth factor, and insulin growth factor in serum as well as in the brain potentially. Cetagliptin has a half-life of approximately eight to 14 hours, which seems to overlap with the active life of cerebrolysin. And Cetagliptin is readily available. So out of all these dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors, if you have to choose one, I would go with Cetagliptin. Now personally, I always get a little bit sleepy when I administer cerebrolysin, whether that's five milliliters or 10 milliliters in a single intramuscular administration. So I would always inject my cerebrolysin about two hours before bed. I've gone up to five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin for total course duration of two months with daily injections. And for the large majority of that treatment course, I combined cerebrolysin with 100 milligrams Cetagliptin before bed. Now I have a firm grasp on my blood glucose levels, because again, dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors might modulate your blood glucose levels. And I've a firm grasp on my appetite so I make sure that I don't miss any meals, even if my appetite is suppressed, allowing my blood glucose levels to stay in range while I'm sleeping. But I felt that throughout those two months of daily five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin administrations, in combination with daily use of 100 milligrams Cetagliptin all before bed, that I got a more pronounced effect compared to previous cycles of five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin for up to one month. So again, the scientific evidence isn't very conclusive. There's no direct scientific evidence combining cerebrolysin with a dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitor, but with an anecdotal experience of one, I would say that it works. The beneficial effects that I got on my mood and cognition seem to be more pronounced. The beneficial effects that I got on my sleep quality seem to be more pronounced. And the long lasting, neutral, big benefits regarding my productivity, motivation, that kind of stuff are also way more pronounced from the combination of cerebrolysin with Cetagliptin, even though I discontinued both months ago. Needless to say, based on the anecdotal experience of one, I'm highly in favor of this combination of cerebrolysin and a dipeptidol peptidol is for inhibitor, albeit that I don't know anybody who's tried this particular bowhacking optimization themselves. I asked the longevity fanatic Brian Johnson about this when he called the InJourney Enhance Games seminar back in December 2024, but it seemed he was not aware of this potential drug interaction. And he also specifically mentioned that his cerebrolysin experience was hard to quantify, which is something I agree with, but we'll get into that a little bit later on in this video. I'll be sure to send Brian Johnson this cerebrolysin deep dive to see if he has something to say and maybe give a little bit more explanation about his personal cerebrolysin experience. Okay, let's proceed into the Mother Russia approved medical applications of cerebrolysin, which varies slightly between the dosing guidelines and the product information found on the official cerebrolysin website. I've linked both documents down below in the YouTube description section for your information, though. Cerebrolysin is not FDA approved in the United States, but it is available here in Thailand on prescription. GenOracle, the compounding pharmacy that I work with, if you sign up as a patient, you can have cerebrolysin prescribed if you suffer from the following medical conditions. Cerebrolysin is prescribed in Mother Russia for eczemic stroke or hemorrhagic stroke, in dose just between 20 milliliters to 50 milliliters daily for 10 to 21 days. Consecretively, it's prescribed in cases of traumatic brain injury between 20 milliliters to 50 milliliters daily for seven days to 30 days. Consecretively, it's used in the treatment of vascular dementia at 10 milliliters to 30 milliliters cerebrolysin five times weekly for four weeks in duration, for a total of two to four cycles yearly. So, that could be four weeks every six months or four weeks every quarter. And cerebrolysin is used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease as well, in which case the dosing protocol is exactly the same as for vascular dementia. 10 milliliters to 30 milliliters cerebrolysin five times weekly for four weeks, repeated for two to four cycles yearly. Now, in all of these medical scenarios, whether that's stroke, traumatic brain injury, vascular dementia, or Alzheimer's disease, it's suggested to initiate cerebrolysin treatment as soon as possible. And when you go through all of the scientific evidence, you see that in many cases they start cerebrolysin at least in the case of stroke and traumatic brain injury within one to four hours after they arrive in the hospital. Now, obviously vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease is a progressive disease that occurs over time. Still, when that's diagnosed, they apply cerebrolysin as fast as possible, which seems to help with the treatment outcome and the resolvment of this particular medical condition as fast as possible as well. Now, we compare this to the approved medical applications found in the product information. You see that the dosages are a little bit lower. So, in case of acute stroke or post-stroke, whether it is eczemic stroke or hemorrhagic stroke, the dose can start at 10 milliliters cerebrolysin versus 20 milliliters cerebrolysin found in the dosing guidelines. And it's the same for traumatic brain injury, 10 milliliters cerebrolysin is the starting dose compared to 20 milliliters as the starting dose found in the dosing guidelines. The top dosage range is 15 milliliters in all contexts. And when it comes to vascular dementia or Alzheimer's disease, in the product information, they say that you could start with 5 milliliters cerebrolysin 5 times weekly for 4 weeks consecutively for 2 to 4 cycles out of the year. But again, in the dosing guidelines, they mentioned that you should start with 10 milliliters cerebrolysin for vascular dementia or Alzheimer's disease. Long story short, the dosing guidelines are twice as high at the starting dose compared to the product information found on the official cerebrolysin website. But the top end of the range for all of these conditions are still 50 milliliters or 30 milliliters. So do a little bit of research if you suffer from any of these medical conditions in your liver, mother, Russia, where you can get cerebrolysin prescribed. And here are the guidelines of the various routes of administrations of cerebrolysin. If you go with an intramuscular injection, you can go up to 5 milliliters cerebrolysin per injection site, slowly administered over the course of 3 minutes. I'm going to have to interject here a little bit. Yes, I've gone up to 5 milliliters cerebrolysin per injection site. So if I wanted to take 10 milliliters cerebrolysin post leg day, I would split that up bilaterally. So let's say 5 milliliters cerebrolysin into the left cheek and 5 milliliters cerebrolysin into the right cheek. But I would inject that a lot faster because it's water based and it would literally go in like butter over the course of 30 seconds. And I had had zero post injection pain. So I think you could do intramuscular administrations a little bit faster than they would recommend on the website. If you go with intravenous injections, you can go up to 10 milliliters administered over the course of 3 minutes. This is considered to be a slow push, intravenous injection straight from the syringe. I've never done this myself. I've always stuck with intravenous infusions if I go up to a very high dose of cerebrolysin. But I've only done that a couple times because I get perfectly good beneficial effects from 5 milliliters to 10 milliliters daily over the course of 2 months consecutively. But I will get into the dosing protocols a little bit later on. So if you go with intravenous infusion for a higher dose of cerebrolysin, let's say 10 milliliters to 50 milliliters cerebrolysin diluted in at least 100 milliliters normal saline solution or 100 milliliters ringer solution or 100 milliliters 5% glucose solution, then you can infuse this intravenously over the course of 15 minutes to 60 minutes, aka one hour. Now from personal experience, if you go up to 50 milliliters cerebrolysin, I would rather have you dilute that into a 500 milliliters normal saline solution so you can have a slow drip nice and steadily and usually 500 milliliters normal saline solution would be absorbed over the course of 60 minutes. Okay, let's move over to the evidence-based unique characteristics of cerebrolysin and see what kind of beneficial effects we can extrapolate from scientific evidence. And I can't believe it took over 30 minutes to get to the evidence-based unique characteristics of cerebrolysin. It's probably a new record, but I had to get to the composition of cerebrolysin out of the way first so you guys understand that all of these unique characteristics are actually stemming from the peptide fragments or the free amino acids which are contained within cerebrolysin, even though cerebrolysin doesn't contain any neurotropic factors itself. I've included the dosage ranges and administration protocols where all of these beneficial effects are observed so you can make a decision for yourself and know what you need to aim for if you want to get a comparable effect. I took the liberty to extrapolate the human equivalent dose from the animal models wherever applicable so you have an estimated dosage or dosage range for each unique characteristic. And for your information, most of the animal models use intraparentonal administration straight into the abdomen, so I replaced intraparentonal administration for intramuscular administrations. I feel that that's reasonably comparable regarding the mechanism of action because that's not going systemic right away but has to diffuse from the injection depot whether that's intraparentonally or intramuscularly. For example, you're welcome. Like I mentioned earlier at the start of this video, cerebrolysin modulates the expression of endogenous neurotropic factors stemming from human subjects, animal models, and in vitro studies cerebrolysin increases brain drive neurotropic factor, nerve growth factor, insulin like growth factor 1, vascular endothelial growth factor expression, cerebrolysin potentiates glial cell line drive neurotropic factor, ciliary neurotropic factor, and insulin like growth factor 1 like effects and it lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha expression in the brain. And this is observed at 10 milliliters to 60 milliliters intramuscularly or through intravenous infusions five times weekly or 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily. Cerebrolysin targets cost-based 3T lymphocytes and myrogen activated protein kinase pathways again stemming from human subjects, animal models, and in vitro studies. Cerebrolysin is involved in programmed cell death aka apoptosis, cellular stimuli responses to heat shock, osmotic stress, and pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor alpha and cerebrolysin is part of the signaling pathway that regulate cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. And again the dosing protocol where this is observed is exactly the same as where cerebrolysin modulates the expression of endogenous neurotropic factors. Cerebrolysin induces neurofilament L-polypeptide expression stemming from in vitro studies which should contribute to neuronal differentiation. Cerebrolysin protects against oxidative stress induced apoptosis in lymphocytes aka white blood cells stemming from an in vitro study which could offer potential neurodegenerative protective effects. Cerebrolysin offers potential neuroprotective effects in stroke, traumatic brain injury, and Alzheimer's disease albeit that the scientific evidence is not super conclusive. Cerebrolysin modulates endogenous neurotropic factors like alluded to earlier and reduces neuro inflammation in the brain. This is observed at 5 milliliters to 30 milliliters intravenous infusions 5 times weekly to daily for four weeks for a total of two to four cycles yearly. You can find a lot of literature revealed down below regarding stroke, traumatic brain injury, and Alzheimer's disease where some of the evidence is not super conclusive in these particular medical conditions but I'll leave it up to you to give all of that a read in case you suffer from stroke, traumatic brain injury, or Alzheimer's disease yourself. And if you don't want to do that here's a summary of all of that scientific evidence bundled together just leave me a like and a comment to show some love right back at me. Cerebrolysin might improve long-term rehabilitation after eczemic stroke stemming from human subjects with inconclusive evidence compared to placebo groups more effective when combined with neuro rehabilitation. This was observed after or concluded with dosius ranging from 30 milliliters to 50 milliliters Cerebrolysin with intravenous infusions daily for 10 to 21 days consecutively sometimes combined with 100 milligrams aspirin daily as a juvent therapy Cerebrolysin might offer preventative therapy and improve cognition in elderly patients with vascular dementia stemming from human subjects obviously Cerebrolysin slows the progression of cognitive deficits and lowers the conversion rate to dementia after amnestic mild cognitive impairment diagnosis. So a few administer 20 milliliters Cerebrolysin through intravenous infusion daily for 28 days repeated annually for three years consecutively that it might prevent the progression from this amnestic mild cognitive impairment diagnosis to a full-blown vascular dementia looks very promising based on scientific evidence Cerebrolysin improves recovery and cognition and Cerebrolysin relief symptoms of depression but not anxiety following moderate to severe traumatic brain injury stemming from human subjects in which case the dose of Cerebrolysin either 50 milliliters by intravenous infusions daily for five to ten days or in cases of severe depression that's longer lasting or severe traumatic brain injury that needs a longer period to be resolved the dose of Cerebrolysin is between 10 milliliters to 50 milliliters by intravenous infusions daily for 10 days to over 20 months so severe long-lasting depression or severe traumatic brain injury or both 50 milliliters Cerebrolysin intravenous infusion daily for over 20 months until both conditions are resolved and this one is a little bit speculatory Cerebrolysin improves symptoms of chronic sleep deprivation in traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer's disease stemming from human subjects and animal models Cerebrolysin offers potential neuroprotective effects prevents sleep deprivation induced memory impairment and prevents oxidative stress in the hippocampus from the human equivalent dose that's 0.4 milliliters to 5 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight through intramuscular injection or intravenous infusion in a single administration keep in mind that most of the studies showing an improvement in chronic sleep deprivation were performed by Hari Shankar Sharma who's had several of his studies retracted you can read more about his dubious contributions to the scientific community in the article titled Cerebrolysin Sharma's Musclea and Ever Pharma which is linked down below so you might want to take this scientific evidence with a healthy and hefty dose of Himalaya pink salt but it's all up and onwards from here Cerebrolysin prevents short and long-term memory impairment during post-traumatic stress disorder stemming from an animal model using rats where Cerebrolysin was shown to reduce PTSD induced oxidative stress in the hippocampus at the dose so which is very comparable to the previous dosage ranges we discussed when extrapolating from the animal models 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram body weight intramuscularly or by intravenous infusions six times weekly in this case for four weeks consecutively and this one is pretty interesting Cerebrolysin might offer a potential treatment of post fluerona C19 persistent anosmia which is taste flavor and sensory loss in human subjects Cerebrolysin offers a 61.5 recovery rate of olfactory gustatory and trigeminal chemosensory dysfunction at five milliliters Cerebrolysin intramuscularly five times weekly for eight to 24 weeks with 25 000 ios vitamin a daily as a juvent therapy so if that sounds interesting to you and you just watched the methylene blue deep dive a combination of Cerebrolysin and methylene blue at the investigated dosage ranges which again are quite high i will tell you that at these quite high dosage ranges Cerebrolysin and methylene blue perhaps in combination might offer you some relief Cerebrolysin might improve cognition and symptoms of type one diabetes and type three diabetes which is often associated with Alzheimer's disease this is stemming from an animal model using rats Cerebrolysin was shown to offer a 19.4 percent reduction of serum glucose and a 14.4 percent reduction of serum heboglobin A1c levels and again add to the aforementioned dose of 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram body weights and this one is pretty interesting for all of you party people out there you know who you are Cerebrolysin by intranasal administration in pro spatial and recognition memory synapse plus this D and increases antioxidant capacity at only 40 percent yes just 40 percent the dose of interperitonal administration in eczemic stroke and senescence so why don't we take Cerebrolysin intranasally instead of injecting it basically the day after you go out for hefty party session right you're already on the road might as well continue with that practice of what you were doing Cerebrolysin directly enters the nasal cavity and passes the blood brain barrier based on the molecular weight of the peptide fragments and the free form amino acids at 0.08 milliliters per one kilogram of body weights intranasally daily for eight weeks at these studies show that one milliliter Cerebrolysin per one kilogram of body weight by intranasal administration again this is the animal dose we converted that to the human equivalent dose already was just as effective as 2.5 milliliters Cerebrolysin per one kilogram of body weight by intranasal administration which is just 40 percent of the dose comparatively a k a two and half times more effective and again that's probably because the peptide fragments and free amino acids of Cerebrolysin can freely enter the nasal cavity and pass the blood brain barrier into the brain directly similar to how CELANG or SEMACS enter the brain now for your information 0.8 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight for 100 kilogram body weight older is 80 milliliters Cerebrolysin intranasally which is excessive and most nasal sprays contain about 15 milliliters of liquids so you could always dump three ampoules of five milliliters Cerebrolysin into a cookie cutter nasal spray that you can buy online and then I go through that nasal spray in two days seven half milliliters Cerebrolysin straight up the nose every single day and then you'll finish that bottle into or maybe three days if you stick with five milliliters and to further drive that point home for you guys on average a nasal spray delivers about 0.1 milliliters per pump 0.1 milliliters per spray so you get about 21.52 milligrams Cerebrolysin peptide fragments and free amino acids per serving but that also means you need to administered 80 pumps 80 sprays 80 sprays per day to get your eight milliliters in if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder so that basically means you need to bump every 12 minutes yeah and I'm sure that sounds familiar to you guys it sounds familiar to me but that's a part of my life is long behind me there are some instances of minor to severe allergic reactions to Cerebrolysin known as a porcine allergy which partially stem from an immunoglobulin e mediated response but these adverse effects are mostly observed when Cerebrolysin is administered intravenously so religious reasoning aside if you know you have an allergy to pork meat or gelatin products for that matter then I would avoid Cerebrolysin altogether and skip to the part where I discuss Cortexin as a replacement before you do any kind of intravenous or intermuscular Cerebrolysin administration please go with a conservative route and inject 0.1 milliliters Cerebrolysin subcutaneously to assess your response if you get post injection pain redness at the site of administration or you get some sort of an indication of anaphylactic shock that obviously means that an intermuscular or intravenous Cerebrolysin administration is not for you and please be patient please give yourself at least 24 hours for any kind of negative effect to manifest if after one or two days you don't get any post injection pain irritation at the site of administration or other kinds of complications following this 0.1 milliliters Cerebrolysin subcutaneous injection then you can proceed to 0.1 to 1 milliliter Cerebrolysin by intramuscular injection to assess for a similar response right post injection pain irritation at the site of administration or redness or anaphylactic shock again it could still occur a switching from subcutaneous or intramuscular administration if you suffer from a poor sign allergy so take it slow take it step by step and assess day by day or with two day breaks in between if you have an allergic response to your Cerebrolysin injections before before you do anything intravenously and if you do go intravenously on your first shot go with a 1 milliliter Cerebrolysin administration over a five minute injection intravenously to see if you have any kind of negative effects because if you go halfway through your injection over two and a half minutes of 0.5 milliliters and then you start to get the symptoms of anaphylactic shock then at least you're halfway there and you can and write it out if and only if you have an epipen on standby you might need a hefty dose of epinephrine aka adrenaline to get you out of this adverse reaction as fast as possible if you go with intravenous injections please guys please use either a butterfly catheter needle or a silicone catheter to prevent any kind of arterial damage and scarring assuming you don't get an autoimmune response from 1 milliliter Cerebrolysin intravenously then you can proceed to the dose that you're after dilute it into at least 100 milliliters normal saline solution and administer it over the course of 15 minutes to 60 minutes and again if you go with a higher dose of Cerebrolysin let's say 50 milliliters intravenously please dilute that into a 500 milliliter normal saline solution concoction and then take your sweet time and administer that intravenously with a silicone catheter and before I forget benadryl and zantac might be able to prevent any development of immunoglobulin E antigens these can be used preventatively before each intravenous Cerebrolysin infusion and with that out of the way let's get into whether Cerebrolysin treatments can cause a proun's disease or not prouns are infectious proteins which can cause fatal neurodegenerative complications known as prouns disease prouns can be transmitted through the contact of infected tissues contaminated medical equipment even by eating infected meat or by injecting animal-based peptide extracts prouns cause disease by converting normal cellular proun proteins into the abnormal infectious form this misfolded protein then aggregates and damages brain tissue leading to symptoms like memory loss personality changes and movement problems and I don't consider jazz hands to be movement problems but I'm sure you guys will let me know down below in the comment section whether I have prouns disease or not these diseases also called transmissible spongiform encephalopathies include Crutchfields Jacob's disease in humans bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow's disease in cattle and scrapy in sheep there's no scientific evidence that Cerebrolysin is associated with prouns disease if there was some sort of cover-up within mother russia and other countries where Cerebrolysin is FDA approved for particular medical treatments at one point on rather after decades and decades of Cerebrolysin administrations in human patients you would figure that an instance of prions disease would come to the forefront at one point in time or another but I couldn't find any indication that Cerebrolysin contains prouns in the two studies which investigated the peptide fragments and the free amino acids which are contained within Cerebrolysin so I hope that puts your mind at ease somewhat that being said though any product derived from animal tissues contain a theoretical risk of contributing to prions disease if it's not properly processed to eliminate these infectious proteins and for your information you can also get prions from human cadaver pituitary extracted growth hormone formulations which didn't seem to stop the body but it's from using it up until the mid 1980s and before we get into the Cerebrolysin dosing protocols let's briefly compare the efficacy of Cerebrolysin to the efficacy of Cortexin which is a complex of low molecular weight water soluble polypeptide fragments derived from the Cerebrolysin cortex of calves. Unfortunately the large majority of the studies comparing Cerebrolysin to Cortexin are in Russian and not available as a full publication wherever possible I extrapolated some information from the abstract translating Russian into English but there might be some conjecture here due to the lack of fully translated publication still I did my absolute best to group and aggregate all of the information I could find comparing Cerebrolysin to Cortexin so here we go the sophisticated dosage ranges from animal models using mice with Cerebrolysin that was 0.8 milliliters 2.5 milliliters or 7.5 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight daily for two 10 day courses with a 10 day treatment break in between those two 10 day courses or daily for up to four weeks in duration and in these studies the investigated dosage ranges for Cortexin were 0.3 milligrams 1 milligram or 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight daily for the exact same treatment duration and it's only fair if you compare Cerebrolysin to Cortexin with the exact same treatment protocols and the investigated dosage ranges using rats as an animal model or basically one on one so the exact same dose between Cerebrolysin and Cortexin so that was either 1 microgram 10 micrograms or 100 micrograms Cerebrolysin or Cortexin administered through intraventricular infusion which is an injection directly into the brain's fluid filled ventriculars also known as an intra Cerebroventricular administration and converting that to the human equivalent dose using doscal which is always linked down below in case you want to do your own conversions the human equivalent dose of Cerebrolysin will be between 0.06 milliliters to 0.61 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight and for Cortexin there will be 0.02 milligrams to 0.24 milligrams for 1 kilogram of body weight in both instances daily so again that would mean a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would have to take up to 61 milliliters Cerebrolysin or go up to 24 milligrams Cortexin based on these animal models where the maximum efficacious effects were generally observed at the higher dosage ranges the mechanism of action for Cerebrolysin it crosses the blood brain barrier with an unknown uptake and offers neurotropic like effects in which Cortexin also crosses the blood brain barrier with a 68 uptake it acts an AMP-A kinate Mglo1 Gabba A1 and Mglo5 receptors and Cortexin offers glutaminergic and Gabbaergic modulation now comparing the beneficial effects regarding neurological recovery and memory formation with Cerebrolysin it offers superior improvement after embolic stroke and comparable improvements after acute an eczemic stroke or chronic eczemia and with Cortexin again it offers comparable improvements after acute eczemic stroke and chronic eczemias on this context for embolic stroke Cerebrolysin seems to be superior when comparing lesion volume reduction Cerebrolysin offered no significant reduction in lesion volume but Cortexin reduced necrotic tissue size when comparing cerebral blood flow either compound whether it was Cerebrolysin or Cerebrolysin  cortexin had no effect on cerebral blood flow whatsoever. Regarding antioxidant activity, cerebrolysin has a dose-dependent antioxidant effect, but cortexin has a superior dose-dependent antioxidant effect. Regarding cytoprotective effects, comparing cerebrolysin to cortexin, cerebrolysin exhibits cytoprotective properties on TNB lymphocytes, favors the vital of immunocompetent cells and stimulates immune memory B lymphocyte proliferation. But cortexin was shown to have cytotoxic and anti-proliferative effects on T lymphocytes. So regarding cytoprotective effects and the effects on the immune system, cerebrolysin wins. And regarding behavioral effects, cerebrolysin was shown to have moderate psychostimulant action, but cortexin has more effective psychostimulant action. The adverse effects are minimal regarding the differences in safety profile, but since both compounds are derived from animal tissue, both compounds could potentially contribute to prion's disease, albeit again, in both instances, whether that's cerebrolysin or cortexin, no scientific evidence that these compounds are associated with prion's disease. And when we're comparing the therapeutic effects from price to dose, it seems that cerebrolysin is less efficacious after eczemic stroke, whereas cortexin is more efficacious after eczemic stroke. So regarding the outcome of the study, cortexin is more beneficial when you compare that to the cost. However, this is coming from a Russian study stemming from 2006. So that's almost 20 years ago, and the full publication isn't available. So here's the two long didn't read. Cerebrolysin is superior to resolve stroke and has a positive effect on the immune system, while cortexin has superior antioxidant effects, reduces narcotic tissue, and is more effective in psychostimulation and might be a little bit more cost effective when we're comparing prices. Using some highly dubious extrapolation from these studies where the results of cerebrolysin treatment are very comparable to the results of cortexin treatment, I have to conclude that 10 milligrams lifelike protection equals about 25 milliliters of liquid cerebrolysin. And that being said, after 60 days, yes, 60 days consecutively, either five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin intermuscularly before bed daily, I did not notice any beneficial effect switching from up to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin to 10 milligrams cortexin intermuscularly before bed for another 20 days after this initial 60 day cerebrolysin treatment, which you could consider to be two and a half to five times the dose of cerebrolysin I was running before, right? Up to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin is still two and a half times lower than the 10 milligrams cortexin dose I would take daily for 20 days afterwards. I did not notice a beneficial effect on top of the beneficial effects I experienced from 60 days on cerebrolysin by continuing and switching to cortexin for another 20 days. Now, this is again, an end of one anecdotal experience. I would not know if I would have started with cortexin if the beneficial effects would have manifested on a 2.5 milligram to five milligram cortexin dose. I guess I'll never know because the next time I'll run cerebrolysin or cortexin we're talking about a couple of years ahead because I feel that these courses have very long lasting effects. So based on this ratio, which I got from the scientific evidence where 10 milligrams cortexin being around $9.5 and 25 milliliters cerebrolysin being around $70 excluding discounts and shipping fees. I would have to agree with the 2006 study where cortexin has a more favorable dose to price ratio albeit that I can't vouch for its efficacy because again, I did not notice anything after the initial 60 days on cerebrolysin. Now, I'm sure you guys will let me know down below in the comment section that you would like to see a cortexin deep dive in the near future right after I finish a bottle of other deep dives which are currently pending. So if you want to speed up that process give me a little bit of incentive, share this cerebrolysin deep dive video with all of your new tropic loving friends bring the views up by putting a bottle of comments a couple of likes and sharing this all across the internet and then I feel a little bit more incentivized to get started on the cortexin deep dive. So you guys know exactly what to expect in case you don't want to run cerebrolysin after watching this deep dive or through religious reasons or a prance disease you're a little bit turned off of the idea of injecting purified pig brains. And that finally brings us to the dosing protocols everybody rejoices. For men, I would say that the sustainable and tolerable dose based on scientific evidence I'm a personal experience and talking to a lot of people who have used cerebrolysin over the last couple of years. The dose is anywhere between 2.5 milliliters to 60 milliliters either by intramuscular administration or intravenous infusion. Five times weekly to daily for up to two months and the deleterious dose well since it's never been investigated and the safety profile regarding scientific evidence it seems that it's generally will tolerate it besides a couple of instances of allergic reactions. The deleterious dose might be over 60 milliliters intramuscular or intravenous five times weekly to daily for over two months. And for women, the dosing protocol is pretty much the same albeit that I would still recommend women to use a lower dose of cerebrolysin simply because their body weight is usually lower than men unless you're a porky and then well I guess there's an applicable joke in there somewhere. You can combine cerebrolysin either with five milligrams of Donazapil or 500 milligrams of CDColing 8K CDPColing or 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams genuvia to get a more pronounced effect. And if you don't like to go with Donazapil or CDColing then you can obviously use AlphaGPC it's just about increasing acetylcholine levels in the brain and based on the scientific evidence I would say that AlphaGPC is a little bit more potent to increase acetylcholine levels than CDColing. Now speaking for myself even though that's not the case for everybody some people notice that they get an energetic effect from cerebrolysin. So you have to do some self experimentation we start with cerebrolysin treatments self prescribed cerebrolysin also always made me very, very, very sleepy. So I would take either five milliliters or 10 milliliters split bilaterally over two five milliliter servings intermascarily let's say one to two hours before bed sometimes in combination with a two IU to 10 IU growth hormone administration which would really improve my sleep quality I mean, cerebrolysin and growth hormone before bed sleep like a baby. Honestly, it's the best sleep stack even though it's reasonably expensive the best sleep stack I've ever tried and I've tried all of them. And I would combine the cerebrolysin administration with 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams genuvia aka C. tecliptin at the same time to potentiate the effects a little bit higher by preventing the breakdown of various neurochropic factors. Again, I have a firm grasp on my blood glucose levels my hemoglobin A1c levels, my fasting insulin levels and everything else that you need to pay extra special attention to when you start modulating your blood glucose levels with a dipeptyl peptidase IV inhibitor. So make sure you have a glucometer or a DEXCOM or another continuous blood glucose monitor available when you start combining a dipeptyl peptidase IV inhibitor with cerebrolysin before bed because the last thing that you want is to wake up in the middle of the night or in the morning with severe symptoms of hypoglycemia forcing you to slam an entire bottle of Gatorade or perhaps some bacon you found in the fridge downstairs and it might be some potential drug interactions regarding Proun's disease when you combine bacon with cerebrolysin. I've never combined cerebrolysin with Donazapil or CDP-Caulin or AlphaGPC for that matter because again, I always took it before bed and increasing my acetylcholine levels in the brain before bed usually keeps me awake. And otherwise it makes me dream quite unfavorably I would say. So whether this combination between Donazapil, CDP-Caulin or AlphaGPC actually improves regarding an improvement of cognition, I'm not entirely sure. I've never tried it myself. But if you've tried it, let us know down below in the comment section whether you combine cerebrolysin with a method to increase acetylcholine levels in the brain or cerebrolysin with another neurotropic factor, secretogolic like somax or saline. Again, I've never done that, but I know people who did that themselves. Let us know down below in the comment section. I would love to hear about it and I'm sure everybody else would love to hear about it as well. Personally, I would limit intramuscular injections to five milliliters per administration side. So if you go with 10 milliliters like I used to do, five milliliters on the left side and the right side, split bilaterally and it kind of depends on how big your glutes or lats or quads are for them to hold up to five milliliters of liquids per injection depot. Intramuscular injections are for lack of better explanation, smooth as butter. I've done hundreds upon hundreds of cerebrolysin administrations over the years and not once, not a single instances of redness, post injection pain or injection side irritation in any way, shape or form. And this is probably the smoothest injection I've ever done in my life. And I honestly wish that steroids or any kind of other peptide formulation would give me such a smooth injection experience as cerebrolysin does, but so far, nothing comes close. And beyond a 10 milliliters cerebrolysin administration, you would need to dilute the cerebrolysin into at least 100 milliliters normal saline solution, but preferably 500 milliliters normal saline solution and then administer that intravenously over the duration of 15 to 60 minutes. A nice slow drip. So you have adequate time to absorb all of that cerebrolysin into the brain tissue and then preferably use a catheter needle, whether that's a butterfly catheter needle or a silicone catheter to prevent any kind of arterial damage and scarring, especially if you administer cerebrolysin intravenously daily. What I noticed the most from cerebrolysin administrations between five milliliters to 10 milliliters after, let's say, one to two weeks of daily continuous use is that I'm calmer, I'm more composed, I'm a little bit more relaxed. I feel that I respond less stressfully to particular situations, whether that's a work stress or relationship stress, which is basically non-existent because I'm happily married, or a stress related to the cryptocurrency where I have financial funds invested and then sometimes the market dips by 20% and then normally you would panic and start panic selling but on cerebrolysin or SSRS for that matter, I'm a little bit more composed and I make much, much, much, much better financial decisions regarding the assets that I have to manage on a day-to-day basis. So that's personally what I noticed. Besides that, when I was still training, both of the wall and super insane on 10 milliliters cerebrolysin, it seemed to mitigate the post-exercise brain fog following leg days or back days almost entirely the next day, which also came with a problematic sites effect is that I started training harder. So I knew that a certain amount of volume I would be able to get away with it, then I could increase the volume by taking 10 milliliters cerebrolysin before bed after a leg day or a back day. So I increased the volume by let's say three to four working sets, two failure or beyond failure using a spotter. And then the next day I would be completely composed and I would like, maybe I can go eight sets extra. So I gained a significant amount of size during the time I was running cerebrolysin to mitigate the brain fog because the next day I would still be highly productive. So worked it and suffer as long as I was using cerebrolysin before bed after these strainy was workouts. And then when I took the cerebrolysin off, oh man, oh man, I was brain fogged for days. Yeah, so I really had to reduce the volume on those strainy leg days and kept a couple sets from failure just to make sure that I wouldn't have terrible brain fog the next day, and which is normal for me, otherwise with this level of training intensity, because otherwise my productivity would have been in the gutter and I wouldn't be able to make these a very lengthy and informative deep dives for you guys. So even though I discontinued the cerebrolysin a couple months ago, I think it's been, man, four months already, sorry, it took so long to make this deep dive. It's been four months since my last cerebrolysin injection, and let's say about three months since the last Cortexin administration, I dropped my training volume down to the point. I have a little bit of brain fog the next day, but it doesn't impair my work, but that intensity is still higher than the training intensity that I had previously where cerebrolysin was never used. So it seems that after a 60 day course on cerebrolysin, regarding my moods, my productivity, my sense of well-being, my reduction in post-exercise brain fog the next day, my improvement in sleep quality is still longer lasting even though I discontinued cerebrolysin, let's say three to four months ago, but some of these effects might be stemming from fluvoxamine, which is known to increase brain drive neurotropic factor. So while I was running a brain drive neurotropic factor secretagogue for a better lack of a sense of explanation, I'm still elevating my brain drive neurotropic factor with 50 milligrams fluvoxamine before bed. So that might potentially the effects that I got from cerebrolysin for months in duration. For me personally, I think one course of cerebrolysin, and maybe this is the case for you as well, one course of cerebrolysin per year, whether that's five milliliters daily for 30 days or five to 10 milliliters daily for up to 60 days, I think that's enough to get long lasting effects. Again, it might be some overlap with the other neurotropic factors secretagogues that I'm taking, but I feel that the beneficial effects are quite long lasting. And then when I feel that these effects are diminishing, I feel reduction in mood, cognition, productivity, post-exercise brain fog is through the roof or I'm making terrible cryptocurrency decisions, then I think it's time for another cerebrolysin course. And then I might combine that with the nasopil or another method to increase acetylcholine levels in the brain, but then I would have to switch to morning administrations. And if that makes me incredibly sleepy, then obviously that protocol is not going to work. And I'm going to switch to the previous protocol of cerebrolysin growth hormone and acetylcholine before bed. And before we close off this video, I just want to highlight two articles which I found online which questioned the efficacy and overall legitimacy of cerebrolysin, since it isn't very clear what cerebrolysin actually contains, which we highlighted at the start of this video. You can read about that in the article, what the hell is cerebrolysin actually? It's linked down below. And another article titled, cerebrolysin, Sharma's Musclea and Ever Pharma, which I highlighted earlier, goes over the unethical practices of duplication among various cerebrolysin studies performed by select few individuals who clearly have financial interest in making cerebrolysin seem like a magical compound that can cure all kinds of medical conditions. All of the studies which were highlighted in that article, I excluded from this cerebrolysin deep dive unless there was some overlap with other studies which wasn't mentioned in this article, showing a similar efficacious outcome. So some of the studies might still be linked down below in the description or comment section where all of the citations are. I would highly suggest you to read both of these articles, whether that's what the hell is cerebrolysin actually, or cerebrolysin, Sharma's Musclea and Ever Pharma article. Before we get into these cerebrolysin addendum livestream, I will give it another read again. So we have a little bit of a discussion point. I would also highly suggest you to give both of these articles before you purchase cerebrolysin for yourself, if this cerebrolysin deep dive somehow convinced you to use cerebrolysin. Because again, the scientific evidence is not super conclusive. The ingredients of cerebrolysin are not 100% known or what these peptide fragments actually do, even though scientifically it's been shown to increase various neurotropic factor levels in the brain, whether that's in human subjects proven with serum concentrations or animal models using actual brain tissue to confirm that various neurotropic factors are actually going up after cerebrolysin treatments. Yeah, you might not get the exact effects that you're after because there's a lot of, well dubious speculation, conjecture and incomplete information when it comes to this medication. Still, anecdotally, a lot of people swear by cerebrolysin. They say that it cured them from their depression. It cured them from their addiction, which I've had several consultations about where people need to overcome creative addiction or idle addiction or weed addiction or other kinds of addiction, in which case the dose just are quite high. So we're talking about 30 milliliters to 50 milliliters cerebrolysin, intravenously at least five times weekly for one to two months, while they're detoxing from their particular addiction and then they overcome it. Now that's not always 100% successful. Sometimes these guys need, ibogaine treatment, which I'm not very familiar with to be honest, but there's plenty of clinics that offer a ibogaine service in case you really need to overcome a particular condition and cerebrolysin treatment was insufficient to do that by yourself. So after watching this deep dive, if you're still interested in running cerebrolysin yourself, please give those two articles linked down below a read and then join me for the cerebrolysin addendum live stream video dropping in a couple of days from now. I hope to see you there. So who knows, maybe cerebrolysin is just a highly very expensive injectable protein shake from hydrolyzed pig brains. And it might be cheaper to increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in the brain continuously by using a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor like fluvoxamine or vortioxazine, just like I did. Let me know if you'd like to see a brain drive neurotropic factor deep dive in the near future, subscribe so you don't miss it. As always, make sure you do your blood work. If you live in the United States, you can do that over at Merrick Health. They have excellent patient care coordinators and healthcare providers who can help you interpret your blood work results in case you're unsure on what's going on within your body. Make sure you do your blood work frequently, especially when you start experimenting with cerebrolysin or other kinds of compounds which could have a modulating effect on your blood work parameters. Health is wealth, so make sure you check your blood work frequently, especially if you're undergoing a lot of self experimentation. And if you want to increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in your brain without doing copious amounts of injections multiple times per week in the daily, then look into Gerylamide. They sell curcumin C3 complex, fish oil called Omega 3 elixir, and Gerylamide smooth, which contains Bacopa-moniery and L-theanine, and the Gerylamide has several other products which contain L-theanine. All of these are known to increase BDNF levels in the brain. I've linked all of those products down below, and if you don't know where to get cerebrolysin, well, that's what the website is there for, or the link three on my Instagram page. Thank you guys so much for watching. They fully enhanced brain-drive neurotropic factor level in those canons from the website for you guys. Thank you guys so much for watching. All of my other affiliates and sponsors you can find down below as well. And I'll see you in the next deep dive, whether that's a brain-derived neurotropic factor, deep dive video, or a cortex and deep dive video. I'm sure you guys will let me know down below in the comment section to fuel that algorithm smoothly. Thank you guys so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.

=== FILE: Best Sobetirome (GC-1) Protocols (Lipid-Lowering Anti-Catabolic T3 Thyroid Alternative) [QaWidRqxGOM].txt ===

 autopril, cschopop教opiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, cschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, azetamide and TUTCA by increasing metabolism, lowering total cholesterol and LDL levels, and promoting bile acid production? Does it make you go mad catabolic when dosages are abused just like what happens with triiodothyronine, better known as T3? It seems that GC1 is the superior 3-in-1 compound that induces fat loss, preserves muscle mass, reduces the risk of atherosclerosis, and is very toilet paper friendly. Keep watching to learn more. Vigorous Thief here. Let's discuss the Sovaterome, also known as GC1 or QRX431, which was first synthesized in 1998 as a thyromimetic compound which was specifically designed to selectively target thyroid hormone receptors. Sovaterome is a modified version of triiodothyronine, aka T3, with comparable affinity for the thyroid receptor beta-1, but just a 10-fold lower or 0.1 times or 10% the affinity for the thyroid receptor alpha-1 compared to T3. Unlike thyroid hormones, Sovaterome doesn't contain iodine, and thus it is in the substrate for the diiodinase enzymes, which would otherwise cleave off one iodine atom from thyroxine T4, making it biologically active in the form of triiodothyronine T3. Sovaterome can be considered as a selective thyroid hormone receptor modulator, abbreviated to STHRM, and now the half-nanny broccoli boys are just screaming their pants with a half-stiffy thinking about adding some STHRMs to their SARMs-only cycle. In the 1950s, researchers concluded that thyroid hormones were not suitable medications to lower serum cholesterol and serum triglyceride levels as they were found to have deleterious effects on the heart, bones, and skeletal muscle. Then in the 1960s, research continued to investigate various thyroid hormone, analogues, and mimetics, also known as thyromimetics, as well as the investigation into other lipid-lowering agents. Later, in the early 1990s, thyroid receptor beta-1 selective thyromimetics were developed, ultimately leading to the discovery of sovaterome GC1 in 1998. So let's quickly compare sovaterome GC1 to triiodothyronine T3 and see how they differ. You see here that the half-life of T3 is anywhere between 10 to 22 hours. There's a lot of scientific evidence available on T3. That's why there's such a range. The oral bioavailability of T3 has an average of approximately 78%, but the range is anywhere between 69 to 99%, depending on the scientific evidence that you read. The molecular weight, though, is always the same, 650.977 Daltons. And you see here in the chemical formula and the chemical structure of T3 that it contains not only carbon and hydrogen, but also iodine and nitrogen. When you compare that to sovaterome GC1, with an established half-life of 7.2 hours, an oral bioavailability of 92%, and it's significantly higher, the molecular weight is approximately half that of T3 at 328.408 Daltons. And here you see on the chemical formula and the chemical composition that it doesn't contain iodine and it doesn't contain nitrogen. So again, to clarify here, sovaterome has a molecular weight of 328.408 Daltons, which is half of that compared to triarylothyrin T3, which is a molecular weight of 650.977 Daltons, meaning that if you want to reach similar molecule concentrations in the body and potentially similar thyroid hormone beta-1 activation, that you would need to compare 50.4 micrograms sovaterome to 100 micrograms T3. And again, that's assuming that the oral bioavailability of sovaterome is similar to T3, but based on the scientific evidence and the averages, it seems that the oral bioavailability of sovaterome is a little bit higher, 92% versus 72% that of T3. So many of the animal models where sovaterome is directly compared to T3 at the exact same dosages, you see that T3 is about half as effective compared to sovaterome because at the exact same dosage, it probably results in half the amount of thyroid receptor beta-1 activation due to the difference in molecular weight. Let's briefly discuss the function of thyroid hormones T4 and T3 so you have a clear understanding of what you could expect from sovaterome supplementation. Both T4 and T3 are tyrosine and iodine-based thyroid hormones. Thyroxine T4 is an inactive, somewhat inactive, pro-hormone of T3. It's primarily produced in the thyroid gland in response to thyroid-stimulating hormone from the pituitary gland and it interacts with the thyroid receptor alpha-1, beta-1 to 3, albeit with low affinity. Triiodothyrony is biologically active. Selenium containing deiodonase enzymes found in the liver, kidneys, and skeletal muscle cleave one iodine atom from thyroxine T4, metabolizing T4 into a biologically active triiodothyrony, which interacts with the thyroid receptor alpha-1 to 3 and beta-1 to 3, all with high affinity, albeit with slightly different levels of affinity. The ratio of T4 to T3 in serum is approximately 14 to 1. It contributes to energy regulation and basal metabolic rate. Thyroid hormones increase basal metabolic rate required to sustain vital functions at rest, enhance oxygen consumption and energy utilization throughout the body. Thyroid hormones play a crucial role in body temperature regulation throughout their effects on metabolic rates by increasing cellular metabolism and increase heat production known as thermogenesis. Thyroid hormones contribute to protein and lipid metabolism, triiodothyronine T3 stimulates both protein synthesis and protein degradation. This is something we're trying to avoid by increasing the activity of RNA polymerase 1 and 3. Thyroid hormones stimulates cholesterol breakdown, increase LDL receptors, and accelerate lipolysis. This is something we definitely want by controlling our lipid levels and improving fat loss. And thyroid hormones contribute to improving body composition and lowering overall body weight. Thyroid hormones contribute to body growth and development, whether that's in infancy or adulthood. Thyroid hormones are essential for normal body growth and development, bone growth and maturation, development of the central nervous system, stimulating myelin production, neurotransmitter synthesis, and axonal growth. Thyroid hormones promote wakefulness and alertness, contributing to cognitive function and mood regulation. They may act as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators themselves, or exert their effects through interactions with established neurotransmitter systems, potentiating some sort of dopaminergic, serotonergic, or GABAergic effect. Thyroid hormones increase cardiac function, specifically triaerothyronine, which increases both heart rate and force of contraction of the heart, enhancing cardiac output, increasing beta-adrenergic receptor levels in the myocardium. This is why a combination of T3 with clematrol is so effective for fat loss, but also very effective to increase your heart rate for hours on end. T3 modulates blood pressure, increased systolic and decreased diastolic pressure, again, through the modulation of the force of contraction of the heart. Thyroid hormones regulate pituitary function and reproductive hormone production, increased gastrointestinal function and motility, contribute to insulin secretion and pancreatic islet cell function, which are all of the effects on the other organ systems of thyroid hormones. And there's various complications regarding thyroid hormones, including hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, autoimmune thyroid disorders like Hashimoto's or Graves' disease. And this is basically an aggregation, a summary of all of the thyroid hormone stimulating compounds, whether that's the production of thyroid stimulating hormone, tyroxine or tri-aerothyronine or the activation of the thyroid receptor alpha 1 to 3 or beta 1 to 3, right? It's all aggregated here. So, as you can see, you need to pay attention to your micronutrients. Yeah, here we go again. Vitamin A, whether that's beta-carotene or retinol, they both contribute to thyroid function, as does vitamin B2, vitamin B3, vitamin B6, vitamin B9, vitamin B12, vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin E, whether that's tocopherols or tocotrinos, both of them contribute to thyroid function. Vitamin K1, K2, MK4, vitamin K2, MK7 all contribute to thyroid function. Calcium, especially alongside vitamin D3 and K-complex formulations to help shuttling all of that calcium into bones, contributes to thyroid function, as does chromium, copper, iron, iodine, obviously magnesium, selenium for those selenium containing diadenase, enzymes, cleaving one iodine atom from T4 into T3, making it biologically active. Zinc contributes to thyroid function, as does L-tyrosine. I mean, it's a tyrosine-based hormone after all, so you need your tyrosine in there. L-carazine contributes, L-inositol and myo-inositol contributes, various amino acids like L-arginine, L-asparagene, L-citrulline, L-glutamine, L-leucine, L-serine and L-valine, all contribute to thyroid function and even flavonoids and adoptogens like curcumin C3 complex or K766 ashwagandar root extract all contributes to thyroid function in various degrees. And well, if you're metabolically, or you have an autoimmune disease, or you don't want to eat healthy, then there's always levothyroxine T4, which is the first-line treatment for Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease or other metabolic disorders. For adults, the starting dose is 1.6 micrograms per one kilogram, by the way, daily, adjusted to, let's say, anywhere between 50 micrograms and 200 micrograms T4 daily, based on how thyroid-stimulating hormone levels fluctuate throughout this course of treatment. And in the elderly or adults with heart conditions, the dose is a little bit lower. Usually they start with a dose at 12.5 micrograms or 25 micrograms daily, and then that's increased as needed, keeping extra special attention to their heart rate and their blood pressure overall. If that doesn't work, there's a second-line treatment for poor T4 to T3 converters, lyothyronine, better known as T3, pharmaceutical T3, good stuff, I've used it myself. For adults, the starting dose is usually 25 micrograms daily, adjusted to 50 micrograms, the 75 micrograms daily, based again on thyroid-stimulating hormone levels, and perhaps thyroxine T4 levels. And there are some various combination medications where the T4 to T3 ratio is either 4 to 1 or 8 to 1, meaning that you get a combination medication of either 50 micrograms T4 or 100 micrograms T4 or 100 micrograms T4 and 12.5 micrograms T3 daily. And that seems to be a little bit more favorable compared to solo treatments. There's always all-armor thyroid, which is desiccated thyroid extract, starting dose of 30 milligrams, aka one grain daily, which contains 38 micrograms T4 and 9 micrograms T3, which is then increased as needed based on serum thyroid concentrations. There's also desiccated liver tablets, but we don't really know how much thyroid or iodine or selenium those desiccated liver tablets contain. So start a little build your way up, I would say. But what we're after here in this video are the various thyroid mimetics, albeit limited to sobiterome, otherwise this video will be way too long. I'm sure of it. The thyroid mimetics includes diiodothyroid propionic acid, eprotirome, omzothyroid, rysmothyroid, that's what we're after here, thiratricol, triiodothyroid acetic acid, abbreviated to TRIAC, and VK2809. When are they going to make names that are easy to pronounce? You motherfucking researchers. All right, let's move over to the clinical trials. There were supposed to be two clinical trials on sobiterome. The first was supposed to investigate the safety, pharmacokinetics, and efficacy of sobiterome in adult male patients with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, abbreviated to XALD. And the second was supposed to be performed on pediatric patients diagnosed with childhood cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy, abbreviated to CCALD. Also looking into the safety and efficacy of sobiterome. Unfortunately, it seems that funding for both of these clinical trials have dried up. And that's probably because eprotirome, another synthetic thyroid receptor agonist with structural similarities to both triodothyroidine and sobiterome, during phase three clinical trials, it was shown that it increases liver enzymes and could potentially cause liver toxicity. And in the animal models using dogs, eprotirome was also shown to have a deleterious negative effect on cartilage. So it's likely that the funding for sobiterome dried up after the phase three clinical trials on eprotirome were terminated, even though when you look at the beneficial effects, here for sobiterome during phase one, it was shown that it lowers LDL cholesterol with no adverse effects reported, but it was terminated due to the similarities with eprotirome. And for eprotirome, you see that the beneficial effects are reduction in total cholesterol, a reduction in LDL cholesterol, a reduction in triglycerides and lipoprotein LIL-A, but it was terminated during phase three clinical trials due to liver toxicity and deleterious effects in cartilage, again stemming from an animal model. Based on a press release from Biospace, which is linked down below in case you're interested, the press release was titled Phase One Studies Show Promise of Quad-Rx Pharmaceuticals Novel Compound Soboterome for Lowering LDL Cholesterol Levels. It was published on January 29th, 2008, a long, long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, where 450 micrograms sobiterome was administered in a single dose, which was shown to decrease LDL levels by up to 22% after 72 hours after dosing. And 100 micrograms sobiterome once daily for two weeks in duration consecutively decreased LDL cholesterol levels by 41%. Now I tried to look for the study results of the sobiterome phase one clinical trial, which unfortunately was terminated. Apparently it was discussed or published during the 2008 annual meeting of the Endocrine Society, where it was published or performed by Lynn et al. And that discussion or publication was titled, Soboterome is a thyroid receptor beta and liver selective thyromimetic that can affect substantial LDL cholesterol lowering without significant changes in heart rate or the thyroid axis in new thyroid men. But I couldn't find it anywhere. I've added the citation down below in the clinical trials section of Soboterome. If you can find it, and if you can find this publication, whether it's a slide or a PDF or Word document or copy paste, it doesn't really matter. If you have the information, I would love to see it. Post it down below in the comment section if you have access to it. And then we can discuss that during the Soboterome addendum live stream dropping a couple of days from now. And talking about press releases, Pamela Hartley of Yale University reported on April 16, 2020 in a galaxy far, far away, albeit a little bit closer to ours. That the Department of International Medicine received a philanthropic gift of $100,000 to speed initiation of phase two clinical trials on Soboterome as an early treatment of Fluorona C19. As Dr. Kaminsky and his team believe that Soboterome will enhance lung resilience to injury in C19 induced acute respiratory distress syndrome and accelerate recovery. I couldn't find any additional information about this press release. But again, it's linked down below in case you're interested. So the more research I do of figuring out that cerebral lyecin might be potential treatment for Fluorona Long-Horlar syndrome or Methylen Blue might be a potential treatment for Fluorona Long-Horlar syndrome and potentially Soboterome, right, based on this press release. The more research you do, the more you know, the more knowledge you acquire. And it brings us to the evidence-based unique characteristics. Soboterome primarily accumulate in the liver when compared to serum, brain, heart, muscle, and adipose concentrations. Heart concentrations were 30-fold lower compared to triiodothyronine T3 at molar equivalent dosage range comparing Soboterome to T3 directly. And this was observed after a single intravenous administration of 10 millimole per 1 kilogram of body weight, meaning that most of the beneficial effects stemming from Soboterome GC1 are coming from its effects on the liver and not from other tissues of the body, especially not the heart. And again, when directly comparing the T3, Soboterome induces adaptive thermogenesis in white adipose tissue functioning like brown adipose tissue stemming from an animal model with obese male OB OB mice, where it was observed at 3 milligrams per one kilogram of food daily consumed ad libitum for 21 days. And when you do the rough calculation to the human equivalent dose, that results in a 1.95 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight orally, again, for humans. Now, I'll give you a little bit of an insight on how I convert this ad libitum food consumption dose to the human equivalent dose. The body weight of an adult male obese OB OB mouse is approximately 65.6 grams on average, which is almost double that of an average or otherwise healthy adult male mouse. And I can't really find the average food consumption for an obese OB OB mouse. And the scientific evidence is a little bit all over the place. Some of the sources say that it's slightly a little bit above average, the consumption of a healthy adult male mouse. And some sources say that it's significantly more. Again, it kind of depends on the model and what kind of foods they give. Is it a high fat diet, high fat plus high cholesterol diet, or only a carbohydrate diet, and it really varies. So let's just assume, let's just assume for this dubious calculation, that the average food consumption is double that of a healthy adult male mouse. Meaning that, with some dubious calculations, there will be about eight grams of food consumed daily, resulting in 24 micrograms of subterum consumed over the day, converting that to the human equivalent dose, which is on the screen. 1.95 micrograms for one kilogram of body weight, orally daily, for humans, which means if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder, that will be 195 micrograms. Subterum over the day splits, let's say 100 micrograms in the morning, 100 micrograms in the evening, which isn't a dose that's unheard of, or is unreasonable to take. Subterum lowers thyroid stimulating hormone and thyroxine T4 levels slightly, with a tenfold lower effects compared to triodothyronine T3, for an equal 50% reduction in total cholesterol levels, stemming from an animal model using mice. And this was observed at comparing, let's say 62.38 micrograms subterum versus 6.38 micrograms T3. So at these dosages, you see an equal 50% reduction in total cholesterol levels, but a tenfold lower effects compared to T3 regarding the reduction in TSH and T4 levels. Now, if you convert this to the human equivalent dose, that gives you 10.12 micrograms for one kilogram of body weight, meaning that if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder, that will be a thousand eleven point fifty seven micrograms subterum over the day. And I doubt that anybody's going to take this, but if you read through anecdotal reports through the grapevine, you hear that some bodybuilders actually take a thousand micrograms subterum over the day. Insane, way too high, way higher than has been clinically investigated in humans and way higher than I would generally recommend. But there are people crazy enough out there that are doing that. And as a quick reminder, subterum is approximately the same level of affinity for the thyroid receptor beta-1 compared to triiodothyronine. And through this thyroid receptor beta-1, it's the primary negative feedback in which T3 down-regulates the thyroid stimulating hormone secretion from the pituitary. But other studies performed on hypothyroid rats or euthyroid rats, which are rats with normal thyroid function, show that subterum treatment did not affect thyroid stimulating hormone levels at all. Subterum lowers serum total cholesterol levels by approximately 25%, high density lipoprotein levels by approximately 30%, and triglyceride levels by approximately 75%, stemming from an animal model using mice on a high cholesterol diet. In the same study using a different animal model also showed that subterum prevents diet-induced increases of serum total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein levels. This animal model used mice on a high fat and high cholesterol diet. Now, in both instances, this was observed at 97 nanomals or 31.86 micrograms subterum per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for eight days, which translates to human equivalent dose of 2.6 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight, aka 258.24 micrograms per 100 kilogram bodybuilder. Subterum lowers serum total cholesterol and triglyceride levels by approximately 75%, stemming from an animal model using low density lipoprotein receptor deficient LDLR minus minus mice on a high fat and high cholesterol diet. Talk about punishment. And this effect was observed at 4.8 milligrams per one kilogram of food consumed ad libitum over the day for seven days consecutively and converting this to the human equivalent dose. This would result in 53.7 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight orally again for humans. And this is quite interesting because low density lipoprotein receptor deficient LDLR minus minus mice lack a functional LDL receptor and still serum triglyceride levels and serum total cholesterol levels went down by 75%. And to justify the dose conversions using an animal model where food is consumed ad libitum to the human equivalent dose, the body weight of an adult male LDLR minus minus mouse is approximately 29 grams on average. These mice typically consume about 4 grams of food daily on average, which loosely translates to 19.2 micrograms subterome consumed over the day, which is 662.1 micrograms subterome per one kilogram of body weight. And calculating that to the human equivalent dose, we get 53.7 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight, which is 5370 micrograms or 5.4 milligrams for 100 kilogram body weight. I don't think anybody is going to take it that much. Sobitrum, and when you look at the clinical trials, at least from the data that's available on the press release, we saw that 100 micrograms subterome for multiple days consecutively lowered LDL cholesterol by approximately 41%. So I really don't think you need to dose your subterome that high to improve your lipid levels. But with the lack of human scientific evidence, this is all we have to work with. Sobitrum doesn't alter hepatic lipoprotein receptor expression and activity, the SRA, SRB1, LRP1, or hepatic cholesterol content stemming from an animal model with mice on a high fat and high cholesterol diet. And this was also observed at 4.8 milligrams per one kilogram of food ad libitum daily for seven days. This stemming from the same study we just discussed, resulting in the exact same human equivalent dose of 53.7 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight. And this study shows some very promising results. Sobitrum lowers lipoprotein little a levels by approximately 50% and lowers body weight by approximately 4% without altering heart rate or blood pressure stemming from an animal model using gynomolchus monkeys, aka the crab eating macaque. And this was observed at 190 nanomoles or 62.38 micrograms subterome per one kilogram of body weight orally daily consecutively for seven days, which unfortunately translates to 20.2 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight orally for humans getting the human equivalent dose using dose cow, which means 2023.14 micrograms for 100 kilogram bodybuilder. And for your information though, exogenous testosterone replacement therapy reduces lipoprotein little a by 25 to 59% in men with a baseline lipoprotein little a over 9.6 milligrams per decilator, which falls in the low end of the reference range. Low risk regarding cardiovascular disease, if you use lipoprotein little a is a marker for cardiovascular disease, it should be below 30 milligrams per decilator. Azetimibe also lowers lipoprotein little a levels to a certain extent, but that is clinically insignificant amounts. So if you want to lower your lipoprotein little a levels, consider sobatrome in combination with exogenous testosterone replacement therapy or a little bit more, and perhaps azetimibe and then lipoprotein little a levels should be nice and dandy. Sobatrome is more effective in lowering serum total cholesterol levels 54% compared to atorvastatin lipitor, which reduced it by 24%, stemming from an animal model using mice on a high fat and high cholesterol diet, observed at 300 micrograms sobatrome versus 20 milligrams atorvastatin lipitor per one kilogram of body weight orally daily for 10 consecutive days, which converts into 24.3 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight orally daily for humans, which again is way too high, 2,430 micrograms if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder, which is about 10 to 20 times the generally recommended dose of sobatrome or at least 5.4 times the maximum dose of the 450 microgram sobatrome investigated during the clinical trial. And converting the atorvastatin dose of 20 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, we're left with 1.62 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight for humans, which is 162.2 milligrams if you're 100 kilogram bodybuilder, which is four times the typical dose of 40 milligrams atorvastatin lipitor daily. So again, this animal model uses dosages which is far, far, far, far, far higher than humans would take, whether that's a sobatrome or atorvastatin lipitor. But if you bring those dosages down a notch, you might still get a more beneficial and more pronounced effect regarding a reduction in total cholesterol levels. If you stick with sobatrome over atorvastatin, and this study proves just that, albeit that it's still an animal model, sobatrome is more effective in lowering serum total cholesterol levels 37 to 75 percent compared to atorvastatin lipitor 19 to 20 percent. Again, rats and monkeys in this animal model. And this was observed at 50 microgram sobatrome versus 30 milligrams to 70 milligrams atorvastatin per one kilogram of body weight orally daily for an undisclosed amount of time, which translates to a human equivalent dose between 8.1 micrograms to 16.2 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight orally daily for humans. 810 to 620 micrograms for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder. No thanks. Sobatrome reduces atherosclerosis by approximately 19 to 27 percent, reduces serum total cholesterol by approximately 17 percent, and increases bile acids in stool by approximately 80 percent. So you don't need to wipe that often anymore when you supplement your sobatrome in. Stemming from an animal model using APOE knockout mice on an atherogenic high fat diet, and these effects were observed at 120 micrograms per one kilogram of food consumed ad libitum over the day for 20 weeks, which calculates to the human equivalent dose of 1.24 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight. Now, APOE deficient mice have impaired serum lipoprotein metabolism, and feeding them a high fat diet obviously makes their condition a lot worse, resulting in full-blown atherosclerosis. The body weight of an adult male APOE knockout mouse is about 27.5 grams on average. These mice typically consume 3.5 grams of food daily, that loosely translates to 0.42 micrograms sobatrome consumed over the day, which is 15.3 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight. And if you convert that to human equivalent dose, that's 1.24 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight, or 123.8 micrograms per 100 kilogram bodybuilder. Sobatrome increases serum C4 levels, which is an intermediate in bile acid synthesis by approximately 240% by inducing cholesterol 7-alpha hydroxylase, which is also known as cytochrome P450-7A1 enzyme activity, CYP7A1 activity, and sobatrome increases bile acids in stool by approximately 45%, stemming from an animal model using mice. And these effects were observed at 48 nanomoles or 15.76 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight, sobatrome through intraperitonal injection daily for eight days, which converts into the human equivalent dose of 1.3 micrograms for one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly, which is 127.8 micrograms for 100 kilogram bodybuilder. Sobatrome metabolizes cholesterol and increases bile acid synthesis by inducing, like I mentioned before, cholesterol 7-alpha hydroxylase, cytochrome P450-7A1. Sobatrome metabolizes cholesterol and increases bile acid synthesis by inducing, which is the  autopril-6-pooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo of body weight and keep in mind that ketoconazole inhibits the CYP7A1 enzymes and anastrozole arimidex inhibits the CYP27A1 enzymes like I mentioned in the steroidogenesis inhibitors video both are needed for proper bowel acid synthesis so if you're taking sobotrome in combination with ketoconazole whether that's topically to preserve your hair or orally for some sort of fungal infection or combine sobotrome with arimidex to control your serum estradiol levels you might not get adequate or more pronounced bowel acid synthesis right so this drug interaction is something you need to be aware of if you want to increase stool lubrication and detoxification by taking sobotrome those effects might be reduced or completely mitigated by ketoconazole or anastrozole sobotrome might protect against cholestatic liver disease and biliary injury stemming from an animal model using multi-drug resistant to deficient mdr2 deficient mice and these effects were observed at five milligrams for one kilogram of food consumed ad libitum daily for four weeks converting that to the human equivalent dose would be 0.93 micrograms for one kilogram of body weight orally daily or 93 micrograms for 100 kilogram body butter which is a very reasonable dose for your information thyroid receptor beta expression is decreased in multi-drug resistance to deficient mice resulting in blunted response to sobotrome sobotrome reverses and prevents liver fat accumulation in a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease model without significantly altering heart rate this stemming from an animal model using rats on a choline and methionine deficient diet and these effects were observed at five milligrams for one kilogram of food consumed at libitum daily for two weeks converting that to the human equivalent dose gives you 4.95 micrograms for one kilogram of body weight daily again for humans 495 micrograms if you're 100 kilogram bodybuilder and for this experiment they used male fisher rats with an average body weight of 112.5 grams they consume 6.1 grams of food daily on average giving you 30.5 micrograms sobotrome giving us the human equivalent dose of 4.95 micrograms one kilogram of body weight sobotrome restores myelation in pitt hopkins syndrome it overcomes human transcription factor for gene mutations by decreasing oligodentrocyte progenitor cells by approximately 25 to 33 percent and sobotrome increased pre-myelating oligodentrocytes by approximately 50 to 180 percent stepping from an animal model using pitt hopkins syndrome tcf for mutant mice man what a mouthful this study showed that sobotrome was effective at normalizing hyper locomotion and anxiety phenotypes and these beneficial effects were observed at 49.3 microgram sobotrome orally daily for two weeks which converts into a human equivalent dose of 78.1 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight and these beneficial effects were also observed using one milligram sob am2 which is an immediate pro drug of sobotrome per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for 14 days so different drugs different administration routes albeit the same duration of this treatment showing a very comparable effects sobotrome prevents fat accumulation and reduces fat mass by 15 percent to 23 percent reduces retroperitonal fat pads by 48 percent it increases oxygen consumption by 46 to 88 percent doesn't affect serum triiodothyronine T3 levels lean muscle mass and cardiac tissue or food intake stemming from an animal model using rats and all of these beneficial effects were observed at 15 micrograms to 30 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight orally daily for six weeks as well as at 4.7 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight albeit through intraperitonal injection that's into the abdomen daily also for six weeks so if we take the oral dosages that would convert in a human equivalent dose between 0.24 micrograms to 0.49 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight and if you convert that to a hundred kilogram bodybuilder that's anywhere between 24 micrograms sobotrome up to 49 micrograms sobotrome again dosages which are not unheard of sobotrome could offer potential treatment of atherosclerosis obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus by reducing serum total cholesterol triglyceride HDL and LDL levels albeit that we want to keep our HDL levels somewhat in range sobotrome reduces liver fat content sobotrome increases bile acid secretion and whole body oxygen consumption without altering resting heart rate and this is a meta-analysis of all the animal models using mice and rats since sobotrome is a synthetic tyromimetic i feel it's only fair to compare sobotrome to triiodothyronine directly and see what we can expect when the same dose or half the dose the molar equivalent dose of T3 is replaced or compared to gc1 unfortunately it seems that this direct comparison has never been made in human subjects but there's still three animal models i want to highlight which did exactly that there's a few more studies which compare gc1 to T3 i've linked them down below in the citation section in case you're interested the study investigating fetal development in hypothyroid pregnant rats being treated with either gc1 or T3 is well interesting first study we're going to discuss performed by vhf et al published in april 2007 titled thyroid hormone receptor beta-specific agonist gc1 aka sobotrome increases energy expenditure and prevents fat mass accumulation in rats in this study the researchers compared T3 to gc1 at similar concentrations based on their molecular mass to ensure a molecule for molecule comparison not a milligram for milligram comparison for the experiments female wister rats were used they compared three milligrams T3 per 100 grams of body weight versus 1.5 milligrams gc1 per 100 grams of body weight by intraperitone injection daily for six consecutive weeks as well as double these dosages at six milligrams T3 versus three milligrams gc1 per 100 grams of body weight and i know what you're thinking hey that's milligrams not micrograms yes that's right you heard that correctly that's between 30 milligrams to 60 milligrams T3 versus directly compared to 15 milligrams to 30 milligrams gc1 per one kilogram of body weight in this animal model and at the lowest dose that would be 486.5 milligrams T3 versus 243.2 milligrams gc1 for 100 kilogram bodybuilder when you convert that animal dose to the human equivalent dose imagine taking 486 500 micrograms T3 if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder you would melt on the spot and go fully nuclear like in akira but hey scientific evidence is scientific evidence and unfortunately there's not so many studies comparing sobuterone to tri-iodothyronine directly so let's continue to the results and see what happened to these unfortunate female wister rats by the way it reduced by approximately 10 percent after 10 days in the T3 groups but weight restored by the end of treatment as T3 increased food intake by 50 to 72 percent i mean if you take that much T3 of course you're going to be hungry gc1 treatment had no effect on body weight or food intake comparing molecule for molecule the molar equivalent dosages gc1 increased oxygen consumption significantly more than T3 an increase of approximately 46 to 88 percent compared to the control groups whereas T3 increased it by approximately 44 to 46 percent proving that gc1 has a dose dependent effect on oxygen consumption whereas T3 does not while the female wister rats in the T3 group showed fat loss of approximately 74 to 91 percent all while being on a high fat diet and while increasing food intake during this 10 days of T3 treatment these results were less pronounced in the gc1 groups which gained only 21 body fat in the low dose groups so the low dose group actually gained body fat and the high dose group lost 20 body fat which is still significant as the control group on a high fat diet gained 83 percent body fat only mode wet and dry mass of the quadriceps gastrocnemius and soleus was reduced by 13 to 36 percent in the low dose and high dose T3 groups soleus wet and dry mass was also reduced in the low dose gc1 group while the quadriceps wet mass increased by 15 percent in the low dose gc1 group which is attributed to an increase in water retention it decreased the quadriceps wet mass decreased by 16 percent in the high dose gc1 group and gastrocnemius wet and dry mass state approximately the same in both gc1 groups heart size increased in a dose dependent fashion in the T3 groups no surprise there by 33 to 46 percent compared to the control groups and the researchers highlighted that gc1 had no effect on heart size but we'll discuss that a little bit more at length when we get to a study discussing organ tissue distribution comparing gc1 to T3 directly in the discussion the researchers specifically mentioned that gc1 increases oxygen consumption by 53 to 90 percent still the increase in oxygen consumption is not accompanied by an increase in food intake so you get an increase in metabolic rate but not an increase in hunger so that's very promising gc1 doesn't affect skeletal muscle mass and gc1 reduced fat gain during a high fat diet again this is all very promising albeit highly impractical because the investigated dosage ranges are far far far far far beyond like into the thousand fold range of what we would generally recommend for humans to consume and extrapolating the animal dose to the human equivalent dose so with that being said let's move over to the next study performed by johansen et al published on july 1st 2005 titled selective thyroid receptor modulation by gc1 reduces serum lipids and stimulates steps of reverse cholesterol transport in uthyroid mice these are mice with normal thyroid function in this study common strain c57bl6 mice received either 5.4 24 48 or 97 nanomoles T3 or gc1 per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily and were fed a normal diet so that's a little bit closer normal mice and a normal diet a little bit closer to what we would generally do as human beings another group received a 97 nanomoles T3 or gc1 per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily and were fed a high cholesterol or high fat diet for six weeks consecutively to analyze bio acid secretion the last group received 48 nanomoles T3 or gc1 per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for only five days and they were fed a normal diet as well now i know what you're thinking nanomoles per kilogram of body weight how do i dose that stevie no stress homies i already did the nanomoles to micrograms conversions for you guys so you don't have to and i also extrapolated to the human equivalent dose so you know to expect the details are on the screen let that scroll a little bit so you can take some notes if you want to and if you convert the animal dose to the human equivalent dose they investigated for 100 kilogram bodybuilder a dose of gc1 at 14.35 micrograms 63.89 micrograms 127.78 micrograms and 258.32 micrograms daily which are not dosages unheard of but for T3 the dose just a little bit more crazy 28.54 micrograms that's a replacement dose and now we go nuts 126.65 micrograms 253.38 micrograms and 511.95 micrograms daily the lowest dose i can agree with but all the other dose just i think not you would literally melt through this much catabolism and when i think that the dose just for sobaturome are somewhat reasonable i mean it's not unheard of that 100 kilogram bodybuilder takes between 200 micrograms to 250 micrograms sobaturome over the day when you look at the T3 dosages besides the first dose being close to the replacement dose all of the other dosages are reaching into the catabolic territory so to keep things fair regarding the results and applicable to the real world we'll only compare the 5.4 nanomoles per one kilogram of body weight daily dosage range stemming from the animal model giving you about 0.14 micrograms of gc1 per one kilogram of body weight or 0.29 micrograms T3 per one kilogram of body weight whether you take that orally or by intramuscular injection again in the animal model it's intraperitonal injection which is somewhat comparable to intramuscular injections but humans would take their sobaturome or T3 orally which would give you 14.53 micrograms gc1 or 28.54 micrograms T3 daily for 100 kilogram bodybuilder even though 100 kilogram bodybuilder would probably end up somewhere between 100 micrograms to 200 micrograms gc1 sobaturome over the day looking at the results of this study there was a dose dependent reduction in serum cholesterol levels where gc1 offered a more potent effect compared to T3 at the molar equivalent dosages both compounds lower HDL levels so that's not very promising not good news to say the least T3 increased vldl cholesterol at higher dosages and it also increased triglyceride levels at lower dosages but gc1 did not gc1 reduced serum triglyceride levels but T3 did not so let's see both compounds lower HDL levels T3 actually increased vldl cholesterol and increased triglyceride levels but gc1 actually lowers triglyceride levels so in this direct comparison between gc1 and T3 regarding lipid changes i would say that gc1 wins the discrepancy in lipid changes is probably due to the increase in food intake as mentioned in the previous study in the T3 groups making you extremely hungry gc1 reduces serum HDL levels by increasing HDL receptor srbi in the liver by approximately 240 percent in the 48 nanomole group which translates to 1.28 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight daily for humans or 127.78 micrograms for 100 kilogram bodybuilder to be exact which again isn't a dose that's unheard of anywhere between 100 micrograms to 200 micrograms so it's room over the day for bodybuilders is actually very common so you can expect for that dosage range that your HDL levels drop by a good amount through the increase in HDL receptor srbi in the liver liver HDL receptor srbi increased by approximately 115 percent in the T3 groups using the same 48 nanomole dosage so that's less compared to gc1 it's almost half less and it's comparing molecule for molecule not microgram for microgram even though the potential for thyroid receptor beta 1 binding is the same between gc1 and T3 gc1 is about 2.1 times more potent and increasing hepatic HDL receptor srbi content compared to T3 and thus should reduce serum hd levels a lot more when comparing molecule for molecule at molar equivalent dosage ranges when comparing milligram for milligram though with gc1 being half the molecular mass but twice the potency of T3 regarding this HDL receptor srbi content in the liver the reduction in serum HDL should be about the same again when comparing milligram for milligram the large reduction in serum cholesterol was not accompanied by an increased level of cholesterol in the liver suggesting that HDL cholesterol uptake increases the elimination of cholesterol as bile acids so even though cholesterol or HDL cholesterol levels go down in serum when supplementing with gc1 at various dosages it doesn't mean that it gets stored in the liver actually it gets more excreted through the liver in the form of bile acids especially allegedly if you combine this with tatka bile acids in stool increased by 45 in the 48 nanomole gc1 group and by 30 in the 48 nanomole T3 group and cytochrome p450 7a1 messenger rna levels the enzyme responsible for bile acid synthesis in the liver from cholesterol increased by 225 in the gc1 group whereas it only increased by 175 in the T3 group so again these are molecule for molecule comparisons the molar equivalent dosage range and you see that gc1 is a lot more potent in increasing bile acids in the liver and thus improve these toxification quite significantly so this suggests that gc1 is about 1.5 times more potent than T3 in increasing bile acids and cyp7a1 enzymes in the liver when comparing molecule for molecule but still 0.25 times less potent when comparing microgram for microgram honestly there's a lot a lot more to the study and i would highly suggest you to give this one a read to get the total picture following the citations listed down below again it's based on an animal model but this is the best we have at our disposal since human scientific data comparing sovaterone to triiodothyronine is basically completely lacking and the last study i want to highlight goes over the effects of sovaterone and triiodothyronine regarding heart function it also goes over various changes to lipid levels but let's skip over that as we already discussed that extensively in the evidence-based unique characteristics this study was performed by trust et al published in september 2000 so that's even a longer longer time ago in a galaxy much much much much much further away than the previous studies titled the thyroid hormone receptor beta selective agonist gc1 differentially affects plasma lipids and cardiac activity in this study hypothyroid mice were administered by interperitonal injection with comparable molar equivalent dosages of either gc1 or T3 at 1.8 micrograms 8 micrograms and 16.2 micrograms gc1 per one kilogram of body weight daily or 3.5 15.8 or 31.5 micrograms T3 per one kilogram of body weight daily now in this study they mentioned nanograms per grams which i converted to micrograms per kilograms because this concentration is a little bit more familiar and very comparable to all of the other previously mentioned studies in this video so nanograms per grams no thanks micrograms per kilogram is what we want to discuss in this study the researchers tried to investigate in which dosage overall thyroid function was replaced by exogenous T3 or a supplemental gc1 where body weight and heart rate were stored to baseline with minimal additional side effects treatment with 1.8 micrograms and 8 micrograms gc1 per one kilogram of body weight did not increase body weight or heart weight to body weight ratio in hypothyroid mice but in the 16.2 micrograms gc1 per one kilogram of body weight group heart weight was significantly increased and body weight increased slightly no toxic effects were observed in the mice treated with gc1 at these various dosages T3 had a dose dependent effect on heart rate where all dosages of T3 increased heart rate compared to baseline measurements or the control group only the 8 micrograms and 16.2 micrograms gc1 per one kilogram of body weight daily groups had an increase in heart rate compared to baseline measurements or the control groups at the lower dosages there were no changes observed in heart rates gc1 treatment also restored blood pressure to baseline levels in this study the researchers also looked into organ tissue distribution comparing tri-aurothyroidine to subterone directly here you see in table five that in the T3 group heart concentrations are about 38.4 percent lower compared to liver concentrations which is 1.6 fold lower and muscle concentrations are about 83.2 percent lower compared to the liver concentrations which is six fold lower whereas in the gc1 group heart concentrations are 93.8 percent lower compared to liver concentrations which is 16 fold lower and muscle concentrations are about 87.2 percent lower compared to liver concentrations which is eight fold lower this indicates that while gc1 accumulates in cardiac muscle to a far lower extent compared to T3 this doesn't seem to come at the expense of skeletal muscle accumulation so heart rate doesn't go up but metabolic activity in gc1 stays sustained comparing gc1 to T3 directly comparing heart concentrations to serum concentrations gc1 accumulates in cardiac muscle at a 30 fold lower amount compared to T3 accumulation in the discussion the researchers mentioned that T3 effects on the hearts are mediated through the thyroid receptor alpha 1 and since gc1 has about 10 fold lower affinity for the thyroid receptor alpha 1 compared to T3 gc1 appears to have minimal effects on heart rate at dosage ranges which are effective in improving serum lipid levels and i'll put the various human equivalent dosage ranges of this study on the screen right here so you know what to expect let that scroll a little bit take your notes do additional research this study and the previous mentioned studies are very very interesting to read and again if you want to have a head-on-head comparison between sobiterome and triiodothyronine all we can work with are the animal models and thus we have to do some dubious extrapolation from animal dosages to human equivalent dosages which i already did for you guys you're welcome i also tried to look for scientific evidence showing or proving that sobiterome increases aromatization in the latex cells of the testicles or increases sexual and body globulin production in the liver like triiodothyronine does but it seems that that's never been investigated and in the lack of scientific evidence it might not mean that sobiterome increases aromatization increases estradiol levels in the testicles when you take human chorionic gonadotropin as part of your pd protocol or you have a fully functioning hypotermic pituitary testicular axis luteinizing hormone follicle stimulating hormone levels are perfectly normal and then you supplement a little bit of gc1 in and then suddenly your serum estradiol levels go up or suddenly your sexual bonding globular levels go up if you take sobiterome as a natural you might get additional aromatization and additional SHBG levels making you feel a little bit off now again there's no scientific evidence to prove this but if you take T3 as a natural with a fully functioning hpta you might see an increase in estradiol and an increase in SHBG levels and with less free testosterone less of an anabolic response you might get more catabolism again when you supplement T3 at higher dosages compared to a replacement dose of 12.5 micrograms over several over two servings not several over two servings over the day so have you noticed let me know down below in the comment section have you experimented with 100 micrograms 200 micrograms 500 micrograms so it room even and then suddenly serum estradiol shoots up or serum SHBG shoots up let me know down below in the comment section i would love to hear about it i couldn't find any anecdotal reports that so with rome increases estradiol or SHBG levels but if you have some before and after blood work that you're willing to share or at least the results let us know down below in the comment section it's not something i noticed i've went up to as high as 200 micrograms so but your home and my SHBG and estradiol levels stayed exactly the same and it finally brings us to the gc1 so but your home dosing protocols for men and women it seems to be pretty much the same albeit that i would say for women since their body weight generally is lower um i would keep the dose a little bit more moderate than what is generally done by bodybuilding men the sustainable intolerable dose of so but your home is anywhere between 6.25 micrograms to 100 micrograms upon waking and before bed a total of 12.5 micrograms to 200 micrograms so but your home daily and then based on the pressure release in the lack of fully transparent phase one clinical trial safety and efficacy data which is not available i would say that the deleterious dose in humans is over 450 micrograms so but your home upon waking daily or spaced out over multiple servings over the day simply because the dosage hasn't been investigated beyond that point and based on a press release where they mentioned that 450 micrograms so but your home over the day was generally well tolerated i would say that that's beyond that dose would be the deleterious dose the lower end of the dosage range is based on the potential thyroid receptor beta-1 activation and the comparable molecular weight of subatron being about half that of triiodothyronine meaning that 12.5 micrograms subatron daily is technically a replacement dose of 25 micrograms triiodothyronine which is where the benefits of T3 are generally observed again assuming that that's in a hypothyroid state at 25 micrograms T3 daily split 12.5 micrograms twice daily thyroid stimulating hormone levels remain in range albeit at the bottom of the reference range around let's say one 1.52 milli aus per milliliter that being said most people won't notice anything from 12.5 micrograms gc1 daily and prefer to start with 50 to 100 micrograms gc1 daily we're running a little bit into a problem here because most peptide websites they sell 50 micrograms to 100 micrograms gc1 per capsule meaning that you can't even start with 25 micrograms gc1 over two servings unless you split those 50 micrograms capsules into twos or 100 microgram capsules into fours which is a little bit cumbersome so i would say based on the anecdotal reports and my personal experience that starting at 50 micrograms gc1 is doable even though again based on the molar equivalent dosages it might not be recommended and again it highly depends on your thyroid function and how sensitive your thyroid gland is to gc1 or T3 supplementation regarding the secretion of thyroid stimulating hormones so please please please please do your blood work anecdotal reports seem to be a little bit thin at this point albeit that it's gaining popularity in the fitness and bodybuilding community people report that subterome supplementation increased their energy levels it improved their lipid levels enhanced their fat loss journey in a caloric deficit obviously if you take subterome and a caloric surplus all you do is mitigate additional fat gain it's not an exercise mimetic okay and minimal side effects and moderate dosages between 50 micrograms to 200 micrograms daily and then higher doses let's say between 200 micrograms to a thousand micrograms subterome daily i don't know where these people find the money to run a thousand micrograms subterome daily it's not a cheap compound but there's people out there who run that amount let's say 200 micrograms with meals crazy but apparently doable but they do mention that it eventually loses selectivity and lowers serum thyroid stimulating hormone levels as well as thyroxine and tri-arotothione levels and thus functionally acting as thyroid replacement therapy albeit that T3 T4 and tsh levels are completely bottomed out but then 500 micrograms to a thousand micrograms subterome acts as thyroid replacement and at 500 micrograms subterome daily people report an elevated heart rate which would be an equivalent dose of 100 micrograms T3 which obviously also dramatically increases heart rate and melts your muscle away the world antidoping agency doesn't list thyroid hormones or subterome gc1 or other thyroid mimetics in their prohibit list of 2025 and i couldn't find any excretion studies or detection time studies either so let's for go to the detection time segment here so but drum isn't banned and there are no known or reported detection times let's leave it here this was a very lengthy and very difficult uh deep dive to get through because uh pronouncing sobatrome and try out a thierney in multiple different times at thyromimetics and all that kind of stuff uh verbal diarrhea to say the least so sorry for all the jump cuts it's the best i can do if you're looking for something specific you can head over to my website vicarsteve.com where i got a lot of articles which you can read for free for your viewing and educational pleasure bookmark that site you won't be disappointed you can find all of my sponsors and affiliates down below uh merrick health obviously to do your blood work if you live in the united states and if you don't live in the united states it's no excuse not to do blood work  aut autopopeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropener fat loss will be enhanced and serum lipids will be completely optimized I might just remove the Tethka and might just remove the azenamide when I add the GC1 in to see if I get comparable effects don't forget to subscribe thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video

=== FILE: Do Roids Make You Stupid？ Neuro-Inflammation, Excitotoxicity, Dopamine Vs Serotonin, Brain Deep-Dive [iuVG0JRzAB0].txt ===

 once your neuron is dead, it is dead. You're not growing a new neuron, you're not replenishing neurons, you kill brain cells, that's it. Once the actual nerve has died, the capability to store more neurotransmitter in your brain instantly diminishes because most of your neurotransmitters are stored in vesicles at the end of your neurons. So you've now reduced the capacity of your brain to retain neurotransmitters for firing, which again can contribute to blunted moods long term. Or learn something new because you also diminish the capacity for your neurons to make new links. Not just on the neurochemical part, but the physical part, the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the prefrontal cortex, they actually change shape and size. So things like your memory, your decision making, your emotional control, those things go out the window. Welcome to Anabolic Ground Table, episode 17. We're joined by Kurt Havens and Santa Claus. Happy New Year. You guys remember Home Alone, that intro, that little video where you had the guy with the Tommy Guns shooting everybody, Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, Motherf**kers. Please plop that out so we don't lose monetization. Andrew, my favorite editor. Why are you so festive, Dean? What's going on? It's the third of December. Please get into the Christmas mood. Three weeks ahead of time. Do you guys put up the Christmas tree already? I did. Why are you so... I'm a family now. Wait until you're probably in the honeymoon phase of the little baby that doesn't know Santa Claus and presents. Wait until they're like four or five and then as soon as Halloween finishes, it's Christmas time. Oh yeah, you do that soon. We have sweet Thanksgiving there. We have wait until after Thanksgiving. Yeah, we have the same thing in Holland. We have Santa Martha. So it's a little bit before Halloween. We go around the houses and sing. So we don't do trick or treat, but we sing in front of people's doors with a little lantern. And then we get candy, obviously. And then as soon as that's over, then Christmas starts. But you come home with buckets and buckets and buckets of candy. And then by the time Christmas comes, you still have so much candy that you don't really need any gifts. That's what my dad always told me. That's why Santa didn't come. You still have candy from Santa Martha. I think I'm going to raise my kids that one day there'll be receipts in there. And then with my credit card statement and just say, hey, no, Santa isn't real. I bought those gifts for you. I did that. You see that $100 gift, that $100 Lego set that we're going to build together? I bought that. And let's see if they're grateful or mortified. I bet you're going to change your mind in a couple years. Yeah, probably. I enjoy it. I want my kids to believe that crap is as long as possible. Yeah. Did you tell your oldest already? She's 15. She'd have serious problems. I don't know. You can keep up this illusion. She figured it out probably when she was, you know, nine or 10. Did she thank you for buying her all the gifts? No, of course not. I'm grateful. My sense of the end, he still believes in it. We have the little elf. I don't know if you guys do elf on the shelf. Oh, Elvish. Yeah, yeah. Which is fine. It's great. That's amazing, dude. So we inherited an elf on the shelf from my mother's house last year. And elf on the shelf in this house was swiftly executed. Because the whole premise of it then is the kids get disappointed. Like if elf on the shelf does something good, like the whole point of Elv on the shelf is to do naughty things and blame it on the elf. Morgan wasn't a big fan of having a destructive elf. So Elv on the shelf was a band from this house, unfortunately. Or did he end up in a trash or like in a thousand pieces? The two of them are up in a wardrobe. They're still up there. I think how it ended last year. And I said, I'll take a bite to the abster, go back to the north pole. That was the end of the day. I gotta read a bunch of cultural stuff because I haven't had a Christmas in like 20 years. It's moving to Thailand. There's a fake Christmas tree in front of the mall. And that's about it. But yeah, I guess it's time to brush up on my history and see if we're going to do the Dutch traditions or the international ones. Probably international is more fun. More Christmasy. Santa starts off relatively easy for the first few years. Kurt's presence probably have gotten like like like with mine now. Callum Callum v seven extra and it sort of changed from toys to like a Nintendo switch or a games console. And we all were probably in that position when we were younger asking for big presents, but it tends to escalate quite quickly. Yeah, that's why we have the Black Friday sale so I could save a little bit of money for Christmas. So he affiliates hills and discounted consultations. Laundry gets into Christmas presents. So yeah, yeah, maybe I won't do the Christmas tree at all. Save some money. Just give him like a little stick with cryptocurrency on it. So it will appreciate over time. It's collected when you're 18. Yeah, I'll have to see probably by that time you have like a Nintendo switch for $2,000 a pop. Trying to convince Callum the difference between switch and switch to and then he asked, well, I want both. And then you're like, but they're two separate, but you do the same thing. And you're trying to explain this to a six or is like, but Santa would bring me both. And like, I'm a good boy. I did. If you want, I got a switch one. It might be a region locked though. I don't use it. I could send it to you. If you're short, if you want, if you have to give both, at least got like two zeldas, three zeldas, and the Mario Kart and Super Mario Galaxy. Yeah, I managed to get one from one of my with Lee who I work with supplementary theater switch and same hadn't played it in a while and said, well, why don't you take this off my hands? So yeah, crisis averted, but it does get expensive. The already get and I'm sure I was no doubt to my parents. So if my parents are watching this, thank you very much. Yeah. Yeah. I do remember getting some presents for Christmas here and there. I did get a super Nintendo at that time when I was 12 or something. That was insane with like three games. I was so happy. Should have thanked my parents. Should have thanked my parents. F zero and Super Mario World. Yes. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Good times. Dean has everything on your end. Good. We went back. I went back training about three weeks ago, was it? After we spoke, I think after about two weeks, the nose splint came off. So I think at the nose splint on the last show, no splint came off. Well, actually fell off and I found a consultant and said, well, what can I do here? And he said, well, I only told you to wear for four to six weeks. Hopefully get to the six week mark with the review. But he said, it was only to stop you banging your nose off something. He said, normally two weeks after a nose surgery, the splint can come off. So that's been off since that last episode. I'm still running the same setup cartlacks. It's now up to five milligrams per day. So I'm going to run this another two weeks. And then that'll be, I think six weeks total, five, six weeks since the surgery. I hope until the review anyway, to consult and put like I was saying before we joined, we've got a small little bump of like cartilage down the side of my nose that's deposited over the last probably 10 days, obviously where the crack was on it. I don't know whether that's normal healing or that's expedited healing, but my nose like now it's not even sore to touch and seems to be in a good position. Although we're not going to volunteer getting punched in the face to test. Is it fully set? Are you going to do an MRI on an x-ray to kind of see what's going on with the healing process? I'll see what they, so obviously when it happened, they don't a CT scan to see the extent of the break. I might see about another CT scan later in extra once it's all fully settled, but then you have to put into consideration what a CT scan is and putting your head inside one of them is probably not one of the smartest things to do unless you have good cause to need a CT scan. Yeah, but yeah, don't necessarily do the contrast, right? No, you're not going to do the contrast. No, I think like that ties in with today's episode on brain health, but CT scans, x-rays, you know, a CT scan is basically, I don't know exactly how many x-rays, but it's a 3D x-ray of basically using a 3D, rotating x-ray to draw an image. So you want a CT? That's a lot of radiation. Yeah, I think you're allowed safety-wise from what I remember reading about coronary CT angiograms. The radiation you're exposed to with a CT scan or an angiogram is the same equivalency as, I think, five years background radiation. So if you weren't, you know, day to day, the same radiation that you get exposed to in a CT angiogram would take five years to naturally accumulate in your body. So it is quite, you know, it's not something that you would do without reasonable cause to have to do unless you wanted to be exposed to a lot of radiation. Yeah, and I think in your case, it's not necessary because, well, you're expediting the healing process. You know, and you would feel it after a while. It feels super solid just like when I broke my leg in a motorcycle accident. After a while, it just feels normal and you can walk and, you know, you get your CT will tell you at one point when they kind of touch your nose. At one point you don't have to like, oh, did I break it again? That is, that's obviously the worry at the moment is consistently dodging, flying hands or whatever. Watch daddy's nose. Drop kicks. Yeah. I mean, like I still plan or still some competitions start of February, some Nord Nars competitions, like national competitions for the Irish team and kickbox and so hopefully go back before then competing, but obviously face mask and I still think at some point, even when I get the face mask removed or I stop using it, I probably get a nose shield where you literally just get this hard piece of plastic that covers your nose, that's wrapped around your head. And that just protects the nose moving forward. I think I go away lucky, no septum damage, no breathing difficulties. Best case scenario. Yeah. And do you, you don't wear nasal strip just to kind of help with the breathing during the exercise? Well, at the moment, I was actually a bit cautious of putting nasal ships. I have nasal strips that I'd wear training normally anyway, before I became a big sort of fad. So I think I'll wait another couple of weeks until the consultants as you're all clear. And at that point, even bedtime, I'm sure Morgan has fed up now of me snoring a bit in my sleep with not doing any like no strips, no taping, you know, stuff to improve sleep quality, because I'm afraid of with the nose where you have to sleep in a sort of slightly upright position for the time being. Okay. How's the cartilex review so far? Do you think it was worth adding in? Is it hard to tell? I think it's very hard. Like what you said, with these bioregulators, anecdotally, I guess this is the first time I've ever broke something and had to rely on this sort of like a broken fingers, arms, legs growing up. I guess what would be interesting is to ask the consultants opinion and trade time, what how it's healed versus what his relative expectation would be. And then draw some level of conclusion from that. But it is, it's quite like what we call it, it is quite expensive. It's getting in bulk, you know, five milligrams of cartilex per day, it normally comes in a 20 milligram vial. You know, you're going through and vial every four days. What's the damage on that? Vial is normally about 35 pounds, so about 40, 45 dollars. You know, to add that up to a six to eight week period. Obviously, I started at two milligrams and then worked up to three, four and a half five. And that's not the only thing you're writing, let's be honest. TV 500 BPC. G H the nighttime protocol. For a use replacement does. Yeah. For young, young, young parents ramp ramp up ramp up college and deposition. But like, I think all things considered were, were lucky what happened. It's been fixed to tailing properly. Just won't let it happen again. I think once you're recovered, you'll have a lot of MMA and boxing consultations about this problem. Maybe you should write an ebook, you know, and just like how to fix your broken nose. 60 days. That might, that might be a good seller. You know, there's a lot of people who do MMA and karate and get her getting her nose fucking knocked off. I just saw a video of a girl getting that done in MMA. Oh man. It's like here. Like, like I said, the way I was hooked across the face. I am in hindsight glad that was across my face and not straight into my face. Because fixing bones that fix some bones that have broken clean across, probably a walk in the park for a surgeon put two things up the nose and just click it back across trying to repair someone's nose shape. But after it's been mashed into their face, probably a little more technically difficult alongside the septum. So again, more things to be grateful for. And that little scar that you had here, like where the bump pairs the skin, it's gone, right? That's gone. Yeah. Just up here, right, literally on the left side, I said, you can see it when I take off my glasses, it's a small little bump. Some of it's probably pressure from the glasses. But you can definitely feel like the cartilage right there has gotten like ticker. And I had to say him with my baby finger when I broke my baby finger, your left foot like a lump of cartilage on your finger. Yeah, I got the same thing. So it's okay. I still got married. I'm off to work at red, it doesn't matter. There are war wounds that remind us with little memories of what's going on. So of the stupidity we got ourselves. Kurt, what's new on your end? Nothing, man. Just nothing. Just living healthy and coaching and doing the good stuff, living the good life. Yeah. Did you make like a little snowman over there in New York? No, it's snowed like. Oh, okay. Just enough to get on. Yeah. Just I can't complain. I'm ready to put my cycle to a close. The train is starting to hit me in traffic. What's the stack again? 600 tests, 600 deca, 150 men, 150 train, and 210 injectable YK-11. Could be the mix of the deca, the men and the trend that's going. I think so. Yeah. It's just the last week that I'm getting a little bit irritable. So I'll decide at the end of the week when I ran through my sterile valve that's preloaded and then see if I want to mix up another batch or like, you know, if I could Christmas came early and I'm on the cruise now. Yeah. But I've made some serious gains. I'll tell you that. I see it on your story. Your arm's working. Yeah. Yeah. I wish my legs grew a little bit more. I wish my legs grew a little bit more. It's not for the lack of trying. It just, I don't know, man. It's getting old. It just doesn't really grow. But the upper body came came back a lot. Super strong. And doing one one sec per exercise. So that's six sets, six exercises. And then onto the next body parts. It works quite well. Are you one? Is this the biggest you've been? No, I've been I've been way bigger, but just like the best package that I've had in the last two years. Cool. Well, two years ago, I was off cycle and skinny, like a little girl. Two pounds. What was your most productive cycle you've done? Two and a half grams of test. Okay. Yeah. I don't even know I'm running all this garbage. Should go back to testiation insulin, but it's so unexciting, you know, but that was probably the best cycle I've ever done. One ampule of tests per day. I want to rummage in or want to remit. Yeah. I want to Robinson per day and then four to eight. I use a growth. There you go. There's some insulin on the side. Yeah, it was a good cycle. Nice and easy. It was nothing else available. So just ran pharma Pfizer, Robinson pharma, Bayer, it says the fire and pharma, Nordic tropin. What a little fuck up. What was your size then? 245, about 8% body fat. Yeah, maybe nine. You did a video about that a long time ago. Yeah. Yeah. I remember watching that. Yeah. And then I kept dieting and ended up at 230. Priline not competition lean, but pretty lean lean for lean for the Instagram. Yeah. Oh, listen, lean enough. Lean enough to get clients. More than that. Yeah, it was very simple cycle, but there was nothing available. So and then now now test isn't even available. Oh, yeah. Is that not with testifier anymore? No, that testifier is available, but I don't see testy and the raw providers. Yeah, there's no rows. Nothing new. I heard some rumors that it might come back until I see somebody actually brewing it and third party testing and say, hey, I got a batch of primo and then selling out in a week. Yeah, I haven't seen anything new. So now, well, it's always EQ. There's always EQ. There's always a Q. So we can high test. I mean, yeah, what's EQ going to do that test is not going to do? Not much. Yeah, aromatization. No, I'm just, yeah, but you can control that. You need that guy, no man, to get high IGF. That's all down. Don't do anything. Yeah. So in a balik, you get a second chest. Yeah. Hey guys, before we do all the podcast again, let's get into brain health. I tried to look for some scientific evidence and steroids in brain health and it's probably the thinnest out of all the organs. So we're going to have to do some biological extrapolation. Luckily, we're joined with the smartest guys in the industry. So I'm sure we can get by without too much scientific evidence. Where should we start though? Because it's all negatives, right? It's all negatives. Yeah. It's I haven't seen besides that testosterone replacement therapy or higher doses of testosterone cure depression. You know, everything else is kind of negative. You know, testosterone is excitotoxic, but since it converts into estradiol and since estradiol is somewhat neuroprotective, testosterone is not as bad as some of the other compounds. Deanna bowl is apparently neurotoxic, tremolone, nandrolone, but it doesn't mean that the other steroids aren't neurotoxic. It just doesn't mean that it hasn't really been investigated. Like not rebalton on two studies. Well, yeah, meant a good amount of animal or human data, but never studied in the context of the brain. So it's, it's not so much to work with. Well, we could, we could break it down into different sections. I mean, like the first is to be like the dopamine serotonin GABA part, what it does there. And then we could talk about neuro inflammation. I know, Dean is big on that. Yeah. And then also that if we can talk about actual brain mass and the changes in size of the different parts of brain. All right. Yeah. Sorry. You there's, I mean, those are the three main things at least we're aware of that we can see the problems. You know, can we do a biopsy on someone's brain while they're on a cycle? So you can't really see what's going on. Does it have any time before and after? Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, if we can start with that, I mean, right, because they definitely affects serotonin, dopamine and GABA, right? And there's going to be structural and functional changes to that prefrontal cortex that occurs with long exposure and dose. Yeah. And Dean has talked about in the past, especially guys that start younger that don't have a fully developed frontal cortex yet. They want to start taking steroids and their whole, you know, neurotransmitter system changes that they, well, as soon as they come off their shelf, their former cells. Yeah. And we can, so to simplify it, I think two weeks because people might understand. So estrogen has a large role in serotonin production and testosterone has a large role in dopamine production. Right. So as you, as you move those ratios around, you can find some of the issues that come from the different drugs, right? Yeah. Yeah. I think when we look at the positives, if we want to start, because they are so few, but there are positives to if someone is hypergonadol, they're going to have low dopamine tone or dopamine turn, turn over in their brain, which more androgens will incite more dopamine release or more dopamine production, then gives you better libido because of the intrinsic link between dopamine neural health of the eyes specifically. So we're stimulated through our visual system. And that linking to obviously erectile function and being able to get sexually stimulated. When we improve someone's testosterone level from a hypergonadol perspective, we end up in a position where they have some positive benefits. They have better motivation, they're able to work better, they're less depressed, they're able to train with higher intensities than before because they're more motivated to go to the gym. But on the other side of its left, unopposed in terms of aromatization, too much estrogen now coming from the testosterone replacement therapy, you're going to swing the pendulum the other way, like Kurt said, where you're going from testosterone is linked to dopamine, it's linked to serotonin. It's not that they exclusively control those neurotransmitters, but to make a very simple testosterone high dopamine, high estrogen, high serotonin. When one or the other is in dominance, the relative theory is that they operate on a seesaw position. So when your dopamine is very high, your serotonin compensates and drops. Your serotonin goes up, your dopamine will naturally drop as well. So there's a nice paper, I'll send it to you after the show, has a really nice pictogram of what happens when we have the seesaw relative to libido and sexual rewards based on high testosterone, high dopamine, high estrogen, high serotonin. Can I just touch on the sex drive for a second because I think it's misunderstood. So the drivers of human male sex drive is DHT and allopregnenolone, where estrogen comes in is through the modulation of serotonin. So it basically allows you, you're more receptive to the act if your serotonin is in the proper place, right? And your genitals have serotonin receptors on them that need to basically see some serotonin order for sensitivity and those things to occur. But the drivers are DHT and allopregnenolone, which are both created from testosterone through reduction. So in theory, what is functioning properly and you have adequate testosterone, you obviously 5-alpha reduced to DHT and 3-alpha reduced from there to pregnenolone right across the blood brain barrier into the brain and there you have a sex drive. And there's some aromatization that will naturally occur and then you have some level serotonin. That's male sex drive. I think once you start throwing a bunch of steroids and it gets kind of confusing what's going on and certain things might magnify that response or take away from it. But that's really the basis of what sex drive is in men. And then I think, you know, from there, having a higher dopamine reward circuitry combined with some dodgy practices, so more so having high function in libido that starts making you go down the wrong path, your sexual expectations change. So from your normal psychology and now that can drive a rectilus function from a psychological perspective because of what's been impacted from testosterone improving dopamine neurotransmission. And this was the warning I've had before of your neurons have a firing threshold and electrical potential. You start overstimulating those nerves, the electrical potential moves higher and now you need more stimulus to get excited. And so guys end up in a position where after they use steroids and come off, they find themselves in a position where they have no libido or normal sexual encounters don't get them aroused. And they're trying to figure out what's wrong with my libido. And it's like you've done some probably dodgy things on cycle where you've watched a ton of porn or your your environmental expectations for sexual stimulus is completely different to what's going on in the room at that moment in time. That of course, now you're not going to be sexually stimulated by a naked woman if you're watching like some crazy porn stuff that gets your brain all excited. You're, you know, in that instance, was it a steroid that caused the problem or was it the behaviors that were caused from the steroid use that have now created the issue that to be honest, it's the behavior if you really look at it because when you then abstain from over sexual stimulation and create a more dopamine fasted environment, normal sexual expectation or normalcy of libido can return. But the problem is guys get stuck in this loop of instant gratification of then just picking up the phone and keeping that keeping that addictive quality going. And that's sort of them where from that positive comes another negative in that back in I think it was 1986, from I remember from writing this in my book that they back then started to suggest that these drugs were psychologically dependent compounds that when you stop using them, there is a level of psychological dependence that generates as a consequence of the changes to your neurochemistry. Now, does that mean that you need the compound to function day to day like someone who's addicted to opioids? No. But in the scheme of it, people will feel flat and then they feel, you know, not themselves, and will naturally make the association. Well, when I took a load of gear, I felt normal. I'm going to start taking a load of gear again, special on trend. You know, and this is the thing with with with trend, because of how androgenic it is, it's binding efficiency. And everything that plays off that and then the increase in dopamine neurotransmission and creation. You're, you're also compound and that I often joke and counsels about this, but if you have a rampant sex drive on trend where you want to have intercourse three to four times a day, and then you stop trend and you go back to TRT or a cruise, and now all of a sudden you don't want intercourse or you're frustrated because you feel that you should be having intercourse three to four times a day, or you can't get an erection is because of what you've done to your neurochemistry on trend that that normalcy and that expectation, again, your neurochemistry is completely different. It's completely misaligned.  basically, you ramped up all the dials and now suddenly they all drop. You could fix it to a certain extent with neurotransmitter precursors like L-tauracine or Aldopa or vitamin B6P, P5P, right, to help with the conversion and even serotonin and, you know, some 5-HDPs or L-triptophen and 5-HDP supplementation can help, you know, offset that depletion that occurred. But it's, and it's not just sex addiction, dude. It's shopping addiction. It's fast drug addiction. I can vouch for this because I'm on 150 train a week and I buy way too much shit online and I know it will go away as soon as I'm coming off the train. Like, Facebook Marketplace is my curse or AliExpress. I want to buy this and this and this and you get some dopaminergic signaling from that as well and I only have it on train, only on train. So it does mess with your neurochemistry, you know. Can I put out for Black Friday? Exactly. Sex of money. I was going to put something out there for guys. We talked about sex drive real fast, I think guys on TRT because this is something, they see more clinically than through coaching, but it's not as rare as possible. Part of the reason why the standard TRT dose is like 200 and not 100 or 75 or whatever some of these really low amounts are. In certain people, that amount might be adequate for you to function and carry on and look great. But for a lot of guys, it's not enough. What happens is their sex drive will go to shit and they'll look at the estrogen. The rest of the dial is a 30, which is totally fine, but there's not enough DHT to offset that. So what happens is they then try to manage the estrogen and then they drive it too low. It's still in range, but it's too low and then they've crushed the estrogen. The answer to that situation is to only raise the testosterone and then worry about the estrogen. Don't try to manage the estrogen if your test is so low. Right? Yeah, right in the ATG and then you get a little balance between all of these hormones. Yeah, you just need a ratio in there that's more appropriate versus 100 milligrams of test. If you try to control estrogen with 100 milligrams of test, most likely you're not going to have any sex drive at all. Yeah, or you're just too fat. It's just not enough room. Higher low test. So a little bit of test. That's why I like Dutch. We've gone about before the journey tests for comprehensive hormones because you get a ratio of pregnant dial metabolites, DHT, whether it's going down alpha or beta, five alpha reductase or five beta reductase. And then you get a picture of your estriol, estradiol, estrone levels and the metabolites from them that, like Kurt said, you can have a perfectly normal serum estradiol. But then when you do something like a Dutch test, you see sky high estrone or you see sky high out to four or 16 hydroxyestrone. That's telling you, okay, well, in serum, yeah, there's a normal amount of estradiol. But really in the bigger picture inside your cells, you're making a lot of estradiol. And that is either taking effect, turning into estrone and being metabolized. So you blood work is amazing for figuring out some problems. But when it comes to hormones, you're looking at a snapshot in time and trying to go, aha, I caught you at the right moment. And most of the time you never catch it. That's a problem with serum, right? Is serum test DHT and estradiol basically are the trash, right? Those two hormones are created inside the cell. The serum is what's been spit out back, right? So like you're saying, there could be a ton inside the cell that's just not getting thrown out. It would be like you making a grocery list based on how much garbage you put on the curb. It doesn't make any sense, right? Like you need to know what's actually going on inside, you know, to judge that accurately sometimes, not just what the waste product is. Yeah, and a hard part about that is that you can't really do biopsies every single time. It's kind of seal it to your celloplasts and they have to take that from multiple organs. And are you going to go in through the nose and see what's going on in your brain? You know, I mean, lobotomies are... I'm not a biopsy. I think, you know, in terms of like what we said about studies, what is interesting is I've seen quite a number of studies within some UK universities who are doing MRI brain imaging and I've requested for current users, past users and then obviously natural controls to see on an MRI anyway, functionally, what parts of the brain have theoretically been damaged or saw his difference between different areas of the brain relative to a normal control. I think that was one of the... one of the comments on a post when I discussed this with Drew about like neurotoxicity of the brain. It's not something that you take a load of tenure 20s and then within six months, you've got Alzheimer's or neurodegenerative disease. It's something that's going to slowly accumulate over time. And the scary part is when we talk about like stem cell infiltration before the liver and whatever else in the body, once your neuron is dead, it is dead. You're not growing a new neuron. You're not replenishing neurons. When you kill brain cells, that's it. What you can improve thereafter is how they transmit through neurogenesis and neural branching. But once the actual nerve is died, the capability to store more neurotransmitter in your brain instantly diminishes because most of your neurotransmitters are stored in vesicles at the end of your neurons. So you've now reduced the capacity of your brain to retain neurotransmitters for firing, which again can contribute to blunted moods long term. Or learn something new because you also diminish the capacity for your neurons to make new links. And that's what you need for memory formation. Not just on the neurochemical part, but the actual... the physical part, the hippocampus, the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex actually change. The morphology changes. They actually change shape and size when they... on the few instances that we've seen brains of people that have long steroid exposure. So things like your memory, your decision making, your emotional control, those things go out the window. And you see similar effects with recreational drugs and alcohol, where certain parts of the brain just shrink because of the damage to the neurons. And so in what sense are steroids worse or less destructive than other compounds that people might take? That's a little bit hard to pinpoint, right? I mean, you have TRT versus a two class of wine per week versus the occasional, you know, LSD or a mushroom trip, which might actually potentially have neurogenesis to a certain extent and help with depression that sense. First is like hardcore cycling, like what I'm doing or Kurt has done in the past and Dean is trying to stay away from. And then, but Dean is also from the UK. So I'm sure you dabbled in a little bit of alcohol here and there, right? Or no? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I was at college, yeah, plenty of alcohol. So how much damage did we do in college? Like I drank like a fucking lunatic and which damage are we doing with the steroids on top? Yeah. And they can measure this stuff too. So the article thickness of this three regions in the left hemisphere and five in the right that change shape, like an MRI can actually determine what is assuming you had a baseline can determine how much your brain has actually changed from steroids. Well, what do they typically see in the studies already? Investigate starred users regarding their brain, which parts? Yeah. The frontal occipital temporal will change. I don't know off the top of my head, the other ones, but there's there, I do this, there's three and five that will and each side of the brain that will actually change shape. And that's probably the one said have to do with reasoning. Yeah. Yeah. And emotion and emotion. So and even right reach, right? We always think of right reaches as a cute thing. You take trying to get angry. When you change the shape of these, these parts of your brain, it actually can create that situation long term. Yeah. If you, if you, if you stopped doing steroids now and you just went on, you know, low TRT, you basically set your baseline back to like normal. You would notice even in a few years from now that your thought process is still different than it was when you were younger. Yeah. Like my brain, yeah, it's hard to compare. But right. How, how would your thought process change over the years as you get older? You know, like, I think most people has to get older to stop giving a fuck. And I think with steroids, you get so, so dopaminergic signaling that you stop giving a fuck also. But I think it also comes with age. Again, when you're younger, you're so insecure and worried about what people say. And then as you get older and more solid in your routine, you're like, yeah, whatever, man, get that little confidence that comes with age, but could also be started in deals like steroids give you a boatload of confidence, especially when you're in shape. You know, reflections put some padding on you. That that's both dopamine and serotonin that get influenced in that aspect. That that confidence. And I guess that's when we view things as being normal, like as you get older, and you start slowly forgetting things, that's normal because of aging and aging is cellular destruction. So, you know, really, it's not normal. But it is normal because as we age, things will die. We can't live forever at now. But you know, with that mind, what we perceive as being normal that, let's say you're you're 45, and you've done a load of trend in your twenties, and you're starting to forget things, you're like, I that's just because I'm like my age, as of age, you don't see this as a warning sign that something is occurring in your brain or has occurred in your brain. And now you're starting to see it with the aging brain as a problem. And I think, you know, I do hope, and I don't obviously, we're not going to get or CTs with ethics, but we're going to see more case studies in the literature of from what I think, and I said this like five years ago, and I'm starting to see it emerge in terms of like social media and social trend, not necessarily someone sitting down and writing a paper. And, you know, Dr. Imran, who we both know from enhanced, he, he has seen a lot of things case study wise. He has asked me a few times to write some papers on this brain chemistry stuff that at least then you're, you're reporting on case studies that have occurred that are not out in the public domain to basically go when someone presents themselves with some level of psychiatric illness, that steroid induced psychosis or steroid induced depression, steroid induced hypermania, any of these sort of things that happen clinically, that they ask the questions on like steroid brain induced damage. And so you, you then start to potentially move into an area of a cautionary setting where people don't see this as, you know, one point is was very taboo to talk about. Then we moved into like the mid 2000s, teens, 2018, 19 and Facebook and everything. And slowly became a little less taboo, bodybuilders are more open and discussing it in a public setting. And before you know it, you've got influencers talking about micro dosing trend and how great it is for their mental health that that as a message piece of content, that doesn't really sit too well with me that. Yes, we want to do things as, as responsible and risk mitigated. But we shouldn't be like glorifying that nothing's going to happen to your brain. Like that was the whole point that the post I put on my story today was in the past was two steroids, oh, you're going to get a heart attack. Like the main thing was steroids equal heart attacks, you're going to get heart disease. And yeah, we learned that correlation fairly quickly, but you can do things to offset that cardiovascular disease risk, true nutrition and lifestyle and all the basics. We made a whole podcast about it. You know, in terms of the brain now, like you said, we don't have research. So when we're talking about this, we're talking about a pure mechanistic perspective of what what we observe in animal models, what we know from real world settings of talking to real people who have ran high dosages. And, you know, people are going to be shocked by this, but from that story about, you know, your responsible decision, if you want to whack in one mil a train every day in a week, go for it once that's your responsible decision. I had about 30 people that sent me DMs about their mental health being messed up from steroids. And again, that's not saying steroids cause mental disorders. But these were people who told me prior to doing any of this stuff, you know, I had no real issues between bodybuilding lifestyle, you know, competing food practices, there's a lot of things that play into that. You can't just say there's a casual link. Yeah, they're all resounding. Like this has messed with my neural health. And then one of them actually even said to me in terms of their memory that they've noticed in the last five years, their memory getting progressively worse as they ran more and more competitive cycles for like USA nationals. And it's sort of, you know, we talk about these risks of you do steroids, you end up with heart disease or kidney disease or rare cases, liver, known as turn around and saying, Oh, you do this. Fair enough, you might be alive when you're 60. The cognitive decline very noticeable. Yeah. And all you have to do is look at the pros from the 90s. You, you don't want to, you don't want to get to your 60s and 70s and be a cognitive mess, because you're not able to enjoy life because you're basically stuck in this loop of your brain is trying to survive. But you can't remember things that have occurred five minutes ago, you might remember the past, which is great. But your your short term memory, again, that can then lead to order consequences and delusions and everything else. Yeah, we have, I can try to PDF it from textbooks. We have studies on the hippocampus, which is what you're talking about, that the steroids will cause the hippocampus to actually shrink. So they've done memory studies with people, steroid users and non steroid users, and steroid users tend to perform much worse on memory tasks. Yeah. And when they did scans, they found the hippocampus was reduced. And most likely through it's speeding up the reduction of neurogenesis. So the brain just literally can't reproduce there. And the amygdala is the opposite, the amygdala actually has a ton of antiretron receptors, and it will hypertrophy from prolonged use, which can that that's like the long term red rage. So you find even in former pro bodybuilders that did a ton of drugs, even if they're on nothing now or on some sort of TRT, that their aggression is just still much more elevated than it would have been before they went down that road. Right. And that's because that brain structure has changed in shape. Yeah. And you see clear cognitive decline in a lot of these guys. And you notice that with some guys over the course of their career that they start out reasonably smart. And then later on, they start slowing your speech and showing clear signs of neuro degradation, which is a shame. But a lot of people don't realize that you're just basically slowly killing your brain over time. Yeah. But again, is it much different compared to alcoholism or recreational drugs? That's not really sure. Getting punched in the head. Repeating. Yeah. Or you have boxing, contact sports. It's probably also not the best. Yeah. Motorcycle riding. That's why men just don't live long because regardless of the path we chose, some sort of dopaminergic signaling that we're looking for, and then we kind of drive ourselves into the ground. Do you know what the reason why women live longer than men is? It has nothing to do with habits and risk taking and dopamine and all these things that probably plays some role into risk. But actually, because women have two X's, they have a duplicate set of DNA that we don't have. Yeah, they have to backup. These one sales, they have a backup. We don't have a backup. They did a 10 year long study and they found that that was the basically they can replace damaged DNA that we can't. We're much more disposable. Yeah. I remember figuring that out from the research I've done over why male or why bodybuilders usually get daughters. Yeah. Because the male chromosome, the Y chromosome is just more susceptible to oxidative stress and there's no backup. So you get a Y and X and when we got two X's, one is inactivated unless the other one is kind of broken and they both kind of contribute. It's amazing in that sense. Yeah. But yeah, we drew the short end of the stick. We're missing a whole part of this X chromosome. Yeah. They discovered it in birds because a lot of birds, the male is the double X and the females the Y and they noticed that in that species, the male lives longer than the female. They were like, well, that doesn't make any sense because across the animal kingdom, it's generally the males that die. Animals aren't taking the same risks necessarily that humans are. Not usually fighting. Right. It was a backup DNA thing. Ah, okay. So regardless of what I do, I'm just genetically fucked. That's nothing to do with my decision making. You're taking risks. Do you like my risks? Do you like my risks? So regarding, like maybe we can discuss a little bit what we see anecdotally, right? In the bodybuilding space, like a lot of guys that stumble over their words and have trouble remembering things. And I can notice it in myself that when I'm on high cycle and lifting a bottle out of weight, that I'm more cognitively impaired than when I'm a little bit smaller running a TRT protocol and not training so hard. And I'm not really sure if it's neuroinflammation from the insane training that you undertake when you're on a bottle out of gear because it feels so satisfying. And the reason why you're on a bottle out of gear is to make progress. And for that, you need to eat a good amount of food and train super hard. So that's probably a double whammy in that sense. You could eat the stress from the steroids and then additional stress from all this crazy training intensity that you're undertaking. And then the opposite end, while you're cruising, you're much more productive and cognitively present. Some could be lack of sleep, right? On a cycle, you're probably not sleeping as well, even if you think you are versus TRT. It's possible that during sleep, right? Because then when you're sleeping, the brain flushes itself, right? And basically is recovering. If you're not recovering, especially on something like TRN, or the common thing I see is guys are waking up to P3 or four times a night, right? That's not good sleep. I don't care if you're in bed for eight hours. If you're peeing four times a night, your sleep is not restorative. Same way, obstructive sleep apnea and the cognitive decline that comes from that. I mean, look at the research that's coming out surrounding one of the biggest hitting risk factors of Alzheimer's that has been completely unrecognized medically was unrecognized or undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea. You know, I had a conversation with someone recently, and like very high hematocrites sort of put down to steroid use. And you asked the question, like, do you snore? Not really. And then you're like, but... Ask your wife. How do you know you've not got apnea? You know, if someone's not... If someone isn't watching you sleep and observing you stopping breathing for five to 10 seconds in your sleep, just because you don't snore doesn't mean that you might not have sleep apnea. And you know, that's one of the biggest risk factors of an open-weight bodybuilder is OSA and what it impacts not only on your brain health, but on your cardiovascular and renal system. So, you know, even if you've got no suspicion, do a sleep study. And that, you know, that's one strategy to protect your brain health, because if you do have OSA, you just get sleep, C-PAP, improve sleep biomechanical position, and C-PAP instantly removes that hypoxia and hypoxic environment from your neurochemistry. Yeah. You also can't hear yourself snore. Like, if you're snoring bad enough that you can hear it, that's beyond like a normal level. And that's the particular formation in your brain doesn't allow you to have that sense, right? So, why you don't feel your clothes after you put them on. It's why you don't hear your heartbeat. Yeah. That's why marijuana makes some people paranoid is because it messes with that part of the brain. And all of a sudden, your senses are elevated. Do you just feel everything? Right. But that's... The guys that... We've got sleep studies sometimes takes months to organize. I have a video on my YouTube channel on how to solve diagnosed sleep apnea. Basically, you get your laptop or a computer with a webcam. You record yourself the entire night, and you don't have to turn the light on to look at you and look at yourself breathing or not. You just go by the audio. So, if you get a decent microphone and you see the audio just flat line, and then suddenly it peaks because you're breathing in like, right? Suddenly you have that deep inhale. If you just count those peaks over the audio track of six, seven, eight hours, and then you can see how many apnea episodes you have. And then you can easily get a second hand CPAP online. You don't have to wait for a sleep study because, again, I've coached guys in European countries in the US, and it takes weeks to get an appointment and then weeks to analyze the results. And then it takes two more weeks to get a CPAP prescribed. That's another three months ahead. You can do a lot of damage in three months. So, I would rather just record it one night if you see any kind of apnea on your audio track of the webcam. Just buy a CPAP machine second hand and then wait for the new one to arrive after you've done your sleep study, but then at least you can use it for two to three months while you wait for the medical system to semi-fail you in that sense. I just bought one here in Thailand. I got it the next day, but this is Thailand. Spent $15,000, fresh new one, fallen off the wagon, and I was ready to roll. Well, there are a few look on Google. If you put, if someone put CPAP and Europe together into Google, they might get some answers, but there are companies like what you might find that will honor a prescription, take a questionnaire and depend on the questionnaire. The computer says yes, and there's your brand new CPAP once you're willing to invest the money. I'm sure Proplexity or GROC or ChatGPT can help you with how to fill your prescription. Sir, sir, sir, which questions do I say yes and no to? Dear GROC, it's like a TRT clinic in the US. Are you tired? Yes. Are you depressed? Yes. Do you have a little bit of yes, you qualify for TRT, sir. Get the fuck out of here. Oh, $1,000. You know, I think in terms of brain strategies, I get, again, it was interesting because there was some level of what they sort of call survivor bias or survivorship bias of, well, I don't allow that and I'm fine. And it's sort of like, well, are you really fine relative to how you were in the past? People that have done self-reflection, that's the problem, right? The ego prevents them from looking at themselves. I mean, I can clearly tell that my brain physiology has changed over the years and I can feel that it changes when I'm running particular compounds, right? I'm a shopping addict on TRT. Not really a six addict, but I'm a shopping addict. And off the train, I'm done. I don't buy any Legos, I don't buy any shoes, I don't buy any motorcycle parts, I just don't give a shit. But I'm on the TRT sandwich, man. I'm spending thousands of dollars on bullshit and I use it, obviously. It's not like I'm not using it, but I mean, I got the Enterprise D Lego set sitting here. But I was salivating on that thing for a month, you know, looking at Lego, like, oh, it's just, the Enterprise D Lego set is coming. I got to buy it first day. So I went there first, I got it first day, of course. It's a trend, man. It's a fucking trend. Because otherwise, I would have bought it like, I'm going to, you know, shop him over the Lego stores four weeks later and figures across to have one and otherwise I ordered it online, you know, there's no rush. But now there's, there's an immediate need to get the thing in the house. I think like the, the, the role of inhibition in our brains, like we've sort of spoken about that, a normal logical brain might sort of say, yeah, I'd like that or I need it, but it will sit on the decision. You tend to be your, again, it comes back to the brain chemistry, a lot more impulsive when you are running higher hundreds. That's why training TikTok is such a bad idea. Because you, TikTok gives it to you now. Or thank God, I don't have TikTok anymore. I got banned. And I, I learned how to, you know, take social media out. But I clearly noticed it to myself and I started with clients when I was still coaching Europe. They're so impatient to it. I order motorcycle parts in the US, it takes a week to deliver to my shipping forwarder and then three weeks to come to Thailand, right? So it takes a month. It's so hard. Every day I ask, I check the shipping forwarder, is it here yet? Is it here yet? Is it here yet? So that's why I wanted reasons. I can't wait to get off the shit because I'm just so impatient. I'm just getting upset for no reason. Why is my helmet not here? You know, it's not going to go any faster, but the trend just ruins your perception of time. And if I can tell it, then I'm sure other people can tell. But a lot of people can't. And they're like, why am I so angry? Why am I so impatient? Why can't, why doesn't the world work the way I want it to be? But it's all in your head. Your perception is just completely warped. Yeah, I wish more people have that self reflection to understand what's going on in their brain so they can make a little bit better decisions in the long term. You know? Yeah, it's, I think, as I said, with like the studies, I think over the next 10 years, at that point, we will be wise men and we will be looking back and saying, well, we sort of warned this was happening back then. That's like when we wanted the master and the pre-most kind of. The nostridamus of the anabolic. So that we talked about. Guys, guys, be careful. Stuck up. Yeah. Nobody do, I mean, I see it happening around me. I mean, I see it happening on social media, the cognitive decline is just trotious. You know, especially on the guys that promote certain cycles, you know, low test, high masteron, I mean, the cognitive decline is clearly there. And then you're, you're, you're heading into I think a bright held discussion wouldn't go amiss without mentioning Roydrage and how not made up the term is, but in terms of how androgens amplify personality traits that already existed. And I remember I gave a CPD lecture to a load of medical professionals before one of the slides was about brain health. Basically said, if you're an arsehole before you took steroids, you're going to be an even bigger arsehole on them. It's, it amplifies. So you could have someone who's completely placid and then turns into the most aggressive demon using steroids. That the steroids made them turn into that person. It was that trait was already there. Their placid nature, they probably kept it suppressed.  and now steroids make them more confident, boosts air toning, make them more volatile. And now you've got a personality that a person sort of cognitively and emotionally was able to keep in control or wasn't confident enough to bark at someone or stand up for themselves, that all of a sudden you see the actual like Jekyll and Hyde split of what it's done to amplify the personality that was always there but was suppressed. Yeah, with the steroids since you gain so much confidence you're super convinced in your own correctness and justified in your right rage, because who are you to cut me off in traffic? You're completely convinced that you're in the right, but in reality you're probably the one making a mistake, but you don't see it that way. You need a little bit of self-reflection for that. Come to Thailand, drive around here and you'll get cut off so much that it doesn't face you anymore. And then you're like, yeah, it's number seven today, it's fine, I'll break, you know, even on the trim block in sandwich. Will you see that in interactions, if you interact with people on Instagram and stuff, you'll see the overconfidence of some of these? Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's why I stay away from the comment section because it's all guys on the trend, convinced of their own correctness. And I say, you should forgot this. It's a one minute reel. Slow down, watch the full podcast, bro. You forgot about, yeah, but this study said, it's in the citations in the full video, bro. Just watch the full video. It's there, trust me, it's on the screen, you know, so but yeah, you see it clearly in our space, the cognitive decline and the correctness or the, and I remember Phil Viz of one of the podcast, he said, I just love arguing with people, even if I'm wrong. And he described it perfectly, not particularly fond of Phil Viz, but he described it perfectly. That's what people do. He argued with Tina and I about the angstrom receptor. Yeah. Good luck. It's rolling in the mud with pigs. There's a market for that. But basically what he described, it makes perfect sense. And that's, that's a lot of, that's a large part of the fitness community. That's why I left the boards because people just dare to argue for the sake of arguing, even if they're wrong, they can't stop the raid. That's, that's the ultimate right range for it basically, right? That, that if people argue with Ronnie Coleman or, or, um, uh, this my cognitive decline, Jack, Ronnie Coleman, Dorian Yates, which has the bigger back, you gotta get big and you see a thread like a hundred thousand pages long of two guys just arguing back and forth. That's prime steroid, man. Prime steroids. People could not, cannot let it go. You should go to the temple for a week and not talk and live off, you live off, uh, you know, apple, apple juice or apple sauce and, uh, you know, a little bit of rice and some vegetables. I mean, like as I've gone older, probably as I've gone older, I've done stuff like what I've said on social media, like, um, counseling, talking, you know, talking about trying to process and do self reflection, ego reflection, try and understand, you know, I was quite an angry person, but I was able to control it. But as soon as I went into a gym or martial arts, that anger could be released in that setting. The, the thing that I always laugh about is probably when I was younger, Morgan used to say to me, why are you wasting so much time arguing with people who just want to argue for the sake of arguing? And eventually I realized I'm wasting a lot of time here. My wife was fully correct. In the moment, you're just like, yeah, and you're just staring at your phone, talking, talking, like arguing with someone. Like in reality, this is how stupid is you're arguing to a phone to someone who's probably 10,000 miles away from you. That won't even come up and say it to your face, but you're willing to like argue back through messages. That's probably the guys that come to the expo takes a picture. So D, I really respect, I really like what you're doing, bro. But then online, they argued to death, you know, because I don't know, I don't know why the two face behavior though. And like everybody needs a good wife in their lives to tell them like, Hey, cut crap, man. Don't play video games or go to the gym, release your anger there. But I guess a lot of people are just too single. And then they don't have a wife in their corner to tell them, Hey, cut crap. Don't waste your time. If you want to argue with people, make sure you get paid for it. And otherwise, you know, but yeah, that's a community, man. And if for every guy that figures it out, to that learns to let it go, there will be 10 new guys to take its place. That's, that's the Trimbalonia Hydra. I think, I think, you know, even, even in terms of like that getting older, the worst thing you can do and on some parts it is, is genuine and other parts that is being a little bit tongue in cheek sarcastic is just an arrogant witch. And you just say to them, Love you, man. Thank you for your comments. I'm sort of left standing there going, what do I argue back to that around? And I've just learned it's like how you kill it with kindness. Yeah. But how you, how you parent a kid when a kid is having a tantrum, you sort of like trying to understand the tantrum as opposed to fueling the tantrum with behave this way. What are you doing like that? Try and understand the person. So you're joining the tantrum, but on their side. Yeah, exactly. I mean, I said, you don't have anybody to order to you just take a 180 you stand at their left. I think, yes, you mother, but there's nobody to call motherfucker because you switch sides. You know, when we incurred to under fire about our stance on a certain toxic oral. And I got drawn into a certain comment section. I just said, I love you, bro. Please send me the references. Much love, love hearts. I just left the conversation. Exit the chat. Yeah. The video we made about me where he was like visibly shaking. Yeah, it's crazy, man. I feel bad. Yeah. It's okay. People learn. Look, you gotta learn. Everybody's gotta learn. But yeah, in this community, it's just that's the nature of the beast. That's what the steroid does. And it takes you out to master it. But of course, you know, there's plenty of guys still running high dose cycles or that got that permanent brain change. And I see that quite a bit. You know, I use the cycle in the past and then they turn into something else. They let go bodybuilding, but they're still a little angry man inside trying to prove a point. It's okay. And that, you know, aside from that as well, I've talked about even my own journey that dissolving the competitive bodybuilder ego is a big mental feat of being able to detach from what competitive bodybuilding requires. And the androgens are one part, being able to, after all those years, from a dopamine and serotonin perspective, have peace with not being a competitive bodybuilder, knowing that you don't have an offseason, knowing that you don't have a contest prep, able to yourself permission to live your life. A lot of people that leave competitive bodybuilding, I'm not going to say the majority, but we're probably close to it, end up exiting their career as a consequence of some form of injury, whether that is mechanical to their body to tenons ligaments, whether it is biochemical with their heart or their kidneys or their liver. The third aspect is they've just been alienated, where they've been left no choice of either keep bodybuilding and lose everything in your life or leave bodybuilding and try and salvage what's in your life. The ego, like you said, they're an angry little man is probably never been addressed, you know, in certain aspects that they never got to hear. Yes, yes, yes, yes, I've amplified that personality. And again, that's the other side of being able to face that ego and being able to sit down and, if needed, talk to a counselor. You know, one of the things that we're very taboo in the anabolic community is we talk about taking alpha GPC and lion's mane and things that improve neurogenesis and saline can semics, but no one turns around says, well, how about you go and sit with a counselor for 60 minutes and discuss your childhood, you know, just intrinsically motivate you, depending on how you're brought up. No one has this, you know, because it's sort of like, and I'll openly say here, for about two years, Morgan kept saying to me, go speak to a counselor, try and understand, you know, some of that negative emotion that's present. And eventually, I just swallowed my pride and said, right, I got to lose. And, you know, I've kept that practice up. I see a woman who's about 30 minute drive away, see her for an hour, every few weeks. And if anything, it's like talking to yourself, you're able to get, get your words out into the open. And someone who has a degree or background in human psychology is able to make you understand what you think that way or why your behaviors were that way. And then you're able to take that on board and go, okay, well, that makes logical sense or a process that emotion that's driving a certain action and put in a practice in place. So, you know, we're talking about brain health, the steroids, don't rule out like personal development, sitting with a professional psychologist, because I guarantee a lot of guys are going to be like me for a long time, not in denial, but like, why would I go talk to someone? That's sort of what was in my head. It wasn't like, I'm too big for counseling. What was sort of cut went through my process was, but what would I gain if I sat and talked to a stranger for 60 minutes, like a psychologist? What would I get out of the experience? And at the time, I kept saying, noting all good. But, you know, within two or three sessions, being able to talk about certain emotions and behaviors, she's able to say to her, have you ever thought about this? And they're like, well, yeah. And then you try to connect the dots and you make sense of the overall picture. And you know, I think some of that, because I started that towards the end of last year's prep, it made it a lot easier to accept. I knew I was going to retire with the British championships except the dissolving of the ego, because a lot of the anger that was driving the training was resolved. Like, just still anger, like for guys, listen, this anger is an outcome. It's a secondary emotion. So, anger isn't a primary emotion. When you feel anger, there's a trigger to being angry. And it could be sadness that makes you feel angry. It could be frustration. It could be confusion. But most guys just say, I'm an angry person. They never say, I'm an angry person because I'm frustrated because I hate my job. Or I hate this in my life. They don't actually sit and truthfully speak to themselves and say, well, I am angry because of this secondary emotion problem. Fix that problem. You might have stale some periods where you're frustrated and become angry, but you can then understand, well, where was the trigger from the anger? And then obviously, the rights will amplify that. Yeah, bodybuilding keeps the anger going. I had it for years. The bodybuilding fuels the anger and the anger fuels the bodybuilding. You got this synergistic, symbiotic, parasitic relationship. And it fuels on both ends. It's great for bodybuilding, but it's not good for your mental health. And then I think you need to let it go all of it for about a year. So you need to retire, let the anger go, maybe talk to a therapist or travel, where you have a lot of time for introspection, which is where I resolved most of my drama and sadness for the past. And then you can bodybuild without this bullshit, but you need to let it go completely. And that's very hard for a lot of people. And even before all this, I started to realize how we intrinsically motivate ourselves to train, even when we're on or off, but more so on is another big thing is you need to put on like a slipknot to do it, like a heavy loading set where it's just pure rage filled aggression to lift. How can you replicate that if you forget your phone or your MP3 player for your music? And you have to listen to the Jim's music, but self will drive more aggression because now you're more frustrated with yourself for leaving your music job to trauma. Yeah, and now you've, now you've, now you've, now you've not got the trigger that allows you to psychologically create strength. Because a lot of a lot of things we do, bodybuilding strength, it comes from obviously neuromuscular, but it's also psychologically driven and being able to debate that strength. And I used to observe this all the time, if you listen to like, like I said, slipknot or really intense heavy metal, you do your heavy loading set. And then when you're leaving the gym, you just feel like flat. You feel like you've released all of that negative energy, but now you're in a position where you're just like, it's the best way to describe you. You've delved with depleting that negative energy in an outlet, but there's nothing to fill up the cope positively with happiness or whatever. So you just feel as job done, go home, eat, it's, you know, just, you know, I think I did it for like seven years, right? The first thing in the morning, coffee, meal, and then go to the gym to release. Otherwise, my whole day would be ruined. I'd be angry all day. And then you go to the gym to kind of numb yourself. And I was like, oh, I'm good now. But this is positive enforcement. And I really like, I learned this after the non-alcoholic philly liver disease where it came off everything basically, and I fasted myself into healthiness again. I couldn't tap into the craziness anymore. And that may be a worse bodybuilder overall, but a much happier person and a much more productive person, and a much more caring person, because I didn't have to go through this phase of like anger management in the morning, by literally making myself tired in the gym and releasing everything there. But yeah, my physique also declined because I couldn't bring that intensity to the gym anymore, like the craziness of burying yourself in heavy weights and somehow managing to, you know, muster up six to eight reps. Now I do six to eight reps with a lot less weight, because the anger isn't there to fuel it. Yeah. So for the sake of bodybuilding, you should want to be a good bodybuilder. You probably need it, but it's positive reinforcements to the point you're in this perpetually angry state. And this is always looking for an outlet. And whether that's masturbation or did you get a release somehow. So now I only got online shopping left. It sucks, man. It sucks. But it's a quality of life has improved. I will say that. I think if we're looking at, you know, someone asked about strategies of improving brain health with mysterious obviously you've done a series with tier lists of supplements and maybe peptides and medications. I guess one thing we have to view with neuro inflammation. And I found this fascinating when I read about years ago was depression as a biochemical reaction, if you want to put it that way, is an outcome symptom to an underlying problem. So depression isn't like heart failure or kidney disease. Depression is a symptom to neurological dysfunction. And so you view it that way, you then see that neuro inflammation doesn't really have the best way to describe it is if anyone has ever watched Hannibal the second like science and alarm failure, where he basically eats the guy's brain with his at the very end of the movie, he removes the guy's skull cap and he's eating the brain and feeding the guy his own brain. Your brain can't feel pain. It's well known. You can't feel pain in your brain. So when you feel pain from a headache, neurotransmission signaling pain to the brain, it's not the brain saying, oh, I'm very hurt here. So in that regard, when your neurons are inflamed, you don't tell you I'm inflamed like when you've got tennis elbow or tendonitis, it creates a dysfunction towards mood, it creates some level of symptom to tell you is not right here in terms of our chemical balance, neurochemical stress, oxidative stress, whatever. So then you start to go, okay, well, if I have signs of neural dysfunction, like aggressive behavior, depressive symptoms, you have to start to sleep. You then delve into the bigger picture of, well, what is happening in my brain? My brain is trying to tell me there's a problem. No, for me, the cue is music. So I noticed that after all your neuro inflammation is pretty high from the heavy training, maybe after four weeks or six weeks of kicking us in the gym. And then the songs that I usually go like, you know, yeah, this is my jam going to the gym, going to go train, then you're like, I hate this fucking song. That is time for a week off. And then as soon as you take a week off, you let the neuro inflammation come down, right? You take a little break, you don't eat so much, you let your digestive tract come in, all the inflammation in the muscle goes away, maybe fast a little bit, take a little break after a week, right back on the motorbike, I'm like, yeah, this is my jam. And that's a very easy way to tell, but people never want to take a break. And that's the neuro inflammation remains. And they never get that sense of, you know, ah, you had a good night's sleep last night. Oh, I'm really enjoying this sense of music. Oh, I'm really in a good mood, just for no reason. I'm happy to be alive. I mean, how many bodybuilders can say that? I'm happy to be, you'll be, no, you'll be surprised, dude. Many people are just fucked. After years, why do you think I stopped coaching? I couldn't deal with the chip anymore. People were just so angry, like, fuck, dude, just take a week off, go on holiday, let the stress come down and the inflammation and the intestinal problems. Your life is so much better if you just take a week of vacation from the bodybuilding stuff. Yeah, I'm in a good mood because last week I took a deal. So it helps. You know, even in terms of like, not band-aiding, but then when you delve into like, no improving neural outcomes, you then start looking at our medications, whether they are SSRIs or for the enforced. The NDRIs, you know, what I found fascinating was when you look at the mechanism of SSRIs in terms of improving total body serotonin content, as opposed to the classical way we were taught this week, a whole module on neuropharmacology, was that antidepressant medications improved the amount of serotonin in your synapse due to reuptake inhibited the SAT. So you don't serotonin back into the signaling synapse. But now they're starting to like completely change their viewpoint the last four to five years that SSRIs actually hang on a minute, improve mitochondrial function and creation of serotonin throughout the whole body, not just in the synapse. Some of them promote neurogenesis as well. So you're actively healing your brain. This is why I came with fluvoxamine because fluvoxamine and fortioxidein is a little bit more potent regarding neurogenesis. But I just felt that this perpetual like foggy clouds over my entire life was lifted. But again, it's a band-aid because what happens is you just start training harder. With cerebral ison, it removes a lot of the brain fog from the crazy training. And they're like, oh, if I don't need to do six sets and one rep before failure to be functional the next day, because cerebral ison takes that cap off, right? I can now go to failure and beyond and do a couple of drop sets. And the next day I'm fine. They're just postponing the inevitable. You still end up angry and fatigued. It just takes two weeks longer. And you don't recognize it anymore because the edge is that signal that your body gives like, hey, bros, cut the crap, throw the towel, take a deal out. It's no longer there. So you just, you just keep going and going and going. And that's the downside of a lot of these guys experimenting with some axolank phlovoxamine, vortioxin, cerebral ison cortex, dihex anything. Right? The funny thing is that exercise also increases brain drive neurotropic factors. You have a little bit of a, you know, band-aid there, but most people just really work themselves into the ground by taking more drugs. And that was not my intention when I made those deep dives, but that's what happened. Like Steve, I don't understand why I'm taking all the drugs you recommended for neurogenesis and I still feel off. So when was the last thing you took a deal out? Yeah, six months ago. So maybe the neuro inflammation is just at a point where you need a full block of vacation, dude. You need to go to the Maldives or Bali if you can't afford the Maldives. Like, and that comes back to the whole thing of your brain can't tell you it's inflame. So when you need to look for the signs, and again, you need to go through a couple cycles of, Hey, wait a minute, I'm fucked. I need to take some time off or I need to take drugs out. And but most people don't have that reflection process. They just keep calling, keep going, keep going, because with bodybuilding, keeping train going is somewhat rewarded. You know, I think even with SSRI is aside, like, like I said, then with protecting the brain, if this is a consequence of steroid use, like what you've touched on with like alcohol induced damage, recreational drug induced damage. I think this is going to be just like the heart and that going to have deficits occur into your cognitive health if you're using steroids, like it's it. The point of the message I put out your day was you accept that responsibly that you're going to have some level of cognitive decline is on the cards genetically also, then you better start paying attention to basics like omega triphid acid intake, your sleep, all these stupid basics rather than peptide, can I sniff up my nose and ketogenic diets, right? I mean, it's like melatonin and ketogenic diets do wonders for Alzheimer's. But if you promote amyloid plaque buildup with copious amounts of tremolone, then you need to put some preventative measures in place or limit the amount of tremolone that you take and just take it for special occasions, or make sure that you make money because of your appearance. Yeah, like, there's no reason for me to take train, but it's I make money talking about taking train and mint and, you know, Deca and YK-11 together. It pays my bills. I'm not going to lie, you know, it's entertaining. Crazy experiment is Steve going to do next. Can't wait to ask him on the vigorous Q&A. And I see the mint sales and the tremolone sales go up when I talk about it. I do it responsibly, but like, I wouldn't be doing it if there was no financial benefit. I would just be on test, you know? Yeah. And then I get, you know, I'm, ever since I got involved with this from whatever, a 23 or 22, it just fascinated me. Even back then, a lot of it was anecdotal stuff that you read online that you looked at the animal data and what was being said in forums. Like I wasn't really a commenter on forums. I'd read and be fascinated with what was being said. But what we observed back then, a lot of it is slowly coming through. And what we're seeing research wise that, you know, 10 years ago, when I roughly 10 years, 2017, when I got on social media, I talked about this brain health impact. Like someone commented during a dreams that Dr. Dean is very like negative against steroids now and this time you're, may have been talking about neuro degeneration for the last eight or nine years on social media. You know, this isn't something that I've decided on an ex bodybuilder. So I'm going to bash this it's trying to deliver this level of education that you guys then can listen to and think, well, fuck what he's saying is really, you know, very important for when I'm in my 60s that I don't want to be a vegetable to put a blunt leaf. And you don't have to be because I think if you're very preventative, like, like all three of us are, you know, pretty smart. The podcast is still going around very popular. So people enjoy listening to it. And I met a boatload of very highly intelligent people through bodybuilding that take steroids, but also take the preventative measures in place to do not mess their brain up too much. Is there signs of cognitive decline? I mean, you got to be a little bit crazy if you want to be a bodybuilder, you know, he can't be a normal person. You know, but it seems that they're still intelligent, their business is, you know, flourishing and they can put very complicated ideas together for the bodybuilding community and make that work. But it's not like that the cognitive decline is all around and everybody's stupid. Just some of us, sometimes or all some of us are stupid all the time. So so I don't think you can do bodybuilding without making yourself a vegetable. But again, the lifestyle and those stupid things that we always preach need to be in place. Yeah, I mean, I could sleep sleep at the very top, like Kurt said, an architecture of protecting your brain. You don't get a badge of honor for sleeping less if anything, you're just reducing the reducing your life expectancy and broader scheme of things. And you're also then in player and your cognitive ability. You know, I learned that very quickly when I was a shift engineer, a wage is like 20, 25, and you're sat down by like occupational health and they're like, they're trying to coach you on how to sleep at night shifts. A lot of stuff they're telling me are just like absolute garbage that then I was like, please see what's the most beneficial way to sleep properly if I do work night shifts, sitting sure that I sleep eight hours. Do I want to do you know, the occupational health nurses saying of you finish at 7am, just go home and you know, live your life like would be a normal night stay up until 10am 11am. And if you drink some alcohol in the evening time, why not relax when you get home and I'm thinking, Jesus Christ, my protocol was as soon as 7am cam, if I had to go out and daylight from the office, I'd be wearing blue like blocking glasses from, you know, four or five am. So as I got in the car, you'd be wearing blue like blocking glasses, although that's your responsible decision to make because it can't  amicimortired. That sort of was then setting up the environment for getting home to be drowsy enough to then feel okay, I need to go to sleep and you're taking all like precursors of sleep or the, how I develop sleep stacks. I looked at, you know, what nutritionally supported sleep and I was able to sleep whether it was 9pm at night or 9am, I'd sleep till 30am or 430pm, it made no difference, my, it was just reversed 12 hours. And I'm sure you have blind curtains and temperature control and all that stuff. Temperature control, sleep mask, like, silicon air plugs, all of these things to ensure that, well, back then the cognitive demand on my job was very high and I was in a very high position and what was expected of me was competing also. So I couldn't go in on night shift and be like operating at 30% capacity when some of the machines I was in charge of were like operating at like a two or three million euro per hour capacity. So if a machine broke down, you know, every 15 minutes, that's quarter of a million, you had to be quick and making decisions and understanding the problem and putting the solution in place that blame it on, I'm taking an anabolic cycle. I've gotten per sleep, I've not taken care of my sleep hygiene, my brain is neuro inflamed, in the middle of the night, because we had a gym that you could train in during your lunch break. Things I had to figure out, well, what's the number one way to support my brain health that allows me to do my position properly because that is what pays your bills. What I was making sure that my sleep is immaculate, that's one variable without looking at supplements that really will make sure that I can operate to my full capacity each evening. Yeah. It goes for like, that it's no video games before bed. Unfortunately, back then, if we're on the run day shifts, when I was going to bed at maybe 10pm, you could sneak in 30 minutes without the strike. You're now shown, I only had a conversation with someone here a day of Counter Strike used to be one of the more all of the internet mods where you couldn't, we had to be very politically correct on a microphone to some level of language on Counter Strike online of people remember back then. That's a good time at a uni. Yeah, the Europeans more so you'd get like very aggressive French people. No offense, he's been so aggressive on Counter Strike. I learned a whole new vocabulary on Counter Strike. It was not the right vocabulary. That's why I got my literacy from Counter Strike. Yeah, it's like managing all this stuff is it's almost a full time job. And I think that's why people prefer not to have a real job. Like, I mean, I'm going to be honest, like after doing coaching and then making your own hours, it does make you a better bodybuilder because you don't really have to think about these responsibilities that you have for work. I mean, I was a fucking business consultant for six years. And then you put that first, because you think you're going to make career in an environment that is not conducive to, you know, making money really, you're just trying to keep somebody else going by working for their business, but you have to learn the hard way, right before yourself and plot. But that means you're like you're always on edge, because you might lose your job, especially now, economic crisis run around the corner guys. Look at your black Friday sales if you don't believe it. So you have these responsibilities as a person and then you're trying to juggle this bodybuilding stuff as best you can with your responsibilities. But that basically means that you're not good at either of them. And that it tracks from your overall productivity, your cognition, which is just sacrifices, I guess. But as back to what we talked about with emotions and now you hate your job, which fuels your anger, which fuels your training, which just perpetually drives more and more information. It makes you stupid. I do feel that people that are self employed in this space are a little bit better off than the people who are employed and just trying to bodybuild on the side, especially when they do it seriously. And I'm sure you guys see that, which are clients, are the guys that are like working for somebody else and have to make ends meet and, you know, financially not as secure yet because they're moving up the ranks in bodybuilding and social media presence doesn't really give them much affiliate sales or coaching income. And those guys are struggling man in all fronts, financially, emotionally, from a productivity perspective, and then the bodybuilding suffers. It's not easy, man. It's not easy. I mean, in court, I'm sure you see that quite a bit. I mean, you're coaching both a lot of people. And it's, it's, I think it's very hard to make that transition where you can live a fulfilling life that doesn't make you stupid. Yeah, it takes a bit of a leap. And not everybody's able to make that. I'm in a very luxury position where I can sleep whenever I want. I could take all the supplements I need. I can take all the drugs I need because they're free, right, or deciding not to take them. And, and, but a lot of people are not in that position. And I think that quality of life and cognition suffers for it. Yeah. Tokert, maybe, maybe as a coach, you have some solutions for that. Like, what would you tell a client that is like, you know, grinding in all fronts and, and might be sacrificing their brain health in the long term because of it? They probably need to just re-evaluate what matters. Yeah. Doesn't, you know, especially if they're trying to compete and do that at the same time. They'll say for me, now that I'm so busy, I probably get less sleep now than I did when I was working for other people. Yeah. There's definitely a fine line, though, where, you know, working for yourself definitely allows you at least to function, someone on your own schedule and manage these things. I just think you can't, you know, most, a lot of the guys, they'll, they put a, they'll put 100% into all these other things, but they're not showing up for their family. Like they'll put those things that are actually the most important on the back burner, right? Cause they spend so much time in the gym and so much time working and all that other stuff. And then they're just not present when they come home, right? They're fried. Yeah. You know, they, you know, it's also a shame, which is a shame. Yeah. Because adults, people will be around anyway, till they're not. Yeah. And that's, I mean, how many divorces do we see in this space? Yeah. So then the hard decision is like family, work or bodybuilding, but usually it's bodybuilding work and then family in that order. Yeah. Probably not a good place to be a bodybuilder. No, which is fine. It's at the end of the fucking world, right? I'm not a great bodybuilder either, but I still make it work. I still show up to the gym, but it's just less of what it should be at the highest level, but I'm not competing at the highest level. So why would I, you know, I have a family to take care of first and then business and then bodybuilding. And the business now is a little bit, I know, just chilling and taking my six months of radical after 10, 15 years of grinding. I kind of deserved it. Okay. Well, eventually I'll get back to it and then body, like right now, bodybuilding is more intense because the business took a little bit of a beating. Family didn't get sacrificed. If anything, I have more time for my family now. And eventually I'll put bodybuilding on the back corner as soon as this cruise starts probably next week. And guess what? Videos will return. The scientific evidence will get reviewed. The guys will come back. Yeah, because, you know, sometimes you just need to take some time for yourself. And that's what I did the last six months. I bought motorbikes, took care of my daughter, all the diaper changes and stuff. I didn't leave it just to my wife and my wife's mom. I was there too, you know, and then, yeah, bodybuilding had a little bit of a stint. And now I just reverse that back and go back to business and less bodybuilding. You know, yeah, we probably did a lot of damage with this stupid bodybuilding cycle and my brain needs rest. You know, anything else we should discuss about brain health because it's more about observation than the scientific evidence. And I'm sure people start throwing studies at us. But I've read most of them and it's not so much you can do. It's better to avoid the animal because it's neurotoxic. And it's better to avoid a cabana compounds which are neurotoxic. But are people really going to do that? I still take Trimbalone, which I know is neurotoxic. But also I think limit my exposure. Yeah, and cruise and take labs and eat a balance. Right. But I think one thing to I guess, try and make clear is I don't think in a very technical sense, I don't think something like Trimbalone is of itself neurotoxic. It's what it induces. So take Trimbalone itself doesn't cause your neurons to die. What will cause the neurons to die is excitato toxicity from too much dopamine frying the neuron. That sort of where very high dosages of Trent can make you feel godlike have an amazing libido for a period of time. And like what we've said, you know, sometime last year, the first time you take it, every time thereafter, you're trying to chase the tread high of what you had when you first took it in terms of like sky libido, or eyes, but chose to take like a dopamine agonist like Caber golly into drive that high sex drive and allow you to do more performance. All that sort of stuff then will eventually catch up with your nerve. I just feel flat. And that flatness is a consequence of obviously coming away from the compound, but also the neurodegeneration that potentially has happened. It happens on train also, but that happens at high dose. Yes, where you start to feel flat, you feel dead inside. And that means that the neurodegregation is already taking place. Why do I feel this way? It's because you've untrained too high and too long. And that's why me and Dean were talking about like 25 milligrams, 40 milligrams a week to get the job done. And the only reason why I'm running 150 milligrams now is because my mood is still managed up until this week. And I wanted to see, you know, how my physique could change. But again, I'm not scared to pull the plug when I feel that the adverse effects are catching up to me, which is happening now. I can't sleep. I can't sleep properly. Night sweats are not too bad. But if the air stability starts to group up on me, okay, fine, man. Don't need to look at the calendar and run the train up until Christmas. Like a plan to, I can stop it right now. Like a fucking adult. Yeah, that was why when people are arguing like anything from 25 milligrams or train or 40 or 50, I was like, I'll absolutely know shit that you're going to see more effect for more drug, but now you've got more drug interactions that can be negative than positive that. So that trophy that you got is not tangible evidence that it worked. Apparently not. Apparently. Well, apparently, what would I know? I've got classes and I'm an nerd. I've no experience and I'll be cabin out of tree finishes at nationals in Ireland. But I got about 200 people doing it right now and they're said to feel great. It's all the benefits and none of the side effects. Job done. Right. I'm here to educate, do it on myself first. And then you spread it to the masses. And if people want to copy it and then get a better results, okay, well, you get a bodybuilding physique that's worthy of winning the Olympia. Of course not. Of course not, bro. You need a little bit more and anodrol and everything else. But if you want to have some good results with minimal side effects, you know, low dose is one way to go. And now use a higher dose. I get a better physique, but also get more side effects. I had no real irritability on 25 milligrams and under 150 milligrams yet. Driving is not a good idea. You know, but I'm well aware of what's going on. So even then I can suppress it. So today I drove very slowly. Very calm. Sure. Cut me off. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. The Mozart music you listen on the way to the gym is the only way you're jammed. Just to keep the edge of it. You know, kind of a lecture list of the Mozart too. So what is that? It's very, it's very soothing. You know, yeah. Yeah. Some, some side, you know, pushing the right move. So is there anything else we can contribute to the brain health stuff or do we have to fall back on limited compound exposure, shorter duration, lower dose just and just taking a breather and then sleeping well? Because I think that pretty much sums it up. I think, you know, self awareness, if there's more less than that, most body builders can learn is awareness of themselves and what's inside, right? Not the reflection. Like you do a lot of bread and like, look at the shit pop, bro. I'm so self aware of my lats being flexed. I'm really flexing my lower lats and so what? Listening to, you know, your inner critic or ego and being able to, on one part, again, this is something that may come out in the future is how anabolic serads are influencing our inner talk processes. Like no one talks about their inner psychology of that little voice in your head that's like telling you you're a pussy for not doing that last rep or making you take that risk of nearly getting cleaved in half by a leg press. Like it talks about that psychology of where that voice comes from internally and your ego. That's a whole other conversation of what steroids could be doing to fuel fuel how you're how you're behaving. And let alone we're talking about brains and physical properties, psychology and the amplification of those traits, the ego and that self reflection of being able to understand what is a caramature ego in response to the steroids. You should do that get a fourth person on board and do like an anabolic anonymous grand table and just talk about our feelings. I would be very cool. Like obviously we had some guests lined up to see if there are any clinical psychologists who are watching this who have had patients obviously completely anonymous case study but who have had people who have had a lot of trauma gone to therapy and then the trauma has been amplified by steroids and obviously healing trauma and with therapy and counseling and talking out and trying to reason some of that recovery might not occur without removal of the thing that's actually driving the mental top processes that are egging you on day today. Yeah. Yeah, for that you might want to consider coming down to TRT or removing it completely so you can actually have some introspection because I was the most calm when I was off or an ATG monotherapy. And with that all this testosterone and whatnot signaling and all this anger that was required for heavy sessions at the gym. You know, it's you look at bodybuilding vacation is probably the best thing you can do for your mental health. But that's so hard. Even looking at anxiety, we haven't even touched on like anxiety. Maybe we do a thing about anxiety. I mean, another thing that we haven't touched on in terms of the excessive dopamine signaling is the potential Parkinson's risk and the induction Parkinson's disease from steroid use, which is completely unanswered of a correlative risk. Anxiety is normally like when we don't know our pharmacology, schizophrenic and paranoid states are excessive dopamine states of the brain. And so when you look at your taught process, taught processes of your brain between what was in forgetting the name of the author and that's not taking my cognitive ability. Yeah, too much too much. Yeah, alone. Dean, worse person when it comes to remembering names. If I looked at the book case, I probably tell me man, I can't for the life of me remember the names of movies or actors. That one movie. Yeah, people like, Yeah, sure, Steve. The book, thinking fast, thinking slow, looks at the two different systems of your brain and like you've got obviously your primitive brain, which is always making assumptions of you're going to die, don't do that. And then you've got your logical brain, which is trying to tell the primitive brain shut up, everything's under control. I've had a whole time when I'm driving motorcycle too fast. You know, in terms of that primitive brain and that that thinking, reasonable brain keeps me straight. Yeah, that foot on that break. You know, in terms of the dopamine transmission steroids, again, we might be able to at some point modulate where they target in terms of that new sort of thinking processes. But when you have anxiety, anxiety, from my understanding and looking into like the neuro pharmacology, it's a high dopamine state where you're trying to predict things that aren't in your reality that are not going to occur. So like you feel like I'm going to die. And that's because you've got sky eye dopamine and your primitive brain is saying, I don't like the look of that piece of dust on the wall, you're going to die. And that's a stupid that part of your brain is that that's where again, doing self reflection and trying to engage the thinking part of your brain, where you're not completely amygdala and emotionally fueled, you're you're able to then understand, well, why do you feel anxious? And then again, when you're anxious with steroids and that neurochemistry comes back to COMT that we talked about before, a magnesium deficiency, like if you're boiled up anxious with steroids in your system, just have a look at how overloaded COMT is between dopamine, magnesium deficiency. There might be some GABAergic signaling that it's that's impaired because it helps the relaxation as well. We understand this with boldenone, but it could very well be the case with all other steroids. You know, now is are we going to supplement with more GABA the whole day? No, I don't have to. I mean, you could look into magnesium or not take so many goddamn steroids, which is always the probably the first thing you should look into. People always ask me, I have side effects XYZ from this compound. Take it out. Yeah, but I need I need a new fee, bro. Like it's air, you know, water. Yeah, for my joints. Yeah, I need it for my joints. Take fucking so much other shit you can take. But it's if you have a problem with the compound, it's okay to take the compound out instead of throwing three more supplements on top or fucking Valium to take the edge off. But that's that's where we are now, right? It's drug industry, not the fitness industry. Yeah, I mean, even from that take to so I could keep taking MVP. A brace to take a break, take a break, take a vacation from the MVP. You know, even from that perspective, a whole other side is then dependency on Zed class drugs, like, like zippy clone, how many bodybuilders take zippy clone to help them sleep? To remind you, you know, so many so many so many of these drugs out there that I never even heard of. Just take the drug out. That's the culprit that makes you not sleep or that makes you angry. Like if I can piece it together, I'm fucking retard me to head also. But if I can piece together that 150 million guys with trend that I'm taking right now after four weeks is doing my head in. I have all the experience to make the side effects go away, right? But I'd rather take the trend out. And if I can come to that conclusion, then I'm sure other people can, you know, yeah, but see if you're not competing. So let's take something else then, dude. Fuck. Yeah, it's a shame that the introspection on that sense is lacking. You know, but magnesium is a good one. Yeah, besides blood pressure management, don't have to go to Thomas Hartmann right away. You can take magnesium to relax you. I take 300 milligrams five times a day. You know, it's and that's a simple strategy and micronutrient and measurable with blood work that I think where we are, you know, two hours into the record, people probably expected like Odin and Steve and Kurt. They stop listening after you mentioned the benefits. I mean, at 24, you started talking about the negatives and they're like, see the audience, plummet. Yeah, exit. It's not that. I mean, look at the views. I love to fucking talk about it. Look at the views. We started talking about health, right? And I'm sure you've noticed that we went from 30k views to 10. Yeah, there's a certain drop off. Don't give a shit. Okay, so the next episode, now that we did all the organ health and the ancillary management and blood pressure management and stuff, next episode, we're going to go hard and talk about drugs and you'll see the views skyrocket. I'm willing to bet money on it. Yeah. How about we do 10k, 15k views and the next I'll put it in the fucking title to I'll rub it in nice and deep. We'll talk about like the most productive offseason known to man or something like that. And we'll go into hard in the insulin and we'll have a little debate and we'll talk hard about the test only cycles or combining tests with Decay and whatever and people will love it and the views will be like 50k. People don't care about being healthy. Just small parts of our industry, really. I guess to caveat that whoever is listening, you're doing a good job listening and taking care of your health. The future of the bodybuilding space is still listening. You know, and they're the ones that are thinking of they could be in their 20s and if you are, you know, you've got a great journey ahead or they could be guys in their 40s who are masters athletes who are thinking about when their grandparents, if not already, of, you know, how can I stay alive for my grandkids? With what we sort of started out with this, we could have listed so many different things to do to protect against your brain. Take, you know, someone commented underneath the trend video reel from the other day of, well, take fluvoxamine and denepazil and serabilisin and cortex and cortigin and start listing off all these things. Like we said, one interest takeaway to think that's causing the problem, resetting and going again and figuring out where to sweet. People understand that with their cars, but not with their bodies. And all those other drugs have side effects too. Those are side effects. And they batch and they are on another bigger Steve stack of like 17 different compounds. You're like, what the fuck are you doing? I see doctors now around here, right? Trasidone. So people could sleep that'll destroy your liver. So then you see the liver enzymes worse than if they're on halo. Yeah, I know. And people still pop it like candy, dude. It's mild. No, it's not. No, we're fucking medical insert. Jesus Christ. Just some research on what you're taking. What can you do, man? The health is not for everybody, just like wealth is not for everybody. Some people don't get it. And that's why they destroy themselves. And I guess everybody has to make their own decisions. We're all fucking adults here, you know? So I guarantee you, I guarantee you if we had a web page that somehow correlated worldwide deaths every day of people from silly steroid decisions that it would soon put people off of looking at how that counter is just doing this day on day climbing and climbing and climbing of silly things. And they're not probably higher than the actual deaths from steroids in their side effects. Like people doing dumb shit on steroids, driving too fast, right rage, getting into arguments, getting shot. The death is just cardiac because it's what manifests first. It's not, you know, brain cells not going to kill you directly short term. Your heart's going to go first. Derek's going to go first. And it's probably before the cognitive decline sets in. That's what I mentioned in some of the deep dives. So you'll probably get a heart attack before you really see tremendous cognitive decline. And they don't necessarily do an autopsy. If you die alone, there's no autopsy done. So they don't know how... This is anecdotal, but I remember on one of the boards before there was a whole discussion around induction of morbid thoughts when you're on cycle. And I can't remember what the biochemical outcome was, but when you're on a high level of androgens and you're less impeded or you're more impulsive thoughts come into your head of like, what would happen if I drove my car off the edge of the road here? Or what would happen if I overtook this car and tried to test? Can I get into it before the other car hits me? The impulsivity of making those decisions. Again, we don't put that down to stare at induced death when it's fully a trip in terms of the psychology that drove it. Yeah, and I don't think it's unheard of. It's just poorly discussed to report it. Yeah, I drive safely though, guys. I don't have any of those thoughts. Like, what if... Can I make this turn? Can I overtake this car? I drive very carefully. I got a daughter, I got I got no time for this kind of shit. If I drive fast, it's on the track. And that's relatively safe. Control. Control demolition. They have like these skid areas where you can kind of roll out. You got protection on, you know, so it's a calculated risk. I got a go guy, I got a go guys, because tomorrow I got to wake up early and look at another motorbike. There you go. So I'm going to have to cut it short at two hours, but this was a great discussion as usual. Next time we'll do some actual steroid talking to get the views back and the likes on them. Because AdSense is atrocious now. Can't even afford a dinner with you guys. You want me to... I can have some clients on. I have a bunch of guys that are game between 30 and 60 pounds in a year. You want me to get them on? Yeah, that would be cool. Yeah. Now, can I get some anecdote reports? Like, for me, it's 60 pounds down, but I would love to talk to a guy that gained 60 pounds. Why did that guy that gained 64 pounds a stage weight? He gained over 85 total. And then you're going to tell me that the cycle is totally uninteresting, probably. He's got some good genetics. Well, I'll let him talk. I'll have him on. Okay. Yeah, sure. Yeah, we can do that early January, right? We've got Christmas and New Year's coming up. My editor is going to be gone for like two weeks. So early January, if the guy's up for it. Yeah, or he can, I can ask John Revis. I don't know who that is, but he won his pro card. He's going to, where he works with Justin, but I've been helping him on the side. So we can hang with the open pros. Yeah. Yeah, because putting your pro card, you basically started zero again. Because people don't realize that. Yeah, I'll throw it out there. Yeah, yeah, sure. Just ask them if they wanted this guy so we could be like, like crazy offseason gains podcast. We get those views up. I'm sure people will be interested. I'm certainly interested. Yeah, I will be. Guys, your social media links are down below, as usual. This was great. We'll see you guys in about a month. And until the meantime, I guess stay safe. Don't do anything we usually do. Unless it's Dean. In Curtis. I'm the most irresponsible one here. But I'm freshly shaving. Yeah, it doesn't count. Curtis old and has no muscle and Dean is just a nerd. And I look bigger than I do on social media. That's what people say. Steve is so much bigger in real life. So you only see my face. We're going to see their  and alfalfa-pyridotusher to prove our point. That's the other channels. The other channels. We don't need that. Anyway, before that, guys, I had a ballerground table, episode 17, this was done. Thanks guys so much for joining. I will see you in about a month. Yep, Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas, exactly, and a happy new year.

=== FILE: Enanthate Vs. Cypionate Study Updates, New (Inactive？) Androgen Receptor & Maximize Offseason Cycles [1WV3xTmvPD0].txt ===

 cart, you were working on a study comparing the efficacy of sapionate versus the efficacy of enethate, that study is pretty much done, people have been asking me, where's the update, where's the update, where's the update, not understanding that peer review and submission and publication takes a long time, and if you want to get the good data, you need months of administration, so can you spill a little bit of information? Yeah, so I mean the background was we were comparing the pharmacokinetics of testosterone sapionate to testosterone enethate, it was pharmaceutical grade of both, and it was administered by a physician, so there's no self-administration, and the two doses we used were 300 milligrams and 600 milligrams of each, because you wanted to see a real effect, and it turns out that sapionate has a much lower peak in serum, in most individuals there were some, we didn't see it, but the vast majority, it just has a much slower rise in peak, and then testosterone enethate basically ramps up much faster, What's up guys, welcome to the Anabotter Groundtable Episode 11, we've almost been doing this for one year, next year will be the one year anniversary, but for now Episode 11, I'm joined with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean Tate-Mart, we did not prepare too many topics, so let's just start with a little bit of a life update, because last week we had IFB Pro or John Jewett on the call, and we did not do any life updates, so let's start with Kurt, Kurt you've been on TRT for a very long time, six months, and I'm sure it's getting boring right now, so what's going on with you? Believe it or not, it's not getting boring, I think I've accomplished my physicals to the good, the extent that I could take my genetics, and I kind of moved on from that, I don't foresee any cycles in the near future, I feel good, I'm sleeping well, it seems less words though, I tried to downsize a little bit, I got down to 208, that's about the lowest that I seem to go, you saw my condition, it doesn't make any sense to get any leaner than that, just to walk around, otherwise you have to wear three shirts, yeah, it's wild, overcome the cold, exactly, it's wild, it took so long to build all that muscle, it's really difficult to get rid of, so it's at a bad problem time, now if you go off cycle and you fast, you stop eating, then it goes away quick, but as long as you don't do that, then you should be okay. Well, the problem for me with one kidney, if I lose it fast, it would probably be my kidney, so I'm not trying to look like a normal person, I don't think I need to, you know, a goal of 240 anymore is not realistic. No, no, I'm about 230 right now, but I'm a little bit more than TRT, I say TRT for three, and then people don't get a joke, that it's for three people, so I said TRT for three, 625 milligrams, and they're like, that's not TRT, that's 600 milligrams, is this TRT nowadays, you're insane, I said TRT for three people, you fucking idiots, well that's the stuff I have to deal with, enough about me though, so I also been going strength wise and you know, progress wise, like you lost a little bit of size, but are you holding onto your strength and yeah, I don't seem to have lost anything, so that's good, you know, so it's all marinated and I can get away with TRT, yeah, and I reduced the cardio too, I'm doing the bare minimum that I can to hold my 10 minutes, 20 minutes, no, I'm not even doing it jelly, I reduced it, I haven't done any yet this week, today's what, Wednesday, last time I did cardio, Sunday, I might wait till Saturday, once a week cardio, right, I mean, if I don't need it, I don't need it, yeah, if you don't need it, I mean your body fat levels are absolutely great, man, I'm still working my way towards your level of body fat, but I'm getting leaner now too, no more bulking for me, that was not a good idea, and again, when I bulk, I bulk hard, that's the old school way, so I got up to what, 122 kilos, it's 265 pounds in the last year, and I was snoring and I had to buy a CPAP and I was strong as fuck though, it was so good, it was so cool, man, like, allowing all the plates, and then you're not out of breath because you have so much energy, like, putting like, eight plates on the leg press, and then doing super slow controlled reps up till 12, 15 reps, and then you can barely get off the machine, I mean, you feel like a pod, so pumped and so many steroids, it was great, but no more, no more, 600 tests for me and some YK-11 and a Picatogen experiment. How do you like the YK-11 so far? So I just started out again, about 10 days ago, I did the Epicatogen for about a month at escalating dose year, so I started with 180 milligrams and 360, and then I was like, you know, let's see what happens if I go to 900 milligrams, and then I did my blood work, and my high sensitivity seroactive protein was 21.9 or eight milligrams per liter, so I thought, did I inject injectable anodrol in glycol, and I went through my notes, no, I did not. So the Epicatogen gave me tremendous inflammation, now there could be a side effect of having chronically elevated phallostartan levels, so I was like, okay, I come off, I go to YK-11, which also increases phallostartan levels based on the animal models, and then my high sensitivity seroactive protein dropped down to 2.8. There you go. Yeah, so it works, but not in the way that I wanted to, too, and I'm not sure if it's like some impurities or some of the binders, like maybe the tablets are pressed in pure gluten, for example, but I had no symptoms of inflammation, so it could either be a one-off on my blood work, which I highly doubt, because the lab that I work with is pretty good, or it really increased my inflammatory markers, and that makes it unsuitable. I couldn't find anything scientifically, I couldn't find any anodoly... Is there a propylene glycol in it? No, it's just a tablet. Does it say natural, does it have natural coloring? No. Because sometimes they'll hide that under there? At least in the United States, that's considered natural, even though it doesn't occur? No, it's a normal tablet that's a little bit powdery, so it's not super hard to compress, and they use bioprene as a method to enhance absorption. That wouldn't... Yeah, the epicatogen was from a T extract, and that has the highest concentration of epicatogen, so I finished the deep dive, I recorded, and then I have to do a little bit of additional recording, but that will go live probably after this podcast. So I'm at a loss for words. I'm like, what the hell is going on? I still can't explain it, because scientifically, epicatogen lowers inflammatory markers, same for bioprene, and I wasn't using anything else, because everybody always accuses me that I'm on too much polypharmacy, so I don't know what's doing what. So I'm like, okay, test an epicatogen, and then I switched to test same dose and YK-11, and I made that switch, and my inflammatory markers improved. And my inflammatory markers did not change from a single injection of fallostatin 3, 4, 4, which I know is legit. Let's look here, do you have full labs? We could look at them. Send it to me before you finish the video. We'll look at them together. No, no, no, no, no, don't post them. Send them to me. You and I can look at them together. Okay, yeah. But no, nothing else on the labs. That's, that's doing. Yeah, well, have a look, well, have a look. Yeah, but I doubt it. So the only thing that went down was my serum iron levels went down to 50 was micrograms per distiliter. So it's below the reference range. And that indicates chronic inflammation. So it's been going on for a while. But I've only been doing blood work once. Shame on me. I should have been doing blood work every time the dose escalated upwards, but I'm a busy man, man. I can't go to the clinic every two hours. Right, enough about me. The YK-11 experiment is now full force and then I'll switch to fallostatin 3, 4, 4, and then hopefully I have something interesting to report to see if fallostatin is even applicable. But based on the gains that I've made, being fat loss and gains of muscle tissue, I would say it's not worth the effort. Yeah, but that goes for YK-11 also. Dean, what's going on with you? How are you calling in from your mom's basement? I've been trapped in the basement for two weeks now. You know, I'm back in the lovely, no, no, I'm back in the lovely SNHob again. So I'm in the recording booths and I've already gotten flak from my crappy mic and crappy lighting. So apologies to your watching the video. But yeah, I'm back home every two weeks. So Dean can buy a sure mic. Make sure you watch this like five times so I can send Dean some money. It's desperate times. We have been coming all the way back with the hope we've launched the Fibroscan Clinic, the recovery suite with the cryospad, the infrared sauna. So it's we're halfway there to full membership numbers, which is awesome. We're only open seven weeks. So it's very well received here. Selfishly getting to train in your own gym. Which is always a positive. My own equipment you've handpicked. And I'm like, Kurt, I'm what must be now nine weeks back to 10 weeks since the transplant. All right, yeah. I'm getting confused. 11 weeks since the transplant and I'm back training now seven weeks. So back to 125 tomatoes since that start training. And my weight has gone from 86 up to 96. So I'm back up to like 211. I showed you guys it's just it's been ridiculous with training and going back to the logbook and stopping short of that one rep from reserve with seven play hack and five play pressing and you do sort of that itch now of do I do I really want to go back to the phone stuff or just hold steady into the summertime. So we'll give it another few weeks. We'll wait until we're I'd say mid June at six months post transplant and then decide to want to have a little bit of fun for a few weeks. Yeah, why not? Why not? Right? At least you can look jacked on holiday. And then you know you'll be the most much like that. Yeah, full head of hair, right? And then everybody's like, how did this guy do it? So I went to Turkey, but you're looking very dashy, man. It's the airline is looking great. Good stuff. Yeah, it's grown. It's it's really I'm shocked. I mean, normally by this stage, you should be all like wispy in terms of where so the camera all here is starting to really fill in. So yeah, it's definitely if anyone's watching the video and they're on the fence about going and get it done, you know, based on we talked about it's definitely something to consider if it's on your mind about saving your hairline. Yeah, and you're still on that healing protocol or did you stop that already? So the peptides just get BPC in the epitalone and copper peptide I stopped after eight weeks. I've been doing IPRF so the plasma rich fibrin once per month. And that's been interesting. Their logic at the clinic I go to is they don't do any like numbing when they do the PRF or the PRP. So in terms of paying versus the actual hair transplant procedure, the IPRF has been way more painful than going and actually getting the transplant done because she's basically just injecting your head with no anesthetic whatsoever about 40 or 50 times. What's the injection volume per site? Like the results? For my gatter, she's been they culture about two mils of plasma rich fibrin. So they obviously do a venous draw a centrifugian and come back to be honest, when she's doing I just close my eyes because literally you feel each injection going along your scalp and you're just trying to pay attention to not let her see how much it hurts. Well, the skin is very tight like it doesn't move. So every if you put like half a cc or 0.1 milliliters in there, it just stretches the skin out. And it's so close to your skulls that there must be a lot of nerve endings there. Like I wouldn't consider it a fun, fun, you know, procedure. Why couldn't you use light again? So the top process that the clinic got you go to and it makes sense. Obviously, one of the pathways of hair growth is inflammation. So macrophage induced cell debris clearance. So your microfibers just come in and clear away any dead cells and stimulate the follicle to grow. Her top process is if they numb the area, the actual injection itself is creating a wound in the scalp. And then that recruits your immune cells to the area to utilize the plate rich fibrin. And then after the plate rich fibrin is injected into the scalp, she does a micro needle and with a micro needling pen to create even more porous channels for any of the fiber in that has been obviously spilled out onto your scalp that hasn't been injected in. So I've been very impressed with it's been very affordable. And the session at that local clinic was 200 pounds sterling, which to be honest, once per month to offer some extra added benefit from a growth factor perspective to ensure that her continues to grow nice and thick and strong. It's well, I mean, it was one of the recommendations to clinic recommend PRP. If you can get access to PRF, they said it's even better. So I'll be doing that for the next four months up until the six month mark. And at that stage, I'll make an assessment as a something that I want to keep in monthly or volume monthly, you know, every two or three months to maintain the hair volume. But so far so good. I think anyone that's seen a shock for where I am in yeah, 11 or 12 week healing process, compared to last month, you all run side of a full head of hair now. So big, big change. Yes. Imagine if you do this in your beard. Actually, you know, I don't think, you know, when you look at the procedure of a beard transplant, I don't think I could go through it. It looks so painful versus your scalp. This area here and like your neck. I guess vanity, dude, that if I can love to look a certain way. And meanwhile, this is the only hair I have. Like, oh, disgusting, dude. But it's it's a hot climate here. So I can't I used to have a beard like like Dean and it was just too cumbersome. I would just get greasy and I can't stand it. I'm not allowed. It's like a reverse psychology with my wife. I'm not allowed to shave my head, but I'm not allowed to shave my beard. So you have to have a head of hair and a full beard. Without a beard, I look about 18 or 19 in the face. It's like one of those. Face good for your longevity consultation. It's like, how the fuck Dean looks so young. You look a little bit younger than normal than the abuse of the steroids is not so apparent. Yeah, we went to a wedding a few years ago for one of Morgan's friends. And I was staying at my parents tonight before and she was traveling from our house down to the venue. And I was using a beard trimmer. And it's one of those ones when adjustable comb and as I'm going through it, the comb like slipped and went down to a number, a number half. And so it took like pretty much a big chunk off the side of my face. I was like, okay, I'm gonna have to commit to this and literally to shave off the whole beard, turn up to the wedding and her friends were like looking at me like trying to figure out who I was and then they realized who I was because of the beard. Your wife was mortified. She literally looked at me and said, don't ever do that again. If the wife doesn't approve, then you're stuck with that beard. So what's your tomato protocol now? Like 150 tomatoes to 150 test? That's it? Less 125 and then the GH and then literally just eating and trade like really being diligent with the logbook. So I mean, but someone seen me recently after a few weeks, being away from other seed of building here and they were like, whoa, you've blown up. And I always laugh from like a psychological perspective. You don't actually see that weight go on you. What are people do that in your head? You're like, well, if this is what I gain Muslim memory wise by just training and eating properly again and not being, you know, so focused on maintaining body fat levels, I sort of get myself an open past to gain a bit of body fat ahead of the summer. What if I'm doing something a little bit extra is creeping in, but then from a hair perspective, you're having to be a bit hair safe without using that word or that phrase. How do you build out your setup? You can ramp up the test and then take finasteride, even though that might, you know, cause impairment elsewhere. Not really a big fan of finasteride. I mean, over the last few weeks, I've put back in topical finasteride and monoxidil. Just for the fact that obviously topical finasterides systemic absorption is a little bit lower than true testosterone on the scalp. But I guess, you know, as a tangent, we don't have any real topics prepared for today. Post finasteride syndrome posts, you know, broachetain syndrome, post aromatase inhibitor syndrome. I've slowly come to think that it's all like an NAD deficiency. I think we touched on this briefly before of NAD and NADT being the cofactors. So obviously, with post finasteride syndrome, like we brought up before in the past, I believe it being an NAD deficiency. NADB and the cofactor of, you know, the aromatase enzyme helping the five-valve reductase enzyme do its reduction reaction. When we see guys with deficits that occur from taken finasteride aromatase inhibitors, broachetain, it's cellular energy deficiency as opposed to a mental disturbance to speak. So once you start improving NAD biosynthesis and the pathways that feed into NAD production, again, coming back to the mitochondria, mitochondria creating your neurotransmitters, being one of the guys that utilized that pool of NAD, you start to correct a lot of these neurotransmission problems that present themselves with post finasteride syndrome, like low libido, no sexual drive, impaired like serotonin dopamine levels. And you can do like organic acid tests and to prove the theory of looking at the metabolites of the neurotransmitters. So quite often if you implement strategies and you know you have to deep dive, you look at like the citric acid cycle, you look at a pentose 5-phosphate pathway, you look at all the ways of how we can make more NAD in the body, whether that is, you know, an expensive NAD drip or is it an inexpensive thing like niacin minimum B3 taking it relatively decent dosage that gets converted to NMN and then onto NAD in our body. There's all these simple little strategies that we can do then to improve that. So cellular homoestasis that's gotten disturbed from blocking these enzymes. Yeah and you know so ever since I released that video about post finasteride syndrome, some people incorporated that and said that their energy levels improved initially, by increasing NAD plus levels either from niacin or nicotinamide mononucleotide, nicotinamide riboside, NAD plus injections or up regulating mitochondrial function which also contributes NAD production. And then over time the libido and the mood and that kind of stuff comes up. But sometimes it has a little bit of a lag time of two or three months because it takes so well for all these metabolic processes and the enzymatic reactions to kind of normalize again. So these guys they shut themselves down with finasteride or aromatazine butters or acutin for that matter. All at higher dose just and is generally recommended because the acne is so severe and the hair loss is so severe and the bloating and the water retention is a gyno is so severe. So they overdo it. It's most of the time itself induced because the dosing protocol is incorrect. So that means that they have to get themselves out of this hole because they have a chronic NAD plus deficiency and then before everything is saturated again similar to how magnesium saturation in bones takes a while or any other kind of micronutrient deficiency. After a couple months their libido starts to improve and their energy level starts to improve and then the erections can be better again. Their focus goes up, right? Allopregnenolone levels start to restore but I think a lot of guys are just not persistent with it and then because their libido or moods problems are not fixed within one or two administrations they go from one thing to the next and then before you know it to look into sublingual estrogen or estrogen injections or sublingual that it's a testosterone or you know a PT-141 and some acts in oxytocin and whatnot stack, right? So at least the guys that are persistent and just have a little bit of patience. They usually resolve themselves and then there's a select group of people who like to just be miserable and so that yeah they'd rather talk about it than actually fix it. Post-manastrate syndrome for the last five years and they'd rather complain about it to get the sympathy than actually do something proactive about it. Yeah but you'll be surprised how much you can fix with increasing your NAD plus levels and upregulating mitochondrial function. I just finished the methylene blue deep dive and the SLU PP332 deep dive and the MOTC deep dive is on the way and when you read the scientific literature it's just amazing how much things that can fix it's such a difference you know but people don't want to spend the money and methylene blue is the cheapest option obviously and and niacin had a simple B1 hard dive flex. Yeah it would be the cheapest I mean of course you can't control how much NAD plus you get down stream but I think if you combine methylene blue with niacin you already have a winning formula and that's very inexpensive. Dean what do you think? Yeah I agree and I mean the other thing like I said one of the internal users of NAD within the body is the pentose five pathway so if the pentose five phosphate pathway is not working correctly in the body which is often the case with problems surrounding insulin and insulin sensitivity you're going to run into issues of NAD biosynthesis in the body as well. So you know it comes at two angles of quite often the easiest strategies here are nutritional deficiencies and stuff that have been self-induced they're marginally relatively easy to correct with like I said patience most people and you do see it online they do like to sort of almost have a badge of honor that they've had that problem for so long when we're really you know at this point we've understood that it isn't really a whole psychosomatic issue that it's all under head but on the other side of it you know we've got decent strategies that are quite basic and premise that takes patience and time to correct rather than jumping from one thing to the next in terms of like the shiny objects and you start getting all these crazy protocols like you said of injectable DHTs, DHB micro dosing you know putting in some soft androgens to try and fix the mental problem and really like we're going to beat this to death and it's sort of going to be in the next five years people will probably watch back these podcasts you know those guys were really ahead of it in how important the mitochondria of cellular dysfunction and disease it's really becoming apparent you know papers published 2024 of the link of mitochondria to disease and in some shape or format most diseases that present in the body can be brought back to the mitochondria becoming dysfunction so if we are you know apparently going to look at a half set of disease Dive into Okay sorry Dean, go ahead. No it's gonna go for it, it's gonna say like in terms of if you delve into mechanisms of disease mechanisms of age and it all comes back to what's at its core that simple little microorganism or organelle in our body it's not really a microorganism an organelle that we've accepted into our body that gives us so many benefits that when it becomes dysfunctional upsets everything energy neurotransmitter development and production hormone production I don't have posts during a about climates and the use of climates we're like a you know the very basic level what creates testosterone in your body is the mitochondria like we're going to beat this to death and then eventually people will be like oh well these guys are starting to talk about descents now. Yeah and when you start reading the literature like about SLU-PP332-MOTC and some of the other mitochondrial enhancers you see that it's all linked as a potential treatment of various diseases and I honestly think the longer I think about it is that testosterone deficiency can also be solved by improving mitochondrial function at least for the pregnant loan synthesis right and then cholesterol metabolism and then downstream it would improve testicular function and improve antioxidant status that testosterone synthesis should be enhanced also. So I think it's in the end this whole lifestyle problems where you don't treat your mitochondria well you're in this chronic inflammatory state and chronic state of oxidative stress and does your mitochondria count function and as a result of that the baby basically gives you the middle finger and says fuck you no ATP no pregnant loan no nothing for you and then they basically starve you until all the mitochondria and you kind of end miserably but it's a self-fulfilling prophecy it's it's our lifestyle and I think if you really focus on this like the ancillaries we've done right everybody adopted this the mitochondria will be next and then you know some optimization in that pathway and then I think like you said a couple years from now people will think oh wait a minute these guys were ahead of their time and hopefully the prices will come down of MOTC, SLU and mitochondrial aids because it's not cheap it's really cheap like my own ocelotriperophosphate helps with oxygen delivery and oxygen affinity of hemoglobin that optimizes mitochondrial function downstream and that could be a potential treatment for all kinds of cardiovascular diseases all kinds of cancer I just did a deep dive on that today so I think if you start combining all these these little things these low hanging fruit a quality of life I mean my quality of life is absolutely stellar right now with all these like low micro adjustments and for the guys that suffer from from diseases I think that would be the first thing they're looking to besides dietary changes and lifestyle changes that I want to bring that to like this new discovery of the the antigen receptor that that you had Kurt because there's a new truncated version of an antigen receptor which seems to miss the gack repeats now off air we speculated that the production of this antigen receptor might be a misfire due to antigen mediated gene transcription but let's discuss that a little bit more here on air Kurt what did you find so far so there's two versions of the antigen receptor the ARA and the ARB and the ARB is the classic one that goes into the nucleus that that's the one that we really want the ARA as understood now it seems that seems to be the one that's stuck on the cell surface that doesn't cause gene transcription so it's truncated which means it's shortened so a normal antigen receptor is 919 amino acids and this one is missing the first 187 I'll show it on on screen oh so it's missing where is it there we  and the amlodipine. So it's missing, you can see the AF1 section is completely gone. And so while the lingon binding domain at the end on the far right is typically what we would consider where the androgen would bind to, missing the AF1 part inhibits the androgen from fully binding to this. So then you have a bunch of things that then occur downstream, then estrogen can basically push off the androgen because it's not fully bound. Normally, when an androgen binds, it'll push estrogen off, but now it's the opposite thing that's going to happen. This will not result in protein synthesis. So this is most likely what's occurring with things like anadrol. Is it binding to that ARA receptor? What it's exactly doing, we don't know. But like you said, so what's chromosome 11 and 12 contain the material to make the androgen receptor? Something's going wrong during protein synthesis that's creating these, whether it's environmental or lifestyle things or just some genetic thing that's occurring. But it's missing the polyglutamate repeats as well, the chag repeat. There's no chag repeat at all. And that's concerning because there's an ideal range of chag repeats where the androgen receptor binding is heightened and then a shorter version or a longer version then has reduced androgen receptor binding. You could see that allegedly with African-American heritage, you'd have the ideal range of chag repeats allowing them to get much more transcriptional activity from the same amount of androgens because it just binds so much tighter. And there's no genetic analysis for that unfortunately. I looked and it was fine. No, a lot of this is new. So it's like you were saying, so this shorter chag repeat is considered better at least for the stuff that we do, right? But also shorter chag repeats tend to result in things, not necessarily directly, but things like prostate cancer are more prominent in a shorter chag repeat. It's also possible that over transcription, what's happening is the chag repeat is getting shorter and shorter until it's fully gone. And it's possible that this transition between ARB and ARA is not a one-step thing, that it's just occurring over time until the chag repeat is fully gone, right? Like it might start shorter and then slowly, right? As it's constantly replicating, it's constantly missing amino acids. It's the same as what happens to the telomeres or the DNA. Yeah. So is it aging? Yeah, it's aging for the androgen receptor. There you go. But this explains why you see insensitive, like one of the reasons why you see insensitivity with androgen receptors. So there's obviously a thousand different polymorphisms that can occur with the androgen receptor that we know. But this seems to explain a lot of like non-response that you see. We've all had clients that regardless of the androgens that they use, they don't really respond particularly well. This could explain that. This could also explain the amount of the ARB versus ARB could explain things like side effects, right? So the people that are very sensitive to things like tremolone perhaps have more ARA and they're not actually getting the proteins that this is from, but they're just getting the calcium ion-stimulated nerve stuff, which is going to cause over-stimulation. Yeah. So, yeah, central nervous system stimulation. Okay. Yeah, it's very interesting. And of course, scientifically, this hasn't really been investigated that much because it's reasonably new information. And so all of the scientific evidence is basically regarding androgen receptors has been performed on ARB activity, not on ARA. Do you think this will ever be investigated? I do for sure. So it was discovered in cancer and it turns out that a lot of the estrogen-dependent cancers, when they stopped looking at that and they moved over to the enduroceptor, they found that there was more ARA, so that DHT could no longer perform its actions and kind of bump. DHT would normally help balance out the estrogen and not allow estrogen to fully transcribe. And it's very possible that it needs to be explored because it has a lot of health repercussions. Could you see in the scientific evidence that dietroxylsaccharin has been linked to inhibiting estrogen-mediated gene transcription in various cancers? So basically when DHT interacts with the estrogen receptor, estradiol can't really potentiate its full effect. And of course, if estrogen binds to the androgen receptor and the chycopetes are missing, allowing for normal androgen binding, they get some sort of weird transcription or impaired transcription or no transcription. Or no transcription, right. And that also means you get depletion of androgen receptors, which would otherwise have a beneficial effect. Once it starts, it's going to continue and get worse, right? Because then there's no proteins that this is occurring, so then there's no new androgen receptors being made. Exactly, yeah. And then you basically deplete the point where completely you have androgen-intensivity syndrome. Yep. Ah. Do you think that you get androgen receptor B transcription from the DNA and then through some enzymatic reaction, the chycopetes are cleaves off resulting in an androgen receptor A variant? Or it's a pre-adherent or a transcription. Yeah, or it's a pre-adherent transcription, right? Right. When A or B is supposed to be formed, it's not forming correctly. Now, imagine if this is caused by oxidative stress, that the link at the 188th, or 188th position is susceptible to oxidative stress, like DNA is susceptible to oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction is the cause. Could be. Well, why are these things getting more prevalent now versus in the past? No credit, they weren't necessarily reported or discovered in the life expectancy used to be much shorter. So it's hard to say, but my guess is it's a lifestyle thing, right? Drinking, smoking, or diet, lack of exercise. These things very well could at least contribute to this. Is that causing it? I can't say that. That's not a valid statement, but we know. Yeah. I'm trying to remember if clients in the past that have some sort of androgen desentization or non-responsiveness to androgens, whether they switched to a nandrolone only cycle or not, even then nothing happens, what their lifestyle was, if they were drinking, smoking, oxidative stress, genetic and hereditary issues. Nandrolone wouldn't work for sure, right? No. Nandrolone only binds to the AR. So its action is like same with Primo, right? That's its only mode of action. So none of those tremolone wouldn't do much. Mm-hmm. We're positive, we should say. They're still going to cause other effects in the body, just not a positive effect. Because you see some guys that had like a terrible lifestyle and then they need TRT and they go in TRT and nothing happens. That's pretty clear that they were under oxidative stress, drinking, recreational drugs, stress, et cetera, right? Okay, that happens. But I'm trying to think now back in time where I had guys that were otherwise healthy that switched to TRT for androgen replacement therapy or bodybuilding purposes. And then nothing happens. I'm trying to think about it's been a while since I really helped the guy and guys. You work more with these guys than I do or in a coaching capacity. So do you see a correlation between lifestyle and androgen insensitivity? It does seem that the people that seem less sensitive to androgens either had a poor lifestyle habits in the past or currently still have some overlapping things like some drinking or tendency just for bad stuff. Yeah. And then they're not really responsive. Do you think that these guys are subjecting like manual labor, for example, where you're subjecting yourself to environmental pollutants, BPS, A's, undercutters, that kind of stuff? Because every job is its potential risk. Like I'm just trying to think out loud to see where this is coming from, whether it is a transcriptional error or this actually happens after transcription, the androgen receptor is formed. And then due to some sort of exogenous mishap, all the gag repeats are cleaved off. I'm going to guess it's during translation or transcription, but it's very possible and it's still occurring after the fact. Like maybe it starts as an ARB and it goes to the cell surface and something occurs to the cell and it cleaves off. And then they no longer go in and generate androgen receptors anymore. They would basically should be able to find these 187 amino acids that contain the gag repeats floating around in the bloodstream. So that might be something to look into as a metabolite, right? Like what they drew with drug analysis and regarding excretion studies. They have this compound, it's cleaved into a couple of fragments and they look for these amino acid sequences. If it's being cleaved, if it's just happening during protein synthesis, then no, right? They're just not being formed. Right. Yeah. So that remains to be investigated. But yeah, it does explain why some people respond better to other things besides the gag repeats. I mean, if you're missing gag repeats, nothing much is going to happen, just like Dean's internet connection today. Yeah, exactly. No gag repeats on Dean's internet connection. And you could say, so like the subcellular androgen receptor that we don't know anything about, right? The Winstrol and Dan is all blind too. Perhaps that's just missing a portion of this and not the full. So maybe it starts there and then it gets worse. Yeah. Right. We don't know. Do you think it compares to, you have growth hormone receptor, right? And that's actually a truncated version of the growth hormone binding protein. So growth hormone has a binding protein that can actually act as a receptor when it attaches to the cell surface. Do you think it's something similar like that? It's possible. The difference with the peptide receptor, like growth hormone receptors, it's never really going to go in. It doesn't fully go in. It's causing downstream stuff to go in versus anandrodeceptor itself will come on in. And that's one of the reasons why you don't want to inject growth hormone intramuscularly because it's not supposed to be in the cell like that. When it's a growth hormone is a cytokine. So if you put it in a cell, the body has a harsh immune response to it and it destroys it. So you lose 20 to 30% of the growth hormone by injecting it in that method because it could be like similar but different than insulin. You're not supposed to inject insulin, I am. Right. Hmm. Very interesting. I really wonder if this will ever be investigated and if there will be a genetic analysis for it or some sort of solution to prevent people from getting ARAs instead of ARBs. Because ARBs are the unaballed ones. I'm currently working on a project with that. So we will send out those. And we already started, we have the study outline done. And now we're finding the subjects that want to do this. Sign me up. You want biopsies? No. No, never mind. Never mind. I'm buying out no biopsies. I need every muscle cell that I can. And you're a good responder so you might not be a great candidate. Yeah. Yeah. True. So if anybody is a poor responder to anabolic contact cart, if you're willing to undergo some biopsies and you live in the United States, maybe you can get some pharmaceutical testosterone prescribed even though it might not do anything. Yeah. Yeah. Get compensation. Dean, you went a little bit ham on Instagram about the nitric oxide inhibiting effects of methylene blue. Because people always like to bring it up, right? You and me, we like methylene blue. And then, yeah, but it's a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. Steve, it diminishes the pump. Now, forget the one hour deep dive that I made. And the first topic I addressed in the beginning was that it's kind of fake news. It only happens at higher dosages. Did you suffer any repercussions from this commonly reported side effect that only happens when you make a dose of methylene blue? Dean, I'm sure you get tired of answering this question also. Well, I think if you're to look back at my pictures and last year's prep taken methylene blue for ever long, five months or so, I think my vascularity on the surface of my skin looked pretty OK. And I was even taken methylene blue right up to Pee Creek. I think when people like cherry pick statements like this, and I'm going to be quite harsh because when we view a nitric oxide inhibitor, first and foremost, what are you talking about? Making a statement in science has to be quite specific. So if you're saying, oh, it's a nitric oxide inhibitor, but what is a form of nitric oxide synthase is inhibiting? Is it INOS? Is it NOS? Is it ENOS? If it's ENOS and othelium nitric oxide synthase, which is what creates nitric oxide in your bloodstream, the phasodilates your bloodstream, then yeah, that's going to inhibit NOS positive impact on vasodilation and blood flow and vascularity and whatever else. But if it's inhibiting INOS, which is inducible nitric oxide synthase, which is what your body makes as a pro oxidant, so NO in your body is an actual oxidant. It can create nitrites and nitrates. So when we view nitric oxide, it's not just harmless thing that creates a pump. It's a very important cell signaling molecule that helps with vasodilation, but it is also a cell signaling molecule that can indicate that there's a serious infection in the body. That's one thing. So quite often, sepsis being one of the main medical ways that methylene blue is quite often used. Pytosis of methylene blue is sort of like a one shot in the dark that person's probably going to die with sepsis, not to be harsh, but it's a very difficult thing to treat in an emergency. You basically have a lot of final strategies of is it going to really hurt the person anymore if I intervene with this strategy or what is my potential positive possibility or probability of improving the outcome of the patient living. We quite often give a very high dose of methylene blue as a nitric oxide inhibitor to reduce INOS expression to try and save cells from being destroyed because of this massive flow of nitric oxide. So when we look at the science, yes, high dose methylene blue will lower nitric oxide, but it's from INOS. If anything, the research actually says it has a positive impact on up-regulating INOS, which is what creates nitric oxide in your arteries for vasodilation. So if we're going to cherry pick, the statement is correct. It is a nitric oxide inhibitor, but it's of INOS and INOS as opposed to INOS. So when we're re-discussing science and we're going to cherry pick, cherry pick correctly, that has some positive benefits to INOS. I guess the other comment that I was often asked was, what about staining of your organs from high dose methylene blue? So my knowledge, that will only occur with high dose IV as well. And if you imagine you're putting a synthetic blue dye straight into your bloodstream, that would in minutes, reaches probably every organ of your body. So yeah, it's more than likely going to stain some of your cells blue because that's what it was designed to do was a microscope stain. If you put a big massive dose straight into your bloodstream and you dye and you do not autopsy, well, I wouldn't be surprised if they found blue cells in your heart or your liver or kidneys. I think taking it orally... I can see that in the malaria. Yeah, I don't think you're going to experience cell staining with a 5 milligram dose ingested orally, to be honest, could be wrong. But every incidence, and there is only probably two or three when you search through the scientific literature of organ staining from it and it is from high dose IV. Yeah, and in the cases of malaria and sepsis, the dose just increase upwards from one milligram per kilogram of body weight by intravenous injection daily for multiple days in duration. So that could be 700 milligrams, if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder, intravenous for several days. Most of the time it's like two milligrams for one kilogram of body weight, so that's already 200 milligrams. So who in their right mind is going to take 200 milligrams intravenously unless you have experience with intravenous administrations? And even for pre-opism, with a prolonged erection caused by Viagra or Cialis or Levita, then the injection protocol is 50 milligrams, intra-covernosously directly into the penis, and then it inhibits nitric oxide production and allows for normal blood removal from the penis in combination with epinephrine. Yeah, literal blue balls. Which is also, yeah, exactly, you're a little bit blue balls. But that's in combination with methylene blue at a high dose, 50 milligrams into the penis with epinephrine, right, to cause vasoconstriction, allowing for blood to kind of diffuse out of the penis. So as long as you're not IVing anything over 50 milligrams or injecting that locally, I think the only way it would diminish the pump and cause nitric oxide inhibition is if you start doing that pre-workout, 25 milligrams bilaterally into the biceps, and then you might get a diminished effect. But all these guys that don't want to take methylene blue because they might not get an erection or a pump in the gym, man, it's overreaction. Yeah. And the pump doesn't contribute to growth, so I wouldn't obsess about the pump anymore. Besides the fact that the pump is pre-musceless. Yeah. It's pleasurable. And no one should inject anything into their penis. Well, maybe try a mix. And then you can pump a pharyn and hey, works, man, allegedly, not personally. Yeah, not talking for personal experience. So it's funny that these things we have to deal with, like I addressed it in the methylene blue deep dive, but I got, I think like a thousand new or 2,000 new subscribers from that. It's very popular, this compound. Yeah. Because RFK was taking it in the airplane and then it goes viral, right? So I got a lot of new subscribers. And then even though I addressed it right at the start of the video, people immediately in the comment section, it had habits, nitric oxide synthase, dude, take a fucking Cialis and shut the fuck up, right? It increases cyclic, quantity, monophosphate downstream and then you do mitigate any kind of deleterious effect on the methylene blue. But yeah, this is the stuff we have to deal with this educator. So, oh my God. Yeah. I'm talking about even we have to deal with. Yeah. So Dean, you want to interject a little bit more? I thought I had a takeaway. No, just because even with the whole nitrate thing, I guess we just have to, like I said, just be a little more careful in how we spread rumors. If you want to put it that way or incorrect information and probably at the close of it, probably the worst thing, I guess that is warrant to have a discussion with methylene blue to sort of close the section is the effect on neurotransmission. That's probably a more important side effect to discuss than scouring around thrown on the nitric oxide inhibitor. Yeah, because the drug interactions through my inhibition and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, that's a little bit more worrisome. I mean, I got full blown serotonin syndrome combined for the oxidine with methylene blue, both at like entry level doses. Probably only one day. And then combining fluvoxamine at a moderate dose with a moderate dose of methylene blue, that seems to be acceptable. Right? Now, will I get long lasting serotonin syndrome like side effects that remains to be seen? But so far, I'm good combining 50 milligrams of foxyamine with up to 10 milligrams of methylene blue, but some people don't respond well to that. So I highlighted that in the deep dive also because there's a lot of people on SSRIs or antidepressants in general, which modulates serotonin and dopamine levels in the brain. And they have all these dopaminergic drugs like Adderall and Testofensine and, you know, 9M, EBC and whatnot, Neutropic XYZ. So all these drug interactions, people need to worry about. Think about when they start adding a methylene blue, because I think methylene blue and warfarin have the most amount of drug interactions I've ever researched. So if you take the testosterone, okay, drug interactions, caffeine, aromatosyniboters, that's about it. The rest is all synergistic, but methylene blue, warfarin and a couple of these are midformin, a lot of drug interactions. But it's also because these compounds have been extensively studied compared to other medications that we take. So these things, God forbid, people do a little bit of additional research. I couldn't possibly cover everything in the deep dive. And then even in my deep dive, I forgot a couple of things. So I'm going to make a part two about methylene blue, maybe a month from now, because there's a lot more to discuss. But yeah, you're right, Dean. The interactions with, you know, moly, inhibition and serotonin, dopamine, and epinephrine, or epinephrine, that's even correct. That's something that's concerning. Yeah, especially if you stack higher dose just together. Like, did you experience anything certainergic side effects, Dean? No, right? Because you don't take necessary. No, no, no. And I guess I, if anything, I probably benefited even more positively with my own polymorphism. I've got, you know, MAOA++, which is a very fast operating MAOA enzyme. So genetically, I am susceptible to low serotonin. I'm not going to say depression, but low serotonin. Oh yeah, the methylene blue most definitely does uplift and help with that MAO inhibition, which keeps serotonin longer in my brain, alongside dopamine as well. So I definitely see the neurotransmitter benefits alongside the oxygenation benefits on the mitochondria. And, you know, again, to go back to what I said previously, mitochondria make serotonin dopamine, they make neurotransmitters. So you've got efficiency in creating the neurotransmitters, and then efficiency in keeping them in the synapse, or re-uptake for, you know, another synaptic transmission. Yeah, scientifically it was shown that methylene blue, in particular, in medical conditions, can cause serotonin syndrome at 200 milligrams intravenously upwards. But even depending on the medical condition, serotonin syndrome might happen or might not happen. So again, if you keep the dose moderate, I think you can get all the benefits regarding serotonin, serotonin, and dopamine allergic effects. And if you go to 200 milligrams, which again, there will be guys out there that will go crazy high dose. Like, there's guys out there that take 50 milligrams. I'm like, what are you doing? Why? It's 10 times the dose that we recommend. Like, are you going to? Well, of course, people take a gram of Trin also. I mean, I've been there. So yeah, and then I wonder why you're on the floor salivating and feeling hot to the touch. You know? It's so silly, dude. Yeah, I think it's a very versatile compound that needs to be respected. But low dose just go a very long way. And if you go in the Dr. Dean stack with MOTC and SLU, then low dose is, you know, for the mitochondrial functions, it's game changing, honestly, you know, and it saves you money on MOTC and SLU because people complain that they need to ramp up the dose of SLU to a gram. No, no, no dummy. Just add in a little bit of methylene blue and then you get the synergistic effect. I need five milligrams MOTC. No, no, no, no, no, one milligram. It's a shame. Sucks for my affiliate sales because I'd rather have people use more, but I have to keep it real with the audience, you know, less is more if you stack it together. Like Dean, it's now known as a Dr. Dean stack. You can't go back. No, I should have invested shares in SLU years ago with this future prediction. Hey, when I introduce something, at least it should be named after you. We'll talk about introducing something that my segue before, but I got interrupted. You were working on a study comparing the efficacy of sapionate versus the efficacy of anethate. That study is pretty much done. People have been asking me, where's the update? Where's the update? Where's the update? Not understanding that peer review and submission and publication takes a long time. And if you want to get the good data, you need months of administration for this data to be valid, not only one person, but multiple people. So can you spill a little bit of information? Yeah. So I mean, the background was we were comparing the pharmacokinetics of testosterone sapionate to testosterone anethate. And it was not to discourage the use of sapionate. It was just to show that they're not the same thing, that they're not necessarily interchanging. And what we did is a graded dose. So it was pharmaceutical grade of both, and it was administered by a physician. So there's no self administration. We didn't want anyone measuring or weighing anything because people can't clearly do that. And the two doses we used were 300 milligrams and 600 milligrams of each because we wanted to see a real effect. And it turns out that sapionate has a much lower peak in serum. In most individuals, there were some, we didn't see it, but the vast majority, it just, you can show that, essentially, that image. No, it's okay. Save that for a second. It just has a much slower rise in peak, and then testosterone anethate basically ramps up much faster. The half-life seems about the same, but testosterone anethate seems to cause a much higher peak in the serum. So if you're someone who doesn't feel good on testosterone anethate, then sapionate is still a valid drug. It's just not going to do the exact same thing. Right if you're, I hate to say muscle gain would be effective, right? The peak in serum is a valid metric when you're looking at like dosing of how much muscle you're going to gain. So it's possible that maybe an anethate would cause a higher peak. Something I think people also should look at when you look at the Bayesian studies with testosterone, that is it's done differently than most people assume. Again, cherry picking data, if you actually look at the administration, he gave the dose in one shot a week. So the 600 milligram group got 601 shots. So the peak was much higher and that probably contributed to that much more massive amount of growth than if they microdosed it. Right. So again, if you're, if you're concerned with side effects and estrogen, things like that, microdosing things can make sense. Or if you just want to keep things very stable, but if you want to really leverage an effect out of something, right, you want a higher peak serum. So that's what he did. And a lot of it was done because you're not going to get people to show up to your office three times a week to give them injections. So it was easier just to give it in one big shot. With that being said, when you look at the numbers in those studies, that's how it was administered. So for your study, did they come in once a week or twice a week? Twice. Twice. Twice. You just put the dose in half. I figured that with those esters, that's totally a fine way to administer it. Yeah. So it was split in half, so 300 was 150 twice a week and the 600 was 300 twice a week. And it's all in the glute or other administration sites? Glute. Yeah. Okay. So that's the most stable absorption spot. It's trying to eliminate any possible variable, right? Different size shoulders, different activity levels. Glute is, for the average person, your glute is just going to be moved a lot more around in the day than the shoulder. That's probably why the absorption. It's a bigger muscle, but it's probably just because people move, right? Versus shoulder, if you sit all day, you're probably not getting as much activity there. And we were thinking about doing a second part. We open it up to even a broader group and see if we can get a larger study. But yeah, I thought it was the... So what we're going to do is when this study is out, we should cover it in depth. Sure. Because that gets views. And then more views on these studies should guarantee bigger funding. That's why I usually help Tim Pietkowski with some of his studies, because you get more eyes on these studies and then there's a demand and then there's more potential funding for follow-up studies. So by all means, we should just address it in an entire episode when it's peer reviewed and ready for publication. And then we'll really go through it in depth because it's cool to see the results. You showed me a little bit of results and it's a clear difference. I think what Dean pointed out regarding sexual and violent depilation, that's a steep reduction. Pretty cool. Yeah, but now going into your results, Kurt, it was just night and day difference. Those are just held the same, just swap in the ester to speak.  SHBG falling dramatically was interior, then it might show premise that if someone wanted to control SHBG better, SIP might be a better compound. But my takeaway from that, that data was bioavailability of SIP, knowing that free testosterone as well lowers SHBG is a lot lower with testosterone SIP, which is incredible to prove. How are the estrogen levels comparing SIP and IV? We have more, relatively similar. It wasn't similar. Two things about the study, so we self-funded. I paid the doctor and I that did this study, we paid for everything, we paid for all the drugs. And not super expensive, but I wasn't going to involve a pharmacist and a couple of them, I don't think they really care at this point, right? Drugs was in the vet, they were the parties. So there's a crowd-funded study? Yeah, and I didn't want, I also didn't want one of them, if something groundbreaking came out to then take the credit for this sort of thing, doesn't make a lot of sense, right? Why hand it to Pfizer or Merck for no reason, so they could claim they found it. And what was the... I think Pfizer has some financial incentive not to be involved. You're so published. There goes the recipientate formulation. Yeah, so the gist of why I was looking at this was, so on the recipientate ester, same as an MPP or on Parabon, you have an aromatic ring. And I think that people that don't have a lot of organic chemistry knowledge misinterpret what those esters look like, right? You said, traditionally, you would just count the carbons and that gives you rough days. Right. That is the half-life, but the problem is with that aromatic ring, it's much heavier and bigger. And so it's changing the way it's broken down, and it actually looks like it's inhibiting the way it's broken down. And my initial, I think, influence on this was that there was a study that was put out in 1961 on mandrelone, where they compared MPP to mandrelone to canoate, and the end result was that MPP wasn't that efficient of a drug, so they pulled it, Oregon had pulled MPP off the shelves after a year, and just went with the canoate. That study is difficult. It's not public access, it's difficult to read. There's a lot of calculus in it, it's organic chemistry, and so the average person is not just going to flip through this thing. And but it shows that they've kind of had an idea about this stuff for a long time, it just never really came to light. And it's just Parabon is another example, right? It's possible that that's not a fantastic ester for trembolone. It might have kept the levels lower and steady in humans, but compared to acetate, it's just not going to produce the same result. Yeah, maybe that's also why it was pulled off the market, besides the fact that it was produced in a wretched oil, which is inflammatory for some people. Yeah, so I don't know, but I think that that's, is the aromatic ring is kind of the key there, is that you really want to use a straight chain fatty acid with an ester, ideally. Yeah. Yeah. So for, I'll overlay the images of testosterone propionate and testosterone and then you mentioned something in the private chat that it has to do with phosphodiesterase 5D, which version was it? That that might have a problem with this so seven B. So phosphodiesterase seven B is the one that we understand as the cleaving enzyme to remove the ester. And we might have touched on a previous episode in the beginning on what I felt that the sipionate 5 carbon ring might be a little too bulky that it doesn't allow the testosterone molecule with the carbonyl part of the ester to enter into the binding part of the enzyme to remove the ester away. Because at the end of the day, if you think about it, when you take the ester drug, you're looking for the actual parent compound, it's a pro drug. So testosterone, sipionate becomes testosterone, testosterone and antate becomes testosterone. You're just cleaving that ester away that if you have like Kurt said from it, a chemistry perspective. And this is where it's useful of looking at molecules and 3D. And I've done like a video before with Kurt where we looked at some molecules in 3D space. The space that's occupied in a 3D dimension with sipionate is a lot different to a five member carbon chain that can actually twist and contort itself in space to make itself fit. Whereas when you've got this big bulky ring like Kurt is saying in space, you can't really do much, you can like maybe rotate and contort a tiny bit, but it can't actually squash on itself if that makes sense to fit in. So these long bulky esters, the efficiency of getting into that enzyme is probably a lot lower. I'd said to Kurt, something that might be useful is to find in silico chemists, computational chemists that could do a quick computational model of taking the PDE7B enzyme and computationally working out the binding affinity of it into that pocket versus an antate. And I'd say the efficiency, the binding efficiency of the an antate ester into that pocket is probably way higher than sipionate. And from that you're able to derive some level of drug affinity and then you'll be able to come up with some level of like bioavailability of this is what we would potentially expect with the ester removed for the free drug molecule to enter into serum. So it's really cool. And I mean, for anyone watching the results when they are shared, it is black and white to me. So people understand to the layout and why it takes so long. Like all the things Steve said, a real study takes a long time to conduct. So we had to administer the doses separately and then there was a washout period where there was no testosterone for 12 weeks because we don't want any overlay. We don't want like sipionate still lingering in there and then you add an antate on top of it. So it's a long extensive process and then now we're going through all the data and then we have to translate that into something that makes sense. Yeah. And to finish up the article and then it needs to be submitted to peer reviews and then publish. It takes time, man. And not to harp on MPP, but this is kind of this transits MPP. And so I think why a lot of guys will use MPP and they're afraid of decas. They think it's more Mella or the short ester. It's not actually a short ester. The aromatic ring and actually so much bigger ester, it just never quite peaks the same as dandelion decanoate. So you don't get the same side effects. Right. If you're someone who doesn't tolerate deco, but you tolerate MPP, that's really, you're just not absorbing most of it. And it's not a lot of 100 and it's dose at 100 milligrams per cc typically versus the 200 for neck because the ester is so large. It's not that the base is bigger because it's a short ester. It's because the ester takes up so much space in that solution. So the concentration is to be lower. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to get a lot of broken hearts again. Again, now I'm not deterring the use of any of these things. I just think people, I think as a community, we should start to understand how these drugs work and why they're different and when and why we use certain things. The science is there to progress the sport. This is why we do this kind of stuff. Bring new information to the forefront. And if that makes people upset, then so be it. We're trying to push this field forward and there's not so many people looking into these kinds of drug metabolism pathways. So if that makes people upset and it causes some esters to fall off the popularity list, then so be it. So be it. And maybe that's why people don't experience less side effects with sipunates simply because the serum concentrations never reach lower. So yeah. And it's good to hear that. I always said that annotate is best and that's almost proven. I think as well as sipunate tends to be the one that is quite often anecdotally reported as having a higher instance of post injection pain. And if you think about it, what Kurt's results are showing is that the depot of drug is sitting there for longer because the ester isn't able to remove it and bring the parent compound into circulation. So the fact that we see guys saying, well, sip tends to cause massive amounts of irritation. It's probably because the drug's residency time in the muscle is probably slightly longer than an annotate. And it then irritates the tissue by not being brought into systemic circulation which is funny because the original introduction of an annotate was, the original introduction of sipunate was they claim that an annotate hurt. So they were trying to come up with an ester that didn't. In fact, they invented something that hurt worse. Same as with the sustenant, right? Some people have an absolutely amazing response and then other guys don't respond well to it because you have four different esters and some of them metabolize faster than others. Again, all these drugs that were into the 50s, they just didn't have the chemistry knowledge that they do now. So really the failure with sustenant is the original thought process is that they would all release at different points. The problem is they all release almost the same time. So you get this massive peak and then they slowly drop off but you're getting too much of a spike in the beginning and then not enough of a property but it doesn't hold. So sustenant could be a good drug but you probably have to inject it every other day just to keep it stable. So to me that seems like a pointless thing. I think people like things that are new and shiny and fancy. So there's always some like a lure because it's a blend, right? The guys will buy things that are blend because they think they'll get a lure or something even though a single ester would do just fine. Yeah, especially if you inject every day then it kind of doesn't matter. Then only that the carrier oil matters because carrier oils metabolize differently from the injection depot and that affects the half-life too and that actually has been studied comparing tea oil or peach oil and castor oil for example or sesame oil and then you see that the half-lives and the lingering time and the lag time is different as well between the release of testosterone and a tattoo increasing serum testosterone levels without the ester that all differs. So in the end I would just go with something that works and if scientifically you can prove that sippinate works less favorably than anethate, you know you can pivot some people into anethate ester which of course in China they'll be happy with that because they can sell more anethate oils. Or they can put a big shortage on it like everything else. Yeah, yeah, artificial shortage. Add that to the masteron Primo out of our list. Yeah, yeah and testosterone anethate and sippinates will be super cheap. Just have sippinate here. That's almost non-states. Permanent 50% discount. This was pretty much the topics I had in mind. Dean, you have something you really want to discuss? No, I was just going to say that Demo just have to go on a trademark testosterone butrate or something like that. Yeah, it's funny if she goes to Wikipedia you see like an index of all the esters that testosterone has been produced in and it's the most funny esters. Even like DMZ, like Superdraw being attached to each other, there was also testosterone that's bound with an ester and then two testosterone molecules on the outside. So percentage-wise it's a much larger amount testosterone compared to the ester because the ester binds two testosterone molecules. So maybe we can bring that to the markets. That will be the new and exciting ester. Yeah, that can be the new trend. Yeah, it's interesting. I mean that's sort of probably where when results like this comes out then there's more questions on well and better drug delivery of testosterone is probably more favorably suited to shorter chain esters and before you know it we're like going to testosterone acetate for fast delivery of TRT or suspension. Are you surprised? You have to go to the doctor in 10 minutes. Yeah, or you go with the batches and then cream becomes more popular, right? You might as well do T-excuses with testosterone cream on the nut sack for the most stable levels, you know, the nemo you're you know pollinating everybody else in your household. Distostro. Why am I, why is my cat so muscular? Why does my cat have a beard? Distostro and cream, baby. Oh, bad. Yeah, I'm excited for that study. So what do you think is the publication time? Like you're submitting it to the NIHA next month and then how long do you think? A month or two? Should go fast after that. It would be good if you can do that for the one-year anniversary of this podcast and otherwise we'll do it on the 13th episode. Because it's not using any new drug, right? There's no like interest in it per se that it's going to hold it up, right? No one's going to, no pharmaceutical company's going to rush out to like invest in something and hold it up. So no one. Well, Pfizer might want to hold it up. Pfizer might care, but I mean, what's it, invented in 1952? I don't know if they really care that much. I don't know what their sales are. I remember when they pushed out the Vax, then all the ampules or the vials were used for the Vax and then there were no ampules or vials available for the Salsron Scipionate and then they produced in one milliliter or two milliliter vials for a while, which they got off China that they usually use for the peptide to companies. Like that was like for a year almost. Test SIP was found in those one milliliter, two milliliter generic vials. It's hilarious. So yeah, so maybe they will care or maybe we'll pull it off the market like other formulations like Oksander loan. And you know, I saw that Ellie Lilly was suing some compound informacies for Terzepodat. Yeah, compounded with Vitamin B12 or that kind of stuff. I'll link that article down below. So yeah, you never know what these pharmaceutical companies meant. They might be after to get you. So if you disappear at one point that we know which study that you have, you never see it again. Yeah, never to be seen again. Do you guys want to briefly discuss how to maximize your offseason as the final topic for this for this podcast? So even though it's summers coming around and everybody's dying to get in shape, you know, we discussed on the podcast with FB Pro John Jewett that using more steroids in the offseason might be a suitable approach if you really want to gain that size. Now, I think initially still, you might want to use less compounds in the offseason because the food volume goes up and the clerk intake goes up and you can modulate your training. But there comes a point in time where more food and less drugs might not get you to that size you want. So I'm talking about getting from 250 to 300 pounds, not from 150 to 200 pounds. Kurt, what would be your strategy? Well, according to all the modern pros, it's 300 tests and 200 pre-models, right? It's fucking exhausting. I've had the best luck with pushing hard for shorter periods of time. I would rather run a few grams for eight to 12 weeks and get the job done and then pull back out and hold it versus just kind of linger in some gram territory where you're not really getting much out of, right? You're still building up that fatigue. It's still not really healthy for you. I mean, most of the big guys probably used pretty heavy cycles at one point in their life to get to that size and then they don't need quite as much now. Yeah, unless they want to push upwards or if they want to jump away to class or they really want to go home for the Mr. Olympia, then the dose just escalate upwards to the multiple grams. Yeah, I mean, I mean, I fortunately don't talk about it. No, they talk about what they currently use now to hold their shape, but that's pretty relevant once you're already that big. It would be like, you know, if someone asked me at the gym, I'm on 150 milligrams of tester in five days, but that's not what I used to get there, right? That's what I used to hold that. That's a whole different story. Yeah, and they call you a liar for running 250 tests or 300 tests. When in reality, I mean, I went up to enough grams, three grams at periods of time. And that's where most of my size came from. In my last offseason, I was on 1.5, 1.7 grams combined. And I was pretty big. And that's with Incorlex and growth hormone and all the good stuff. So how can we do it healthily, though? Like if you say that like maybe a higher dose for a shorter period of time and then easing back, is that better than slowly escalating the dose upwards and having like this two-year offseason or just an increasingly progressive dose just ending up at a couple grams? I don't know. Is there any, Dean, have you ever seen any studies to show any data if that's any safer? I don't think there is anything that exists. I would rather push. I mean, that would be the healthiest compound to be testosterone growth hormone, right? Theranodontinous. So I would leverage those harder. I think with test and GH, you could accomplish a ton. You might not need other compounds. That seems to be the most sustainable. Of course, people get too excited for the agri-compos. I need decadering offseason, need anodrol during offseason. And there's something to say for it. Oh, I'm using the last cycle. I mean, the last cycle, it was 1200 tests, 800 EQ, 800 Tren E and 100 anodrol and a bottle of Sarastin Mede. But I ran it for eight weeks and I gained 20 pounds. Yeah. And I've been on tier two ever since. And only because I've purposely been downsizing and I lose anything. I lost three pounds when I came off the cycle. And my weight basically stayed the same all the way through the Arnold, which was five months after the cycle. And I just decided that I didn't want to, I wanted to go to run again, basically. I was thinking of not being able to move. And so that's exactly how I felt when I was 265. It's like, I need to be mobile again. This is ridiculous. I can't even get out of bed without being out of breath. Yeah. So that's, I mean, I did that to myself. That wasn't, that wasn't some lack of drugs. I think it's really easy to hold what you've built with. You don't need that much food. You don't need that many drugs. But I, I don't know. I think, like what Chase did, right, where he escalated, I think Chase Irons, like escalated this discipline for a long period of time until he got to there. There is something to be said about that. Is that as efficient as just, I mean, I didn't go right to that dose, but is there, is there something to be said about bombarding yourself once you have some level of experience with the proper chemicals and just getting the job done and pulling out? I would still opt for that. You know, and you saw my labs and my labs were not affected if I stayed on, if I use, let's say, test and pre-mode to do that, but I stayed on for four months, would my labs have been better, worse? I don't know. It seems to be like a duration thing. And I think the longer you expose yourself to even moderate to higher dose, just the, the, the, the worse it becomes. Now again, compound selection highly contributes into that and experience and how you can mitigate the side effects by doing blood work, using ancillaries, a little adjustment to your nutrition, right? I mean, and avoiding particular compounds that are worse than others. Like you saw my C-directive protein went up so much from Epicatogen. And, and so, even though I would be in favor of increasing or fall of statin levels through some sort of pathway, Epicatogen might not be the suitable one. Again, based on an unto experience of one using my blood work, personally, I would not use that in the future, but maybe use YK-11 or fall of statin 3 from 4 to kind of leverage that fall of statin and myostatin inhibiting pathway to really maximize the gains. And you can make tremendous progress in a very short period of time, or you can do it a little bit slower, but then you have to limit compound selection to bioidentical hormones, which is usually what I preached, you know, in the step-by-step cycle design. Like if you kind of do this for longer periods of time and start a 250 tests and end up at two and a half grams, then just use test and GH and insulin. If you like insulin, I like insulin. But because your body seems to tolerate that better than going on a gram of tests and a gram of deca and then 500 bouldin on top or a gram of bouldin on a 500 deca on top and then throwing the anodrol at the end. Both work parameters are generally a little bit worse. On a drug stock, you might be bigger though. So I did a synergy. Yeah, but I mean, I used probably some very harsh chemicals that I did mine. I think some of the things that matter is I ate a balanced diet. I did cardio every day, seven days a week. I was super anal about doing cardio and I never get fat. So my body's fat always stays in the single digits. And we see in all the guys I work with, the leaner they are generally the better their blood work is. It's the blood work gets out of whack in the offseason when guys are eating garbage and they're getting fat. And you know, if you're on the third side of the car, let's go to cardio, get fiber in and take care of your health, your body can tolerate some pretty high ender dendroids for a short period of time without really falling apart. Right. So if you do non bio identical, it's okay to do a shorter period of time and kind of blast your socks off. And then if you want to do a longer offseason, it's probably better to limit your compound selection to bio identical stuff and then slowly taper upwards. I think there's, I think we can draw a nice conclusion there. And then it really depends on what you want to be right. Do you want to make slow progress and just be large in a charge for an entire year straight or go through this roller coaster where you're an absolute freak for like 12 weeks or growing into that freak status for 12 weeks, which is basically what I did last time. And then everybody's like, what the fuck is going on? And you're the same because you're so strong and but you start to build up like these little micro injuries and your tendons start to hurt because you get so freakishly strong. And then you need a little bit of time off to kind of reset regroup, you know, restore insulin sensitivity, restore your blood work parameters if they skewed, and then do it all over again. I think can we draw a conclusion? Yeah, Dean, Dean, what do you think? Yeah, I, as I've gone older, sort of, I still hold the belief of what we all speak about in terms of it's not like a new point for discussion, how you have to go to high dosages if you want to be insanely big. That is, you know, a fact at this point that we've all discussed. Can you do like, can you do it in a more healthy fashion than I think what we've sort of proposed here in terms of two solutions, Kurt's short of short term blast strategy, which was quite popular back in like the early 90s. And then the slow, steady bio identical approach, which you're, you're sort of seeding your body with stuff that already naturally exists, so be it in a higher mountain, you're playing off your own natural biochemistry. I see both of them being relatively equal in some sense or form. But then the other side of it is, it still comes back to guesswork. You know, your total dose of where's that sort of sweet spot of androgen receptor activation and muscle tissue and not, you know, like we've said, spilling over into order tissues to cause oxidative stress or side effects. That it's still whatever way you choose to do it, if you go to the pathway of like Kurt said with a short quick blast, well, then it's probably not why is to have high doses of like aromatizable compounds or stuff that's going to maybe contribute to side effects because you put high dose of tests and everything else to have to put more ancillaries in to control some of the side effects and just gets a bit blurry. So do you go that route that you're using more so anabolic switch, some stable dose of testosterone and everything else around it, like the test EQ and withdrawal perspective, or you've got, you know, your side of high dose test, you know, moderate GH, moderate insulin use, depending on appetite, foods, utilisation, insulin sensitivity, and then maybe you might need an aromatase, but if you're someone who naturally aromatises in a high amount and you want to have some level of control over estrogen with that high dose test, you might need a small amount to keep estrogen in check as opposed to letting it run run loose on what we see in like air and your 10-some receptor issues, a ace expression, blood pressure, gynecomastia facca and blah blah. They, they both, I think both of them serve a purpose where you have to take the genetic individuality of that person and figure out what's more appropriate. And again, it comes back to goals, like you said, do you want to be a massive sort of, not bloat God, but do you want to gain size very rapidly in terms of like, you know, intracellular fluid retention glycogen, I guess a higher rate of glycogen synthesis and everything else like that, or are you looking to, you know, a crew muscle tissue that like Kurt has explained sort of stays around once a lean tissue is built, it's relatively easy to maintain with the right stimulus, nutrition and training. So the end goal to speak is to gain muscle tissue if we're bodybuilders, but the aesthetic side of being as big as possible, you have that rule also with your strategy. I think if, if I was to go back in and sort of do what I don't for pushing size when I was competing, I'd probably still stick with, you know, strategy like Kurt's of like a dedicated 10 or 12 week block way, heavier emphasis on higher dose anabolic, you know, because I aromatize high naturally, keeping a very known control dose of test and then using deuter anabolic compounds around it. But, you know, keeping that control like 10 to 12 week block, but back then, you know, it's training like DC style of just complete utter annihilation, sometimes training. Yeah, that, you know, you know, over the last, over the last seven weeks of being back training, being on like a strict like my bloodwork came back 24 an animal, I've gained 10 kilos by literally leveraging more food and making sure the logbook is beaten each week with still good strict tempo and stopping one rep in reserve, but still training heavy, still training with progressive overload. That that size that's come back is muscle memory from when I was at my heaviest lifting heavy and everything else, that when you develop that tissue from that past exposure, and you're able to generate the stimulus that built that tissue, which is the mechanical tension and training, it'll come back. Like I don't think like Kurt said, there's something to consider towards total peak serum testosterone and muscle growth. But the fact that I've gone up 22 pounds and six weeks, and we face the show on here in the camera, that that has been just true diligent tracking of more food and getting progressively stronger week on week, that the hormone level isn't really the most important thing in that whole equation because everything else hormonally has been stable to in TRT and growth hormone use. So we then also really see. Yeah, go for it. Okay, but that's also because you're growing back into your previous muscle memory. We're not putting in a new tissue. And then the issue is not there. You would have to bump up the dose to really get new tissue in this is this is the thing. So what I probably find now is in probably the next two, three weeks. Naturally, I'll probably just hit my quote unquote natural plateau somewhere around 98, 99 kilos. That if I want to get any bigger, I'm going to have to go to a higher androgen level to allow more muscle  pro-protein synthesis to occur, more leverage and nitrogen retention and all that sort of stuff. That I think we sort of underestimate, even when we're talking about dosages, going up too high, too quick. Yes, that short and sweet blast, like Kurt said, is like a more controlled, shorter exposure to a high dose, but you could completely overestimate the dose that you chose for that run. And that's not necessarily a wrong thing, but it could be a wrong thing and that could generate side effects and health consequences. So it's difficult to say that's the greater option over the other, the slow, steady approach of bio-identical stuff. But if I was to follow it in my own current case, I would probably rather than knowing that my days of short blasts like that is probably not there anymore. If I was to choose my next step, if I reached that plateau in a couple of weeks, I'd probably go 250 tests and maybe, depending on appetite, I might add in a small dose of insulin at one meal on top of the GH. But I pushed maybe the GH from four I used on the training days up to six or eight. There's those small little leverages that could I then continue that for a longer period of time over an anabolic setup. It probably comes back to what we all talk about is blood work. So whatever strategy I choose, whether it's that long and slow bio-identical or short and sweet anabolic androgenic steroids stack, your blood work is still going to tell you at week eight whether you're in danger or not, what something has changed or not, whether it's a responsible decision to continue. Both scenarios still require the same decision matrix, eight to ten weeks into whatever you've chosen to do. Either you pay attention to what the blood work is saying or you can order and just continue on. Yeah, yeah, I'm risk averse to any blood work changes. Let's see what I can do. So what do you guys think about like a hybrid approach? Where you leverage the bio-identical hormones until you reach a certain point, like let's say a plateau in dose or progress. But then it also means that you're primed, right? Your food intake is high, your metabolism is high, your training intensity and your volume and all that stuff is like perfectly adapted for let's say a gram, one and a half grams of testosterone. And then you throw in an eight week do or die crazy cycle because instead of slowly building up to that with a crazy cycle with test, EQ, trend, etc., you kind of leverage the bio-identical hormones to the point you get stuck. Your blood work parameters are a little bit skewed, but there's room for abuse, sort of say, to push over that edge and go from 260 to 280. So you go up to one and a half grams, for example, with six, I use growth hormones of insulin and some ancillaries to keep your blood pressure in range and all the health ancillaries needed to stay as healthy as possible. And then you do your blood work and you're like, you know what, now I'm going to throw in another gram of Primo and maybe 150 milligrams of trend and 50 milligrams of anodrol pre-workout four times a week, 200 milligrams total. So you go from one and a half grams to two and a half grams or 2.7, increase the growth hormone, ride it out for eight to 10 weeks, make phenomenal gains and then cruise. Because I think there's something to say for that as well, right? You leverage the bio-identical stuff until you get stuck and then you go with the kitchen sink approach, just push over the edge, put some new touch on, get phenomenally strong to the point your blood works as you and then you come off and cruise out and maintain all of the gains on bio-identical stuff, allowing you to get healthy again. What do you guys think? I agree. I think more guys should leverage test for a long time before they even start adding compounds in. I think where the modern thing with the guys using very little amounts of tests than adding Primo immediately and before they're even at a clinical dose to test Ostrone, I think that came from Derek, but I don't think they were of understanding what Derek was talking about because he actually listened to what he was saying. He was saying leverage test as high as you can go before you get side effects. He wasn't saying do 140 tests and then after you know he never said that. I was saying because people are scared of tests because they're feminists. Whatever it may be. I want to do low tests in high mass drone. Why bro? That's like the women approach. What are you doing? Most guys would get more out of leveraging tests and they would out of like unless you're competing and you're getting on stage, tests will do 99% of the stuff all the other drugs are going to do. Yeah. The only downside is that it might increase epidural growth factor and make your skin a little bit thicker, but you can mitigate that by getting your body foot levels down. Okay, this skin on your back might be a little bit thicker. You know my picture. My skin doesn't look that thick. No. It's for a long time. Who's banging you from behind? That's going to matter. Let's be honest there. Like they're not going to bang you from behind and say, oh dude, your skin on your back is so thick. That's not how it's supposed to be. In a normal health. When in prison, does anyone really give a shit? That's really good. Exactly. So they only downside it for testosterone that it aromatizes and might make your skin a little bit thicker over the other compounds, but regarding the safety and efficacy profile, it is still the best bang for your buck. I mean, we didn't put testosterone ester for no reason. You know, so like I've done bio-dental hormone cycles many, many years, right? Until I started experimenting a little bit more for content purposes. My blood work was almost impeccable on testosterone only cycles. We're talking about an HDL 50 and LDL 110 and that's without a ZMI or statins. Hematica didn't budge. The liver enzymes barely changed and then you start experimenting with other stuff and then your blood work skews and literally falls out of your arteries trying to run away. It gives you a flea phlebotomy. That's how scared your blood work is. So I think leveraging the testosterone and the bio-dental hormone stuff first long as possible and then you close your cycle off with a bang and throw in the anadrol in the trend or whatever for a couple of weeks. Sure. Sure. And then you feel like a freak, but your body also hurts from a joint perspective like, oh man, I'm so strong now. I'm doing 50 or 80 kilo incline work and then after a while your body just kind of hurts and you need a break and also from a blood work perspective. So I think that's the most sustainable option. Yeah, but it's not sexy. It doesn't sell because you have to stay on testosterone only for like four to six months and then you have eight weeks of a honeymoon period with tremolone in the picture. Whereas guys rather be on tremolone for six months and then do a consultation about kidney failure. Dean, what do you think? Are you already fantasizing about your next offseason psych? Yeah, I'm thinking, yes. You just see the numbers running through my head. Yeah. I think, 600 tomatoes. I think like some bananas and pineapple in the mango. I think what we sort of you know, offline before was when Kurt brought that whole up about like guys being risk averse, which is how we've sort of started the podcast and I put my hand up and I was like, well, yeah, I'm probably to blame for some guys running like 150 tests and you know, being a bit like, oh, do I need to push it? But that sort of low test approach stemmed from me sort of personally being like a high aromatizer. So I know if I go like way above 125, you know, 250, inevitably, I have to use the aromatase inhibitor, albeit in a low dose. So now I've added in this other compound that I have to use to mitigate my genetics of high aromatase expression to try and keep that in a relative normal range so that I have like mood stability from, you know, the higher estrogen creates more serotonin, can feed into mood issues. And so for me personally, that just makes more sense that I know everything is steady at 125. So I'm just going to leverage in like last year's contest prep 300 primo 200 nandrolone or whatever, or 200 bananas and 300 pineapples. You know, I know that that dose is steady, it fulfills biological need of bio identical testosterone. And so personally, I don't need to go any higher than that with designing the rest of it around it. But I started to say that it's like a set in stone rule. But yeah, be very risk averse with, you know, I'm on, I'm taking a steroid cycle and you ask and I say, well, I'm on 150 tests and it's sort of, well, that is your total testosterone probably upper 20s, bottom 30s or in US terms, you know, maybe think a 5900. It's, yeah, it's, it's, it's an optimal test level. But when we're talking about like peak dosages and serum levels, it's right probably at the bottom of the end. If someone is going to look to aspire to be a an open bodybuilder, I guess if, if, you know, if they want to be maybe and not to not to put it down, but in terms of like classic bodybuilding, which is what I stayed in, you know, you have a cap that you have to stay within. So there's, there's a relative amount of where you can go to in terms of body weight before that's it, you're going to not have any room to push any further because when you drop down, you're going to have a hard time making your weight limits. But if you are a, you know, someone aspiring to be an open class bodybuilder who wants to be, you know, 235 to even 250 on stage, there is going to be that requirement of, like you said, you're going into big numbers and there's no, there's no denying that or trying to sweep it away. It's just how you, how you arrive at that big number is probably the more important journey rather than, you know, deciding right, I'm going to be an open class bodybuilder. I'm going to go on my first cycle and the first cycle is 1000 milligrams of tests. You know, that we have these two options that we've discussed there and they do, you know, 1000 milligrams of tests, your first cycle, are you going to get great benefit out of that if you have like your university foundation of what we discussed with John of like your training, your recovery or health and salaries, budget for food and everything else, of course. But is that immediately like your first dose choice in that step up? Probably not. But we shouldn't, like we've said, you shouldn't shy away of going, well, at some point you're probably going to have to go up towards those numbers to, to experience size growth. And I mean, we discussed in the early days like my peak offseason when I was pushing for classic bodybuilding was 300s, tomatoes, 600s, pineapples, 300 bananas, and then there was some apples thrown in pre-workout that, you know, I'm not, you know, I'm not. Yeah. So you know, you're not, you're not one or two, one or two apples. It's a big difference, man. One or two apples. It is a curse, curse a fan of two apples. Anyway, for three apples, three apples, three injectable apples split bilaterally. You're going to get people out running out apologies of trying to inject apples. Please don't do that. Good stuff. I have to allegedly my steroid drawer. So fun. I'm not, I'm not, you know, denying that like my peak size and we shared that picture of me and my biggest 108, you know, that was over a thousand in terms of numbers. And I think total, total load, total dose like 1400, 1450 that you, you're not showing away that in order to be that size. Yes, of course, there's going to have to be a push and pull and you can't just try and go, I got to 108 taken tier T because we absolute nonsense staff that discussion could get back phenomenal genetics that maybe, but that is not a pretty 108. That doesn't happen for everybody. You know, if you're doing it on tier T, then you're probably a quarterback, you know, physique wear, you got 20, 25% extra large running around. Where, where I am now body fat wise, yeah, still probably got decent abs at 96 or two, two, 11. I'd say, like I said, 98 is probably where naturally I know I'd probably tap out at tier T and even just recovery and strength progression and everything else that I'm not even like, polarized to think I can get into the like high 100 kilo numbers naturally to speak with that, that dose that I get set if I was to approach where my next step be probably, you know, I'd leverage the tomatoes up, but then I'd have to start adding in an aromatase and they would are just then it requires another level of care that you're going to have to check blood work periodically to make sure that you aren't, you aren't keeping estrogen totally flattened out. And, you know, week to week, you might even require an even lower dose of aromatics and ever versus another week, depending on your body fat distribution, what you vet, your environment and everything else that it's not like straightforward. If I go to 250, I had in 12.5 milligrams of aromas and twice per week and everything stays dandy. Some weeks you might need 12.5 once per week, you might need a twice per week, you might not even need at all depending on how the enzyme expression has been affected from the suicidal inhibition. So yeah, it's complex from what we discussed here, but there's no denying that for all intensive purposes when we are like educating and trying to be healthy, yes, that that low entry is relatively gutting to consider, but you're not going to massive in terms of like, if that's your goal to be as big as you mainly possible, it's just not achievable with that, with that dose. Now that's an important thing for us to obviously discuss. Yeah, now I know that the comment section is screaming right now, Dean, why don't you use the other STR steroid premode to control your estrogen levels? Dean just had a hair transplant and premode is not here safe. That's why you'd rather escalate the dose with the STR steroid and the aromatazin in there. My days of pineapples are probably going to be way behind me now moving forward if I want to maintain what's up there. More for me. More so because. More for you, more for me. I'll have to organize a deal which of what's left there from times past. Like I think, you know, like that even with my blood work with the 125 and the 300 last year and prep my estrogen was completely bottomed out. So in that instance, we know you have to have a certain level of estrogen for hair growth. And even now, since going from the 60 milligrams to the 125 after the transplant, I've noticed that I think that my estrogen has been sitting quite high the last couple of weeks. But regardless, like in a position I've gone do blood work, but the other side of it is, even if my estrogen came back high, I'd be still a little conservative. I've used aromatazin, but a wild, the follicles are still growing and maturing. To go in and lower that estrogen, I just have to ride out the relatively elevated estrogen wave until I'm satisfied that I can do a little bit more control that the hair follicles have properly embedded in and are stable and safe as to speak. Did you notice any beneficial effects regarding high estrogen levels from using methylene blue through my inhibition? Because that's what I noticed. My estrogen is 220 by kilograms per milliliter because I run 625 tests without an aromatazin a bit or because I wanted to see if YK-11 has some aromataz inhibiting effects, which technically could happen. It's reported anecdotally and based on my previous cycle, my serum estradiol levels weren't so high. So I ran 625 tests per week for four weeks, five weeks, without an AI doing the epicatogen experiment. Serum estradiol came up from 140 to 220. So I think that's a normal increase over the course of four to five weeks. And now I add that in YK-11, but I did not notice any estrogenic side effects mentally like irritation or poor libido or that kind of stuff because I'm also using methylene blue. Whereas previously on high estradiol with fluvoxamine in the picture, I was insufferable. So maybe this is a way around for you. Yeah, I mean, that does raise a good question. I have noticed, I think probably how I can tell surrounding the raised estrogen for me personally from a symptom perspective, if you want to call it a symptom of high estrogen is obviously a small bit more fluid retention. So again, face is a little fuller, a little more emotional. When you watch movies, you can feel a little more mentally emotional. And I'm not going to shy away from the fact if anyone has watched the series on Netflix adolescence, I did cry at the end of it. So if you're watching it, I'm sure you can relate as a father if you watch it. But yeah, you know, normally, normally you wouldn't be as as emotional, but that really Morgan was shocked. She like looked to me, she's like, you're crying. And I was like, I wasn't ashamed that you're crying. Not me. That you know, that that that was quite quite an emotional story that in the past, you wouldn't be like apathetic, but it would stir emotion in you, but it wouldn't really like hit you right in the gut. This really like the the clothes and see and I just are you're calling. So oh yeah, it was a proper then your estrogen. It happened. It happened for me when I watched those little documentaries on the Dodo or another YouTube channel about cats being adopted. And then I fucking, it's insane, dude, but I have seven cats. So it's probably the same as being a father. I have two, two months left. And then I can relate. And then my wife, I'll watch analysts and that watch that. And that that program in the comment section, if if you have Netflix, it's four episodes. Very interesting program raises a lot of questions now as my kids obviously get older and the age of social media and its impact on teenagers. And, you know, it raises then our duty, you know, what we're always doing is educating to be this sort of point of discussion for if there are teenagers watching this, which I'm sure there are like 16 to 18 year olds or even younger, involved in physique, physique progression that we are the sort of I'd hate to call it, but the sort of father figure type that we are open to having the conversation. We don't shy away from the facts and but we are quite stern and, you know, really showing the risks and making them aware to prolong the decision to do something like that, but not be sort of, you know, it's a debut topic. You can't be talking about that. Because I mean, like even, you know, from right, so your drinking and then they're patiently waiting for the teams. And now we're going to hit the bar and you get them fucking drunk. And then you realize you don't want to do it again. Yeah, you know what to do. Yeah, you know, it's the best way to learn. Straight to trim blown acetate to get turned off on your 18th birthday. You're still in the bodybuild. You still I'll do the injection for you. I go right, where's the thing by the thing. I still want to add to yeah, Kurt, anything you want to add for the offseason plans and then we're going to wrap it up because I know you have a call. I like both of those options. I think they're both good, depending on where someone is and what their goals are. Everyone has different risks. Yeah, yeah. I'm not risk. I'm tolerant for a couple grams myself, but I'm not sure when I'm not sure when that's ever going to happen because I'm going to be a daddy soon and I get to write that through until they're at least 18. So the next 20 years, I got to be a little bit more careful. But up until this point, I cared less. That's why I had so many experiments over the last couple of years to the enjoyment of the audience. All right, guys, I'll come up with a couple topics for the next Anabola Groundtable. That's the one year anniversary. We have to do something special, but I'll figure something out. And guys, if you have any suggestions in the comment section, we're not going to do any live injections. That's not YouTube approved, but if you can do something else, it's interesting. That one year anniversary is pretty cool. And that means we've lasted longer than most podcasts discussing these kinds of topics. So a little pad on the back for us. Good job, Kurt, Dean and Steve. Any closing words for this episode? No, no, no, no, thank you for listening. Thank you for allowing us to continue doing what we do best. Yeah, I'll donate some money to Dean's new microphone fund. And then if Kurt is coming up with a new study, I'll donate some funds for that as well, because if we can debunk more esters, then I don't mind being proven right with scientific evidence that annotates wind sands down. Whether that's test annotate or primo annotate, both are my favorites. And yeah, scientific evidence to prove that I'm all for it. Okay, with that, we are out. You can find all the social media accounts of Kurt and Dean down below as usual, we'll convert all of this to clips for the clips channel that is really kicking off. People are enjoying the clips channel with the short, bite-sized Anabola Groundtable clips. I think there's 100 clips there already. And this podcast will provide an under 10 clips, which all of your social media details are linked there as well. Both of you are available for consultations in case you don't want to go with me anymore, because I'm so fucking expensive. These guys are still reasonably affordable compared to me. But for how long? I'm not entirely sure, because I hear that these guys are filling up. So hurry up, well supply lasts. Kurt, Dean, thanks so much. This was a highlight of my week. We'll see you next month. And then we'll do the one year anniversary and come up with some cool topics. I'll see you guys then. Thank you. Peace out. See you.

=== FILE: FAT BURNER Tier List! Clenbuterol, Ephedrine, SLU-PP-332, GH, Cardarine, Thyroid, DNP & Retatrutide [JcowgULTmgk].txt ===

 so talking about S-tier and PPR receptor organism, telsmasartan. Unless you're going to take very, very high dosages, I don't think you're going to get PPR activity out of 20 milligrams. But Dean, the scientific evidence shows that PPR... You sounded so professional there, that was amazing. You practiced that, didn't you? I've been practicing this for six weeks, dude. I can tell. So the scientific evidence shows, if you really dive deep into it, that PPR agonism by telsmasartan induces fat loss. So why doesn't it induce fat loss in the real world, when you take 80 milligrams per day, split over two syrings? You want to know an interesting thing, I had this recently in a consult, angiotensin 2 stimulates aromatase. So if you're taking an A or B, you're blocking the receptor, but you're still raising ang2. And ang2 then interacts with your aromatase expression. So you take your A or B. Why did you have to tell this publicly? This is one of my favorites. This is one of my favorites during consultations. Welcome to the Anemali Ground Table, Episode 999. I forgot which episode it is, but it's probably close to the 10th one already. We're joined today with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Martz. It's been six weeks, I think. We pre-recorded the one with John Jewett. They got a lot of views. And of course, a lot of hates, because nobody believed low dose juice, but that's fine. Can't change anything about that. So we hear back for the fat burner tear list. We have a boatload of fat burners. I'm not entirely sure if we can get through everything, but I grouped them preemptively just to speed up the process. So we're still going to the discussion and still going to the tear ranking, but we might not get through all of them. So if your favorite fat burner, a DNB, BAM15 and ADIPOLTIDE is not discussed, shit out of luck. All right. Any updates we want to discuss before we get started? Anything new and spicy going on in the world? Yeah, a lot of classics coming up. Yeah. That's about it. You're holding the fourth for us. We will be attending. I am trying to guide two guys at the amateur level. All right, Aaron is competing. You got another guy? Two hands. Oh, two hands. Yep, not a case, cool and open. Yeah, Aaron is close to his best shape already and he's still got four weeks left. I'm excited to see what he looks like. Yeah. And Kurt, or Dean, you did a hand transplant? We did. So as everyone can see, we're three weeks post transplant. We're on track, like I said before we come on. So some of it has started to shed, which is completely normal, but a very interesting experience. But I don't have any of the issues post-op, like big swollen face, discharge, everything that you see horror story wise. So we'll see now as the podcasts go on over the next few months, I'll get longer and longer hair until I'm back into my mid-20s again. Are you gonna let it grow out like Tarzan? Beautiful Goldilocks. The Flownlocks. Well, apparently you're not allowed, well, this is the thing, right? And I guess it shows just like what we discussed with the podcast. When you look at the post-op care that I was given with the clinic I used in Turkey, if you look at other clinics within Turkey and then clinics in the UK and clinics in the US, there's not one standardized protocol of care. Like the clinic told me that you're abstaining from doing any form of exercise, like cardio for the first three weeks. And then you can go back to weightlifting after four weeks. But then you look online at some other practices of care and you're told you can go back to weightlifting after two weeks. And so you're like, well, who do you believe? I can sort of see the merit of why it's delayed for four weeks, you know, an increase in blood pressure. You're still, even though the surface is healed underneath the surface, that the root might still be trying to fully heal itself and attach in at the follicle. But even like practices of certain clinics are like for the first three days, you should be spraying saline onto the grafts to keep them hydrated. I have my clinic didn't say to do that. Other clinics have you applying like antiseptic creams to the donor area. Like again, with my clinic, I had a sterile wash solution where you washed your head in the evening time before bed, but that was really it. So it seems to me that there is no like, I guess standard of care approach that they all agree on. So I'll just go by what I've been told from mine. So we'll be three weeks tomorrow. I can go back to like light intensity cardio and get my heart rate up to, you know, 120, 130 again. And then the week after that, four weeks post-op, you can go back to weight training. So similar to you, I'm about four weeks de-trained at this point between the week before the surgery and the actual rest now that I am starting to itch now to get back into some form of routine again with training. Yeah, can imagine. But enough about training, what's your peptide stack, bro? So everybody's interested in a comment section. What is Dean running to get recovery from his transplant? This is it. I mean, even post-transplant, the first like week, I stayed away from doing anything like intervention wise. And I always sort of, I know that comes to me surrounding injuries, whether they're like muscle tears, tendon ruptures, recoveries, anything like that. You're always better off letting your immune system, the inflammatory response naturally deal with what's going on from the surgery. And then once you're in a position that you're happy that that initial inflammatory response is dampened, then go in with like BPC-157, TB-500, growth hormone. So I waited until day 10 when you like wash all the scabbing away and the wounds have healed. And then I started implementing like the usual BPC-157, TB-500, a milligram each. I put in GHK-Cu at two milligrams with one milligram of epitalone. So seeing anecdotally, people have ran epitalone at a very low dose, having positive effect over onto skin hair and nail health. So at that one milligram per day, I'll run that for three weeks. So well, 20 milligrams of epitalone. And then there's, I think two milligrams of copper peptide in with the epitalone. So it's two milligrams copper peptide, one milligram epitalone. As far as I remember, it's a 20 milligram, 10 milligram vial. So it makes sense because you have a lot of cell division. I didn't think about that. I didn't put that in my stocks. So please spill beans. Yeah, so far so good. I mean, where things are, I can only go by like an N equals one on my experience of healing, but putting pictures, say on Instagram of people who have had transplants and their comments back are you're like weeks ahead of healing versus where you should be. And that's sort of where now I'm waiting like that hair shaft. Basically they put a donor hair from the back of your scalp into the front to create the hairline. What you're waiting for is that new hair route to heal in the follicle space. And the hair shaft that was attached to that route gets a shock loss. So you've lose that hair, but then a new actual new rooted hair grows from that position. So you almost want that transplanted hair to fall out and then new ticker hair grows in its place. Right. Post-transplant, you have to take quite a nasty antibiotic that we discussed. You have to take Cyprofloxacin, which is... Muscle tears in a tablet. Had exactly, had I known going in that, that was what you'd get post-surgery. Now it is in terms of efficacy, it would be a lot stronger than a Moxacillin. So from a post-op antibacterial perspective, it is a lot more potent. But like you said, so many things around like fluxicity, toxicity is what it's called, where, you know, tendon ruptures are well established with Cyprofloxacin. It is quite a damaging antibiotic from a methylation perspective as well. So it can induce quite toxic issues around being a, I guess, blocking methylation. So at that mind, posts like five day course of Cyprofloxacin, I put in what I was taken prior to the surgery. This is another sort of back step. Prior to the surgery, I stopped like oral BPC-157, lorazotide, SLU, anything I was taken that potentially could play off into mitochondria into angiogenesis. I stopped that, you know, 10, 12 days before the actual hair transplant. So I was going in with it. I did that also. A baseline that none of these things were influencing like cellular division or growth. And then obviously afterwards then day 10 with the injectable, I put in the oral, the KPV, just for the offset after taking the Cyprofloxacin that there's issues surrounding gut health. Although I guess a benefit to running Cyprofloxacin is it's very potent from a dysbiosis perspective. So if there was anything within my gut, it's more likely been eradicated with that. Yeah, it's a hard reset. Yeah, it's a hard reset. So between that and then I guess the last five days I've put in spermedine and your little A, I've been doing, you know, quite a bit of fasting. And I guess this ties in with what we'll discuss today. I went from like, I guess the surplus of calories prior to Christmas to now going back into a deficit because I got a bit too fluffy over Christmas. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you enjoy yourself. But, you know, in the last two weeks after the surgery, I went back to maintenance calories because I don't think it's a wise idea after surgery to put yourself in a deficit when you're trying to heal up things. And then once I got past that day 10 of the surgery, like I said, the last two weeks now I've gone back into a small deficit. But interestingly, I had Mary Big Brown there from before Christmas. So I'll be able to give my insight of two weeks of using it. Yeah, it's a perfect time to, yeah, discuss the fat burner tier list. Steve, did they give you a proton pump inhibitor? They did. They gave me pentoplasol. But like what we discussed, and I know full well better, that went in the trash. Okay, yeah, I don't know why they do that. That is not advice, but me personally, I was not... Yeah, well, come on with the antibiotics. It can be a mess. Yeah, yeah, plus you're inhibiting the absorption of certain nutrients, which you need for recovery. So that's the last thing I would take. Seems like Turkey's the only country that does that after surgery. Yeah, but it is also the most popular country. And maybe it's because afterwards, they just go eat a lot of baklava and... Turkish delight. And yeah, maybe then, you know, the astro-reflex isn't so bad from the, you know, the antibiotics that you're taking. That was the worst part of being over there, that you can't have any of the baklava or, you know, being celiac. And I'm like, Tamora, and I'm gonna live through you, because we spent three days in Istanbul like as tourists before we went to the clinic. So we went to like the Grand Bazaar, which is a huge... Like when you look at it on the map, it's a huge open air market with everything. So I lived through her when I was like, go on, get one of them and tell me what it tastes like. And then I was... She's buying you free mobile, you were there? I did not. I was a bit skeptical. Mm-hmm. I have a few friends out there, but I never got to meet up with them. A few like pharmacy friends. It's just, from what I've seen personally recently with certain things from that area, there's quite a bit of fake stuff going around. Especially the genotropins. The genotropins are fake from there. Genotropin, or even, you know, I've seen Tiramel tea tree, which is produced in Turkey being fake, where I've seen people on blood work, and TSH is like 3.5 and they're supposedly taken, you know, 25 micrograms of tea tree, or even 50, some of them, you're like, what you're taking is not tea tree, because your TSH is not reflective of what's going on. So yeah, I was a bit skeptical. You just throw it in off the street, off because there's tons of pharmacies out there. You know, you're not short of them, but just that skepticism. So... Yeah, you have that Turkish pharmacy app where you can scan the QR code, you have to put that on by law, but you can scan that as many times as you like. So if you've got legitimate primo out of Turkey, and you scan it once, you can scan it again, and it's legit, you can scan it again, and it's legit. Whereas normally with the underground labs, you scan it once, you put in the serial code, and then it kind of says, oh, this project has already been registered. So the underground labs do a better job than the pharmaceuticals in Turkey, and wherever you can register those, because so that means you could just copy one QR code, put, produce like a thousand bottles with it, and then it would always register as positive, even though it's underground or it's fake. So it doesn't really work that way. I guess the other thing that we discussed, post-surgery from a painkilling perspective, you get dexofan from this clinic, which is only approved in Turkey. It's not approved anywhere else in the world. And it is a potent, like opioid-based medication, which was welcomed the first couple of nights when you just like to give you, I think five to six of these tablets, and then you take them on an ad hoc basis. The first two nights using it from a pain dampening perspective, then helping you to sleep, because you have to sleep sitting upright, which is the most difficult thing to get used to while you're sitting in an upright position, where you have a neck pillow on so that you don't touch any of your transplanted area. So the first three nights of sleeping in an upright position, again, some clinics tell patients to sleep in a recliner chair, so that you're in that reclined position, so you've got no inkling to turn on your side, but you could still turn on your side in a recliner, so sleep in the middle. Yeah, you would need one of those full neck braces on, basically, to prevent that from, so the first three nights was probably rough, where you're sleeping, but it's like you're dozing in and out of like almost napping, it's not a night's sleep. That was the hardest part, and then after day three, you can go to sleep on your back, but you have to wear a neck pillow again to stop you rolling onto your side, so you're still trying to protect up here for the first 10 days. Sounds like hell. So that's the only hard part of the transplant, pain-wise, I've said this to several people, pain-wise it's literally painful for about five minutes, and then that's it, and it's only painful for the local anesthetics, so if you've ever had local anesthetic injections prior to like stitches or anything like that, it's literally a six or a seven out of 10 sting, and then you feel nothing, so you literally feel the pain for like a second, and then it's gone, and if you can withstand those whatever five minutes where each of the injections are being done, after that everything is numb and you feel nothing. Right. Yeah, and then it stays there for about half a day, and then it slowly comes back, or at least a sensation. Yeah, it sounds like an adventure, man. How was the flight back? Yeah, good. It was good, straight forward. Straight, yeah, straight. I mean, on the day of the flight coming home, that was day four, a small bit of fluid started to dissipate down into my eye, where I looked a little bit like I'd been in a fist fight, but it was nowhere near as bad as I completely swallowing. I almost looked like I had a lazy eye for a few hours. And like, and how that happens is they inject saline and adrenaline into the area to swell the follicles so they can actually see it better when they're doing the surgery. That saline that they inject in, this is where you see guys whose face is swell right out, the saline is actually dropped down in behind their eyes and swell everything out. So I don't know whether it's the skill of the surgeon, or whether it's just your own biomechanics to speak, that the fluid either slowly dissipates out into circulation and you excrete it out, or you get enforced and where it rapidly diffuses down into your face, and then you're left to a big swollen face for a few days until it starts to dissipate by the kidneys. Did you all go away, Lucky? I think your electrolyte and water intake is just stable and then whatever fluid is injected that just dissipates real fast. And our metabolism source is a lot different than general population. Remove that shit really, really fast. Like my gyno surgery, the inflammation was gone I don't know, 10 days. Now there's just scar tissue left. So I did gyno surgery, lacy eye surgery and leg surgery, orthopedic leg surgery in 10 days. But I already recorded the video about it, so I'm not going to bore you guys with the details, but yeah, it was two weeks in and out of the hospital. Not too much fun. I'm on a similar stack as Dean, ITB 500 BPC GHK Copper, and then just test anivar and growth hormone. And I did some micronized progesterone to help with sleep. And that helps with the colotin synthesis as well, because I did liposuction on my chest and gyno surgery, and then getting an orthopedic plate removed, right? It's right here. So this is this heart where it's now gone from my body. Yeah, so I did, what is it? Seven incisions with a total length of 19 centimeters, seven and a half inches. Brutal, and two incisions in my eye for the lacy eye surgery. That, it's the best surgery I've ever done, but also the most brutal surgery. Because they, first they do eye drops to dilate your eyes, so they can look behind it to see if you're, what is it in the back of your eye? Can't forget what that's called. So they check if the blood flow and the arteries and that if that's all suitable for the laser, basically, the Fento second laser that they use to separate your cornea from your eye. And then they close it off again. So you have to wait four hours for that process for dilating pupils and then normal pupils again. Then they numb your eye. Then you go into the surgery area where they put some thing in your eye to keep that open, a clockwork orange style. I'm sure everybody's old enough to remember that movie. And then they shine the Fento second laser in your eye and you don't see anything. It's just completely white and hazy. Then they start cutting around the cornea. While you're trying not to move your eye and then they open, they open it up, right? Luckily you have some numbing eye drops. Then they open it up. They shine another eczema laser on your cornea, the corneal flap to remove a little bit of tissue, to correct the eye. In my case, it was 11 seconds. Smell burned flesh, obviously, because it's a potent laser. Then they put it back. And then for like two seconds, you see super clear until they put this protective goggles on and then they move over to the other eye. But then the next day they remove the protective goggles. So you don't rub in your eyes similar to what they do with the hair transplant, right? You shouldn't touch it. Same with your eyes because otherwise you just remove the corneal flap. So I had these, I look like a weird superhero for the guys that remember the post on Instagram, right? The guidehouse surgery and the CPAP and the protective goggles. I looked like I was completely mangled. So the next day I removed those protective goggles and you could see super clear. So I threw all my, I have two pairs of glasses. I just threw them away. Cool. Yeah. And now, and I'm think 10 days or 13 days after the surgery and it's no dry eyes, no complications, no issues. I'm very happy. Yeah. But the surgery was brutal because you're just, you're awake and you're literally looking into the laser and the knife. And no, never again. No, I have to do it once. And the guidehouse surgery was fine and the lake surgery was fine. So, but I made a video about it. It's 45 minutes long. So we don't have to bore you guys with the details here. Guys, let's move over. Cart you didn't do any surgeries, right? You're still healthy as a... No, I'm trying. I'm trying. I'm trying to stay on what I'm saying. I'm just on TRT and GH. Okay, there you go. Are you gonna do Arnold's Classic Cycle or you're just gonna show up? No, I think I'm done for a while. It's been 16 weeks on TRT. I really didn't want us anything. Yeah. I don't really think I wanna be any bigger. Yeah, I got the same thing. I got the same, like... I never met anyone that was like, you know, you should be bigger. That would be out of the show for you. I don't know. I'm just happy to be vertical at this point. So. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I'm still 110 kilos. So it's like 260 pounds or 25. Maybe a monster. It's so weird because I haven't gone to the gym in six weeks. Tissue's permanent. That tissue, I guess, has gone anywhere. As long as I stay on TRT, it just stays, you know? And I eat a lot. Just that helps. Yeah. It must be all they grow from when they took. All right, let's get started. So you guys are familiar with the tears, so we don't need to remind you guys. We're going to group a particular compounds based on their, let's say, their receptor affinity or overlapping effects. So let's get started with clibutaryl, albuterol, and myrobychron. Dean has now finally got some experience with myrobychron. Kurt, did you ever try it? Or you haven't? No, no. Okay, Dean, take it away. I have not. I need the old ones. Yeah, Dean, take it away. I guess it's the only thing that has changed beyond, like obviously after the surgery, I put in the replacement GH that I was doing before the 4IUs. I ordered it at the SLU, but with the myrobychron, the biggest positive that I've taken away from it, like I said, and offline to this was I sleep all night. I literally sleep from the minute I go to bed till I wake up, no longer have any form of like, not very awakening up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom. You know, quite often I'd wake up half three, four AM, and I get up anyway about five, five 30 AM anyway. So normally I'd go to bathroom and then you go back to sleep for a quick nap. Now I literally just sleep all the way through until my alarm goes off, which is very strange for me. But like what you said, Steve, when you do wake up, it's almost like a never ending flower. Everything that's collected overnight has a, you know, because your bladder basically, how it works is it slows down to contractile activity of your bladder. It dilates the bladder, which is mostly better three-aedronergic receptor. So it just, it literally allows you to hold twice as much urine. And then when you do go to the bathroom, you peed it two or three peas that you would otherwise have. So you wake up once, but you wake up way longer. So I'm not sure how much it affects the sleep quality overall, but. Like even during the day, I'm not like, cause the ones I got from a, a lipolysis perspective, I got sustained release. So that it's slowly going in, right and getting a big bang of beta tree, adrenergic receptor activation, and then it's switching off. Sustained release is just slowly operating in the background towards lipolysis. So that made a bit more sense. But like that. What's the half-life of the drug without the sustained? I'm not too sure. I left it. I think it's 54 hours. Oh, it's long. It's longer than clumatural. Longer than clumatural. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. So in that regard, even sitting here in the office, like a go quite a period of time without having to leave, like what, when you were trialing it and we were doing the podcast, you understand? There was no need to take a break in the middle. It was all the way through. So that's, you know, that's one thing or the other. From a lipolysis perspective, I've gone from 91 kilos down to just under 87 in those two weeks. Obviously some of it's gonna be water fluid loss from reduction in carbohydrate. But visually, I've basically lost quite a trunk of fat in and around my abdomen to get back to having, you know, relaxed abs as opposed to before. They were blurred to speak. So definitely there has been a big shift in fat loss since last week. And I can only speak positive towards it. There's been no increase in rest and heart rate, like what I've come with clumbuteral. There's been no impact to my HRV, you know, to sleep improving from being able to stay asleep but no nocturia. Just see positives from it, to be honest. Did you notice that your skin texture improved like you see with clumbuteral and obiuteral where your skin gets a little bit better texture? So one thing that I've noticed, and maybe this is just a consequence of running the healing peptides, my skin is a lot drier. So obviously my skin is probably replicating a lot quicker. Same here. Exactly the same here. Yeah. And that was, I have an elbow injury that the rest has done really well but when Morgan was treating me, she was like, the amount of dead skin that's coming off as a massage and you, and obviously that's just because the skin is going to turn over the skin. And that's the only thing I've observed. I can't really put it down to the mirror big grown as opposed to the peptides and the healing overall nature. But as a replacement to clumbuteral, obviously clumbuteral has the added effect that the shaking that like increase in neat adds more calorie expenditure and wants to shake and wears off. Then, you know, it loses the effectivity of being a neat inducer, but it still has the lipolytic effects. You could still run probably clumbuteral with mirror big grown both the rework and synergy. What I do both of them together, probably not. The heart rate, the impact on heart rate is definitely a big positive. And the fact that you're not having any of the cramping or dehydration or headaches and on the past clumbuteral, I always had a, what I call a breaking in period where for at least 48 hours, I'd have a headache from clumbuteral's effects. And I was just from trying to get used to the dehydrating aspect of it. So just keep myself hydrated. And eventually you'd get used to that headache to speak or the headaches, not an impact anymore because homeostasis has been achieved. But clumbuteral for me, normally if I was going to use it, it would be, you know, starting at a weekend where I know that if I get headaches or I feel a bit off from it by the time Monday, Tuesday comes around, it's wore off. Okay. Kurt, what do you think about clumbuteral? I've never personally used albuterol, but I think clannous is solid drug. I mean, albuter just has a shorter half-life, similar drug. I think that's kind of the benefit of clumbuteral is that it's going to last longer in the body. And right, the beta-3 doesn't down regulate. Like you and I did that video, Dean, on, right, in non-obese subjects, we don't see beta-3 down regulation. I think clannous is a great drug. Yeah. You know, I think most guys probably use too much of it to try to get that neat out of it. And say, you know, 40 micrograms is probably plenty for most guys just to make the little effect. In my research, when I compared clannous to albuterol to myrbicrone, I found that from 40 micrograms, clumbutral onwards, it starts to spill over into the beta-3. And for four milligrams albuterol, the same things happened, but it also spills over into the beta-1 of the heart. So that's why when you take higher doses of albuterol, you get an increased heart rate. Yeah. Or is it lower doses that doesn't happen? Yeah, which I prefer to take a lower dose. Yeah. Just let it do its thing. So I really like injectable albuterol that's found in the injectable pre-workout formula. It gives you some sort of like clarity during the workout, especially when you're a little bit down. So it acts as a little bit as a pick-me-up. Now, I've used plenty of albuterol and solbutamol, but I still had asthma in the form of an inhaler. So I'm well aware, like you take 100 micrograms per puff. Of course, you don't get any fat loss from that. When you start taking the tablets or injectable version, it's a significant difference. So I combined clumbutral with myrbicrone and albuterol with myrbicrone. I would say that injectable albuterol with myrbicrone enhances the fat loss without the side effects. Butts.  clenvitrol with myrobicron, that's really enhanced fat loss. And I'm talking about 40 micrograms clen and 150 milligrams myrobicron, that seems to be the best adrenergic fat loss stack in that context. So I like all three. Personally, going forward, I would limit it to all butyrol and myrobicron, because I feel that myrobicron is a suitable replacement for clen, but it's 10 times the price and almost impossible to source. Yeah, clen is easy to find. Clen is everywhere. If you have a star dealer, then you have a clen dealer. It's on every product list. So I'm going to put all three in S tier, because they're great fat burners. And then it's just up to personal preference, I would say. Everybody agrees? Yep. Alright, cool. Then let's move over to ephedrine, synophrine, caffeine as part of the good old ECA stack. Kurt, you're what, 900 years old? So you started? I used the original ECA stack, the patented one, that was in a purple bottle before that. Okay, yeah. So you can get started? I think the ECA stack was fantastic. You can still make your own with used broncator, prematine or whatever. Yeah, and I think the appetite suppression from that stack is really great too, versus you don't really get that from clen and the pure beta 3. So it was always easier to diet using ephedrine than just clen. I've mixed the two like ephedrine, caffeine and clen together. Oh, that works pretty well too. Well, again, the clen, you keep the clen low, 40. I have a pretty high tolerance for stimulants. Yeah, same here. Not necessarily something I'm recommending people do, but it does, they're different class of drugs, so they can work through different mechanisms. And the aspirin is there to enhance the effectivity or probably was the preventative breakdown of ephedrine? It extends a half-life. Yeah. Right, because that natural process, well, the body wants to stop that process from occurring to the aspirin, but just the problem is, especially if you're injecting stuff, you're protehematomas and stuff, if you're taking too much aspirin. Yeah, that's true. And I take a lot of fish oil, so I usually leave the aspirin out at this point. Do you think that the fish oil and vitamin E, for example, both have blood thinning effect, could replace the aspirin, or is it uniquely to aspirin that enhances the effect of the ephedrine? It would be the aspirin unique for the half-life, prolonging, but the, and the blood thinning from fish oil specifically EPA, not DHA, so I take a much more DHA than EPA. Okay. So, gotcha. Just because I was, no, I, when I took higher EPA, sometimes I would get hematomas and stuff. You can see, like, from an injection, you get like a bruise. Yeah. Not necessarily the safest thing. No, and the problem with aspirin is that it can reduce your stomach lining, even a baby aspirin of 81 milligrams. So, unless you're, like, really on top of your glutamine, which I, again, I forgot for a while, and then I started getting some digestive issues, I felt like my stomach was really eating itself, burning itself from the inside. So, you need to be on glutamine when you take oral steroids, and especially when you take the ECA stack, because the aspirin is lowering your stomach lining, and then you need to supplement with glutamine to kind of keep the stomach lining thick to prevent the acidity, which is also going to be changed from the steroids that you're taking, unless you just do the ECA stack solo, but then, yeah, that's very unlikely if you're watching the anabolic roundtable. Yeah, I mean, back in the day, I used it solo a bunch of times, so that was all that was available. The effigy was my gateway drug into a stack. Yeah. And that was the stackers, too. 1990s, that's what was around, exactly all those brands, right? They were original hydroxycutinolus, but they weren't like the real, right? They used Willebark instead of aspirin, that was the difference. Yeah, Moa Hong, Effedra. Effedra, yeah. Yeah, good times. We used to take that during festivals. Yeah, when they all had the original ECA stack, whatever website I was buying from, I think I bought like 50 bottles for the candidate, I had it for years sitting with Cosby. Effedrine was also a part of Agent Orange, right? Or Ultimate Orange? Ultimate Orange, that's all. Yeah, because it was the way Tang with the Fedron in it. Yeah, David Jane, crazy. Dean, did you ever use the ECA stack? I did. How was it? Like Kurt said, very potent appetite suppression. Irony was taken effigy, you know, on an empty stomach within 15, 20 minutes, you're riding that wave of, you know, pure energy. It can be a little bit exhilarating, I suppose, is the easy way to explain it, that when you start your cardio, you might find it a little bit difficult to get warmed up, get your sort of cadence going, and then obviously... Oh, yeah. And obviously, it kicks in, it kicks in, and you're listening to whatever music, rock or trance or whatever, and your heart rate is obviously at 140, 150. Because you don't even realise how fast you're running on the cross trainer, you're cycling on the bike. So yeah, it's quite a pleasurable experience, both from bipolar and energy. Yeah, the effigy is a little bit of a euphoric effect, I feel, and it's more in and out, so you could kind of space it around your fast cardio in your workout, and then still have a good night's sleep, or is it plimitrol, of course, a mirror-beckron, that has a prolonged half-life, but mirror-beckron doesn't really interfere with your sleep. So for the guys that have issues sleeping, I would always tell them to stick with all butyrol and effigy, and cycle through them, because then you basically have a four-hour window where you can do your activity, take a nap, take another serving, and then have a proper night's sleep. I only did the ECA stack once, but for me, it was always hard to source the effigy, and whether that was in Holland or here in Asia, because effigy is highly banned, because they kind of classified it as an amphetamine, and if you take effigy here in Asia, then on a five-panel urine test, you would pee purple, and then the police is like, okay, you took amphetamines when in reality it was effigy, and they use effigy here to make amphetamines, so it's completely unavailable. Like, Adderall, effigy, Dexadrine, Vyphans, all that stuff, not available here in Asia. And once in a while, the Koreans would bring me injectable effigy from Korea, pharmaceutical grade, 20 milligrams per one milliliter, and that's something else. That is something else. So I would only run that during the World Championships as a pick-me-up, because I would have like 17 clients in one show, or 15 to 17 clients, and no time to sleep, because you had to dial everybody and run through the hotel room. So yeah, injectable effigy kept me going, and I'd always lost like 10 pounds over the week. Yeah, because you're just moving all the time, looking at people, helping them with pausing, applying 10, going to the next client, you know, bringing some food, what they need, and opening up your medicine box. So that was a good times. But yeah, besides that, here in Asia, I would not recommend people to use it, whether they're in Arab countries or Asian countries, because it will make you feel a drug test, and it's hard to explain. Still, the fat loss effects are very noticeable of the ECA stack, effigy, and what about Cinefree? I haven't before skipped over that. It's kind of like a half aspirin. It's pretty kind of, they added it, I think hydroxy cut added it to their product, like in addition, and then you just felt like really loopy on it. And then as they, as the laws, at least in the United States, changed, they were substituting Cineferin for the Fedron in the products. Oh, really? It never quite worked. You still felt the same jitteriness and energy from it, but it just, you never quite saw the same fat loss effects. Yeah, yeah, I was going to say. It was combined with like 12 other products. Yeah, like in a, it's kind of hard to isolate what was doing what. Yeah, probably put some caffeine in there and other stuff, and you don't really get that nice synergistic effect you would get from the ECA stack. Yeah. I don't think it has the same adrenergic bind affinity as effigy, and so it's a very softer compound. Definitely, if you took ECA and then you took a product with Cineferin, you could tell the difference. But Cineferin is quote unquote legal as like bitter orange peel extract is how it's often sold. All right. But I don't, I don't know. It's one of those ones that's on the fence that yeah, sure, I didn't if it's available and it's not breaking the bank from a budget perspective, but I don't see it being as good as effigy. No, you're not like seeking it out. So here it's over the counter, but the Fedron is legal, but you have to go to a pharmacy and show your driver's license and they scan it and they limit the quantity that you can buy per month. And you just sign like a waiver. It's the same reason because people make math out of it. So they're limited. Oh, they do that also. Really low limit. It's like a box. I don't know the exact law. It's like a box a month or something stupid. We have a similar, we have a similar law here for pseudo effigy. And because obviously it's basically the same. It's just an answer. So they limit the sales of pseudo effigy, which is always an interesting thing. If you ever have like sign issues here and you're trying to tell a pharmacist, can I have a box of pseudo fed, which is the brand name or pseudo effigy. And you're like questioning. You're like, I just want to because I've got bad sign is pain. Yeah, look at this. Yeah. I'm going to shine a light in there. You can't see anything. Well, I suppose going in with the bald head and beard doesn't help. No, no, no, you get typecast. If people know what reference I made, can they're both. Yeah, it's definitely. Don't forget your lawn still. Yeah. It's a European thing. So like where we approach obviously using these, they're similar as an adrenergic. I can just like what we use with the beta adrenergic. I missed just a different receptor. And again, all you're doing is stimulating catecholamine release. You're stimulating adrenaline, which then feeds off again into the cascade of like policies even more. Yeah. Yeah, I made a whole deep dive about that. So like effigy and pseudo fed dream and mostly these fat burners besides me or background are included in the prohibited list. All but all buter all you can only inhale up to 1600 micrograms. So I made an entire deep dive and how to release catecholamine with various practices. You can get a stimulatory effect that way. But off the top of my head, I can't remember what I wrote there. Like some of these deep times when I make it, it goes in and out as soon as the video is recorded. So if you guys, if you want to watch that segment, just go to the water prohibited list. Yeah, I'm sure there's a timestamp for it. The syndrome on your way. But if you don't care about that, then just stick to the stuff that you can find. Yeah, you can tolerate a tip in the US. If you're going to buy a fedron at the counter, don't bring like red phosphorus and hydrosimonia. Those kind of things with do that purchase separate because you probably raise suspicion. And you have to buy each ingredient at a separate store, right? They use different credit cards. Some cash like matchbooks and stuff. You don't want to buy that stuff when you buy a fedron because the pharmacist will probably know what you're doing. And hydrosimonia especially is really hard to find over the counter. It's really flat on the top. So be really careful with that stuff. I think we just lost my decision for homebrewing. I'll ask Chase for some advice. I'm not sure how we do it. We said Chase is the next thing. We do. How to cook. For sure if I turn this into a short, 100%. So with that out of the way, where are we going to rank these kinds of drugs? Yes, all day. Yes, all day? Dean? Yeah, I agree. Yeah, I agree. Okay, cool. Moving on to the next. Yo-Himbine and Robolcine. Alpha 2 Adrenergic Blockers. Alleged or initially recommended as a libidoate. It does help with erectile quality, especially when you combine it with chialis. But this video is not about erectile quality. It's about fat loss. I'll go first since you got on the other topics. So Yo-Himbine was very popular. People would ramp up dose just to 21 milligrams pre-faceted cardio. I never understood how they could tolerate that much because 3 milligrams, 6 milligrams. And I'm on the floor. Now, a little bit later, they introduced a stereoisomer of Yo-Himbine called Robolcine. And then you have Cori-Nutin, which is usually found in Yo-Himbine supplements. It's the third stereoisomer of these compounds. So structurally, they're all the same. But as Dean knows, the 3D composition, right? It might be bend it the different way in this. You have different receptor affinity. So allegedly, Robolcine has lower receptor affinity than Yo-Himbine. It seems that the fat loss for 3 milligram, 6 milligram servings is exactly the same. But the side effects with Robolcine are almost non-existent compared to Yo-Himbine, even though they're still there. That being said, it's best to take it in a facet state, right? So you take it before facet cardio, 3 milligram, 6 milligrams, do your cardio session, whether that's with myrobyclin, cli-mutrol, abuteral, effigy, et cetera. And that provides a unique effect regarding fat loss, especially from the lower back. I think that Yo-Himbine or Robolcine is very side-specific to the lower back because it seems to negate or do the opposite of insulin. Whereas with the lower back, of course, it's very receptive for insulin. So that's where the fat comes back first. But if you use Yo-Himbine or Robolcine the entire time that you're cutting, the lower back seems to dial in way faster than the lower abs, lower chest or glutes, which for those areas you don't really have specific compounds that are as effective as Yo-Himbine or Robolcine. Did you guys ever use these? Are they staple? What is the... Yo-Himbine, I don't feel very good on it. I always thought it made more sense to use Yo-Himbine, like when you were more of a caloric excess because you're preventing fat storage more so than as a fat loss agent, right? Because it's not really causing fat loss, it's just because it's preventing fat storage. Yeah. So I don't like that. I think it helps with lipolysis as well. I'm mistaken. Possibly. Yeah, I think so. I just never felt good on it. It does weird things. No, it's horrible. It's horrible. It's horrible. I always thought so. A block's obviously the alpha 2 receptor. And then that makes the catecholamine receptor more accessible for lipolysis. Okay. I think that's how it aids with lipolysis. It makes sense. But you've always seen it in like stubborn fat protocols, you know, like lower... Yeah, I'm guilty of this video as well. ...glutes for some people quads. I remember for me personally, it did make a big difference in terms of getting the next sort of step of fat loss of getting those stubborn areas off when I added it in like what's been 2012. But as an aside, I have taken quite a massive dose of your himbine once off before and I would never recommend it to anyone. So I had your himbine powder. I had a milligram scale. Oh, right. That's right. Another story. And I forgot. I was supposed to obviously... 10 milligrams is it... you know, how you dose it, they sort of say anywhere from... well, a decent dose is like one milligram per 10 kilograms of body weight. So for 100 kilograms, you're looking at 10 milligrams being a relatively effective dose. I weighed it out, took it, and I went to help my dad with his... he had an allotment growing vegetables. And after about an hour, all of a sudden, I couldn't really speak. I was like trying to communicate, but I couldn't speak. And then everything around me started to like slow down and come in on top of me. And then buckets of sweat started running down my back. And then that's sort of when you have the oh, F me moment. And I realized, no, you didn't weigh out 0.01 grams, which is 10 milligrams. You made out 0.1, which is 100 milligrams. And I would never wish this on anyone. I remember like trying to tell my dad like car, and I could barely say car. I was like car. And then he looked at me as like, okay, something's wrong here. He got me back to the car. I had brought food with me. I brought a meal at the time I was dieting for a show. And he just spooned the food into me as quick as he could. And he took me home, went straight asleep and then woke up, you know, two hours later and it cleared from my system. Obviously, when you've got a big insulin spike, Alps to speed up. I've never really understood why insulin interferes with the mechanism of action or why it technically destroys its mechanism of action. But it's how you deal with if you take an overdose of your humbine. Yeah. But I think it over. I think it overrides the interaction with the Alpha two or dreamers or receptors and the cough and the catch cold means. Yeah. So that, you know, having known that mechanism of why you're taking in a fast at state, I was able to deal with taking that overdose. But it showed me like how serious, you know, when you think about 10 milligrams to 100 milligrams, you'd think, okay, that's a 10 X and dose. What effect are you really going to see with that? And it truly showed me that this is something that has to be dosed quite accurately. That don't mess around with raw powder. But yeah, that it even happened. I remember having Morgan one time. There was an OTC fat burner at a proprietary blend. And one day she took one and that you're him buying it. And obviously was completely overdosed because all of a sudden she went ghost white. Sweat started running down, you know, her face. She started to almost have a panic attack because she didn't realize what was going on. And I said, all right, you're having an overdose. Which she wasn't too happy at the time because I had to make her eat one of her carb meals when she was dieting for a show. You know, you have to choice. You either feel rubbish for the next hour or two while that's in your system or you eat all of your food, take a small nap and it'll be out of your system. Not something to mess around with. Dose it low and slow. Yeah, I agree. You know, even going from 10 milligrams to 15 milligrams. I found a couple of times if I got up to that dose that you were almost stuck within yourself that you weren't able to effectively talk properly. You knew what you wanted to say, but it was almost like you were impeded from speaking. That's the only way I can describe it. Sounds like hypoglycemia. I go, you have severe hypoglycemia. I've had that a couple of times when I was running Lantus on a ketogenic diet. Not recommended. Yeah, because you're in a ketogenic state. So your ketosis is high and your brain works on ketones. And then you don't realize that your blood sugar is dropping to the point that it's dirty. And then you don't know who you are and where you are. You don't even start sweating because your body is just adapted to the ketones. So then you check your botic glucose levels and you're like, oh shit, I got to eat now because this is very dangerous. You get a similar effect where you just don't know you can't speak. You don't know what's going on. It's hard. You're out walking or out could be having a walk with Morgan and you're trying to have a conversation and you're sort of like almost, you know what you want to say mentally, but you're not coming out of your mouth. It's almost like you've got this anxiety feeling or something like that. It's very hard to describe, but you'll know when you've taken too much of him. Because you'll have your heart rate is off. You might feel nauseous and everything else like that. So works great, but you have to respect the dose. Yeah, the weird thing is it's like it's all over the counter, but it's got the worst side effects if you take too much. If you take too much plan, okay, your heart rate is like everybody's smart enough not to do that. A mere big one barely any side effects. Effadrine, okay, you feel pretty wired, but Jo-Him, Jo-Him-Bind and Rawl-Sin Man, if you take too much. Like I can only take three milligrams before cardio. And then sometimes I want to have like insane contractile capacity. I combine Jo-Him-Bind or Rawl-Sin with Ackmantine sulfate, 700 milligrams, which is an alpha 2 agonist. Which I just make sense on paper or an alpha 1 agonist. So one is blocking it, one is activating it, but it gives you the best contractile capacity and ability to push past the strength plateaus. Yeah, it's a little bit of a hack. And then I started talking about that a couple years ago and then a lot of these pre-workout companies caught on to that and started adding Rawl-Sin and Ackmantine sulfate to their pre-workout stacks and everybody was very, very happy. And it sends opposing signals through similar receptors or alpha receptors. Yeah, I think three milligrams is basically a sweet spot once per day, maybe twice. And if you do it like that, it might be in its ester for fat loss off the lower back. But yeah, if you overdose it, you're in a world of pain. Or do you think? Have the chiropractic. Yes. Yes, okay, cool. Moving over to the next group of drugs. The thyroid hormones, we have T3, T4, sobotterone, GC1. And I put that in there because sobotterone interacts with the thyroid receptors. And that seems to offer less of a jittery effect and catabolic effect compared to actual T3 if you ramp that over 25 micrograms per day. So if I have some experience with sobotterone, GC1, I'll run that on the next time that I died at 100 micrograms or what was it, 100 micrograms? Let me check my notes. 100 micrograms twice per day or once per day. And then I'll see if I continue that higher and then I'll keep track of my thyroid hormones, obviously, and blood work to see if there's any changes there. But it's not known to really drop thyroid stimulating hormone. It's just known to interact with those thyroid receptor. It doesn't really alter your blood work parameters, but I'll confirm that. This is like seven to 12 studies on it. So we'll be a quick and easy experiment in a deep dive. But people are asking about it. But the last time I ran it, I got good fat loss and metabolism out of it without like losing your legs. Like that's the downside of T3, in my opinion, a replacement dose at the end of a diet when your blood work shows that you're thyroid deficient. Then it's magic almost, but it always kind of shrunk my legs. Again, I do a good amount of cardio. Maybe I wasn't taking enough steroids. I think two grams is quite a lot. So that always happened to me. Again, legs is not a stronger body part for me. But since you do cardio on that, I felt that dosing the T3 before that or before bed. So before fast cardio before bed didn't really make a difference. So I started splitting up the dose that had less of an effect. I think it's good to keep your metabolism going, but I think there's some warrants, some benefits to the subteroma over T3 or T4. Kurt, do you supplement or recommend T4 with growth hormone? Can't remember reading that in your book. I don't know. I don't unless labs would show otherwise. I would go by labs and I would. Yeah. I like to look at T4 like it's like the idol in your car. So just adding more T4 doesn't say net more T3. So I know it's used clinically. I think it has a use that I don't know about for bodybuilding. Right. And I don't think there's any missing me with growth hormone. That's kind of an antiquated way to look at it. Yeah. So, so I do see it with higher doses of growth hormone that the pirate conversion speeds up like growth hormone increases the other than this enzyme activity and thus T4 metabolism T3. And if you don't supplement with T4 or good amount of iodine in your diet, then you see that T4 levels dropped and T3 drops. And then thyroid similarity hormone shoots up. But again, that's only proven with blood work. Yeah. I see it more often than not that people need it to be honest. Okay. Beyond like three I use growth hormone per day. Yeah. Yeah. I've never needed any thyroid stuff. Okay. Do you have like iodized table salt to eat kelp? I used iodized table salt and my multivitamin has iodine in it and I eat fish. So. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I think it's useful depending on what you said with blood work. I made a deep dive on our education about using T4 and T3 together in combination because this became a very popular team of dosing boats together, which to me made not a lot of sense. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. Yeah. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. If you take T4 and T3 together, the T3 is going to be the thing that's doing the active work in the body. T4, if you're not utilizing it, you will store T4. To my knowledge, there is a peripheral pool of about 900 micrograms of T4 in the body. You're just going to increase that pool of T4 and interiorized THBG, which then might knock off your FT3. It becomes just this vicious cycle. If you're going to use one, just stick with T3 and leave. This became almost like a fad in UK coaching. I'd see in consults that someone would be taking 200 micrograms T4 and 25 micrograms T3. I need to question why are you doing that? Oh, well, my coach said so. Does your coach actually understand what's going on when you're using the Tutum? Then they're looking at me. Well, I'll explain to you why and what's going to happen if you use boats. I have a sudden this whole, not to shit on anything. It just doesn't make sense. Yes, T4 is prescribed for hypothyroidism, but that in itself, when you get into the clinical guidelines and published guidelines, half the endocrinologists say, yes, T4 monotherapy is amazing. Do you have to say, why are we doing this? There should be a combination therapy or should be T3. T3. The reason why they go against T3 is it's pharmacokinetics can be unpredictable. And it's because T3 has a biphasic metabolism, has two points of metabolism. And for the unlucky few, when the first phase metabolism occurs, it can actually put someone hyperthyroid, their level of free T3 can go actually too high for a period of a couple of hours, and that can bring palpitations, anxiety, heart rate. And so they might not necessarily agree with T3 as a medication. And so T4 is the gentler approach because you're coaxing the body into doing the conversion itself. Even in that instance with the biphasic metabolism, you could gender split the dose in two. So 12.5 and 12.5 are going in opposite ends of the day. So then that peak level is lower, but the total daily concentration is the same because the half-life of T3 is 24 hours. So it's a much slower acting drug. Well, I guess an easier to control drug versus T4, which be a slower acting drug, is what I meant to say. So to me, if you need thyroid support, just look at a physiological replacement of T3, which is on average 25 micrograms. Yeah. So the reason why I still like T4 is because, again, from blood work, I see that the higher doses of growth hormone, it seems that the endogenous production of T4 is not sufficient to keep up with the thyroid conversion. And most guys are on steroids.  which are known to reduce thyroid binding global levels. So you're actually increasing T4 levels and T3 levels, which also enhances the conversion, obviously, because the thyroid binding global would otherwise hold these thyroid hormones as a reservoir, similar to sexual binding global, it does with steroids. But when you take steroids, SSBG comes down, thyroid binding global levels come down, speeding up the conversion. And if you take T4, you maintain T3 levels on blood torque, thyroid stability hormone levels stay in range, and SSBG levels come up slightly, because T4 and T3 do increase SSBG levels alongside estradiol and estradiol and T3 and T4, the primary regulators that's somewhat elevated on cycle. So I feel that there's a good amount of synergy there. But again, if blood work shows that it's not needed, then why throw in another drug? And again, I would only recommend it in a context of growth hormone, or at the end of a cutting phase that has been lengthy, where metabolism just starts to slow down basically. The other thing with THBG is androgen's lower THBG, but with this estrogen epidemic we're observing, estrogen actually raises THBG. So if you let your estrogen will rise THBG. Yeah, I was gonna say, that's the most the time that you see thyroid issues. Yeah, when I see thyroid issues in men, that's generally, you look at the estrogen first, if you control that, you know, if thyroid stuff goes away. I don't know what this TRT community is on about, man, or some educators. So I let it run around to grow my gynecomastia, right? And I got two inches across, baby. Two inches across, yeah, I'll show you in the video, it'll be a graphic content for sure, but it's like goggles, dude, I can put it on my eye, like cucumber. And so that's twice the size, this is what's before. No libido issues, luckily, but then again I have a hot wife, so that helps. And I guess, my estrogen's high, I don't have any libido, so it wouldn't be too wild. Well, if free tea is high enough, then usually libido can counteract the high estrogen to something great. Yeah, okay. Right, because that's the thing we look at, so we look at estrogen for libido first, and if the ratio of free tea to estrogen is okay, that's the second thing you look at. Okay, so sometimes when guys estrogen will go high and the libido stays, you look at the tea next, because it's not just one thing that's gonna cause libido. No, it's just one thing, yeah, my tea was free, I was on like the Kurt Havens TRT protocol for a while, 600,000. My tea is 300 now. Yeah, oh wow, okay. It's been for eight of the 16 weeks now. Oh, that's good, yeah. I dropped it also, but I then added it in the Anivar. It seems like such a waste to put half a CC and a three CC syringe. Yeah, I agree, man, I agree. I feel like I'm losing half of it in the needle. Your needle is like this long. Just 80, I don't know. Every tip of like a drum is like little, it's amazing that that does anything. Yeah, maybe if you inject every day. But I'm just using it twice a week, but. Me too, man, I'm doing it twice a week. I'm kind of overall the injections after the Mr. Olympia cycle. I was doing like seven injections per day. I only have so much bandwidth for that stuff. Yes. You know? Okay, I think we can put these thyroid hormones if respected in S tier, but again, it meant to be respected. So, but to roam, I'm not 100% sure about. So let's just say that that's pending because I don't have so much experience with it. And Dean, did you experiment with it, Kurt? It's been difficult to find. It's interesting, like you said, it has paper less cardio toxicity because of that specific tired receptor interaction. But yeah, I'd definitely like to trial it next time I properly diet to see what edge you get over. But bloods would be very interesting as well. Just put a nest anyway. Yeah. It has potential, exactly. Okay, Dean, your groundbreaking stack of mitochondrial uber regulation plus the 5-mino 1MQ that I added to it. So 5-mino 1MQ, SLU-PP332, methylene blue and mitochondrial open-reading frame of the 12 SR RNA-C aka ModC game changer for the entire fitness community. Everybody should be giving you blowjobs and reach around. No, 100%. 100% dude, 100%. Do you know how many people are talking about this? I know, I know. I talked about 5-mino 1MQ a month a while ago and then you introduced SLU-PP332 and methylene blue. And I mean, I run it, I got energy for days. I talk way too fast. That's why I mumble over my own words. But it doesn't matter where I am in a steep caloric deficit or offseason, it's just energy, energy, energy. It's absolutely amazing. It's not a cheap stack, but it's an S tier stack 100% and I think everybody can agree. So let's just go over the mechanics real quick while we're on the subject. Yeah, so I guess at the very, very top. And the way we sort of explained in the last podcast with John, this wasn't like, oh, I looked at all three of them and oh, that looks great. Let's throw all three together. It was a sequential edition starting with ModC, which we were on. You know, introduced to you and that's a fragment of M or N A, an open frame of what M or N A, which tells your body to up-regulate the biogenesis of mitochondria. So you produce more mitochondria. But when you produce more mitochondria, it doesn't necessarily mean that you've got more capacity for oxidative phosphorylation or energy turnover after dysfunctional. So you have to make sure then the number of mitochondria that you have are operating efficiently. And that was where them and SLU became available. I thought, well, SLU studies show great promise in acting on the estrogen-like receptor as an agonist of the E or or alpha. And so that estrogen-like receptor is involved in the efficiency of the mitochondrial inner matrix of membrane. So now you're improving how well the mitochondria able to generate, I guess, N ATP from electrons and you're also lowering the oxidative stress consequence that comes from the electron transport chain. So now you've got mitochondria that are generating high efficient energy production without causing, I guess, spillover oxidative stress from that energy production. And then you go one step further. So, okay, well, I've increased number of mitochondria. I've improved their ability to create energy. I've lowered their ability to create oxidative stress. How can I make them even more efficient? And that was when I looked at metal in blue as a, I guess, a supplement or a chemical that improves how the mitochondria are oxygenated, how well they bring oxygen into themselves, but also improve the efficiency of oxidative phosphorylation. And again, you have to view that if you can get your mitochondria operating a high capacity of high oxidative phosphorylation, you're generating massive amounts of ATP that your cell could normally never create. And that was one of the advantages that as humans, we have that endosymbiosis where we've accommodated this type of bacteria into our body where they get the, I guess the energy substrate out of what we feed them. And then they feed us with ATP from the electrons that improving their efficiency even more with metal in blue. You just, I became convinced that when we're dieting, okay, we get brain fog, lack of energy from low caloric intake. But then I started to question to myself that can't be just the problem. If everything was running optimally, it shouldn't really matter. Like if you're in a deficit of energy, your body fat is gonna make up for the energy deficit that you require to function in an optimal perspective. So that when you're getting into the depths of a diet and you're having to either lower calories too low, you're having to do too much activity to create that energy deficit, some point along the way, there's an own coupling between the ability of your mitochondria to use fatty acids for energy or glucose, more so fatty acids. And so then you start to question, well, if you're bullying yourself in a diet, the mitochondria are clearly dysfunctional and they are obviously the rate limiting factor when it comes to burning fatty acids. Like policies, obviously, is the very top, you release the fatty acids and then the mitochondria utilize them or the mitochondria in your liver. Is it cheating now that we've sort of uncovered these layers of preaching mitochondrial optimization to the ones that are following this? And I don't think so. I think it's just like biohacking. It's just bodybuilding, dude. It's just bodybuilding. I mean, look at the physics last year at the Mr. Olympia stage of the guys that we know are running the stack. They look absolutely stellar. They're top five guys. So, I think it's a game changer for this industry. And I think with a couple years of development, allowing this oxidative stress to be low, minimizing contest spread brain, partially due to the oxidative stress and just keeping the mitochondrial function abrogated to the point you're just productive all the way up until you're getting on stage where you can have a normal conversation and do podcasts like you were doing at the highest capacity. It's a game changer for everybody. Like what did you notice when you removed it one week before surgery and then I'll fill in after? So, I stopped everything from that mitochondrial optimization perspective just after Christmas. So by the time I went for the surgery it was two weeks. I pretty much not taken SLU, metaline blue, MOTC, I would have taken five milligrams over the start of December. So by the time I got to the surgery it was maybe six weeks since the five milligram dose. Definitely I noticed. And now I wouldn't say I ate a lot of foods but I ate more foods than usual. And I think that was me just, I wasn't really tracking what I was eating. I was listening to what my body was saying and then I was just eating my standard clean food diet but more of it. I definitely found that when I stopped it my fat consumption went up in terms of like wanting to eat more, I guess polyunsaturated fats and monunsaturated fats from almonds, macadamias. I found that sort of crept up in my diet. And obviously as a consequence, fat got deposited then with the increased caloric intake. Whereas prior to Christmas time, I could not, I wouldn't say I could eat whatever I wanted but I wasn't really leaning towards high-fat foods either. So in terms of like overall carbohydrate consumption and fat storage, I was maintaining a very lean set point like what we see when we were training in England. Over Christmas, you know, Morgan poked phone a little bit at me when she noticed that I was getting softer and she's like, yeah, you're getting a little bit soft there now and I was like, yeah, I can see how my diet's influencing but going back now to that setup and mentally approaching nutrition a little bit differently and sort of like not being restrictive but not really wanting those foods either. Whatever's changed internally from a mitochondrial perspective with putting in Median Blue, SLU, a shot of MOTC. You know, I'm back to my high carb, high protein, you know, very low fat nutrition as before. And like I said, over the last two weeks dropped 4 kg of, I'd probably say 2 kg of it was fatty, like fatty tissues or fatty acids mobilized. Yeah, I think it's a wonderful stack. Did you notice any difference in cognition and energy levels overall and overall productivity? So I guess I've been lucky in that knowing probably, you probably don't the same, but I like blocked my schedule. Anyone that was looking for me when I knew I had the time in Turkey and then obviously the time out was to heal. I was like, I'm not doing any consults, you know, doing my normal work for supplement needs and whatever else, but yeah, I definitely did notice how I noticed probably the biggest thing was sleep and that normally I'll get up very early, 5 a.m., 5 30 a.m. I was almost being lazy and I'd sleep until the kids woke up at 7 a.m. and we'd all get up together. Since going back to the mitochondrial stack to speak, I've had no problem getting up again at 5 a.m., 5 30 a.m. Now, whether that is changing my mentality, I'm not too sure, but you know, since resuming on back work and early again, so I'm not 100% sure, but definitely it's something that I missed to put it that way. Yeah, I had the same. I took it away and it's the same as when you take TRT out, the first two weeks you're fine, and then after, I go, it's like what, what? Hey man, I have to get to my wife break. I know, I don't mind that. So you take TRT out in the first two weeks you're fine and then the second two weeks, like week three or four, you're like something is missing and then week five and six, you're like, F my life, this is horrible. So you're like at week three to four of removing TRT where you just come back down to baseline, but you know what's possible with these compounds where you just feel more energetic, more cognitive. I mean, it has a good amount of neutral pick effect and it's probably coming from the methylene blue, but the mitochondrial upregulation in your brain also helps with cognition. So I just feel a lot more heightened business-wise, even in a steep caloric deficit. So you're basically just working all day and getting your work done, and then at the end of the day, you're leaner. I'm like, that's pretty good. Because normally during dieting, you just feel horrible towards the end. That's why I like the five amino one MQ addition, which helps with NAD plus recycling in adipose tissue. So the fat loss is continuous. So even when you start stalling around 6%, 8% body fat, instead of throwing the kitchen sink of thyroid hormones and climbutrol at it, you just add five amino one MQ to help with nicotinamide, was not in methyl tracerase inhibition and NAD plus levels go up. And thus the adipose tissue is just metabolically more active, so you keep the lipolosis going. So that I found that a nice addition. Then of course you can combine it with NAD plus, NMNR, but those are really very low in the priority list of fat loss, which would still be a good addition in the stack, in my opinion, but there would be an add-on, just like Ubiqunol and PQQ. If you have unlimited funds, five amino one MQ, nicotinamide mononucleotide, IVNAD plus, SLU, PP332, MOTC, and what would I forget? Let me go through my- PQQ and Ubiqunol. Yeah, PQQ and Ubiqunol, yeah, and MOTC, yeah. So that would be like, and I ran all that stuff. And carnitine to help with the fatty acid shuttling. So I would say S tier, 100%. Like S plus. I think this is the most S tier of all of them. Gert, you didn't get a chance to- I never used any of them, but the more you guys talk about it, maybe I will. Maybe you can contact Chase, because we're working with Sim's sponsor affiliate, and he's probably got some stock, so maybe he can bring you some. And otherwise I can ask him to send you a care package. I'm sure you would love it. And he can just run around with your kids all day playing, you know, playing stuff. You get so much energy from this stuff. It's so amazing. So it's almost, it shouldn't be there. Like I feel like- So I don't need the crystal meth anymore. No, no, you can stop buying all those ingredients. It's probably healthy. Yeah, yeah, you can actually eat on this stuff also. You don't see ghosts. My teeth won't fall out, let's go. Yeah, exactly. Was it meth, not even once? That- Ha ha ha ha ha ha. S-L-U, not even once. Okay, so we have a little bit of the low-hanging fruit for all the natties out there. Elcarnitine, eltartrate, and elcarnitine, or acetylacarnitine. Of course we prefer injectable carnitine. I know that you'd casted a deep dive on this, and you were not in favor, so- Wow, that's- We removed the deep dive. We- We- Oh, oh. We didn't- Our- Well, my opinion is it works, absolutely. Is it going to work for everyone? Maybe not, unless there's a need specific for it. It definitely, like, hands down at my and Kurt's opinion where it works, but it's not this magic bullet that you start taking carnitine and you start losing fat. Now, it's not fine. You know, yeah. You know, it's- And so in your priority list of what we've had, even with the peptides, of if you had X-Budget, is it going to be right at the very top? More than likely not. But for that- It's probably going to hide on. You know, that one to two- For one percent. You know, one to two percent, where we're talking like top-level bodybuilding of fat loss, then yes, every one or two percent addition we can get is going to be beneficial. I think that when we look at even like carnitine altar traits, mechanism of increasing testosterone, we dove into actually the real data of what they used, and there was no real change in- No, it would look like the exercise to actually increase the AR. Yeah, yeah. So it's two studies and they're not available as full publications. So maybe you guys can get it, which are- We have it. Yeah, we have it. We went into it and there was no change to LH and FSH. And then the increase in testosterone was like a one to two-nanomole increase. It was like- Yeah, it was deemed insignificant statistically. You could say, oh, well, one to two-nanomoles is going to make a difference. And the way we approached it was, if you're in the absolute gutter down at eight-nanomole, or, you know, 270 nanogram per deciliter, well, and yet two-nanomole, you're going to scrap for every little bit of total testosterone you're going to get. But is that going to significantly impact free testosterone? No. Probably not. You're not even going to really notice it when you look at them, the effect on SHBG and everything else. So injectable alkanity and, yeah, I personally use it. But again, you're coming at it from a high level of trying to get to that very last bit of fat off to speak, like adding 5-amino 1MQ. So it's, if you were to tear it, you know, it does have S-tier quality, but it has to be based on what someone is looking for. Yeah. I think carnitine is more like an add-on. So if you take, like, carterine, which really shifts fatty acid oxidation, or two-fatty acid oxidation, you would assume that you need more carnitine for fatty acid transport. And I see this with a lot of guys that when carterine was first introduced, they go on GW1516, and then they say, after two weeks or four weeks, it stops working, even when I increase the dose, and then you put them on injectable or carnitine, and the fat loss continues. And they can actually go back to the 20-milligram dose or 30-milligram dose that we're initially on. So I kind of suggested to most people, if you use carterine, you need to combine it with carnitine, because your carnitine storage will be depleted from the enhanced fatty acid oxidation. Now, carterine is one of the few that actually directly enhances fatty acid oxidation until we got SLUPP332, right? Clemutrol is lipolysis, and a little bit through the neat increase, but that could also be carbohydrate, right? Used for energy and maybe even protein, or amino acids. So basically, if you really want to enhance fatty acid oxidation, you have carterine, SLUPP332 to choose from. And if you combine both of them, fatty acid oxidation really shoots up, I think it's just a suitable add-on. I mean, 500 milligrams injectable carnitine, for instance, pronounced per day, I think is a great addition. And again, I don't think it's a good idea to take one gram or two gram, because that has been shown in a single serving. That has been shown to inhibit thyroid receptor function or thyroid function. And you don't see that on a blood work. Scott Stevens, since they did an excellent deep dive on this, on the Think Big Bodybuilding Media channel, I'll link it down below, guys, in case you want to see it. So in blood work, you don't really see a difference, but it just inhibits thyroid function, because injectable carnitine is used pharmaceutical to inhibit thyroid storm, which is a medical condition, I believe, where thyroid is just running rampant, and then it prevents the extreme catabolism. So I think 500 milligrams injectable carnitine is just very suitable. You get some sort of cognitive benefit out of it, especially if you're on a ketogenic diet. So I still take it once or twice per day before activity, in hand-in-hand with my life politics. But if I don't take it in the offseason, then it's fine. It doesn't keep me any leaner or in any way, shape, or form. But it has some cognitive benefits. And again, with the oral version, there's always sort of risk for TMAO. But if you combine it with allicin, garlic extract, and that kind of negates the fact, and doxycycline can kind of kill the bacteria, your intestinal tract that would produce TMA. But it's always a problem when you recommend oral L-carnitine, L-target, or STL L-carnitine. What about the TMAO? Now you can do what for that. All right, let's work, let's work, let's work. And otherwise, it's allicin or doxycycline to kind of help resolve that. Kurt, do you want to add anything? I'm not the kind of, I've not used it, but we can give it a mess. Yeah, okay. Seems to work, seems popular. I'm happy you agree. So Dean, S-tier? Yeah. Okay, cool, moving on. No, we can go into GW1516 a little bit more, just solo, because again, it's a little bit of a unique compound and it's actual with everything else. Kurt, did you ever use it? No, I've not. I've not used a lot of these things. So traditional, and you've got a great physique. What the hell's going on? I don't know, I guess it's... Like your portfolio of drugs is very small, but you've got a great physique. What's going on? Why do all these guys with a huge portfolio of drugs have shit physique? Myself? Maybe it's not a drug problem. Perhaps it's the food. I can attest to that. When I wake up at 5 a.m. and I do cardio, I'm not waking up and injecting 10 cc's of miscellaneous shit. I did that first before my cardio. I guess, I don't know. I'm a foodie, man. It's crippling. Some is probably... I'll be 50. I think some is genetic. Yeah. My fat storage was never really a thing for me. No, no, no. You've seen me, but I was about as fat as I get when you saw me at the Olympia. I hate you, dude. That's as fat as I get. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I've never had a need for most of these things, so I never bothered. Good. I'd say healthy, man. I'm trying to be a little more cautious with what I put in, hence the lower test and the GH. Yeah, the S-tier steroids and peptides. Yeah, so that's kind of my... We just classified everything as S-tier, so we'll be okay with that. It doesn't mean that I'm a rather people. Yeah, so I did a cardio in deep-tie if it's very troubling because the cancerous dose is lower than the anti-cancer dose. So first you have to get cancer and then the anti-cancer dose. And then remove it. And then it removes it. So if you go with cargirin, you need to go high dosages. Basically, that's what the deep-tie suggested, but it's all rodent studies and scientific evidence is all over the place. I did a good deep-tie on it. I do like it though for the guys that have trouble losing body fat, but again, it's something like for 8% body fat onwards because up until that point, you don't really need it. The guys run it way too early, in my opinion. I'd rather go on SLU-PP332 and that whole stack than go on cargirin. But it does work quite nicely when combined with carnitine and adorap compounds. It's quite unique in how it works and it's falsely classified as a sarm when it works on the PPR receptors. Yeah. Dean, did you ever try it? Yeah, yeah, I like it. Very first time I tried it was 2016. And at the time, who was coaching me was- It's before the cancer study. You're like an early adopter, like smokers. This shit is great. It kills my appetite. Well, just like everything else back then, I aired at 10 milligrams, which was... Yeah, you're close, but you're not that close. I remember at the time, who was coaching me was a big fan of giant set training and a lot of stacked exercises. And the first time I took it was before a leg day where it was literally like five set, giant set workouts. And I was shocked just the endurance that came from it. The muscular endurance or the aerobic capacity that by the time you got to the end of the first round of five exercises, normally it'd be a little gastric. A little winded, obviously, with a lot of exercises, little rest, high reps. It was just a strange thing that you were... It's like you've gone for a roam, but you're not out of breath. That's the easiest way to explain how it took effect. And fat, sort of pee-pee, agonist side, it dramatically improves your ability to train and because you're not fighting to try and keep up with the amount of work you're trying to do because of you're not as gastric. So from an oxygen perspective, definitely a noticeable effect when you take it. Do you notice that when you take it before the workout that besides the endurance boosts, is that the pump also lasts longer because you shift energy production from glucose to fatty acids and thus glycogen is preserved to a certain extent, even in a carbohydrate deficient state or deficit? Not that I've not, but that is a good point. So that's what I noticed, that the pump is just more intense. Again, I do a ketogenic diet, so my carb intake is like 70 grams per day, unless I go ham on Sunday. But then it seems that towards the end of the week, when I run carderine at maybe 10, 20 milligrams per day, is that I have a better pump towards the end of the week, so I'm not as depleted from a glycogen perspective and that makes the last two workouts of the week just a little bit more enjoyable because on a ketogenic diet, the pump is already shit and then when you're dieting, the pump is shittier. So the carderine kinda, and it doesn't matter how much anadrol and injectable pre-workout intake, I had one point here, the pump is gone. So the carderine kinda helps to preserve that and it just makes it from a mental perspective when you go into the gym that after five sets, you still get something. Instead of you do 12 sets and there was nothing and you basically had to floss it the entire way through. So that's what I noticed and I heard that anecdotally. I hear that more, that that affects present then people see that the HDL goes up. I never see that on blood tour. I've seen it a couple of times with 20 milligram dosing, but again, we're looking at anecdotal response. If it's going to raise HDL, then the only real mechanism is gonna do that is by lowering hepatic liposuction. I was gonna say that's the only mechanism it could do it by. Yeah. How the interaction there from a TV. Does it interact with the back of the piece? I couldn't find that in scientific evidence. I mean, it must if it's doing that. Yeah.  anecdoli, was one of the first, aside from the endurance benefits, was, oh, well, this has promised for raising HDL. Yeah, that's in the clinical trials that all got abandoned. Is it as a consequence of doing aerobic exercise, which we know raises HDL? I don't know. You know, it's, you know, it is the fact that you take a cadre in and you're going to do more aerobic exercise and take advantage of its action and then that increases your HDL. The other side of it then is if you're on sky high dosages of androgens, you're going to increase apatical high-pace. No matter what you take, you're not going to lower that, you know, you're not going to improve the suppression of it. So that's probably, you know, why it doesn't improve on blood work if drawn quite a significant amount. Yeah. All right. I can still agree to S-terdil, even though it does cause cancer. Sure. Yeah, just give it an S, okay? Or no S. I can have this tear. The FDA will have a field A. So you're saying this causes cancer. You want to stay at proven. Don't put it in S-terdil, man. I mean, smoking cigarettes will help you lose weight too, and that's S-terdil. Yeah, I mean, dude, in the 90s, like Dennis Wolfe and a couple of German bodybutters, like Marcus Rohl, there were whole packs of cigarettes, whole packs. And he's still alive. I mean, clearly it doesn't cause cancer. Cut in great shape. That was not medical advice. Yeah. No, it's never, nothing is medical advice. I mean, the disclaimer is thick, but he paid just long. Yeah. I mean, yeah. Yeah. So talking about S-terdil and PPR receptor organism, it's almost hard then. I, unless you're going to take very, very high dosages, I don't think you're going to get PPR activity out of 20 milligrams. But Dean, the scientific evidence shows that PPR. It sounded so professional there. That was amazing. Fucking hell. You practiced that, didn't you? I've been practicing this for six weeks, dude. Okay. Six weeks. Whatever opportunity I get, I'm going to take advantage of. So the scientific evidence shows, if you really dive deep into it, that PPR agonism by Tom Sartan induces fat loss. So why doesn't it induce fat loss in the real world when you take 80 milligrams per day, split over two servings, 40 milligrams morning and 40 milligrams in the evening? That's not high, is it? The guy that recommended it as a neck. Oh yeah. It's ripped, ripped. Well, the opposite. I was kidding. That was a joke. It's because it's estrogen. You don't want to watch it. Yeah, it's estrogen. It's not the Tom Sartan. Well, because it's used, he's using it to counteract bloat and blood pressure from high estrogen, but he doesn't want to address that. He'd rather address the top. But you want to know an interesting thing. I had this recently in a consult, angiotensin 2 stimulates aromatase. So if you're taking an A or B, you're blocking the receptor, but you're still raising ang2. And ang2 then interacts with your aromatase expression. So you take your A or B? Why did you have to tell this publicly? This is one of my favorites. This is one of my favorites during consultations, said, hey, look at this. And they're like, oh, why did I spend $100 talking to this guy? We've let the cat out of the bag, and that's why if you've listened so far, you've got that nugget of information. Yeah, there you go. Only one minute and 30, or an hour and 30 minutes in. But yeah, that was where when this Hello Beed Eye name drug as a fat loss agent just adds it more onto my ship pile of, I guess, holy grail of PD ancillaries that if you're trying to sell it as a fat loss agent, you're going to have to go really deep diving into trying to get that effect from the stroke. Yeah, which is only safe. Yeah, but it's super safe. Yeah, it's just automatically yourself with blood pressure medicine and really high doses. Big fan. Yeah, so unlike all the other previous compounds, I feel comfortable putting this one in F tier. I don't know about you guys. Well, we could put an S tier for it on to stroke some egos, but yeah, it belongs in F. Yeah, all right. So we got a lot of S's and one F. It'll be interesting because everyone I see is on Tomasartan. It'll be interesting if that'll fit. Yeah, I mean, I'm on Tomasartan as well, but I need legitimate blood pressure management. That's different. Yeah. And I'm on my magnesium, to ring potassium, we discuss this many, many times. I do my daily facet cardio. I just need a little bit of blood pressure management and now it's on 20 milligrams per day. Did you try the flaxseed oil? No, but it has lignins that blocks the androgen receptors. Yeah, but not I still think the blood pressure stuff. I've been using flaxseed oil for since 1996 daily. And that's so with my kidney. Do you don't look any less anabolic than I do? No, when and the fascinating thing is with my kidney disorder, I'm supposed to find blood pressure and no neurologist can ever figure out why I don't. That's where they missed it for so long. And it's most likely because of using flaxseed oil for almost 40 years. How do you take it? Just a tablespoon with you? I use the table with breakfast. That's it. Yeah. Did you ever mix flaxseed oil with stevia and ground flaxseeds to make your own flaxseed butter? I take ground flaxseeds separate, but I've never mixed them. I do mix it with Alcornich and shoot like 10 cc's of it though. In your bicep. In your bicep? Show me your bicep. No. No, no, I can't see your bicep. It's completely out your feet in the crotch. It's an anachronistic product now from all that. Oh, no. So, well, enough about F tier stuff. I want to go back to S tier stuff. To Danifilm. X-ray has been shown scientifically to cause lipolysis. And people notice that after five minute Cialis daily that after a while they're suddenly lean. But it could also be from the increased sexual activity. That's still more confident. Yeah, with the boners. It's another, at least five minutes of extra energy expenditure. So I included this in the Cialis deep dive. And again, I think it's just, Cialis is just such a multifaceted compound that the fat loss is just a warm welcome. It's known to lower estradiol levels. It causes boners spontaneously, which again, I mean, if you were 16 at one point and it's just, you can get fond memories like, hey, what's going on when you're in the classroom, right? So that's Cialis does that. It apparently increases energy receptors. Apparently it's, what else was it? Oh yeah, it helps us with blood pressure management. The only real downside of Cialis is that it might cause acid reflux, which again, you can mitigate with B10, 100 chloride and apple cider vinegar. Some sinus issues, right? If you take too much. Yeah, too much. That's why women can't really use it. They respond like, true. Another thing alongside the talmosert and again, this is another nugget for PD5 inhibition in visceral adipose tissue, upregulates aromatase. So I guess if you're taking Cialis and your estrogen goes up, it's potentially aromatase over expression and visceral fat. But that's if someone is, again, has quite a bit of visceral fat under abdomen, let's say. But yeah, more nuggets from interesting consults. And you can go into the PubMed. I did not find that in the scientific evidence when I researched it, but it could, you know, I mean, if you say it, then it's true. PD5, we can link the study. But yeah, you have here. So PD5 inhibitors such as Tadalaphyl and Cylaphylabin found to stimulate aromatase expression in human adipocytes. And the paper, big long-winded name is, Inhibition of Phosphorid Estra is 5 promotes the aromatase mediated estrogen biosynthesis in osteoblastics. I missed that one. I missed that one in my deep dive. Well, time to make an adendum video. This was due to a very interesting consult where using an ARB raised their estrogen and then they implemented Cialis and the estrum and up. So the only thing that you could correlate in this person's change were the two things. And then you do the deep dive into the mechanism, it makes sense. We're probably making the estrogen epidemic worse by blanket taking two ancillaries, which again have good use. But there is like, what was the body fat of this individual? Is it high or just an average person? Just normal, not bodybuilder, not, you know, large or small or whatever. Just normal, but it comes back to that visceral fat around the abdomen is very subjective. And a lot of people can carry it quite well around their abdomen without even realizing. And that's sort of where we see sometimes people have fatty liver and you don't even realize they've got visceral fat. You need to do a dexa scan or a fibrosis scan to kind of get the diagnosed. So when I did research on Cialis, all the studies that I found it lowered estradiol without skewing testosterone levels and increasing endogenous receptor similar papers. Yeah, I see it like there's a lot of research like like that. No, I mean, this was only something recently for me to learn was when I looked at, you know, the history of what it changed in the pharmacology. I dived into, you know, looking at PubMed, looking at different keywords like Pd5 in a bitter aromatase expression. Then all of a sudden you start to see when you dive a little bit deeper that there is some crossover in visceral fat human fat cells. But if you take telnozartan or Cialis with metformin which lowers aromatase enzyme expression, maybe a break even. Or with, or it's a Rhymedex. Can we say a Rhymedex on that? No, no, no, no, no. You go, bone mineralization, man. You got to think about and then the anti, what is it called? In the ethylthelium, right? The antioxidant effects in the endothelium. You can't say aromasin in the Rhymedex. Poison. Poison. Okay. Cialis, ester for me just because of the boners and all the other benefits are just, you know, just added warm welcomes. Who needs plant butyl for Neath when you can take Cialis? I agree. Well, if you're single then it's going to be a problem. But if you have a partner that's always ready for you then I highly agree. Okay. Grythromone, anti-obesity drug, 9604 and Grythromone fragment 176 to 191. We kind of covered these last video. Yeah. Okay, so you're just going to put an S there then? You're going to ask for fun. S, Dean? S, yeah, I mean. Okay. We've done enough of a deep dive on the last one with the peptides. Yeah, I agree. I think take your pick at a tree based on budget. Yeah, or stack all three if your budget is high. You ran anti-obesity drug 9604 in your prep, right? I did. You felt contributed much? I'd take the oral version, lipotropin. Okay. I'd dose that fast before I'd, you know, go for a walk to the school with the two boys. So yeah, I definitely, definitely noticed it a small sort of termogenic effect from taking it. Again, it comes back to when you have these things in play, the mitochondrial optimization, you know, is that having a huge benefit over everything else underneath? I don't know. But it was definitely something that I trialled and then took advantage of with some activity. You know, it's going to induce lipolysis. You're going to mobilize those fatty acids and then use, use them for some energy based activity. Right. Okay. Take your, take your lipotropin and pop a Cialis and take advantage of it too. Take advantage of it too. All right. Let's see, IGF one. I don't think that has really is a place here. insulin. Prefast cardio. Should we discuss this or should we? It's a bit, it's a bit. Could be touchy. Could be touchy. Yeah. Now we got to think of one. It's up to you. Not really some. I recommend people doing, but before, before glucagon became available and before retrochrytide and those kinds of compounds became available. I was an adamant user of intramuscular insulin. One to two I use. I am. Fast. Before fast cardio. Super fast acting. Yeah. Humaloc. The hypoglycemia is brutal. Last for about 15 minutes. Then the glucagon gets dumped and then you get a significant drop of adipose tissue, right? The triglycerides and fatty acids and then also glucose coming from or from the glycogen sorting your liver. Otherwise you get a good amount of gluconeogenesis from the triglyceride backbone, right? The glycerol backbone from adipose tissue. In the beginning you are really hypoglycemic. Then you can see your blood glucose levels goes up and then your cardio session is done when blood glucose levels are back in range again. It could be 20 minutes to 40 minutes depending on the amount of dumpage that you get. You can get significant fat loss out of it, but this is hardcore, hardcore 19-spotty building. It's risky in hardcore 19-spotty building. I haven't done it in years and I haven't recommended it in a very long time. It doesn't work crazy though. It works. Dangerous. Yeah, but it's outdated in my opinion. Yeah. Do you ever try it? No, but I've had plenty of hypoglycemic, it's extra in cardio Tony. I assume what it's like. Yeah, I go high bone my own, no need to for help. Yeah. They're brutal, those hypo attacks where you can't really do anything if you're that hardcore and committed to your cardio. You're just waiting like you said until your blood sugar balances itself out. A couple of times I've had, like we've left caffeine off so far where I've gone high bone in the middle of cardio and this is one of you should do stupid kind of like an hour of cross train or an hour of walking and treadmill. Yeah, that's what I had. Yeah, you know, you had a coach who's like get an hour of cardio and back then you're like, okay, whatever you say. What are you doing, dude? You know, yeah, you're sort of question your head. Like rich. Yeah, I really need to be doing this. And just by experience, I'd have like a kind of an energy drink with caffeine, you know, a sugar free energy drink and the caffeine itself and you go hypoglycemic, you know, stimulating adrenergic response to help speed up balancing your blood sugar. Not that wise. We're doing even in cardio and you down like an energy drink at that error tonight, but it helps take you out of that edginess where you feel like you're just going to fall off the cardio machine. Yeah, simpler times back in the day. You don't have all these peptides and shit available or so. It didn't matter. Yeah, it didn't matter. Yeah. Yeah, it's so yeah, I'm just going to put it in F tier, even though I did use it a lot. I think there's much better opportunities out there and I don't think anybody has a reason to do that nowadays. No, even though I did, I did it so many times. Even the outdated voice of injectable L carnity and with injectable insulin. Quite quite quite quite a popular stack with bikini athletes and then I'm sort of questioning the ones that don't want to do PDs or hard PDs to be told. Yeah, one of you have insulin alongside 200 milligrams of injectable L carnity and I just don't crush your car and wait to the gym. Yeah, you can just take a gram of rural L carnitine and a gram of BCA's and then you would get a similar insulin and tropic effect. Not that it makes any difference. No. Because it absorbs over the day and it's same with creatine. Yeah, you need insulin to help it absorb to get it getting creatine all day from your food and then from a supplement. It's going to absorb and it's not like it absorbs and it's available right away. No. It just replenishes what's already present. The reason why we take carnitine pre-cardiol is because you're moving a lot. So you get blood flow. So it gets to the area but the insulin, yeah, I took the carnitine with the insulin many times and I don't think it makes a difference. I think the insulin made a huge difference from the glucagon release but again, nowadays you can get glucagon or glucagon receptor organism in the form of retrotutide and then that's a lot more hypoglycemia friendly. So we got the second candidate in FTR besides Thomas Sartan. It's an insulin pre-fast cardio. Even though many of my former clients will be scratching their heads right now, it's like, why the fuck did we do that Steve? So, Clemie Troy is a three week detection time and injectable insulin doesn't. So if you want to beat the drug test, then you're going to have to make some sacrifices. Let's see. Now terzepidides, our lyrical tytolyglutide and semi-glutide that's a bit outdated so I just want to skip over that. Terzepidide, retrotutide and glucagon. I think they can be classified as the same thing. I'm a huge fan of these compounds because I'm not a blue-collar bodybuilder and I can't suffer through and down. I just love food too much and it's very distracting. It's gotten a lot more popular over the years. I think I talked about it first and everybody thought, what the fuck is this compound and now it's everywhere, semi-glutide for that matter. And of course in the fitness community we've kind of progressed into terzepidide and retrotutide. I would personally choose between retrotutide and there's cargolin, cargolin asymetide, sodium out there and sometimes that's combined with semi-glutide. It's a little bit over the newer stuff. I don't have any experience with that. We need to get Chase Irons on board. It was also a FODY who only can get his appetite down with these kinds of drugs. And it was a game changer for me. And retrotutide I think is the only one with actual enhancing fat loss through the glucagon agonism. Terzepidide has to a certain extent by helping the entrance or the exit of fatty acids from adipose tissue. So when you activate GIP receptor it allows fatty acids to enter and exit adipose tissue. So if you're in a chlorate deficit obviously it enhances the exit, the lipolysis from adipose tissue. But not that you have retrotutide with glucagon agonism. I would go with that option. Even though the appetite suppression effects are not as stellar as Terzepidide and it seems to build up faster. So instead of half a milligram you might proceed to 1 milligram, 1.66 milligrams, maybe even 2 milligrams, 3 times per week, faster than Terzepidide. Dean, did you ever use these kinds of medications? Both Terzepidide and retrotutide. And like you said, Terzepidide seems to have the more potent appetite suppression effect. But retrotutide seems to be much better from a metabolism perspective for fat loss. The very first time I took retrotutide, the appetite suppression is weird. The easiest way to describe it is literally you've just taken your brain and your stomach and they're just not communicating one another. So you don't feel hungry physically but mentally as well. You just don't want to eat. It's very strange. And then the other, I guess negative that I experienced with retrotutide was if you have, like my HPO and C is 27s, you know, very good instant sensitivity even with chronically eating 500, 600 grams of carbs. With retrotutide, you wouldn't eat and then you'd be sort of fasting and by like hour 18 of fasting, I'd be sitting in the office here and I was sort of sweating, dripping down my back. And then I'd go out and take my blood sugar and I was like 3.1, you know, in the midst of it, full on hypo. But mentally and physically, you don't feel hungry and mouth isn't watering. You don't get any of the signs of hypoglycemia. And then you're trying to bring your blood sugar up by like making up a, you know, concentrated glucose drink or cyclic dextrin to try to bring your blood sugar up because physically you're just like, I don't want to eat. And it's like you said, it's like on top of the mitochondria optimization. We're sort of coming into an era now where you can get rid of your appetite pretty bluntly and then you can upregulate the parts that are using your fatty acids for energy and theory that you could probably do a 20 week diet in maybe 10 weeks because you've got a severely suppressed appetite. You've got a wholly optimized system of burning the fatty acids. The only, I guess, again, with me caveats is the, the rebound appetite that can come from, from these drugs. It's terrible. It's absolutely terrible. I mean, you saw me in the UK, right? I couldn't stop eating. You came off and then I came off and I tapered down. Like after the Olympia, like at the Olympia was on Richard Retite and I could still eat. By the time I was running it long enough that my appetite was not really suppressed anymore. And of course, I'm in the, in the US, right? There was all this new food around me and I just, I just want to eat, you know, it's, it's a curse. So I tapered it off slowly to like half a milligram per week and then I went to the UK and in the UK and again presented with new food again. She couldn't stop me. It's a curse, but I've always had this. It's like everybody in my family is just fat and obese, basically me and my wife are outliers and we can control our fitness aspirations quite well, but it's just difficult to really get peeled without these kinds of medications. So I just made the mistake every time I diet because it makes it a lot easier and it keeps my mind off the food noise. Because otherwise I'm just sitting here working and then I'm thinking about food and now that my wife has pregnancy brings home a little bit more fun stuff, right? And she's just sitting on the couch like, oh, I'm pregnant. I can eat like a little bit of extra calories. And she didn't gain, the fuck she gained nothing so far. So she didn't get any fatter and we're now 20 weeks in. So she's doing a good job, but she still brings the, the tasty food home. So now that I'm offseason, it's fine. But if I'm dieting, no way, dude, I couldn't do it without it. I don't know how I dieted it without it so many years. I think like you said, it's, it's strange. It's miserable. You know, like, like, but like you said, you're able to invest. Obviously, willpower is a big thing. And always about, you've got a finite amount of willpower being able to like push away temptations or whatever or food focus. But if you can suppress your appetite like that, and now all of a sudden you're a lot more productive because none of your thoughts are centered around when I'm going to eat, what I'm going to eat. Oh, it's really like to eat this food. Even from a, um, a hedonic perspective of looking at a piece of food, like a cake or something. I think I would really like that. It's, it's strange because like I said, when I took it, you knew you had to eat, but you didn't really want to eat. But you knew how important it was to even get in sufficient protein. Yeah, it's a job. I said my alarm, I said my alarm at, you know, three hour intervals and then I have enough time to cook and eat. And I, I can get the food down. No problem. I don't feel nauseous. It doesn't sit in my stomach. I know no digestive issues, but I just don't think about food. And even when you have your refeed date on Saturday or Sunday, you go out and instead of just buying a box of donuts or wanting to buy a box of donuts and fantasizing about it the entire week. It's almost Sunday. I'm going to buy cheesecake. I don't think about it. And when I go on a Sunday, I'm like, okay, I'll have a steak and a potato, which is way healthier than, than what I used to do. You know, and I think like for me, I got into this food orgy problem, you know, six weeks, six days per week, you died hard to put away that food noise because one day a week I can kind of relax or at least have a high carb day. And then you, you do a high carb day with a thousand carbs, your stomach is shrunk and you sit in your stomach and you feel fucking uncomfortable and it's, and I'm so tired of it. I'm so over it. So that's why I'd rather run these kinds of compounds and help with fat loss tremendously, at least the literature type. So I'm, I'm, I'm all for it. Even you're, even you're sorry to me is the cardiometabolic aspect of controlling cholesterol, lipids from a dietary perspective. If they're going impacted by your nutrition. So I'm not, you know, you've got people are missing these compounds are cheating. I think these are the ones that are very old school that had to suffer so bad that don't want people to experience these hacks to speak. I do think, you know, for hard to resist. And so that I started talking about it. I don't want to be, I said, no, I want to focus on other stuff. I got too much going on to be focusing on about work and then being upset with myself that I can't eat it and I want to get shredded. I did that for, from 15 years old to 30 years old until these kinds of drugs or 35 years old, 20 years. I did it and I'm just kind of over it too because you lose money. And when I lose money, it's a lot on it. So I'd rather just take care of my family and buy them nice things and spend a little bit extra money on these kinds of medications. Because if you do your research and you're really have to lifestyle, then they're reasonably benign to take. And again, we're not taking the medically recommended dose just enough to kind of keep the appetite at bay. Yeah, like even the other side of like the hardcore mentality. Do I think certain people probably would benefit from experience and what it is like to diet hard? Probably, but that's not to say that you're not going to die a hard when you're taking these things because you're still having a restrictive diet to speak. I find they bring great benefit because they can almost give you a psychological leverage. And so they help break bad psychological habits with food where someone has a psychological habit of having a certain type of food at a certain time of day. And that is keeping them in a surplus or it's not good for their health to speak by not wanting that food. You know, nighttime eating by not wanting to eat anymore or not seeing that food as pleasurable. They're almost able to break that mental habit that if if he can do like again, this goes back to the clinical trials of like semi-glute for appetite suppression. 60% of the trial subjects regained back close to 70% of the body weight that they lost. But that clearly shows that all throughout taking the medication, it was just blocking that mental focus on food that they were never actually coached how to break those mental habits. As soon as the appetite came back, it was like, oh, well, maybe I'll have a small bit of cheesecake and then a small bit of cheesecake turns into a big cheesecake. And on it, they fall back into the habits that were suppressed. So they can be useful if they can help someone reset their psychology to food or break their relationship with certain patterns of eating. Yeah, but you need some sort of therapy. I'm going to be honest, like I did, I went to AA meetings to talk about food addiction and I'd done like hypnotism or tried to.  and I can't say that that worked either. So, I think it's just the way you grow up, like, you know, when you have like giant meals over the weekend and your diet is just riddled with sugars because my parents didn't know any better. It's just hard to break the habit. Now, I'll get over it at one point, but for me, I think once I start something like this again, I'll just keep a very low dose in the background just to kill the food noise. Chase Arons always says he has a lot of experience and has done a lot of research, and the more research I do, the more I realize that, you know, he knows exactly what he's talking about. Because in the beginning, I wasn't really full of retrotutide in the offseason, but now that I do more research and I hear more people talk about it, that actually experience it, like a blue collar bodybuilder, for example. He's also running retrotutide and SLU and motse, you know, that stuff in the offseason. And he just stays lean and eats what he needs to eat. And again, I think he was an alcoholic in the past, so he's gone through the AA five step program, and then, you know, food might still be an issue. So yeah, I think it's for people that really like their food. I think it's a game changer. And I haven't touched as many of the previous discussed fat burners since these kinds of drugs became available because I didn't need them as a crutch anymore because food adherence, diet adherence, is so much greater. And even not going overboard over the weekend is so much better. So yeah, it's there for me. Did you guys ever use glucagon injections? No. No, but it's a useful, well, I haven't, but when it comes to top level getting on stage, it's stuff that I've discussed. And it's probably an inner circle thing, but if you have the right athletes and the right sort of setting of the physique, glucagon before they get on stage, it can do like. Before they get on stage? Yes. I love to hear about this. I had never heard of anybody. Well, well. Or you're not ready to retire your coaching. No, no, keep it, keep it. Do you know what, guys? If you want to know about glucagon before stage, I would be for a fucking consultation. All I'll say is it's not something like pre-stage insulin. It's almost a reverse. So you need to be 100% sure that if you put this thing in that person's body is going to be able to handle that glucagon because insulin mops up. Blood glucagon dumps blood glucagon. So you need to have the right setting, but if you have the right setting, man, that person's going to be put it this way. As soon as they start pumping up things, change very quickly. I can imagine, yeah. You have to be able to have the right setting and be fully sure that that is the right choice for that person. Yeah, it's pre-stage. It can be useful. I want you to increase your rates for the next month. Ha ha ha ha. This glucagon pre-stage will be double the price. I'd never heard about this. I've done insulin before the stage, like with the blueberry pancake, in the morning, or the good old, again, old school stacks, because again, the insulin is not detectable on blood tests for water, cell or urine tests. So yeah, I've done that plenty of time, but glucagon, now that's new for me. I've done glucagon before facet cardio many times, and it literally causes indentations in the fat. Like. Where you inject it. So that's besides helios. That's one of the few, and we didn't discuss helios. Well, it's esther. Helios, yeah. Yeah, yeah, esther. Yeah, forget about helios. I have one. It's OK. We discussed the claim. Can we sell one over there? Are you showing you this? Do they? Interesting. Yeah. Yeah, it's available here through the undergound labs. So the glucagon causes indentations also. But you really see that your blood glucose level spike during the cardio session, and it might be elevated for 30 to 40 minutes after an injection, depending on the dose. So if you do a quarter milligram left, right, that's OK. But if you go with a full milligram, you're a full hypochid from L.E. Lily, then you're doing cardio for an hour. That's how long blood glucose stays elevated. And it's even when you're 100% depleted at the end of the week. It just comes from adipose tissue and gluconeogenesis from the glycerol backbone. It's very potent. Well, like I was saying, pre-stage. So $80 is shot. If someone is extremely depleted and flat, it's a useful strategy to turn things around rapidly. Rather than going the risky route of going, OK, well, here's some fast actin insulin where you're trying to influence. It's like perfect for making weight, right? So in theory, and this is where I'm not making anything. Stop, stop, stop, stop. Do a consultation with you. You can tell me after the show. No, I want you to keep the secret, man. Keep the secret. I know how little secrets there are now. So just keep it for yourself and let them fucking pay for it. OK, Kurt, I want you to join in on the glucocorticoid receptor inhibiting effects of anabolic and genic steroids regarding fat loss. Wow, OK. Let's talk about which one we want to talk about. Well, first we have to classify the previous one. So S tier, done, of course. Oh, he says. Oh, he says, OK. So well, what I could find in the scientific evidence regarding glucocorticoid receptor inhibition, it's been established for testosterone, trimbolone, oxenolone, and windstraw. Yep. And potentially the other steroids as well. But those four, there's some scientific evidence for it. So who would be the better guy to handle this topic than Mr. Kurt? I will try. So I mean, they're all studied through different mechanisms, right? So Tren is going to decrease the GR receptor expression in muscle. And it's also going to antagonize the MR receptor. How much in depth do you want me to go? Do you want me to cruise through these? No, just regarding fat loss. Just regarding fat loss. I mean, that's so, and then you have some AR activity, do you try to learn? I don't think, I think that part's kind of misunderstood with Tren. I think the AR stuff from Tren yet has clearly a much stronger binding affinity than efficacy than testosterone, three fold more. But I don't think that's really the magic in it, because it's just more powerful on a milligram basis. You would get the same, if it was pure AR, you would get the same fat loss from just a much larger amount of test. Assuming everything else was controlled. I think it's, Trenbalone is more specifically, I think, through the MR and the glucocorticoid receptor. That's where you're going to really see a bigger difference. I believe Auxander loan or Anavar just regulates the crosstalk between the AR and the GR. So it's a little different from the mechanism. Winstrol, let me think about Winstrol for a second. And testosterone is probably going to do it through five alpha reductase. I would believe. I read that the spillover from the DHT blocking the glucocorticoid. Yeah, because the relative binding affinity for DHT is much higher than testosterone. Yes, and then the GR. Yeah, Winstrol would regulate the more affinity with the MR. Lags, I think Winstrol would do it, Winstrol is such a strange drug. It would do it through Lags, which is the low affinity glucocorticoid binding site at the liver. I believe. And that's, and I think it also, Winstrol will also give a look of lower cortisol too, because it's removing that protein, the C1 protein inhibition. It's going to look like you're less stressed out, I think, just from the visual looks of Winstrol. I think that's probably the greatest effect from Winstrol, really, is that visual. Right? Well, halotestin prevents the breakdown of corticosterone, right, into cortisol. Which can probably have some negative play with GH, if you're using the two together. But those would be the major ones that are just all slightly different in the way they interact with cortisol. So regarding anabolic androgenic steroids and fat loss, I could, it's always been speculated that tremolone and anivar potentially had more fat loss than other steroids. Well, the anivar one, I think, is confusing, because there's that one study with the belly fat, right? Yeah. I think that's where I think, again, that's, I think, an issue of people reading an abstract and not actually seeing the whole study. Because if you look at the study, I don't know if Dean and I, I don't know if you and I ever talked about this one. It's really interesting because the study, they actually changed direction halfway through. So they were first pitting anivar. They took sedentary middle-aged men or even older men and they gave them testosterone and ananthate or anivar and it was a control group. The testosterone and ananthate, though, was a TRT dose and it was given every other week. So I'd have to question even the efficiency of even using. So if you injected 200 milligrams of testosterone on a bi-weekly basis, how much fat loss are you really going to get? Right? And then they were given anivar and then halfway through the study, the researchers didn't love what the liver enzymes were doing. So they switched that anivar group to nantralone and they did nantralone versus testosterone and then the body fat went up with the nantralone group and they basically just concluded that it appeared that anivar caused belly fat loss that testosterone did not. When you actually read the study, you're like, how relevant is that to our population? I don't really think it's terribly relevant. Not to say it doesn't have an effect. A lot of people do mention it anecdotally, though, that anivar magically removed the lower output and I experienced the same. When I use anivar at the end, it just feels like everything below the belly button, between the belly button and the junk, kind of shrinks in. I think anivar is a great drug. I don't have anything negative to say about it. I just don't know. I think part of the problem is guys or girls, women probably more so, are looked to leverage those things for fat loss specifically, right? And that's not really the use of anivar steroids. You'll get that as a side effect or an additive effect, I should say. Side effect, but it's not necessarily the primary function, right? Especially in women, they'll take anivar, assuming they're getting a fat loss and the scale goes up and they freak out because they just gain muscle and they're looking at the scale and then they probably aren't losing body fat at the same time, but they respond so robustly to it that the weight goes up. Yeah, we're in, of course, water distribution is a little bit more favorable, right? Where some of the subcutaneous water shifts into skeletal muscle from nitrogen retention, electrolyte retention. So you appear leaner initially and that might be mistaken as fat loss. Still, it seems that people on steroids get fucking diced, but 90s also get fucking diced. Yeah, I think I got leaner. I mean, I was younger. I think I got leaner when I was natural. This is less variables, right? I have same hair, right? But I have nothing else to do with it. You know, what else do you focus on? You only have two quarts to move. You do more of a diet harder. Yeah, but also when you're younger, what do you do? You go to school and that's it. You have zero responsibilities. No, I think your focus is different, right? You can suffer. You don't have responsibility. I didn't have to. I wasn't responsible for three other people. It didn't matter if my head was not quite clear. I just had a menial job that I could half-ass focus on. Showing out. Yeah. You know, we're school, like, most of my classes, I get pretty much just not pay attention and do okay in them. So it's like, I know right now, you know, you're a little bit sleepy and it goes down the toilet. Yeah. And your wife is like, hey, you got to perform tonight. I'm big, but I haven't had calories in a while. So it's okay. You go to the kitchen, have a peanut butter and then you go perform. Yeah. And that's, I think, the problem is that people just assume steroids are like a magic, some magic lever that you could pull and just things happen, right? And unfortunately, you have to have the other stuff in line first too. Yeah. And it's, you know, we have everything in line. Whenever everything in line, it's fantastic, but just a genetic expression. If you're not someone who can get that lean easily, right? And that's, I guess, where a GLP or something can help too is the food noise. Yeah. Like that was never, again, that's probably my upbringing. My parents, I wasn't allowed to eat garbage. My kids, I see it in my children too. They eat the same stuff that I eat. I cook other food and they don't really have like tremendous appetites. Like a lot of times I have to rush my son to eat faster. Right. If he's eating chicken or anything, he's not like, he's not like shuffling it out his mouth because it's boring. We had so much food and so much candy in the house. That's what they eat. So much food, so much candy in the house was, yeah, when I look back on it, I, I'm going to do better. I'll do better for my kids. Yeah. I'll do better. Yeah. It's interesting. You'll see a big effect in your children's health though, from a young age with the food. Yeah. But we only have good, good stuff in the house. So that's what I'm saying. We just see how healthy your children are because of that. Yeah. And then of course we still like to go out to dinner, but I can control my kids so much, so much better with your children. You're still going to go to dinner. I still go to dinner. I think that's part of life. I think it's the 80% stuff that goes on that people screw up. Dean, Dean, how was my dinner with you in, where was it, Birmingham? Oh, yeah. We had two dishes and, and puklaffi. Oh, man. I can still remember the guys face taking the order, sort of looking at me and Steve. Cause I ordered two steaks, two sides. Yeah, you were pre-tamed for my orders. Two sides of rice. And then Steve had his sort of platter and the name and whatever else, but you're sort of looking at us thinking like all the food for this one table. And then I had the ice cream and, and then they came with something. They came with something extra, right? Or he said, like, yeah, you got to try this as well. I think it was like, yeah, it was good food. So man, it was tasty. It was. Holy moly. I was so bloated afterwards. And then I had to, we had to go to the airport. Good times. Good times. Good times. I got when we meet. Well, I'll take you out to dinner too with the Anabola ground table finances because we made a good amount of ad sense revenue on this podcast. So I owe you a few steaks also. I owe you a few steaks as well. Yeah. Well, we'll figure something out. You can buy me some ice cream. One of the last time we went out, we all ate, we ate up of vets. Yeah. I mean, what was that five grand that we spent on dinner? It was five grand. It was a lot of appetite at that table. Yeah. And how do you get to the GOPs? I was on GOP. I was in a chaste, chaste late. I was impressed that the man can eat. Yeah, but he was struggling a little bit. But I mean, I see it catching up with him. I had a hamburger and those. I had that cheesecake. And yeah, you had the cheesecake. The cheese cake. The cheese cake. The big. Yeah. It was a kilometer. So I ate like three side dishes in the hamburger. And then I couldn't walk after that. No, it was really good. That's why I'm staying home this round because I finally got my food habits. I don't think there's any restaurants in Columbus like that. There's that one. Oh, well, there's that one Brazilian steakhouse, but they kept cutting us off. They were not happy that we were eating so much and they kept putting the thing off. And we could turn it over. I've been there. We just didn't want to eat it. Yeah. They probably saw us the first time and then because we ate the whole store clean. Yeah, they were. They were not happy. And then the second time Paul came with you guys and they're like, oh, these guys again. Nope. Because we cleaned house, man. First time I was there with Paul and then Justin Harris and Skipp Hill and all these guys. Oh, that's a fun group. Skip and Justin. Skip, can you? Oh, my God. He's short, but he's thick, man. Can you Justin Justin it a lot? Yeah, it was a fun day. So next time we'll join in again. Okay. Where were we? We were in steroids for fat loss. I think they're a great addition. I mean, I'm sure they enhance lipolysis a little bit and then speed up fatty acid oxidation by having more metabolically active tissue. I'm still going to put it in ester, obviously, because of steroids, you know, especially oxanotrol and tremolone. I mean, it's certified ester. Dean, anything you would like to add? No, Kurt. Kurt, we can promise. I don't want to hear anything about calcium. Yeah. No, I think. So, I think Kurt nailed it. I've got nothing else to add. I mean, why else? We're all using them in diet phases to retain tissue, but also for the benefit of making the diet a lot easier. Yeah, cool. And it preserves your muscle to some degree, right? It allows you to work out harder. I think that's the right during a diet. I mean, once your workout intensity goes to shit, it's over, right? If you can't work out and you're losing muscle and your sore and you're not recovering, how long are you going to continue to diet if you're on gear and you can continue to push through that, right, and make, and even possibly make some gains depending on what drugs you're doing? It makes getting lean much easier. True. Now, in this group, we have seven keto DHEA, but honestly, that only works for women. So for women, it's ester. We don't really have to discuss it much because we only have like half a percent female audience. So seven keto DHEA works for women. My wife used it many years and she always got a good response out of it. And we have some other couple of things on the list that I just want to glance off real quick. Impaqliflozin, Giordions is a sodium glucose type 2 inhibitor to help with sodium and glucose excretion. That's an option. Again, nicotinamide mononucleotide, nicotinamide ribotide, nicotinadenine dinucleotide for antioxidant benefits and potentially adipose tissue upregulation in combination with 5-min or 1-mc. We have berberine, orleostat, carcinic and bogey, which you can kind of cycle around horrible cheat meals. And I have taken these kinds of drugs many times to inhibit all of the fat and the glucose that's stored within the cheesecake. And then you have some non-stimulatory or stimulatory neutropics like Mudafinil and Bromantane and the Tessofensin, Ventramine, Subutramine, Ritalin, Adderall, Dixitin and Vyvance. But we've been here for 2 hours and 15 minutes. So we're going to glance over that. I think we discussed the most important fat burners already. BAM 15 DNP, adipotide certified FTAIR. We're not going to discuss that. For the guys that didn't realize, you guys were a little bit obnoxious sometimes in the comment section about Deanna Ball's detail. I can't believe I'm unsubscribing from the spot counter. So we had a hidden agenda to put everything in S-tier besides Thomas Hartan. It was no hiding that one. Yeah, that was no hiding that. So we had a hidden agenda. So for the guys that stuck around for 2 hours and 20 minutes, we're going to rapid fire all of the fat burners again and classify them into S-tier, A-tier, B-tier, C-tier, D-tier, E-tier or F-tier. So S-tier and F-tier is already filled a little bit. But we might move some S-tier compounds to other tiers. So let's do rapid fire, Clint Bittroll. S. Yeah. I think so. I would say A. I would say A because A is fine. A. OK. Let me write it down. Clint. OK. Old butyrol. A, I guess. Clint. B. A and B. I would do B because it's less effective. All right, Murabic Rune. I'll say S based on what you guys are saying. I agree. You know, unless I get pregnant sometimes soon, I don't think I'm going to see it. Effadrine. I'll put in S if you use the caffeine. Yeah, I agree. Cinephrine. B or C? C. C. C? You'd die. C. C. D. D is not ever. You're being. You're being useless. I mean, I'm being nice. I'm being nice. I'm being useless. It should be like E-tier. E-tier. E-tier. That's fine. Put it down on the bottom. OK. The ECA stack? S. Yes. S. OK. Yo-himbine. Robocene. A. I don't react well to it, so I'm putting it in like B, but it could work. I'm sure I don't use, you know. I'd say A if you can play to the strength of how it works without avoiding the side effects. Yeah, don't do a lot of other things. Yeah, don't do. Or do, and tell us your experience in the comments. Just throw a two and a half a picture and work it away from there. Yeah, just one capsule. That's it. T3. A. A. Just because there's a risk. I don't want to be a bad person. Just because there's a risk. I don't love to see guys use Thyroid medicine for no reason. All right. T4. B. C. B. A. B. Whatever to you. Yeah, I can agree to that. Yeah, I'd say B. B. Because you used subaturobe. Did you guys use it? Nope. I don't know how to rate it. So. I would put it next to T3 based on the experiences that are right. So. But. Isn't there a lot of data on it though? No, and not so much anecdotal reports, but for my day, if you used in the past, it came very close to T3 regarding the metabolism boost and the fatty acids or the fat loss, basically. 5m1mq. I do say A only for the fact that it's very user specific. Like. True. We say it with me when we added it in, that was the final little edge that. Okay. Yeah. Took to the last bit. Just to get you over that last little roadblock. So people, I feel they use it way too early. But like if you really, if you can't afford the other compounder, you can't source it. And you have access to NAD plus or something like that or a nicotin mononucleotide. I think a combination of 5m1mq and NMN as a supplement is very beneficial just to increase your energy levels. Because that's basically like a budget SLU. Even though SLU, the price is coming down quite a bit. And that brings us to SLU. I would say it's. Put it in S. Everyone loves it. Yeah. Okay. Methylene blue. I, from a fat loss, I'd probably say A. I wouldn't say it's going to be. Yeah. True. An S class, but it's up there at the top. It's like when you combine methylene blue with SLU, it's A or it's S. But without the SLU, it's maybe E or even a B regarding fat loss. I mean, it's a poor fat burner, but it just helps in its stack. And it's same as MoTZ. MoTZ technically is a better fat burner than methylene blue. But it really shines when it's combined to it other stuff. Carnitine. I would say B. That's fine with me. I don't want to be harsh on it or affect people's business. No, don't worry. Everybody has their opinion. You're entitled to your opinion. I think, like we talked about before, I guess if you're one, I mean, sure it could work, I guess. And I guess if it's giving you some level of mental clarity, there's probably something we said about that. Right. Not something I have any use for. Cargherine. Well, there's a whole cancer thing. So I'd say nowadays, it's probably C or D, right? Unless you said there's specific guys that really struggle and can use it. I do like it. I'm kind of a B. But you know, I think B, like, if we're coming at a risk aversity side, then it's not one that someone who has high cancer risk or worries of cancer is going to go near. But if the cancer wasn't a risk, you know, if that wasn't on the table, you could put it as high as A. But in fact, that. Yeah. The cancer thing. You know, it's if it didn't have that, it sits in the middle of yes, it's noticeable in how it works. But you sort of have to weigh up. Okay. Well, is this going to cause cancer or not? Or, you know, am I at risk of cancer? If they're not concerns, then you're going to take a risk and try in it. And if not, it's probably going to be one that's at the very bottom sitting with DMP and BAM. So putting in the middle somewhere. Yeah, from a risk perspective. Yeah. From a risk perspective, B or C. Yes. Okay. I put it next to Carnotine and B because they go so well hand in hand together. But there's much better combinations out there like SOU, PP332, Amatsya, and methylene glow. Okay. So we put cardarin and B tier next to Carnotine. Mm-hmm. What about C. Alice? Yes. Yes. Really? Really? Sure. You don't think? For the all the list of the birth? People would get upset if I don't put it at least A or S. But in my opinion, it's D tier next to Cinephil. Yeah, really? Okay. Yeah. How come? Anyway, because it's not it's not a good, I mean, this one study that shows fat loss. Oh, from a fat burning. Sorry. It's a great compound. I'd find it more. My wife loves it when I take it. Never mind. So if someone's butting it, it's probably a D. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's a D as well. I didn't even think about it from a fat loss point of view. Yeah. Well, you got to say that in the disclaimer otherwise people, I can't believe you put the dadafill. D, man, bro. My mistake. I take the dadafill and cocaine and I get great. Who's found on that? That's a good stack. Yeah, that's a good stack. You know, it's a good heart attack from that. That's a hard stack. Who the fuck cares? You're leaving. Yeah, who the fuck cares? Yeah, we're all going to live short. Dean, you can agree with the dadafill in detail or you want it somewhere else? I absolutely agree. All right. Growth hormone from a fat loss perspective, like we know it's an SDR peptide, but purely based on fat loss. By experience, I give it an S. Yeah, I would. It's hard to argue. I mean, that's like, you know, like I said about putting in marrow background, I also added back in the GH that you definitely like, you know, like, like you said, when you, when you stop, like obviously I stopped the GH before the surgery as well, you notice when that comes out and you know how different you're asleep. You know, recovery, your beard. You flatten out. Exactly. Yeah. You can't accomplish it on test the GH. We got problems. You got to rethink what you're doing. Yeah. You know, I think the other stuff all has a place and it could be added and it's sure there's benefits, but like that's the place to start. That's a staple basically. And the nice thing is with GH and you don't need as many steroids, right? Like you can get by with way less gear and use GH and stay much healthier. Yeah. And keep that healthy. And you look big and full even when you're not eating. Right? Like you're on, you're basically on a keto diet. You look full and pumped. Yeah. No glycogen. No GH is amazing. Yeah. I love it. It's too bad it's so expensive. Well pharmaceutical like the the the drugs that's cheap. Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. Anti-obesity drug 9604. Dean. B. B? B. Has it as its user case benefits, but I don't see it being as high as growth hormone. You know that and GH fragments they're they're very potent at stimulating lipolysis, but that's all they're useful for. Yeah. And their half-life is very, very quick that you have to utilize it and then go do some form of activity to mobilize fatty acids to get the benefit of it. Yeah. So we put a OD and a GH for I could beat here. insulin F tier. And just because I did it a lot and just because it works, doesn't mean you need to do it. Don't be like Steve and I've had a lot of close encounters of the third kind. Especially when you hear that song, we are going hyper close to you. You're like, where am I? What is this music? I had your close to heaven or close to the aliens. So yeah, I don't think it's required anymore, but it was very popular in the 90s from what I heard. All right. To Zephyrides. The GLPs. Well, if it's to Zephyrides separately to Retritrutide, even then, both of them probably. I'm going to do to Zephyride in A and then Retritrutide in S. That's what I'm saying. If it's needed. If it's needed. I don't think it's I've never used them. I don't think it's needed for everyone, but if it's food noises are really an issue, then yeah, they're a great drug. When you diet, how long do you need to diet? Like six weeks, eight weeks? I mean, you my condition, I mean, I could probably get on stage in six weeks from now if I had to. You don't either. I don't know. I've never I've been I've been I was naturally leaning and then I've been basically dieting for the better part of 37 years. Yeah. I mean, I don't really have food noise because it's just how I live. Yeah. And I live exactly the same way. But yeah, so I live exactly the same way. I had to eat clean the majority of the year. It only falls apart when I. 朋eticoinoliday, but I just store body fat like crazy. And I think it's a genetic thing. Actually, my body wants to be 15%. It's 300. Yeah. I mean, Dean, you might have a better answer. I believe there's 300 genes in the human body that affect fat storage and fat usage. Some. I mean, we all have different genetic expression. Like, even when I'm my fattest in the offseason, when I was 120 kilos, 265 pounds, I have the leanest face of all of my family members. My face goes first. My face will get fat first before anything else. Yeah, yeah, my face, everything gets fat with me, unfortunately. So, Retroxide, STR, Glucogon. Retroxide is probably more useful, right? Yeah. Yeah, I'm going to put an X-interzepidide in A, because it works so well, but it's just difficult to source and it's expensive. Um, Dean, you agree? Anything to add? Yeah, no, it works beautifully if you've got the right case for it. Alright, steroids in general as a fat burner. A? Yeah, I'd be saying A. I wouldn't be saying S. A. In general, A, right? Because there's a whole lot of steroids. Yeah. Yeah, and of course we already classified them individually in the first tier list that we did. So, Trimblon STR, end of our STR. Or Trimblon, where did we put it? Now, A tier, and we put this Dianalone in STR, I think, based on... What are you doing? Dean, when there's more data on the new 19-NORs that are being developed, we can always do a video on that too. Just got to wait for the factual data on them. Yeah, since then I ran the experiment with YK-11, the oral one, and I would say that from an anabolic perspective, the molecule doesn't do much, but because of the fall of staten increase against suspected based on scientific evidence, I would put it on A tier. Yeah? It really... Yeah, it's a noticeable difference. So, again, I was on a full stack of all kinds of stuff, so I'll do another experiment comparing epikathetine to oral YK-11, taken sublingually to enhance the bioavailability, then I'll switch to injectable YK-11, and then I'll switch to fall of staten 344. So that will be a... And what would you use in the background? Just test? 500 tests. No GHs, no NGF1. That needs to be something like... Yeah, no, it needs to be something. People always complain, how do you know this is doing what? So after so many years, you know, and I know it's doing what, but fair point, this is basically the last experiment that needs to be done. Be interesting. Fall of staten will be an interesting experiment, and then I'll try to find a clinic where I can test fall of staten and myostaten in serum if they even offer that in Thailand, but if not, then we'll just go with the before and after pictures and the blood work changes. I'm sure my FSH levels will be zero. That's fine right now, right? Yeah, that's fine. So, okay, to reiterate the fat burner list, not everything was S-tier, but the large majority is S-tier. In S-tier, we have myobrong effedrine, the ECA stack, SLU, PP332, growth hormone, and retrotutide. In A-tier, clemmetrol, yo-him-BUN, rovol-syn, T3, sobotarome, GC1, 5-o-e-n-o-1-m-q, methylene-blow, MOTC, terzephyrite glucagon, and steroids in general. In B-tier, we have albuterol, T4, carnitine, carterine, AOD-9604, and HHFrag. C-tier, M-tier, there's nothing in C-tier. Every fucking time we do one of these tier lists. D-tier, centiphrine and tedalafil. E-tier, nothing. And then in F-tier, thomsartan, and insulin. Any last revisions you guys want to make? I think so. I'm happy with some. Awesome. Cool. Guys, if you want to complain, do so in the comments section. All your complaints helps fuel the algorithm. It doesn't matter if it's complaints or praises, it doesn't matter. Just make sure you hit the like button just once, not twice. Twice un-likes the video. And definitely don't hit the dislike button unless you really think that thomsartan is the best fat burner on the planet. Guys, as usual, I learned something new every time I talked to you guys. This was an absolute pleasure. Fucking legends, you two. Now we've gone through all the tier lists, and it lets you guys want me to put Adderall on the tier list, but I don't think so. So we need some fucking topics. Any suggestions for the next one? Oh, that's tough. Anything we should... Yeah, or should we just wrap it up here because it's never going to get any better than the last episode. Maybe we can delve into peeking protocols following on from this book with John. Yeah, that could be cool. Yeah, that could be cool. Or how to correct a messed up peek if it's possible sometimes. Sure, and what's going into a peek, right? Maybe the last six or eight weeks should look like? Sure. Sounds good. Okay, so we'll do a peeking 101 on the bottom of the ground table. Yeah. But didn't you keep that Glucogon protocol to yourself? I'm going to wrap it up here because I'm running out of batteries. Guys, subscribe to all of these guys' YouTube channel, and subscribe to my channel if you want to see more, if you're not subscribed yet, because we do it every single month, and once we hit the tenth episode, I'm not sure if this is the eighth episode or the ninth one, but we're coming up to the tenth episodes, and then it means we have a very long running podcast talking about these kinds of stuff, which is unique in our space. All right, I'll see you guys next month. Take care. Peace out.

=== FILE: HIGH-LEVEL Bodybuilding Competition Peaking Protocols (Look SUPER Shredded) Secret Peaking Strategy [Bahkfvl6BB4].txt ===

 before we get started, I wanna throw at all of you guys a couple of the questions you commonly see online about peaking for shows, albumin plasma expander intravenously while carving up. No. No. I can't. I can't say no. You don't even need the podcast, that's the secret right there. Injectable L-6 the night before the competition or the morning of the competition. No. Trumbelonertestosterone suspension before prejudging to get into the competition mindset. No. No. insulin and blueberry pancakes before prejudging. It sounds fun. Like it seems like good, just from a joint standpoint, but I'm sorry, no. Welcome to the Anabolic Groundtable, Episode 10. Believe it or not, we've survived 10 episodes of this crazy podcast talking about performance and insurance in the context of bodybuilding. We're joined with the one and only IFV Pro, John Jewett and Dr. Dean Tain-Mart and the guy that everybody calls when they can't figure it out, Kurt Havens and myself. We're going to talk about dialing shit in for contests. I had contest prep the peak week process. I'm very rusty. I haven't done any peak weeks for anybody, any clients for five years because I'm a retired contest prep coach. So I got the three leading experts in the business to kind of fill in the blanks for me. Before we get started, I wanna know how the Arnold Classic was real briefly because I didn't go, I canceled my flight, so Kurt, John, please fill me and Dean in about your Arnold Classic experience because I felt like I'm missing out. Arnold Classic was a miss. Well, thanks for having me back for one, but the Arnold Classic is always, I think it's probably sets the bar for an expo, maybe comparatively to FIBO. FIBO is a little different. It's more like a trade show though, but yeah, the, at least I was at the animal booth the entire weekend. So that was just nonstop, blooded with people. They brought the cage back last year, which was a good call for animal because that's, I think it really highlights the entire Arnold expo. Like they won number one booth as well. But man, the lifts and the cage were just mind blowing. There was a kid from New Zealand, 22 years old, pulled, dead lifted at like 1075 and went for like 1100, like the Thor Bjorgensen, right? Like the world's strongest man. He's pulling the same as this guy, which is just demoralizing. But there's like two other guys pull like 900 pounds in the cage and guy bench like 700 pounds raw, right? That's just crazy lifts you see. And these people go all out just for that event, but all the fan interactions, everything were pretty awesome. So it was a really good time. Exhausting though, for sure. Three days, right? Yeah, yeah, three days. And Kurt, did you go to the actual show? I did, I did. Yeah, it was great. I think the Arnold is a better overall production than the Olympia. The stage is better to see. I think the lighting is better. The crowd, the scene, everything about the Arnold. I enjoy more than the Olympia. And it was great to see, yeah, men's open. I think it was pretty apparent who was gonna win as soon as they came out on stage. Right, I don't know. I felt like Derek looked like Jay Cutler in 2009, but Jay Cutler in 2009 was working with Hany Rambod. And Derek switched to Chris Isido. I found it very funny that they had a little bit of a similar look, like almost reddish, but like hard dents and feathered all around. I thought it was very interesting, but I wasn't there. I watched the live stream. So how was the show for you guys? It was good. I didn't go to the show. Man, Saturday, like after like our expo, Lurine and I were in bed just like done. We couldn't even move. Our legs were so tired. We were like, I wanna watch the live stream though. Yeah. I know, yeah, I agree. Like Derek came out and was like, this seems pretty clear. And I'm always rooting for the short guy to give myself hope and encouragement. So, so just- Aren't you a little bit taller than Derek though? Yeah, I guess relative to like Samson and Andrew Jack, I guess, not as much, but I am. I am maybe like an inch or two taller than Derek. Yeah, I like Derek because he has crazy lats. What do you weigh now, John? 260 this morning. That's good. Yeah. That's good. That's the biggest you've ever been, right? I've been like, heavy severer was 262. That was two years ago. But again, this was like a very different composition. So, it took me, I usually died down at 218, in other words. So, it's like- Right. Yeah, there's quite a bit of fat on me. Yeah, yeah, so that was when you were still doing 212. That was when you started doing open shows. That was my last 212 show. Yeah, that offseason was a long one. And I got up pretty heavy and I'm coming back down to like, yeah, around 217, 218, I was ready. So, last offseason, most muscular ever, right? And only heaviest I got up to was like 253. So, it's like the scale weight, hey, sometimes you gotta keep composition in mind. Yeah, yeah, I agree. I'm down to like 235. I'm trying to keep it cleaner this time. Cause I was 265 a couple of months ago and it was not pretty. It was not good. You see your face, face came down. Yeah, face gains. My face was like this. It was good though, it was very strong. So, I was very enjoyable, but I was almost like, looked like a power lifter by the end of my offseason. Not too pretty. Dean, how was your trip to Disneyland? Amazing. Although, I don't know what it is that you get older, you tend to get more dizzy with rides. I don't know what happens with our balance or whatever, but man, we went on space mountain, I think four times in a row, me and my six year old. And by the end of that, he wanted to go on it again. I had to go to my wife. You need to go on it with him. Cause I'm reaching the point of I'm starting to see stars. But yeah, very enjoyable. The absolute magic when we went over to the Disneyland studio part, Deuter Park, where you've got like the Avengers campus. So you got to meet like Spider-Man, Captain America, just seeing their faces, seeing these superheroes was magic. So, as people can see, I'm not in my office today. I'm over in SN Hub. So we've got a little work soundproof pod that I'm inside. So if the camera's a little bit different than a mic, we can blame being away from home on it. We'll clean it up in post production, don't worry. All right guys. So today we're going to discuss peaking for contests. That's why we wanted to have John back because, well, his last Olympia showing was absolutely phenomenal. One of the most conditions and the best peaked guy on stage. Just me, I was there front row and I can confirm this. But before we get started, I want to throw at all of you guys a couple of the questions you commonly see online about peaking for shows, which is of course insane protocols. So let's get that out of the way first. And a simple yes and no will do. And if there's a yes, we can address it a little bit later on. And if it's a no, we're just going to glance over it. Let's start with a couple of control questions. Are we all bald? Well, I'm getting there. You're getting there, right? Yeah, you did some points. This is self-induced. I just fucking hate hair. Cardi. I mean mine was self-induced too. I like drugs. Yeah, yeah, I've probably softened this as well. Yeah, yeah, genetic proclivity as well. Yeah, yeah, genetic. Dean's hung on for their life with the plugs from. So we'll say this is eight weeks since the procedure. So it's starting to sprout out, which has been interesting. Cool. Second control question. Is this the anabolic ground table? Yes. Yes. All right. Good. Dean, confirm. It is. Or did not. Any shit wrong podcast? What is this? What podcast? Anabolic what? All right. First real question. Injectable adenosine monophosphate on the warning of the competition before prejudging. No, no. No, Tim, albumin plasma expanders intravenously while carving up. No. I say, just going. Just going. What do I find? You don't even need a podcast. That's the secret right there. Yeah, yeah. Just going what I found online, man. Injectable asics the night before the competition or the morning of the competition. No, no, not. What about mercury based diuretics the night before the competition? No, I don't know. It has been done allegedly. Two hundred three hundred milligrams and a drill daily while carving up. Well, some lab you've it's not good. I still go with a no. I'm going with a no, but it's been done. It's been done. Right. I've played with things like around that, but I can speak to that. So yeah. OK, so we'll address a little bit later on if that's a good or risky or yeah, risky endeavor to try. I trenbolone artist also suspension before prejudging to get into the competition mindset. Mm. No, no. I would the testosterone to me is risky. Who knows what you'll look like. I've seen it and try to try to drop right in front of me at the World Championships, which is a drug tested show. What are you taking at testosterone suspension to get my my mindset right for pre-judging? Yeah, you might say right. You didn't win, though. A hundred milligrams of hay. Yeah, my brain straight. Exactly. Growth hormone loading. Let's say 10 I use 36. I use one to two days before the competition. Trisky water retention. No, I don't know. No. No, no. Damn. Injectable glucagon on the morning of the competition. That could work. I've seen it work. Yeah, I was saying no, though, still. It's no, it's probably no, but I've seen it work. Let's see. Fat loading the day before the competition. Now we're going to a little bit more PG 13. Sometimes it's tough. Depends on the person. Burger and dyes. I'd five guys in a dyes. Yeah. No, like legitimate. I've seen it. Maybe some. I've used the wrong. That's all months of a car. Oh, I've used the kind of stuff. Depending on where water is and stuff. I would say that they're a bringing back fats, but not to a load. Yeah, but that's I think there's a fat loading application that we discussed. Yeah, but in general. Let's say no. Yeah, yeah, I'm not loading. Correct. It's in the case of lack of fluid. Sometimes you have to replace the calories. Then you think normally it's done earlier in the week as opposed to the day before the show. OK, just for this to pure fact, we can touch on a layer, but just digestion. I'm not going to happen with constipation. You know, I wake up from show day being constipated. Talking about constipation, what about the colonics or hydrohydrotherapy on the morning of the competition to clean out? I'm just going to fucking what the internet says. No, but I guess you could utilize that if you had to make weight for a class, not the morning of a show, but say I'd weigh in Friday evening. I definitely wouldn't do the chronic Friday morning, but you could do it earlier in the week to try and clean out some of the stuff that's there. I think I think we hold about three kilos of. Waste in our colon. So it's about five, six pounds. You could theoretically flush out. It could probably in this individual, your priority. A lot of people already pulled veggies out. And so like I noticed people like, man, I haven't gone to the bathroom. It's like, well, there's not a lot left to go because of the food sources they're using. But I have used like a kind of a stair step approach to getting someone to have a BM from like mild and slowly moving up to using like suppositories and using the suppositories. That can make something happen. But I've never had to go on to the like doing a colonic. Yeah, it's pretty extreme, even bumping up magnesium before hand can help. Yeah, magnesium and totca and just help with intestinal motility mobility helps quite a bit. But yeah, if you're if you're mad constipated, then you need to make weight and colonic coffee colonics actually go quite a long way, especially if you're some weird hotel room where you know, you just been traveling for a day and then and it might help. Okay. But it's a no for most guys. Miffy Bristone or Miso Prostol, or another kind of prostaglandin agonist to clean out the debut for the competition. It's basically the morning after pill. No, it's going by what the internet says that all the pros are doing, man. I know there was an interesting protocol from certain coaches ago surrounding like PGC one alpha for similar benefits of pushing out the balance. But again, like the chronic or anything like that, I don't think so. Okay, cool. insulin and blueberry pancakes before pre judging. It sounds fun. Like it seems like a good idea just from a joint standpoint, but I'm sorry. No. Yeah, no. Fuck man. Okay. What about insulin and pumpkin by filling before prejudging? No, no, that protocol. So yeah, okay. Yeah. No. Okay. Saunas for weight cuts to make weight for Glasgow to 12. I don't go that far, but I know plenty of guys that have. So. And the last one, clear finger nail polish before applying to 10. I did this. Yeah. Yeah. To Olympia. Clear. To my, it's still on my toenails. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Clear nail polish for your fingers and feet. Life saving. Especially if you're getting time to a pro tan and it stains right through your nails for months. Yeah. Yeah, it's horrible. I used to do it all the time when I was applying tan backstage because of the world championships. You didn't have spray. There's no spray tanning, no, Jan tan and no pro tan. Most of the guys who dream tan, but that makes you look horrible and it fills in all the detail. So I would just apply pro tan base coat for 17 athletes the whole day in between peaking them. And then your fingernails are of course the first time you do it or messed up for months. So yeah, you go with the clear, you do a pedicure and then you go to clear a fingernail polish and then actually you're pretty, pretty good looking afterwards. Once, besides the little bit of wrinkle stuff that you get. So yeah, that's pretty much a must if you apply tan either for yourself or for clients. So that's the quick shit list that I wanted to get out of the way, because if you go online or some of the people were not in the know, they claim to know all kinds of weird drug protocols involved in peaking for contests. And we've got an overwhelming amount of nose. So let's get into the real stuff. What is being done? Now, obviously it's a step by step process to get into, you know, absolutely phenomenal contest shape and peaking for a show. So maybe we can start with how to get extra dicey first, because when you're extra dice, super shredded, you don't need to do all the crazy stuff that people think that the pros are doing. Let's start with Dean, because Dean did like eight shows back to back. And he kept improving. So Dean, spill the beans. I think last year was just an N equals one, I guess, because like we discussed several times, not once in my diet change, not once in afternoon extra cardio, the drug setup never really changed. It was just, I can't personally explain how week to week I was using body fat based on what I was eating and doing, but I guess years of dieting, your body just has that innate ability to go back to a low set point. So I guess the main piece of advice is do un-repeated diets until you get to that desired body fat level. Like if you're an amateur and you're aiming for your first one to two shows, unless you want to end up looking like a skeleton, it's highly unlikely you're getting on stage with straigloots. Unless you really want to diet for a long, long period of time, where you're giving yourself sufficient diet breaks to reset a maintenance and then go again. You could be looking at maybe dieting for the best part of a year and a half to give yourself sufficient time to get to a new set point, how will the maintenance go down another little touch? So last year was probably the culmination of like, what, 10 years of doing diets like that. And I can say from personal experience, it took until my third competitive season in terms of like dieting to get down to absolutely walnut glutes. And that again was there's nothing magically changed rather than getting to a new set point, going into an offseason after competing and then going back into a dieting phase. So time is probably the very top when it comes to getting into absolutely gnarly condition. And then I guess some of it is genetics. You could be unforged in terms of skin genetics. And like we've all joked about like ticker collagen, so you don't end up with that sort of tinnus to the muscle or to the look of the physique. You could have different distribution of alpha receptors throughout your body. So you can have issues getting your glutes in your quads, your lower back. And I can just take time of repeated dieting and then using like alpha receptor blockers like your hembine or Royal Sheen or alpha hembine to help you release the fatty acids out of those cells to mobilize them. But I guess with even the other thing about time is not doing crazy things of like dropping to 600, 700 calories, thinking that a huge deficit is going to yield you huge fat loss. Because the only thing that will suffer then in that case is your training intensity and then you'll start losing muscle mass. And then your appetite starts increasing. And then you're sort of left trying to figure out how do I fix this mess? So having like even the patients to slowly manipulate the diet over time or manipulate output from cardio just retraces the point of patience. You think a lot of guys don't have patience nowadays because they want to stay full when in reality the first couple of diets that you need to go through there, you need to go a little bit flatter to really get shredded. Because you don't have that muscle maturity intensity yet. And maybe not the financial means to go on a heavy cycle or your body can't even tolerate it to stay full. Because you have a lot of pros now. They look insanely full the entire contest prep through. And then maybe the guys that are in the beginning of their contest prep career they think that they need to stay full and large and in charge. But in reality they need to suffer a little bit more and get really down to get all that fat off. I see that more often than not nowadays where the guys just don't want to get to a point where they're flat for weeks on end when it used to be the norm. The other thing about patience is you'll find with newer athletes asking questions about refeeds. When am I getting a refeed? I'm feeling a little flat. When am I getting a refeed? I think I need more carbs instead of just seeing out the process that yeah, there's some days where it's going to absolutely suck and you're going to be flat and it's going to be difficult to get a pump. No matter how hydrated or how balanced your sodium potassium is, you're going to be fatigued depending on your sleep if that's not in a good position. And it's really just down to string a load of those sucky days together. Before you get to a point where your physique probably warrants then a refeed or your training performance warrants a refeed. And even then it's probably a refeed where you're going back to maintenance calories from increased carbs, where you're not breaking out into like an all day splurge of whatever fits in your mouth and having a full on like cheat day. Skip load for eight hours. Yeah, skip load. It does work though, if you have some experience, but for the for the big absolutely works, but then you know, you've got beginners looking at a protocol like that and thinking that they can eat boxes of cereal, you know, eat cookies all day. It's really the physique dependent metabolism dependent. Because the worst thing you could do is have a high refeed day like that, where you completely overspill, you end up creating new fat cells. And the whole point was to just top up glycogen, so that for the next four to five days of training, you have sufficient glycogen to produce maximal force to get you back to a good position of retaining the tissue was losing the body fat. So the whole refeed thing is another part to contest prep that you get questions so many times of, you know, when should I refeed? How often should I refeed? And like last year's anomaly, if anything, Callum had to keep giving me high days every four to five days, I would have to refeed it. I would have to refeed it every four to five days because the physique just kept quickly flattening out to how well my body was utilising fatty acids for energy. And that was all down to training intensity, stayed absolutely 100% on part of season. So it really comes down to the patients. But again, yeah, shows the value of offseason and being as meticulous with your eating and everything else in your offseason versus contest prep. All right, John. Yeah, I don't want to just bang the gong that dingus rung, but with a lot of this is a time component. But I would say what's going to set up your next prep is what you do the moments after your last show. And I truly like the first, even the first week after someone's last competition can already set up like taking months off their offseason. So already then having an extended prep to pull off the fat. And I see guys just like, that's that's where I've changed at least that being able to manage myself better post show by by the end of this eight week phase of like lower gear and starting to set up an offseason. My my lenious point that I'm able to also remove any type of mal adaptations from prep and that starts offseason. So I'm very, very lean for a long runway to make progress in. And all those what Dean just brought up was like routine. All those routine and habits that were built in prep, when you feel like you're a machine and yours on it, you carry those into offseason and post show. And those just never drop off to where you don't then get the inconsistencies to where this week I jumped up three pounds of and again, a little more body fat and all those weeks started crewing to where your offseason slowly slips away from you. So getting into a good position just to even start your prep begins with what you do right after your last show. And with that being said, then once you're into this prep situation, I like reverse engineer your timeline. To me, it's a math equation because why do people not get in shape? That's that's the question I would ask, right? And they run out of time. And then what do you do when you run out of time? Like Dean is saying push down the gas. And so the fun stuff started off with. Yeah, throwing the DMP like a pop up the trend, bring in Halo. And all of a sudden you're just accruing more fatigue and someone just still is not getting there or start stalling and then you dig harder and nothing's happening. So the right timeline is essential. So I always start like assessing like look at your current offseason start point. Look at your last prep start point and your end points and do the math of how much weight you have to pull off and what that rate is reasonably able to be. And then from there, I think Dean brought up a great point around refeeds. Is that when you first start prep, you're not going to be that depleted to where training performance is slipping to justify having increases of food. What I prefer in the beginning parts of prep is where you would have more fatigue buildup is still from like training, cardio. So I do a call it a D output day. Think of it like a D load, but just removing the output side. So like once a week, I'll always have someone programmed in like no cardio, very low steps, no training to just drop off the fatigue. So but in turn, we are so bringing someone closer to that maintenance calorie level by doing so. However, we're working on the output side over the input side to where we're not taking someone like these said like way high in glycogen levels to where it takes days to get them back into like productive fat loss and losing time. Refeeds are great purposes later on once you're lean and you're getting that glycogen depletion and training starts slipping. That's when the diet fatigue aspect really plays well to doing refeeds. But I think that's at least the fatigue management side along prep. And I struggle with that word fatigue management because a lot of people just don't even push hard enough to create enough fatigue toward to be a problem. So I think also, you know, we always think about pulling off that. But the body is also about retaining tissue. And so like carrying your same type of training habits into prep, as long as those habits were of high quality, like you need to train hard and prep and the guys I see usually that were never that train that hard to begin with are also the ones I see that usually don't get into great contest shape because that stimulus to hold on to tissues is not that great. And when you're into calorie deficit, that same training response doesn't produce the same type of anabolic response. So now you just see someone that's just getting a smaller version of themselves. So upholding hard training, but in doing so, then you need the fatigue management part of the equation there. And as you get closer to show with the right timeline, we can start adding in more refeeds, creating a smaller deficit, slowing down fat loss when you have less body fat to lose. And that slowly just kind of brings someone down into that next level of condition where you can see them start landing the plane before peak week. And you're now living at like a maintenance calorie level and you start removing some extra fatigue and start getting harder because most of that wasn't a water weight from all your tests you're running. It's probably water weight from high cortisol and inflammation. And here we are. Peak week has arrived. Yeah. Do you tell where do you think is the ideal ending point of an offseason regarding how many weeks you're out from a competition? It's that eight weeks out from a competition, 12 weeks, 16 weeks. Like what would be the maximum on a body fat that you should be able to gain in the offseason to make sure that you stay within striking distance of a productive contest prep? Yeah, like Dean, you're talking about like a body fat set point and you do need to get someone back to a productive spot where their body fat level allows them to not have like sleep issues or food focus. And optimize training. And that's that's just very different for everyone. Right. Like we see that that asshole we hate that is just ripped and has glute lines all year long and never gets that fat. Well, someone else like a female that has to get to like 24% body fat to be back to like a hormonal normal state. And so they need some room to progress. And for that real is realistic for someone that might have them to get more than 24 weeks out of dieting. Like we look at the natural sector, others guys diet for a lot longer period of time. But that might require like I've had some individuals or we need like a mini fat loss phase before we actually actually even inter prep. But I would say as a general rule of thumb, I try to let anyone get past 24 weeks of dieting. If it's less, that's even better. But ideally like 16 to 20 week mark is kind of a good sweet spot, which a lot of people have done 16 to 20 week preps. That's pretty reasonable. But I would say like for yourself, if if you're out there and you're listening, if you were better for your second show, likely you should tack on those weeks of you probably weren't a 16 week prep. You're really a 20 or 24 week prep. We see that a lot, especially with females doing multiple shows. Like finally, they get better in condition. It's like, oh, look at that. That's actually a 28 week prep. But you say 20 a week prep to someone like, oh, my gosh, like, no, I'm going with this other coach is going to do a 16 week prep. Yeah. And then a DMP is included. So it varies so much, right? Like last year when I jumped in Toronto early, like I got ready quick. Actually, it was only eight weeks till I did that show. But I stayed lean. So just, yeah, it varies. But manage the timeline, just make sure when you're on your offseason that I would say, hey, at least be able to have like 16 to 20 weeks of like productive time to add on body weight and not need to many cut. So if you're in that state where you're needing to cut sooner, like probably just adding too much body fat on in that post show face begin with. All right. Kurt, I mean, just to add to what they said, you know, I think one of the.  the reason why John is so successful is because he stays much leaner all year round now, and that's a big thing, right? If I get to that body fat point where you can hold comfortably, where you can still make progress, but don't let yourself get fat, because you're just, you know, the team said previously, you're adding new fat cells, you're making your prep much more difficult. It's not advantageous to carry extra body fat. It's not going to make your body build up just because the scale went up. There's no mechanism in the human body where excess amounts of food just magically becomes muscle tissue. That's not the stimulus for muscle growth. It's, you know, and to define some things like refeed, I think people misunderstand what a refeed is. A refeed is not a burger and fries. A refeed is where we leverage carbohydrates appropriately, right? That's really the macro that has the most effect on your appearance and your performance. Not so much the dietary fat, especially when it comes to deep fried stuff. Like I really try to keep my guys away from stuff like french fries and stuff like that. It just does nothing positive for you. Outside of some mental benefits, maybe of having a cheat meal, that's not really a tool that we use, right? And that's why I typically have guys, most guys are carb cycling. So we're kind of going through that process the whole time and we can constantly move the food up and down. Like Dean saw, as you get deeper into prep, for most guys, when you know they're getting really close to being ready, their metabolism starts to run away, right? The body fat will just continually drop really quickly at the end. And I've had guys where I have to refeed two days in a row, three days in a row. Some of the pros like John that stay, that have a ton of muscle mass that stay pretty lean, their metabolism is wild at the end. You know, you get guys, you know, eating a ton of food going into a show. But a lot of that set up, that's excess to set up in the offseason. And that's a steel term from AJ, but I prefer the term progress season versus offseason because you're never really off, right? That same training and mentality and dieting and all that stuff is year round. It's just the quantity of things is different, right? There's probably less cardio, obviously less dieting, but the food is roughly the same, right? John, you probably eat the same stuff year round, just a different quantity. You're not all of a sudden going from pizza to chicken and rice, right? It's the same measured stuff day in and day out. I've had this in breakfast for 30 something years. It just the amount of it just differs depending on what your goal is. Yeah. And you don't see, it's interesting because you don't see the same level of conditioning nowadays probably because the bodybuilding community has grown, right? So there's a, some as a genetic component, right? Not everyone can get that lean to be a competitive bodybuilder. And as the population in bodybuilding gets larger and larger, it attracts more, let's say, average people that might not be able to have that look. Like not every human can look like John Jewett. I hate to say that, but that's, he was born different than most people, right? Just like any other athlete in any professional sport, there is a genetic, a huge genetic component to it. And a lot of it's mental. Like your brain can handle things that most guys would break halfway through. You see that often, right? Going back to the point of a diet, like you both said, just to read it, the point of a diet is to maintain intensity and training, to maintain muscle mass and then to lose fat. If you've lost the first two and you're just losing fat, you're probably losing muscle with it as well, right? If your fatigue level is so high that you're not sleeping, like you're just burned out from too many drugs and stuff, your progress can come to a halt. Yeah. A lot of times you can get leaner by using less drugs and sleeping at night than you would using a gram of Trin and being wide awake. You're probably not going to look any better doing that. No, if anything, you're going to look soft and watery. You've seen that happen quite a bit. It's super stressed out. And what I noticed when people make the most progress is when they eat exactly the same food during the offseason, aka progress season and contest prep, it's just the amount of difference. You might have a little bit more protein, less carbohydrates during a cutting phase, whereas in the offseason, progress season, it's reversed because the more carbohydrates you eat, you have a little bit of a protein sparing effect. So you can eat less protein and more carbohydrates, maybe a little bit more fat if your metabolism is really ramped up. And then refeeds are pretty much the same as what you eat during the week, just more of that as well. And of course, once in a while, there might be a cheat meal incorporated, but there's a difference between going out for sushi and going out for pizzas, like a four or five cheese pizza, right? The composition of the meals are quite different than everybody gets strung up like, I need a cheat meal to refeed and fill out and I'm going to go with a pizza and vinaigrette's, but that's probably the wrong approach. So I would send most of my guys just for sushi because that seems to be pretty similar to what you had during your, during your week. Anyway, it's rice and fish. Okay, the rice is a little bit of sugar in it, some vinegar, but it's way better for you as a cheat meal than what most people go with. So I think that the food selection throughout the entire year really contributes to how you end up looking like. And then I think what the hardest part is for myself and many people out there, so when they go on holiday, that the diet kind of falls apart because you're not close to your kitchen. There's not foods that you usually have. Like my, I just give up on a holiday. I've tried it for 10 years and when I go on holiday, I just eat whatever. But they get that sets me back weeks to months. Sometimes that's why most, most, most guys just don't travel unless it's for business. That's funny. Cause we came back from the auto Renee and I were like, we're never leaving till I prep again. It's like that was it. Like it's so challenged out there, like pulled three pounds down and like, man, if I wasn't adding more and more food in, it was going to be a problem, but the variability makes a challenge for someone in the offseason, which yeah, like, like used to eat, eat, eat, leave. Like we went to BAMP for vacation in the offseason, which is like non bodybuilding trap, right? Just true vacation, but still like we do like a dinner at night, but take all my food and I'm watching the scale every day to try to account for different activity levels. But if you travel a lot as a bodybuilder, man, it makes it really hard to string together progress. Yeah. Yeah. Especially as you get bigger because your, your, your body's so more dependent on the food intake and people don't understand how much food you need to eat. Just to sustain your weight and keep that activity level going. And then if you go away from home, even one flight, you're missing meals and your physique kind of falls apart. So that's why you see most of me pros that barely travel when they're successful. Like I don't see Derek go on holiday. I don't see Samson go on holiday. I don't see Nick Walker go on holiday. Most of the successful guys at the pro level, it's minimal holidays and normal people, myself included. I'd like to go out sometimes. And that's where the bodybuilding takes a setback and makes, you know, peeking into a contest very, very difficult because you have days where you just fuck off basically. And it doesn't contribute to the bigger picture. Yeah, I would, I've gotten such like great speaking opportunities to go like international. I just have to turn them down. It's like at this time, like, man, I have to prioritize bodybuilding. Um, but I want to bring up something that, uh, occurred, like just kind of briefly mentioned is that, uh, the, the prioritization around your routine and stress and also sleep. So I see a lot of people go into a prep, uh, with an expectation there in a carry the same amount of workload that they could. And this was my mistake in the past because I was, you know, like, I was working in nine to five at a hospital. I was trying to coach clients on the side. Like the moment I got up, I was doing cardio, cardio in the evening. And then like by the time my head hit the pillow, like I'd never had downtime. Right. And those were some of the hardest preps that were like mentally, physically, really exhausting and also sleep could suffer too. Cause like, well, I got to do cardio. I got to get up even earlier and sleep segment got even decreased. And we see like in, uh, look at sleep deprivation. I don't mean like missing a whole day of sleep. Just even by an hour, you see people in a calorie deficit that will lose less body fat and lose more muscle mass. So hunger's up too. Yeah. Yeah. And it's a snowball, right? Hungers up too. You're more fatigued. Now training performance suffers too. And so sleep is one of your number one recovery tool, but it, it, it nearly could be its own fat loss agent in a sense. If you want to stay it that way. And same goes for office. He's in prioritizing it as you can easily see a little less fat, accrual and more muscle gain with prioritizing sleep and sleep quality. So I know we have all these awesome, like wearable devices and trying to pick apart deep sleep and REM sleep. And I'm trying to do the same to improve that. So especially with in prep, people cranking their gear sky high and all the sympathetic drive from that and sleep quality diminishes. It's, it's likely not worth it. If you're, you're diminishing that much to where you're now having, uh, you know, partitioning towards less muscle retention and more, uh, fat retention too. Like in this Olympia prep, I brought back in trim balloon for a week. I was like, good Lord, forget it. Like my sleep went to shit. I was like, I, this is miserable. Forget it. You know, and it just wasn't quite required for me at that point. So I think prioritizing sleep and then also, uh, making yourself available for your prep, you know, this, it has to take a priority. So, you know, if you have like, you should be doing this during season of work where you're able to execute a prep and have downtime. Cause you know, some relaxation time and then a night to wind down and have that good sleep as well. And relaxation time during the day is what sleep is tonight. So it can just drop off stress and that total, uh, allosteric load of stress. If you can free up some of that space, that's more space for like your training to occur and adaptations to occur. So by the end of the day, you filled up your stress bucket. It's overflowing, right? You know, very little room for a training stress on top to create adaptation. So if we, everything we could do on prep to like free up and let some water out of the stress bucket to allow training to occur, uh, could really help you and retain in tissue across your prep. Yeah. And if you're that guy who's sorry, if you're that guy who's already waking up three or four times a night to pee before you go into prep, probably not a wise idea to go into prep until you figure out what's wrong with your sleep. Yeah. Right. Cause it's just going to get worse. So does that mean that if you want to have a little bit more riskful day, that it's going to be very hard to combine hardcore bodybuilding into a contest prep with a regular job? Cause that's why I remember coaching people with a regular job and they had a very hard time towards the end, uh, doing the contest because they had to be on their feet or do work for eight hours a day. Whereas the guys that are self-employed, their coaches, their personal trainers, whatever, um, they seem to have it a little bit easier because they can take an apps when they want to, they can take a break when they want to. They don't succumb to the stress of being employed. And that, that seems to be a bit of big difference between a successful prep and a not so successful prep. Uh, and the guys that are going to regular jobs are usually also, you know, stimmed to the max to keep productivity going. And shift workers were the hardest people to prep. Yeah. You know, I don't know. Or if you all have a prep shift workers or if you ever done shift worker yourself, but, um, yeah, that's right, Dean. Yeah. You look at the plant, right? Yeah. It was eight years on shift pretty much. And I done my prep during that. But again, I'm like n equals one because we were lucky that we had a gym on site and the facility. So you could go and do your cardio before you started your shift at the gym. So you just turn up to work early, get a shower, go, go to your desk. And then at lunchtime, go and train on the hour instead of eating in the canteen, especially a night shift. So I was lucky that you could just build your workday around that routine. Uh, you know, whether you were off work on day shift, on night shift, you just swapped around at the times by 12 hours. But for anyone else who doesn't have access to a gym, yeah, when I, I would have liked to have taught how would be to aim for night shift, get up in the afternoon, like 3pm in the afternoon to do cardio and then make a decision after a cardio, do you eat and then try and train before like a 7pm shifts or do you go to work and then after work when you're pretty much almost ready to fall asleep, you drive to the gym and try and train because I done that a couple of times where I finished work, 7am, didn't get a chance how busy work was and then drove to my local gym to train. And by the end of the session at like half eight in the morning, I was ready to fall asleep and you're thinking, you know, is this really the most productive training session that, you know, if you had to fit that around a prep, I don't think my any of my prep sort of been as successful as the way I've had to juggle everything outside of the 12 hour work rate. And it makes it hard because before you start making money in bodybuilding, you would need to have a couple of successful preps behind you. So you have some pictures to show for it, right? Before you start making money through social media. I mean, it takes a while. So it sounds almost that prep is harder in the beginning than at the end. Because you have a little bit more luxurious life due to the financial backing that you then have. Because I remember coaching guys that are, you know, not so financially secure. And their props were way harder than the guys that had everything covered. And they could take breaks whenever they wanted and sleep whenever they wanted. Because it just takes all the stress away. Yeah, that makes it pretty tough to really get your foot in the door, it seems. Because none of us have real jobs. I haven't had a real job in 15 years. I coaching and YouTube and website, you just manage your own time. And even though it's like 18 hours per day that you could potentially be working, you could also potentially take a nap when you want. And it's a big difference compared to showing up for a job for eight hours straight. Because I used to do business consulting where you travel all over Holland with a car, you know, to go various clients and they would get my workout in the morning before going to the office. And even that was exhausting. And I know, so I kind of mentioned doing that on prep. Yeah, I, I, man, I started in school, like I power lifted in school, right? So my idea of like getting a job was always worked around power lifting or bodybuilding. It was never the other way around. So I always like, like, well, what does that job look like? Can I, will I be able to bodybuild? But it's probably a bad way to look at it, but it always allowed me enough space, like even being in the hospital in a dietitian. We're a pretty cushy job in the hospital. Like we're eight hour shift during the day. There's no like, John stat, we need like protein to, you know, I see. Like, there's nothing like that. Like breathing and heart beating or come first, then nutrition. So it would allow me to bodybuild effectively and just like walk around the hospital and get steps in, which I wasn't even doing it at the time. And I think that's going back to our point of like having a successful prep that really opened my eyes was tracking your activity and steps was never even a thing when I, when I was starting. So what I would do when I, when I did start coaching, you know, and moved away from my hospital job, I would just sit on, sit down all day. And I'd go to the gym and train. And when I actually started tracking my steps and stuff like, yeah, I was getting like three to four thousand steps a day. And I was wondering like, man, I was doing two, like 45 minute hard sessions of cardio, 1500 calories by the end of prep. And like, what the hell is going on? Like, why is this so damn hard? And that's was like, Oh, duh, like you're just moving less and less and less as you're like getting more taxed. So now like towards my prep, so I don't even do cardio directly. It's all steps. I have like a walking pad. I can be like 15,000 steps a day while I work and spread it out. So rather than having big chunks of output at the time, which now that's a luxury for me, but if you're still working somewhere, I think right now we're, we're in awareness point that about to work ergonomics and keeping your workers in productive positions, so standing desk or thing, walking pads would be probably more acceptable. But either way, like in a prep, I'm trying to create the easiest way I can create a deficit with the least burden, right? Um, I don't want anything taking away from resistance training and hard cardio sessions is kind of the opposite of what I want to be doing for a goal of bodybuilding. So if I can just have a high step count, that's like my primary outside of nutrition, like my secondary way that I would be looking to create the deficit and then have a baseline of cardio that's probably needed. And maybe it's going to be increasing for a lot of people. That's the reality. There's a few people like I'm doing two hours of cardio. Like man, some people are going to have to do two hours of cardio. Like, yeah, that's a thing. Um, or get down to like 1200,000 calories for some females. Like that is the reality for some people. So yeah, the funny thing is that two hours of cardio per day kills your need because she just want to sit on your ass. I used to do two hours of cardio too, because I would do crushed diets during the summer holiday when I was still in university. And because you don't have, yeah, you have six weeks. That's it. I had to diet and then school starts. I don't have time to diet. I want to be cognitively productive and you're a dear of a diet. Is that you do a crash diet? So you know that you're going to be brain fog. So you can do that during school. So summer holiday comes around and just every day, two hours, one hour in the morning, one hour in the evening. And the rest of the time you just sit at home staring at the wall. Cause you're so tired. And meanwhile you see your legs just littering the superior in front of your eyes. Um, yeah, but if you do 20 minutes in the morning, 30 minutes at maximum and keep your steps up, I mean, that's what Dean also did first, last prep. It's a huge difference. And all you need to do is some sort of get some sort of application on your phone or one of those old school pedometers to keep track of your steps. And maybe walk in between sets when you're at the gym. I mean, that's, that's a great way to get maybe another 2000, 3000 steps in over the day. That's what we do every day. Where's he doing that in the gym? I do it also at the gym every time I just, I do a lap at the gym. I do a set, I do a lap. I do also so nobody talks to me. So I can actually have a workout. So I don't have to ask answer questions. I just, where's Steve? Yeah, I swalk around somewhere, but that way you get a couple hundred, a thousand more steps in and, and you burn a good amount of fat. And it might attract from your training intensity. Once you get really lean. Um, so you notice that I wouldn't do it when I'm sub eight percent body fat, but up until that point, as long as training intensity isn't diminished, then just walk around. If you're short on time or get a couple cats and chase them around the house. Yeah, I do it the whole day. I have seven cats. Every time they come over, I just chase them around and I get my steps in that way. Yeah, really? Yeah, it sounds silly, but it like it is a thing, right? Like you eat five meals a day, right? You probably hit your microwave for two to three minutes. Like walk, walk during this time. I could get a thousand steps while you did that. Oh, you actually cook. So it's like, I can't walk away from my stove. I've, I've, I've brought microwaved meals to my job for over a decade and school. So I'm done. So I take my work two hours. I take my little mini break. I play with the cats 30 minutes that I cook, I eat, I play, and then I go back to work. And that's the whole day like that. And it works quite well. It keeps you lead if you really focus on it. And otherwise you have to do the standing desk with the little treadmill. And those treadmills are cheap. You can buy them for $200. Now it is. I give this the crazy big white ones for 2000. I think Chase has one. It's a beautiful thing in his home gym. Chase, our hands. And but then you look on them online and they get these $200 ones that probably break after six months, but $400 per year. I think it's well worth it. Sheeper than a cat. Yeah. A drug thing on prep. Just so now everyone is eyes big. They're all tuned in drugs. Let's get it right after 50 minutes. We got to talk about drugs. And what's, you know, some people have given me like argument back because I, I say like I use the peak amount of like dosing and the office is in verse and prep and prep my dosing is lower. Now I would say within the composition of that there could be like harsher compounds present. But I think where we see like with a lot of people in all these issues we're talking about with prep is them having to get in sub optimal positions where the timeline is fast, they're pushing down on the gas and trading performance is dropping. So what goes in when you have nothing left option wise to retain tissue is more drugs and you see like, yeah, more trend, more halo, right? The, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the total drug loads high now in a prep, which I think a lot of this has just been passed down protocols of, yeah, I still see them like, Hey, eight weeks out, I'm thinking about adding in X, Y, Z. It's like, well, why? Well, I don't know. That's just what you add in at that time. And that's how I was taught. Like, Hey, like 12 weeks in, Trin goes in, six weeks out, Winnie goes in, three weeks out, Halo goes in. Why? I don't know. That's just what I was told at some point. Like that's just what happens. But that's like, well, how do you assess when these things should be going in? And I think we talked about this on our last podcast, I believe, but your, your, what, what do the steroids do? And it's muscle retention, muscle growth. So how do we like assess that? It's like your best proxy is going to be training performance. So this should be your guide for dosing in a contest prep or even your offices and for that matter. So what I realized a long time ago when I was doing two 12 was like, you know, we started a prep me and Jansen, we had pretty high drug load. I was like, re-compane, like training reform, it's going to sky high. I'm like, Matt, I don't think I'm going to make weight. If we do this, you're probably right. He's like, let's cut your drugs in half. So we lowered the dose way down. Training performance held. I made weight. So it was just about like, man, you can maintain tissue in a far less drug load. And so that's how all my preps are situated now to where I have peak loading, peak dosing in the offseason. It's probably like 75% the total milligram out in a contest prep. And being able to not have to run as much drug as well when you're in positions where you could have sleep, get compromised and all these aspects or GI issues become more of a problem. Your Dean, you're like, yes, right. That, you know, all the main immune system is all compromised in the GI truck. You start seeing more food sensitivities and tolerances forming in someone in prep towards the tail end. And so we're at telling like more drug on top of this kind of brewing storm. You're into a lot of problems. So this is like what people give me so much shit on, like using less drug in a contest prep than the offseason, which is for more, probably someone that is in a position where they can have a right timeline and manage fatigue. But I also don't think for someone earlier on that it's a rationale of like, or justification to use more drug just because I have, this is the way I have to prep and it's going to be suboptimal. I think it's also because you stay leaner in the offseason, right? And your offseason is really geared towards growth. Whereas a lot of guys, they have to play catch up during a contest prep where they have a one month mass phase. I test the nanderlone and then I got to get swallowed again, but they come from a point of TRT, right? You could do like an eight week clean out phase to get your health parameters in check ready for contest prep, but some guys would stay off for six months and then they need to blow up a little bit to start the contest prep. Whereas I feel if your dose is just stay a little bit more moderate, maybe a little bit higher in the offseason to put the size on. And then you taper downwards or you have different compounds that might be a little bit more anabolic milligram for milligram and potentially more of a cosmetic appearance. I think that's easier to kind of wave through your entire year. Then go hard in one end and then take a hard off time and then go hard again during prep. So it seems if you just slowly taper things up, whether that's a diet, training intensity or the drugs, it seems to have a more pleasant experience. But yeah, people still like to go pretty hard on either direction, which is sad. So John, during offseason, what would be the compound selection? We don't have to go into milligrams versus the contest prep. Is there a big difference or? Honestly, it hasn't differed that much anymore. I would say like as a generality, like you might have, I think in prep, if we were to differentiate them, like, hey, you had like some test primo offseason growth hormone, that's a pretty good base. Then in the prep, you probably see a bit more test mast or primo. And then the more harsh stuff would be like, hey, Trin balones probably there for some and then an oral steroid. So like the Trin oral steroid piece is where you're seeing like the more harsh compounds come in. And I don't mean like stacking all four oral steroids together or some combination. But usually there's like, you know, one, maybe two, even being present. Yeah. No. Yeah. This is the last couple of weeks before prep. Do you, do you guys take the injectables out before stepping on stage to prevent any lumps and bumps and that kind of stuff? Or do you run it all the way through because your gear is such good quality that you go to get any lumps and bumps? Yeah. Want me to start? Yeah, go, yeah, go. We're going to go first. I think this gets into peak week, right? And yeah. But so with the injection side, you know, we look at it like, okay, during peak week, when should I be pulling certain drugs out to create the aesthetic look? And I think this is where you run the risk of creating a lot of variables you need to manipulate within peak week. So if you're like going into peak week, you're like, well, I'm holding water. Let's say like, why are you holding water? Like which, which avenue is this from? Is it from stress cortisol? Is it from some drug stack you're running? You know, and so I want to try to create going into peak week as few variables as I need to manipulate and holds many costs as I can for an easy assessment. So the PD side of the equation, I started assessing like six weeks out and changing stack design to make sure there's not the water influence once I finally get to peak week. All right. So six weeks as when I'm already starting to play with this testosterone dose, I start testing AIs and seeing how estradiol might influence a look. I also start playing with growth hormone and make some reductions and seeing how that influences look. So by the time I get to peak week, I already have a set amount of like this much testosterone, this much growth hormone, or none has this guy in a, in a shape on Monday where I can nearly put them on stage. Not the other way where we have tests and growth hormone all in. And then we'll just use a diuretic to drop off the water and oops, we still had fat to lose. So this way I cut the water variable out because I have that adjusted. And then we can see the fat loss continue to trail out from there. But the injection side, now this is where this would come in is like when to stop injections while I have some guys and those guys that are very full and round and likely don't get in great condition. Those guys are usually the ones that need just removal of growth hormone or some of the water, water-driven compounds testosterone. It's primarily what we're talking about here. Yeah. Well guys like myself, they're the condition guys that get like granted, like, right, like, man, when I dropped testosterone and growth hormone, my look just flans out. I don't look as hard. So I leave it in all the way for the show. But what you should start assessing. And that's why I say anything you do assess it, we'll ask the wise. So after an injection, how long does it take typically for this issue to resolve? Or is it a problem? Right. It's like, man, I do a shot on my shoulder. It takes me like five days for it to feel normal. And then we probably want to add a couple of days on just for like, yeah, just in case. So that's when you should stop your last injection and just assessing your own compound response to these injections. But for a lot of guys, hey, if you're in on like a longer ester, stopping it even like five, seven days out is not going to really be a problem, right? Or even if it's like a trinacea running by the time you're in peak week, food's going up, drugs can come down. Like that's, that's the key of like muscle retention is probably more food driven than trim below. So as a general guy, it's a general guy, yeah, a week out for stopping injections would, would be within reason. I usually go three days because I'm just familiar with the gear that I use and my response. So that's just the generalities of like starting to assess the look and make gear adjustments far out. And then tailoring that to the individual's need across the spectrum of how much someone needs in for fullness versus condition. Now, we have guys that run their injections all the way into the show or generally at least a couple of days before the show where they take it out. At least a couple of days. Cause man, everyone could have a bad shock gone wrong, you know. Even though you.  thriskin, so it's just like, at least give yourself three days, like it's not gonna be a big deal if you just have a few less injections. I think people worry, potentially, if you're doing like shows back to back, and how do you manage that? It's like, well, if I need to cut my shots out seven days out, then my next show is seven days, then I have another one, like, do I just not do any injections during that time? It's like, well, okay, this is a little different situation, and where you probably could leave some in, and or just restart them, do a few shots, then drop them back out a couple days before, and that's how I've done it for last shows. You bring a little bit back in, pull it back out a few days before. If you have really bad gear, man, solve that problem. Right? So that's gonna be a real issue for you if you're in a contest problem. Yeah, you still see it happen though at the highest level where guys walk on stage with giant lumps, like, what the hell's going on? You're supposed to know a little bit better, you know, stuff can happen, obviously, even at the highest level. And it's very distracting as the audience are like, that should not be, that's not a muscle. It should not be there. Yes, I'd rather play it safe and tell people to cut it at least a couple days before. Yeah, easy. And then obviously, you know, the manipulation of testosterone and the growth hormone is kind of person dependent, because I also know people that keep the growth hormone in while simultaneously lowering their testosterone dose quite a bit, and then remaining a full look. But that comes with the experience, obviously. And that takes time, that takes multiple preps. I think, and welcome, I can further the question out, it's like, there's a lot of confusion around fullness in water. And like, oh, I'm running this to stay full. And what does that mean for an aesthetic look in water compartments? Like using growth hormone, right, for fullness. And there's just a total body water storage, right, which intracellular, extracellular, that's all space within a muscle. But also, there's going to be space outside of the muscle, intracellular, extracellular. And I think we're a lot of terminology around, we see in prep of intracellular meaning inside the muscle, extracellular meaning outside the muscle, that's not correct. So intracellular, extracellular is all intramuscular as well. And if you're very, very lean, you won't have much water outside the muscle, because all those cells are, you know, fat cells are shrinking down, and there's basically only skin left. So there's not really a lot of water storage even within a fat cell, right? So if you're very lean, most of your water is just intramuscular. And so if you're using growth hormone, these other things, a lot of that influence is still water being held within a muscle, or even for glycogen, that matter, right? So if you're doing like vast water reductions, or you're going to be cutting growth from out, you are going to be reducing some of your volume, a lot of your volume within the muscle, which there's, but this is the idea of peak week of like, well, there's going to be a way where I can just lose subcutaneous water, not have any influence without intramuscular water. That's not how the body works. You cannot separate these compartments. There might be moments of shift where you look harder. But I would say it's probably for a different reason outside of like, you're influencing the different ratios and different compartments of the body. But we, I can keep going down here, I'm sure Dean is kitchen to the touch on the physiology side, but even during the dehydration effect, water loss between intracellular and extracellular space is a pretty much a one to one ratio. But again, it's all within side the muscle, intracellular and extracellular. So I think this is when if you're going into peak week and you're expecting, you know, using vast water reductions to create a hard look, that's going to be a problem when you're trying to also maintain a full look. It's like, well, this is a big error that I see in peak week is that someone's going to get dry, then get full. It's like, man, you need water to fill out, sort glycogen, even then we have what even that's touted as evidence based, right, of loading carbohydrate and then dry. So spill and then dry, right? But you have to say like, is the glycogen water reserve, because you store water with glycogen, correct, is that glycogen water reserve separate from all the other water inside the muscle? And you see like in even the research, like the dehydration effect, you still see water loss within the total water volume of the muscle. So you can't just store glycogen and hold water and then remove water all outside what's not sort of glycogen outside the muscle. So we just see a lot of like, there's a lot of bro science there that should be dispelled around peaking, that your vast shifts in peak week are easily going to leave you with a soft and flat look. If you go too far to the extremes. I call it the constipation protocol. But that's what happens, right? They try to do a dry load with a lot of carbohydrates, they already start to restrict fluid. And then most of that food just stays in the intestinal tract and then you have this blurry mess, like that the whole body might be full and veiny from all the carbs and sodium, but then you have this blurry mess around the abdomen because you're constipated. And you're like, what happened to his abs when everything else is peaked? And in a lot of cases, that's constipation. When in reality, if you could just fill up first and then manipulate the water a little bit later on after you're already full, and then you just have to keep the fullness, of course, assuming that you have good body fat levels or that they're super low. Yeah, that seems to be a more favorable approach. Dean, what do you want to jump in? Yeah, I think what John has covered is excellent. And I think another thing that we need to discuss is there is no magical esters when it comes to peaking or for contest prep in general. So you get guys get into three weeks out and I'm now three weeks out. Therefore I must swap to a test probe instead of test an antate or mast probe instead of mast an antate, which, you know, doesn't yield any difference or the injection frequency or the peak plasma level might vary slightly. But at that point, you're probably taking drugs that long. The ester makes marginal difference over your stable plasma levels. Do you think you're rejecting more oil? Because the concentration is lower. And like John said, then when you're in peak week, if you do have to drop out your injectables, people tend to forget the total milligram load of the orals then that are still in place. So now someone's taken 100 milligrams of windstraw daily leading up to the show. It's still 600 700 milligrams of windstraw that's gone in across the week. So it's still serving the purpose of maintaining the, I guess the androgen derived look of dryness that windstraw can bring cosmetically. You're still supporting training performance because you're more than likely perhaps utilizing halo testing or anivar even at that point as an agenic aid for training. So really dropping out your injectables, or like John touched on your testosterone to estrogen ratio might change across the week. You're not really going to lose much muscle mass, but you might lose some level of fullness, depending on more so the ester oil level, because that's going to influence the extracellular fluid compartment for fullness to speak. The other thing like what you brought up there about constipation as well is you always know when someone has a successful peak, if you want to call that, is if they wake up on contest day and they have a stool movement at the same time as they would have any other day of prep, they wake up and immediately as soon as they woken up hydrated a little bit, and they've had a bell movement, I've always said game on. If you wake up and you don't have a bell movement, your priority, that day of show days to have a bell movement to ensure you don't have that distention on stage, or you don't have, I won't say toxins, but you're going to have water being pulled into the colon and to try and move some of that mass along. So that can take some water away from your muscles, which would then affect your fullness as well. And even in that case, you'll get guys on show day, waking up constipate and then think, okay, I'm just going to stick a glycerol suppository up there to pull fluids from the body down to have that bell movement. But then I'm afraid to drink water after having that bell movement in order to replace some of that water to pull into the colon. So, you know, the main thing here I think is whatever level of fluid you're drinking during your contest prep, it stays the same on show day. If you know anything, the old dated protocols of water loading, where you're like four liters Monday, six liters Tuesday, or like in American terms of one, one and a half gallons Monday, then two gallons Tuesday, two and a half Wednesday, or what ramping up to like eight liters of fluid today before the show. And then for some magic reason, 10 o'clock Friday night before you go to bed, no more water, until you get off stage the next day, which from a aldosterone and anti diuretic hormone perspective gains you a bit of traction. So you're manipulating anti diuretic hormone is going down, your aldosterone is changing, which is helping you to overshoot or over excrete a level of fluid from your body. But it's just an inappropriate way to mess with a variable like that, when for the whole of your prep, you've probably been drinking four to five liters of fluids, depending on your, your body weight and your, you know, your sodium potassium magnesium balance with sodium loading, potassium loading, all these dangerous protocols that whatever you wake up, like if your show is Sunday, the previous Sunday at one week out, whatever you look like when you wake up that morning, it's pretty much how you're waking up a week later on stage. So we've, you know, brutally honest with someone, you might be a little bit full if you bump up calories to maintenance, some extra carbohydrates for a couple of days at the start of the week, you're dropping fatigue with cardio being removed, leg training intensity is reduced. You're not changing anything magical between one Sunday to the next really overall. So you always gauge pretty much how you look a week out is what you're aiming for when you get on stage the next week. I mean, me personally, the last two seasons I've done, I've ate nothing on show day, whereas in the past I would have had foods. And for me, I found that keeping hydrated on show day and getting electrolytes in, having some essential amino acids, but maybe 30 grams of cyclic dextrin mirror pretty much my intra-workout drink all throughout the morning leading to stage time. Again, I was replicating how I looked after a training session, you know, I've had one and a half liters of fluid, I've had X amount of carbohydrates, X amount of protein, sodium potassium, etc. And you knew then exactly what that look like, that look, look like after training, and you're just going to replicate that on show day with pumping up. It was simple as that without having to do any, you know, magician has to do tricks or anything like that. We're taking a big risk to maybe gain an extra one or two percent on your physique, which at that point, you know, what you talk about the start of some of the crazy protocols of insulin, glucagon, anadrol, superdrol. Some of them can have a place. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we've done an experiment on the last prep for one of the shows. I'd always cut just based on my my physique. So parents could grow hormone 10 days before a show. No, no, it blurred some of my detail. I'm going to come out. It gave me, I wouldn't say it's hard of a physique in terms of fullness, but I was more separated and dry. So the condition aspect was a lot better. And I found with doing that, when we took a chance and kept it in leading up to the other show, this show didn't have a wake up for classic bodybuilders, just an open criteria. The physique was a lot more impressive in terms of like bubbliness and fullness, but the detail just wasn't the same as when it went out. So like John said, you have to almost assess what the compounds are doing to your look and know your body in terms of like, what's the best approach here for the judges criteria. If the judges are going to favor condition and separation, well, it makes no sense to have compounds in play that are going to potentially blur offset the detail. That's hard though, picking shows based on what the judges want. But I know, I know people in the US that do that. They go to particular shows where their look is favored by the judges. Because certain certain groups of judges like a fuller look, whereas other guys like a leaner look or a more conditioned look. And you just pick and choose your shows, because most of the shows have the same judges because they live in that area. To come back, what Dean was saying, I do notice that not eating on show day is less bad for your look than not drinking, which is weird, because you would think that you'd go flat. But for most guys, unless you're really baking, you have a crazy metabolism, most guys can actually stay quite full by not eating on show day, and that allows you to pull a vacuum and have this crazy tapered look. Whereas if you stop drinking, especially after the show, where you're all dostroying and lipids or your electrolytes are kind of off the scale, then you gain like 20 pounds of water because you didn't drink for a day. You cut it off at 10 and then drink didn't drink the entire day on contest prep. Then on Sunday, everything you drink and everything you eat, you retain all the sodium, all the water, and then you're up 20 pounds three days later. Well, muscle glycogen is a one way. It's just magically lose muscle glycogen by sitting still. You have to contract muscle for it to come out. It doesn't go from one muscle. You don't pull glycogen out of one muscle to support another muscle, where your blood sugar, it doesn't. So assuming that you've peaked correctly and they're not working out the day before the show, why would they all of a sudden flatten out? Yeah, you basically don't work out for three or four days. Like you said, that's if you're dehydrated, you'll start to look like that. But that's not a food issue. No. Because you want their stomach tight, generally. Outside of some like, look at Samson's a great example. What is that guy eating before show? Like three eggs in a cup of coffee? Nothing. And he's big as a house? I think Derek doesn't really eat much either. I mean, his vacuum is super deep. Yeah. I know you just and you can basically sleep all day until the show in the evening. Yeah. John, what do you eat on show day? Is it basic stuff or you don't eat? Is your vacuum as deep as well? Yeah, I try to go as low volume as possible. So like proteins nearly pulled out. It's like, maybe a little bit of rice, but I bring more fats in to make it more dense and hold the glycogen load that already occurred. So like, if you if you're waking up on show day and you need a ton of food to load, you already messed up. Like should have already been loaded. Then on show day, it's nearly like a maintenance, right? Like, you're also moving a lot less like like Kirk just said. So caloric amount could come way down. I like to bring in dried fruits. Like that's been my thing because they're like caloricly dense as well. So I try to keep volume as small as possible and eating pretty close to maintenance. And so yeah, there's not a lot that occurs. Great point, Steve, too. Water will go really far too. You can always like it's a lot easier to add water in and that could ruin a look pretty quick. So I'm pretty cautious on show day with water. This is exactly how I peek like how Dean mentioned is. Every day of peak week is assessing like it's show day. And what I look for is like, if there's not a moment on peak week where you look like you could have walked on stage, you were probably never there to begin with. And you probably had more fat to lose where you're doing some type of goofy like PD stuff that should have been adjusted a long time ago. And so that's what I look for in peak week is every day trying to keep whole variable steady, assess and how much carb do I need and how much fluid do I need to get my body weight and look. Because it'll transition up from a fast and low body weight. You'll start moving up as you eat and drink fluids to get fuller and fuller and fuller. And at some point along the spectrum, you're going to have a nail look you want to walk on stage with. For Dean, maybe that's post training. I had two meals. I had this much fluid. I want to look like that on stage, do that on show day. And that's exactly how I peek like for the Olympia, which is a night show. So here's where fluid manipulation needs to happen. It's like for me, after like two meals and I was like about a gallon of fluid, is where I had my best look. That's in the morning. What about nighttime? What if you could be nighttime? So I eat and drink up to that look and that weight from there. I maintain it by lowering water. I could even eat the same amount of food, but with water reduced, I can hold that look and that's how I lay into the stage. So even for pre-judge, right? Like, I get up to that look, I maintain it from pre-judge all the way to finals, try trading fluid up and down. And that's how I manage fluids on show day. So there's not some big like water cut. And then because if I'm already waking up dehydrated and flat, why would you cut water going into that? Just more ground to have to make up. Same with all these other protocols, right? Like glycogen depletion in the beginning of peak week or fat load in the beginning of peak week. Yes, I want to dig my hole deeper. You just have to fill in more food later on, which is more GI stress, which is more variables to complicate things. And then I'm going to have to dry out and pull more water out. Another variable to skew more. It's like deep, it's simple, become a master of just assessing just fluid and carbohydrate. That's all you need to be nippling, sodium potassium, everything else can stay very consistent. We're not doing vast manipulations in all these other areas. So that is peaking exactly how I do it. Find the look replicated on show day, put that on stage. You'll nail it more times than trying to do all these different protocols that I've done them all. I've done water loads, tapers, I've done diuretics all peak week long. Most of the time that's always led to a flat look on stage. Basically, just look at yourself and assess what you need to do for the next couple of hours and then proceed from there. Yeah, easy. And it's so easy to say it and so many guys, they completely mess up. What I think is important for all competitors is that they have their own posing room, which replicates light on stage because so many guys, they have the kitchen lighting or the front lighting or the side lighting or opposing room where there's only top lighting and that they think they're in shape. And then they step on stage and they look eight weeks out. And I didn't you see this yourself? Yeah, I look great in the gym. It's not gym lighting. You have the most horrible lighting on stage to make you look as flawed as possible. So it's up to you to get an early conditioning. So you actually look good in these stage lightings because the light is coming from all around. There's no shadows to hide your fatness. So I think a lot of guys mistake that they're in shape because they don't have opposing room. I know, John, you have opposing room right at home. I do have one. Yeah. And I also have a where I take my pictures standardized artificial light. So I don't have influence from like variance and assessment, right? But man, great, great point, Steve, like get in front of like natural light daylight on you. You won't be able to hide in that and that'll show like some true condition. Yeah, I think it's also important that you understand lighting changes and tanning changes and assessment because I've gone to shows like when I did Toronto, I didn't have great light in my hotel room. I brought some artificial light, but man, throw a tan on someone like you mentioned with dream tan, right? It fills in the gaps and like you don't look as hard. So you come back from your tan, you see your visuals, you're like, oh, no, like, why am I so flat looking and not addition? It's like, you're the same. Just like that's how the tan will skew you. But it's also a pretty quick realization of like how condition you need to be. But I do like bring like my own lighting setup to create some standardization because I have a lot of guys that will like in front of their window, right? But once they put their tan on, it's nighttime and that has to change. They're like, it's hard to really assess it. So I try to just create a replication of the environment lighting and understand like tan goes on, you're going to look softer, that's going to be natural. And you need to know that to find that in individuals of like where things you need to be looking at for condition to make sure you're not making the wrong calls as like a coach either. Yeah, the tan needs to absorb in the skin. And that's why I never liked tan on the day of the competition. I just spray tan on the day of the competition. I was so against it. Because it if for a lot of guys, it makes them look soft and watery. So I'd rather have them apply like the base coat like four days starting or actually do a real tanning. Now there's nobody wants to do that anymore. But I just go tanning for real or God in the sun or tanning salon use them on time too, if you need to get that base tan that's legitimate. And then you apply a top coat at least two days before the show and let that all absorb. Does it mean you're not going to shower? Okay, nobody can smell you on stage. It's not the end of the world. But at least that film of water is gone. And I see so many guys fail that they get into the spray booth and two hours later they're on stage and they're stuffed that water on them or some skin irritation from the alcohol. And it just it ruins the look. And sometimes you see that with shows where the lighting is good and then all the athletes look terrible. Because of the tan. I've ruined this so many times, Steve. And so I'm a guy that just doesn't get tan with whatever with the coating. So I've had coats and coats and coats until you get like this muddy look and it just just lets you look. What we're gonna do now is like we just take protein with us. She hand paints me on the night before I rinse the next day. And so every night I'm getting like stained and stained and stained. And then on on show day, I still rinse again my last base coat. I go to the tanner, they spray on a final other bronzer. So it's one coat, one light coat. And that's it. That's it. Before you'd be like three coats on top on top and you're sleeping in it. And it's all cakey. And so this is finally where I have like this nice, deep, dark bronze tan that isn't all cake dawn. Yeah, well, my wife was still competing. We do something similar. So we do a morning coat and evening coats and then shower the next day again, next day again. And the last day would use that protein or protein top coat, the mousse stuff, and then not shower on the day of the show. So it's only one day that you don't shower, only one coat that you didn't shower. And then her compared to everybody else was using dream tan and not in her conditioning. It was night and day. It was night and day to difference compared to all the other competitors. Now the world championships is not such a high level as the Mr. Olympia bikini class. But my wife looked like a bikini competitor to Mr. Olympia level, just simply because her tan was 10 times better than all the other competitors. I think it makes such a huge difference. And you can you can literally set up the light by you get those LED strips that are rolling, you just tape them all around the edge of the wall. And you get one of these foldable backdrops that are made of the fabric of tents, you know, when you go camping, it folds into a little package or you literally have a package that's maybe two pounds maximum. You can bring like bring that anywhere and set up some sort of posing room in your hotel room. And then all you need to do is put the tripod there with the LED lights behind it. And it's always the same. The LED lights from the top to side, the bottom, which is basically the same as on stage. And if you get, you know, a good voltage or wattage, you get them pretty bright. And then you could literally see everything. But the key is that you need to be in shape. Because so many guys that think they're in shape and they step on stage and it's, it looks like glaze. I'm like, fuck, man, didn't you see that? Well, there's no filters on stage. Yeah, doesn't help me either. That was always why I took my pictures out in the backyard. And like John said, we're morning, like sunlight, like just low daylight, you can't hide what daylight is showing on your physique. So you have to be so critical. And like when we looked at my pictures, you're like, if that had been like shadows, my lower back would have looked in. But with the daylight, you could see those last, you know, one or two pounds that we got off in the end. But for guys that are manipulating lighting to make their check in photos look more favorable, they're only being delusional. So daylight is so harsh as a critic, but it'll keep you humble, because then you'll know exactly how you look in like the worst lighting. Because if you look amazing in the worst lighting possible, maybe on stage or physique is just going to be so much better from all the detail and that the shadow brings out. Yeah, I think I think most guys are in true condition when they look leaner in the evening, even after all the food and water that they do in the morning. And most guys will never reach that point. That's why all these funky protocols are there. Because in the evening they look watery, and they're like, oh, shit, I need to die red, otherwise I'm not going to be lean the next day. But actually, if you're leaner in the evening, then you're in true condition. You don't even need to mirror fancy lighting to assist that you could literally feel it on your lower back and chest and and glutes, where you just feel it in like, it's dinner this morning. But then it's paper thing, it's like this thing. But most guys don't get to that point. And I wish I had it was a mic, looks like this, but it's not. Even like the discussion of being flat on show day, people assume that, you know, flatness on show day is a food problem. And most often it's a hydration issue, whether it's, you know, sodium or water or boats, or might you might require a small bit of fat in the instance of what John done to in order to try and slow down metabolism or just keep you feeling satiated. But when you start adding diuretics into the mix, I had a night before the morning of or like some crazy coaches four days before the show, let's just keep taking a diazine every eight hours to show day. Unless you truly understand what happens from a physiological basis from your electrolytes when you introduce even if it's a potassium sparing diuretic like diazides, more than likely you're going to wake up on show day flat from dehydration, not from food. So when you wake up and you take your pictures and all of a sudden you can't feel your muscles contract in terms like your chest, your delts, your biceps, or just not that popped to the physique. First instance, like what we talked about is like the blueberry pancakes and insulin. Let's go load up in a buffet because I'm clearly flat and I was like, no, in this instance, you probably need about a liter of fluid, wait an hour and see what happens to the physique. Yeah, that's the salt backing. That's it. And this is sort of a great thing that Justin Harris spoke about years ago was using a glucometer on like show day when you wake up in the morning, check your fast and blood glucose. When you wake up on show day, if your fast and blood glucose is elevated, you know, above 100 or 5.5 UK terms, more than likely you're dehydrated and you need some water and maybe a little bit of sodium in order to push that glucose out of the bloodstream into your cells. And it gives you an insight into your like a crude insight into your hydration. It's funny how people misconstrute that back in the day and I did as well, but people started using the glucometer to see when they would be full because I have my glucose is now coming up to 130. I'm full now. I'm full. I can stop. But I actually had to do it hydration. Poor guy. Yeah, that happens a lot. It was a great, you know, great piece of advice to assess how dehydrated your blood glucose is elevated, especially if you were someone who carb-loaded the night before the show, which again is not something that you'd want to really do. More like you wake up the next morning or dehydrated if your blood glucose is elevated, you probably didn't take in enough water and sodium to help that glucose transport. So your first instance on show day is to try and get rid of that glucose out of your bloodstream and address the dehydration rather than adding more food in, which is the first thoughts. And it goes back to, you know, on  unshodi, you probably need minimal foods, but you need to pay attention to hydration, where, you know, water or electrolytes are both. Yeah, no constipation protocols. It's not the 90s anymore, please. That's the good part. When you finally drink water again after the show and you, like, get back home after your meal, you're like, holy shit, like, I'm exploding, like, I wish I did this on a show day. It's like, oh, then you think back, what did I just eat? Oh, yeah, ate that burger post-show. He's like, no, man, you also drink a bunch of fluid. I remember one year competing, you know, doing the silly thing. We've all made our mistakes, this is how we're able to, you know, speak from experience, where you cut show day foods to as minimal as possible. And this year, the Irish national championships went on to, like, midnight. It was the first year they introduced Bikini into the Irish competitive schedule, and it was, like, hundreds of bikini girls. And our finals for men's bodybuilding in the under 80 kilo class, so it was, what's middleweight, I think. We didn't get on stage to, like, quarter to 12 at night for our finals. And I kept thinking, right, no, no water, no water, like, you need to be dry and you keep going until you get on stage. And I remember getting off stage and my dad was one of the judges. So he was judging the show. When we were leaving to go back to the hotel, I started to drink. And all of a sudden, I started to actually throw up and feel the water just sloshing around in my stomach because I'd gone past the point of, you know, dehydration where my body was like, what are you doing now, putting all this fluid into me and won't go, rather than, you know, slowly titrating the fluid back in after not having it for so long. It's scary. Yeah, scary. Last thing I want to address. Yeah, last thing I want to address is posing. It seems that a lot of people don't practice their posing. And then they're, even if they're not dehydrated and fully, you know, perfectly electrolyte balance, they're still shaking like crazy. Now, John was not shaking at all. And Dean wasn't either on his shows. So how often do you pose? And what would you recommend for clients in general? Because I would tell people just to pose three, four times per day and do like three rounds at least. Can I just say Sam Sulek at the Arnold is super impressive at his posing. He held all those poses flawlessly forever. When everyone else next to him is shaking, it was super impressive, especially from where he came from the previous show, where he's posing 100% on. But it makes a massive difference in the presentation. Yeah, because he had a problem flexing his legs and then you kind of fix that. That's still not 100%, but on the second show going pro. Yeah, they look great. They look great, you know, so it's good. But yeah, I still see that problem with a lot of people that don't practice their posing and then they get on stage and it's just a shake fest. So John, how much time do you spend in your posing room before you got this? Yeah, well, this has tapered down over time, of course, with experience. But my general guideline is of course, you know, posing. He's a skill in art, an art to present, but also a skill of having to be able to withstand the rounds. One of my friends Daniel Coffine, he made a, it's a video recording of Stephen Weinberger doing callouts. And I was like, this is genius. It's like, you can play this recording and just listen to Steve do callouts and Steve will hold you, right? So it's like, all right, if you can do three rounds with Steve doing the callouts, you're going to survive on stage. Which what I want to be able to do is every morning I just do 10 minutes straight posing, like I'm on stage. So it's going through quarter towns, through mandatory, which ends up being right around three to four rounds nonstop transitions, everything nailed perfect. If you can do that, you'll survive on stage. But I think you should be doing that at least twice per day, running into peak week and having that tapering up across your prep. So when even when you start in prep, you should already having posing taking place and that factored in to your output for the day. Because I see this also becomes an issue later on in prep. It's like you're racing your prep now, there's more cardio, need more posing or posing just doesn't even happen. So what I like to do is like now posing is coming in more that outputs I can decrease some. And the last thing that I want to leave with too is in peak week, you should be tapering your posing down. I've had clients call me like, Oh, my posing coaches come by, we're going to run through a 30 minute session, a 30 minute posing session. Like one day out, like what the hell you're going to figure out right now? It's like you should have your posing done. You know, so on one day out, like you take your pics and that's it, like you don't do rounds of posing. So on on during peak week, like man, posing is way tapered down. It's just basically for check in pics, I already know what to do. So, you know, leading leading up with a peak that you should get up to, if you can do three 10 minute rounds, like throughout the day, right? Like morning, maybe post training, maybe in the evening and lead that into your peak week. Like you should be in really good shape to be able to pose on stage correctly. That's 30 minutes in total and it's morning you'll get on stage. So that's ultimately where you get 30 minute one hour posing sessions to me. That's ridiculous. I also think it's ridiculous when you have a posing coach for an hour and he's like critiquing every single pose with all these different cues. Like you had to retain information on prep, like your posing, your posing with the coach could be like 15 minutes. Give some cues. There's your homework. Go learn it. Come back. Here's a couple cues for pose. Yeah, go learn our session and critiquing something pose like get a new posing coach. Last time just driving up the wall. It's my pet peeve. That putting a lot of people out of business now. Yeah, posing during training. Fuck, I hate it. Like fully clothed and they're like posing in the gym. Like what are you looking at right now? I'm squeezing the detail like no wasting energy. Shots fired. Like it's okay. That coach is retired now. Yeah. No, sorry. It's posing is severely underdone or overdone. From what I see. Yeah. Breathing is extremely important. Obviously. And having a breathing strategy while you're on stage. A lot of people don't consider that. And I've always been super conscious of my waste. And because you're looked at at every single moment. So understanding when you should be breathing, pacing yourself on stage. So where you can replicate like during your training, your posing, you do that exact same thing on stage. So we're doing a caught doing like, you know, deep breathing with your with your waist and moving your diaphragm too much. So like just controlling your breathing, be able to pace out and learning that piece of it. It's huge. It takes practice because you can't just white knuckle your posing the whole time. You will gas out, especially if you're nervous, you're hyped up, you start hitting your poses harder, you're started doing the things you wouldn't do during your posing practice. And all of a sudden, that's when you see the guy now huffing and puffing on stage, shaking during posing, because you're now doing things that you should not be doing. So, you know, understanding how to breathe, like, Hey, I had to blow all my air out for vacuum and hold it. What do I do if I'm running out of air? Like what do you transition? How do you regain your breath? These are all things that you need to learn and master. So when you get to show day, it's like it's cakewalk. Yeah. Yeah, I do, I do believe there's one compound that I would like to recommend for guys that do a lot of posing is my own my own nostal triper phosphate that increases the hemoglobin oxygen affinity, and just has better oxygen delivery. So instead of increasing your rib blood cell count in a maticrate and then being slightly dehydrated, so your blood volume increases, you just improve the function of your rib blood cells with it, P, P, which you can buy online. And that actually makes a huge difference regarding your stamina and breathing capacity. So for all the guys that are training up until the show, it P is something that you can look into. It makes quite a difference. Yeah, my square difference. So you can really because I noticed it myself when I take it, my posing is 10 times better. Because I like to pull vacuums as well and do all these crazy poses. And it just it makes the breathing so much easier. So that's something people can look into before we don't discuss drugs at all. I have to give them a little bit of a PD education. I think I think I was going to say what John said, even with posing coaches. 2022 was the first time I hired a posing coach for all the other years, you were sort of not self taught, but you you picked up as you went along, you learned from other people that would show you in the gym or whatever like that. But hiring an actual professional coach, man like John said, I do a 30 minute session with one of UK's top posing coaches Emma Hyman. She used to put me through my paces in that 30 minute session. This is I started in the offseason before that 2022 prep. But at the end of it, the sweat was dripping down me from being, you know, made hold poses that you taught you knew how to pose. And now you've got a professional coming in actually tweaking little things, not allowing you to step off the gas in terms like from your ankle all the way to the top of your trap is being completely contracted and a back double voice up like not not taken for granted that you can ease off in your indies poses. And like John said, as well, you're breathing being able to learn how to breathe through your nose so that you can control your your waist, you know, moving from a transition from your side relaxed to your rear relaxed, not letting go of that diaphragm for bellies protruding out as you're turning around because the judges are watching as you're turning around for that one little slip up of breathing out at your belly button and having expanded waist little things like that. I guess, like John said, as I got older, pose and practice became like less and less to speak, you could still do two or three rounds during prep. But it wasn't as much as in the past. Like 2022, I think I was doing three rounds in the morning, three in the like mid afternoon and then another two in the evening time, just to practice what was being taught by the coach. And then you sort of remember, you know, you when you do these sort of lessons online, you've got recordings to go back over to sort of learn your own body's cues. And it's more so like John said, you have to more so remember the little cues like in a back to a bicep chest up, lean back, you know, chin up, silly little things like that can make a huge difference to how your physique looks in a pose. And rounding your back arching back, would you need to tilt back too much or too little where the judges sitting relative to you on stage or they sitting right below you or they sit in level and line with you. There's all these little things that have to take into consideration when you're doing shows of how you're going to angle your pose and then you need a hype man to to scream at you when you're on stage because the lighting is different than you expected. I didn't have a lot of top lighting, so there's a lot of shadows. Lean back, no, not too far back. He gets into detail because there's shadows. Oh my, oh my god, no, so I used to do this for all of my clients at the World Championships because the lighting was different every time and sometimes it would change day to day. I would just stand there screaming on top of my lungs, you know, lean back, lean forward, sit on that hamstring. Oh my god, dude, you know, even taking, taking the time and again, this is going to show day, taking the time to actually sit in the audience before you have to go backstage to look at the lighting to sort of know in your head, okay, this is the depth of the lighting relative to the judges. Whereas the best position, do I need to go right up to the lion? Do I need to stay one slight foot back from the lion? Even though they're calling you to the white lion, you might think when you're watching guys transition, the white lion isn't exactly the best position. A little slightly bit back from it is where you're going to get the best detail. And it's paying attention, like you said, to how the show has been set up, because that lighting, regardless of what you're posing, if you're in the wrong position, you're at the very end of the lineup, you might get a different look to someone in the middle as well. So you have to manipulate your posing then to match where the lighting is positioned on the stage. Yeah, most shows are not lit properly, unfortunately, like the Mr. Olympia, Arnold Classic, Good Lighting, and even the Mr. Olympia, they changed it day to day last year. The Olympia was a great day. The first day was, ah, second day was way better. And I actually mentioned that to Dan Solomon at the VIP meetings that there might be, might need to make some changes to this lighting. Anyway, they listened on the second day. And yeah, but if you're still in the amateur ranks, or maybe not high tier professional shows, then the lighting is might be make it or break it. Same as the same day, tanning. You see all these guys that walk out to wind, does nobody look good? It's not the competitor's fault, it's the tanning and the lighting that is not good. It's just unfavorable that day. You have seen it, many shows happen, which is a shame, because like at the Arnold Classic this year, everybody looked great, literally everybody, from the first place to the last place. And that's what you would like to see as a, from an audience perspective, but also from a competitor obviously, because then everybody gets highlighted properly. And all this hard work is now immortalized in pictures. And when you see the pictures now in the videos on Instagram, you actually have like some bragging lights like, yes, I did look this fucking good. Whereas your look could be ruined by bad lighting. And that's out of your hands. You could do everything right. But if you have bad lighting in the show, then it's a good thing. From a promoter standpoint, it makes bodybuilders want to do your shows. Like I would pick a show, because what are you really left with after bodybuilding? It's like just your photos, right? I did shows this past year where I knew the lighting wasn't going to be great, but I just needed to do it. But man, like people like, oh, you looked off, I was like, I wasn't fucking off, man. It was just like, that's the lighting setup, right? And so when you nail it on your stage lighting, like bodybuilders want to come to your show. So from a promoter standpoint, it's extremely smart to try to nail and have the right lighting the bell, the right backdrop. Yeah, usually the lighting is provided by the venue, but the venue doesn't understand bodybuilding. Yeah. And sometimes it's standard, right? Sometimes they bring their lighting in, but you're right, it varies. So it's a shame, shame, but the bigger shows are usually properly lit. And then with the Olympia changing venues all the time also. And then this year that the graphics in the background, man, this is, I know, might not end well. At least the second night, everybody looks phenomenal. So I made some changes. My second show I did, there was the Texas State at the time. This was like the biggest Texas show, right? Like you had national level guys coming back through. It's when I finally saw someone in condition, I was like, oh, wow, I definitely not in shame. But anyway, what they did is like you're in this back holding room, then they had a warmup room you moved to, then they'd move you to this other room where they had everyone standing in line to then go on stage. So the experts are back there like, blaze up, it's your time, like pump up. So you're pumping up, you're getting ready. They're like, all right, let's go from the warmup room into the next room. Like, okay, here we go. And then I realized like, oh, shit, I'm like fourth in the line to then go out and your pump's fading away. And you're like, oh, there it goes, all this. And so one thing I learned from that is that if there's a live stream, because in some venues, you could be like down in the basement of an auditorium. I watched the live stream. So I kind of have an awareness of what's going on. I also won't just sit where I'm told to be, you know, stay, I'll go out to the show or like back to the curtain to see like, where are they truly at? So when the experts are just saying, time to glaze up, these guys don't care about your timing. They just want to make sure everyone's getting on stage and they're running you through. So be extremely aware of your surroundings and where they're truly at on stage. This is also why like on one day out, I don't train, but I do a practice pump up. Okay, it's short, you know, it's like takes me like 10 minutes to it's around the time when I kind of know my best look is going to happen. And so this practice is so I know exactly what to do backstage. So there's no guesswork, right? It's not like, you know, get backstage, like how do I pump up? Like, I don't know, like do some girls or it's like, we should already know this stuff, right? So I practice one day out to do the exact same thing when I do backstage. But I know the timing as well as it is a thing. So I know like, man, this only lasts me for like, maybe 10 minutes. So wait till I'm in line. I see I'm about to literally walk out in line. I'm doing kind of this pump up or a lot of guys men, like for some pro shows, like we're gonna go out there for like an hour. You think you're gonna pump up and hold it for the whole time, like, kind of not realistic. It's almost like, just go out there, look ready. And as you're posing, you're just starting to get pumped up and make sure you can just make the rounds. So pumping up can be a little bit overrated for a lot of these divisions. You're like, oh man, I was a boy, I didn't have time to pump up. It's like, man, pumping up usually doesn't save anyone going out there. So it can do some isometrics when you're standing in line. That's that's what I told most of my clients, like if you're perfectly peaked or close to perfectly peaked, all you need to do is just do some fake laterals, flexing against your own muscles, maybe a little bit of pump up. And then you're good. And with women, it's even worse because they stand in their high heels for hours. I've never let my wife did that. But she was competing, she would stand in her high heels for 20 minutes maximum. Carry you would. Yeah, just carry him around. Yeah, and you line up, you put the oil real quick, she'd pump up, which is also great because she was in good shape. And then all the girls in the lineup would be demoralized because they'd see like, oh, fuck, she's really good. We're slippers as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah, just backstage just sometimes you're on like hard cold concrete. Yeah, you start getting cold. So man, I stay in my socks and like sandals. So I'm like about to like walk on just kick those off that I like going stage. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, that's the best way to do it. Okay, I think we're pretty much at the end now. Eight parting words for Conta speaking and what people can do to look phenomenal, besides just getting fucking shit for change. Yeah, don't get fat the offseason. Gards, anything you want to part parting words? Yeah, stay in shape all year round. Makes a much easier. Yeah, Dean. Yeah, give yourself enough time like what we discussed at the very start. Minimum, I would always say 20 weeks maximum. There is no real maximum depending on how fat you are. But really, if you're going to compete 20 weeks is pretty much a minimum. You'd rather be ready early and then be able to increase foods than be chasing your tail and do all sorts of crazy crap that we've discussed over the course of the podcast. Yeah, John. Yeah, I wish unicorns existed at least maybe they do. We just haven't found them yet. But at least for peak week, they're not there. So there's no magic tricks just yet to bring in a physique that was never conditioned to begin with. So be consistent in your variables and master just assessing the look. Find your best look in peak week and just replicate that on showday. Nine times out of 10, that's going to be the better call than looking for a magical protocol. Yeah, I would say that people compete way too early. And you should only step on stage when you're truly ready. And that means doing all the work, doing all the posing, doing all the 10. So then when you do walk out to look like a professional, even if it's your first show, I mean, look at Sam Sulek, he looked almost like a professional when he walked out and he got his bro cards on his second show after feedback once. He was training for a very long time, died at his ass off, practiced the posing to his best of his abilities, showed up, took the adjustments and won a show. If you can't do that, just stay in the audience. I know I can do it. So I stayed in the audience. And I wish a lot of people would do that because he shows away too long with very subpar physiques. And it takes away from their good physiques because they they stayed there four hours longer than they need to be. So we all start somewhere, but I think you can step on stage pre damn close to where you should be. If you just give yourself a little bit more time, practice a little bit harder. And yeah, that takes a lot of effort. It takes a lot of effort. I'll put all your social media links down below so people know where to find you. John, when is your next show? I'm going to be competing in August and September. So Texas Pro, and then I'm going to go to Europe and do Italy and Germany. Oh, okay. And if I still don't qualify, I'll hang out and do France as well. So. Oh yeah, might as well. Right. Yeah, Dean. When's your next show? I am happily retired for this year. We've heard this before. Don't tell my wife. Don't tell your wife, right. Kurt, you're retired also, right? I'm retired. Yeah, I never got started because I know better. I know my physique and it's not honestly, it's not worthy for a stage. People say you die should compete, but there are too many gaps and it takes too much work to become stage worthy. And I just don't want to spend that time. I think I'm better off making YouTube videos. It doesn't have to be the fitness outlet for everyone, right? Like everyone. No. There's plenty of other ways to like expand your fitness journey and then get on stage. I met Jay Cutler in 2006 and I shook his hand after you won the Mr. Olympia. That was when he did the Dutch Grand Prix. I shook his hand at one of the seminars and all my aspirations to compete fell to the floor because we only had bodybuilding at the time and I was still natural. I shook his hand and I'm like, how am I ever going to look like this? So that's when I threw in the towel, literally. It's like I cannot, now maybe it's classic, but it opened, no way, no way. So I'll leave it there. John, you're welcome to come back any time. It's always insightful to talk to you. Kurt, Dean, I will see you next month. I have no idea what the topics are going to be. I'll shake something out of my pockets and then we'll decide on a little bit more drug talk because I don't know how the audience is today. No drugs, no views, man. So we'll see you guys next month. John, take it easy. I'll come to your podcast soon and then we'll discuss something interesting as well. All right, guys. Peace out. See you next time.

=== FILE: How To Get Your Wife Pregnant After Decades Of Blasting Steroids ｜ Why Do Bodybuilders Have Girls？ [cYkC2gDcHIo].txt ===

 you developed your body to legendary Instagram bodybuilding proportions, getting praises and inappropriate emojis, left and right, you look like a Roman statue, people are falling off their bicycles and crashing the car when they see you walk down the streets, but what's the point if you can't pay it forward? This is the most important video you'll ever watch if you want to ensure your legacy after years and decades of blasting gear. Welcome to the How To Get Your Partner Pregnant Deep Dive video, where seroidal contraceptives are not allowed. Vigor Steve here, alright, so you're ready to take the next step in life and put a little mini-me bodybuilder on this planet and nurture and coach and guide that little rascal all the way to the Mr. Olympia stage, but you've been blasting your socks off of your own self-asspirations to make it to the Mr. Olympia stage, don't worry buddy, Daddy Steve has got you covered. But first, let me drill it into your thick skull that this process is going to take months if not years, it'll take considerable time for your semen parameters to become acceptable and then further down the line become super duper fertile, ready for conception, especially if you've been taking steroids for a while. So don't get discouraged along the way, you can expect to get smaller, you can expect to get weaker, you can expect to gain a little bit of body fat, perhaps turning yourself into a full blown dad bod in anticipation of becoming a father yourself and oh yeah by the way the dad bod will come well before actual parenthood does, so be ready. Now take it from me, as soon as you get the good news and you know that your partner is pregnant with a healthy baby, once you start to gain train the transformation is going to be a lot of fun and you'll get that killer combo physique back in no time well before your child is born. In order to get the highest possible fertility parameters, you need to come off all non-bi identical performance enhancing drugs, ancillaries and medications as well and then further down the line you might need to come off exogenous testosterone, TRT therapy as well. The negative effects that anabolic energetic steroids and selective antidepressant modulators have on male fertility is honestly poorly investigated and documented, there's a lot of conflicting scientific evidence but the general consensus is that anabolic agents impair fertility in both men and women often resulting in complete infertility even admittedly accepted therapeutic dosages. I reviewed all of the scientific evidence regarding anabolic energetic steroids and their effect on fertility when they're available in this video but I would highly suggest you to give this a watch and yes I'm well aware that both proviron and halotestin treatments might aid in male fertility, this was actually proven scientifically in studies coming from the 1960s and 17s using sub-fertil men who were not completely asus-permic so if you're a golden age nut hugger and you want to forego the latest scientific evidence be my guest but your mileage might vary but I'm also well aware of the old wives tales, good old gymbrow lore by increasing your weekly testosterone dose to let's say 500 milligrams, a thousand milligrams, two thousand milligrams exogenous testosterone weekly even might help with spermatogenesis as well allowing you to keep blasting gear, keep all of your gains and still get your partner pregnant nonetheless. The idea here is that a high enough concentration of exogenous testosterone might enter permeate into the testicles, initiate spermatogenesis in the semi-ferros tubules of the testes in a similar extent that intertesticular testosterone would stemming from the late excels which is probably completely shut down because your luteinase hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels are completely bottomed out. Whether this intertesticular testosterone is stemming from the late excels being initiated by luteinase hormone or human corionic gonadotropin or stemming from exogenous sources being in such high concentration in the rest of your body that it literally enters the testicles and starts spermatogenesis doesn't seem to matter even in the absence of follicle stimulating hormone. And let's be completely honest here the amount of anecdotal evidence is astounding how many people do we know in the fitness community that got their partner pregnant while blasting their socks off, running grams upon grams of gear even using trimblon. I got my partner pregnant on trimblon, I got my partner pregnant on trishtolone which was actually designed as a mild contraceptive, the stories are plenty. Unfortunately there's no scientific evidence to support this quote-unquote hypothesis even though if you understand basic human biology it could definitely be true that exogenous testosterone might result in pregnancy. Again there is some scientific evidence that exogenous testosterone, proviron or halo testing actually improve fertility parameters in men suffering from subfertility. Unfortunately all of the studies performed on humans going up to dosages of let's say 600 milligrams weekly did not investigate the effects on spermatogenesis or overall semen parameters. However being the evidence-based research nerd that I am I was able to find an animal model that proves that quote-unquote high dose of testosterone from exogenous sources might improve the stickler function and fertility parameters but not in the way you think. This study performed by Anne et al published on June 1st 2020 so it was recently recent titled the impact of exogenous testosterone supplementation on spermatogenesis in a rat model of oligoesthenospermia. In this study the researchers used eight-week-old male sprogdoliarats and treated them with four weeks of gluconocytes of tryptoregium pil-40 abbreviated to GTW impermanensible compounds to induce low sperm count and poor sperm motility so that's a similar effect you would expect from exogenous anabolic and genic steroids albeit that that takes usually a little bit longer than four weeks in humans. Afterwards these rats received either a low dose testosterone undercannuate at 7.5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight or a high dose testosterone undercannuate at 15 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight twice at the start of the study and again at the four-week mark. So first four weeks is inducing infertility parameters basically and then a shot of testosterone undercannuate at the first week of the examination and at the fourth week mark then at the eighth week they started examining semen parameters. Again converting these dosages to the human equivalent dose using dose scale linked down below going for the weekly dose instead of the every four-week dose that means that a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would either end up with a low dose of 30.4 milligrams testosterone undercannuate weekly or at the high end of the range at 60.8 milligrams weekly. That's basically a hypotomic pituitary testicle axis destroying castration dose not a large in-charge bodybuilding dose but less proceeds anyway. In table one you see that after eight weeks the semen parameters of the high dose testosterone undercannuate group is very comparable to the control group which didn't receive any of these treatments albeit that progressive mortality is almost 16% lower at 34.5% compared to the 41% of the control group. Keep in mind that sperm agendasis was sprocketed at takes about 50 days aka seven weeks. The semen samples are literally the first ones you'll be able to test after the glucose sides of triptoride gym will for the GTW treatment. Here in figure four you see that while luteinogenic hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels in the testosterone undercannuate groups is significantly lower compared to the model group which just received the GTW treatment but didn't receive any testosterone undercannuate afterwards in a testosterone undercannuate group serum luteinogenic hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels are still significantly higher compared to the control group readings. So is the increase in intertensicular testosterone and restored sperm agendasis coming from the exogenous testosterone undercannuate or the 200% increase in luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone following the GTW treatment? I would say it's a little bit of both. So why don't we extrapolate highly dubiously from this animal model that if you impair your semen parameters with some sort of anabolic, anagenic, steroid or select vanishing receptor mice later you stay on TRT at the low infective dose and introduce something to initiate sperm agendasis in the form of luteinizing hormone, follicle stimulating hormone or perhaps human-curionic gonadotropin. And to come back to this bro-lord the old wife tells that exogenous testosterone can initiate sperm agendasis that's kind of proven in this study because both luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels were significantly higher in the CTW only group compared to the testosterone undercannuate group. You still see a steep reduction in intertensicular testosterone and fertility parameters at the eight week mark after the GTW was discontinued without additional testosterone supplementation, whereas with additional testosterone undercannuate supplementation intertensicular testosterone and semen parameters are almost close to baseline again at the high dose group. So a combination of both seems to be desirable. I'll end before I forget we'll go a lot more in depth into oxidative stress a little bit later in this video but in this study they show that oxidative stress markers were also lower in the testosterone undercannuate groups compared to the GTW only groups but still higher than baseline readings and this is very important to understand again we'll go a lot more in depth later on because oxidative stress contributes to the sex determination of your child. Now there's a lot more to this study and I would highly suggest you to read it if you decide to go this route be my guest just do me a solid and read all of the other citations down below it is a fully evidence-based scientific deep dive to make sure that you get the best information possible when you're trying to conceive. If you stop the video right here just be forewarned if you decide to go with exogenous testosterone and super physiological dose just in an attempt to get your partner pregnant it's very likely that you'll have a daughter and could potentially have a child with autism or both due to the oxidative stress occurring within the testicles affecting your semen parameters so keep watching if you'd like to know more leave a like and a couple comments to fuel the algorithm much appreciate it everything is explained in this post-stereotabuse male fertility deep dive. Gentlemen first let's get a baseline reading of your current fertility parameters to see how terrible or how decent your spermatosa are because not all men are asyl spermic on a steroid a cycle like I alluded to earlier albeit that progressive motility and morphology is usually still in the gutter make sure you do a semen analysis while checking for the following fertility parameters according to the updated guidelines from the sixth edition of the world health organization manual for human semen analysis published in 2021 the ideal abstinence time should be over two days resulting in sufficient semen volume you can expect about one milliliter of semen for every single day that you abstain on average but the longer you abstain the more your sperm is susceptible to oxidative stress again more on this later semen volume should be over 1.4 milliliters sperm concentration should be over 15 million sperm per one milliliter total sperm per ejaculate should be over 39 million per ejaculate so that basically means on average two milliliters of semen containing each 20 million per one milliliter total sperm motility should be over 42 percent good luck if you're on anabolic anagenic steroids that's the amount of sperm that's swimming around progressive motility the sperm that's actually swimming in a straight line and not going in circles like Homer Simpson on the floor should be over 30 percent the non-progressive motility should be less than 1 percent that it's the sperm that's swimming around but not getting anywhere a motile sperm should be a maximum up to 20 percent basically sperm that's not swimming sperm vitality aka the viability the sperm that's alive should be over 54 percent and normal morphology should be over 4 percent but if you use strict criteria based on other scientific evidence that should be over 14 percent we'll get into more into this a little bit later on and these fertility parameters aren't included in the updated guidelines by the world health organization but i would still highly advise you to check these variables anyway as they greatly help identify underlying problems in eight in the full recovery of your fertility parameters the pH the acid basic balance of your semen should be over 7.2 because the vagina is reasonably acidic so the higher your pH is the better it is to preserve the quality of your semen after ejaculation a lot more on this a little bit later on this video the viscosity should be normal not too thick certainly not too watery otherwise it would just basically leak out after ejaculation liquid faction should occur within 60 minutes again more on this later semen mixed anti-globulin reaction test the mar test detects the presence of anti-sperm antibodies asubs in semen and these antibodies can actually prevent conception by coating the surface of sperm making it very difficult for them to reach and fertilize the egg white blood cells should be below 1 million red blood cells should be negative brown cells again red blood cells should be negative and then DNA fragmentation this is probably the most important part of the semen analysis should be below 15 indicating good DNA integrity 15 to 25 percent is average sperm DNA integrity and over 25 percent is poor sperm DNA integrity we'll get into this a little bit later on when we discuss oxidative stress and the semen fructose qualitative test a normal result should be between 5 to 30 millimoles which helps you identify problems when you're completely asus spermac and this is very important to test on your first semen analysis after years the decades of blasting gear without human koreanic gonadotropin right it could be that you're completely asus spermac zero semen in your semen sample to analyze but then it's still very important to see if you have uh fructose content which is being produced in the seminal vesicles because if you don't produce a lot of semen you don't have seminal vesicles you'll have structural issues we'll adjust it a little bit later on so there might be an issue with your seminal vesicles if your semen fructose content is zero or an issue with your vast deference which is the area um that allows for transport from the testicles to the seminal vesicles so this can already determine any structural issues which you can then further analyze with an ultrasound so your first semen analysis make sure you check the fructose content of your semen sample and it's basically the perfect segue i also highly suggest you to do with the sticular ultrasound at the start around the same time that you did your first semen analysis to assess if there's any structural issues in your testicles or the surrounding tissues you might as well assess the health of your prostate while you're at it right you do one trip to the sonographer instead of multiple right because it's very important to know if there's any issues structurally with your testicles or the surrounding tissues when you start throwing the kitchen sink or fertility medications at it if there's a structural issue it doesn't matter how many fertility medications you take they're not going to end up in the testicles allowing for a sufficient parameter genesis for superduper fertility parameters testicular and prosthetic ultrasounds are non-invasive medical imaging tests that use sound waves to create detailed images of the sexual organs in the surrounding tissues do yourself and the sonographer a favor shave and bathe well before the testicular ultrasound and hold your urine for the prosthetic ultrasound to get the best experience possible the stickler ultrasounds can diagnose the following medical conditions the stickler tumors differentiate between non-cantrus benign and cantrus malignant masses the stickler cysts such as epidydymal cysts or spermatocele which are fluid filled sacs within the testicles a hydro cell is fluid around the testicles a little bit more on that later on the stickler infections or abscesses again it can be identified using an ultrasound whether that's bacterial or a viral infection it can diagnose the stickler torsion which you would certainly notice through excruciating pain as it's a medical emergency this is the twisting of the spermatic cord which cuts off blood flow to the testicles so if you go in for the stickler ultrasound and you don't experience any pain it's very unlikely that you experience the stickler torsion but if you had excruciating pain in your testicles years the decades ago resulting in hypogodadism yeah there might be a permanent issue there because blood flow was cut off for a very long time all right so again the stickler ultrasounds are very important to do before you start conceiving especially if you were a hypochonadol in the past before TRT and then some the stickler orchitis which is the inflammation of the testicle often associated with infections like mumps varicoseal or varicoseals on both sides enlarge veins in the scrotum that impair blood circulation and may affect sperm production and fertility parameters if the blood flow is really impaired then you require a Doppler ultrasound following the ultrasound to diagnose if you have a varicoseal or varicoseals now if you have a minor varicoseal they can actually do several predations minor varicoseals don't require surgery because the blood flow to the testicles is still sufficient for normal fertility parameters and serum testosterone levels but if the varicoseal or seals is severe then you probably need surgery it can detect hydro seal or hydro seals which is fluid accumulation around the testicles not within and hydro seals can still cause discomfort or swelling scrotal swelling differentiates between solid masses and fluid filled areas causing swelling detects injunal hernias that extend into the scrotum undescended testicles help locate a testicle that hasn't descended into the scrotum it's probably not an issue because that seems to be a common problem with well adolescents but if you look down and you can't find your testicles it's either from having an undescended testicle a nonformed testicle which is congenital or excessive use of anabolic androgenic steroids allowing the testicles to disappear within the body and then if you go swimming in a very cold lake then it makes it even worse at this particular trauma detects injuries like ruptures or hematomas aka blood clots in or around the testicles it can detect microlithiasis which is the presence of tiny calcifications in the testicle sometimes that's linked to a high risk of developing testicular cancer and well testicular atrophy obviously shrinkage of the testicles due to various causes including an impaired hypotomic pituitary testicular axis from steroid or SARM abuse and again while you're at it do a prostate ultrasound if you haven't done that in a while to determine if you have benign prostate hyperplasia prostate abscesses or cysts prostate stones prostate cancer prostate tides ejaculatory duct obstruction which is a blockage of the duct that carries semen again leading to male infertility semen of vesicles abnormalities like cyst infections or congenital defects impairing your overall ejaculate quality post prostate surgery monitoring and to assess the function of your bladder that is very important that you do both I would highly suggest you do both at the same time if you're diagnosed with any of the previously mentioned conditions where you have another issue on your prostate or your testicles please discuss that with a professional right that's what they're there for the specialists know exactly what effect it might have on your overall fertility parameters and if you need to go some sort of invasive surgical procedure to get everything fixed and resolved in order to get your partner pregnant further down the line right that's not what we're going to discuss in this video that's what the doctors the specialists the professionals are there for and again to put your mind at ease if you took pneumocorionic gonadotropin throughout the entirety of your steroid cycle or SARM cycle it's very likely that your testicular size is exactly the same as where it was before starting androgen therapy sort of say unless you were hypoquinadol in your testicles were non-existent because LIT and FSH levels were very low because of a pituitary or hypothermus issue right assuming you were healthy before starting steroids or SARMs that the testicular size don't doesn't really see much of a decline if you've been taking human crionic gonadotropin throughout the entirety that you were blasting your socks off I explain everything in the human crionic gonadotropin deep dive I would highly suggest you to give it a watch because human crionic gonadotropin is an essential ingredient in this overall fertility protocol I'll link it down below and at the end of this video but you're not the only one who should do medical imaging to assess the health status of your reproductive organs I would also highly suggest your partner to do a vaginal histroscopy which is a diagnostic procedure used to examine the uterus and endometrium using a thin lighted tube with a telescope video camera called a histoscope a vaginal histroscopy provides a detailed view of the uterine cavity and helps in diagnosing various gynecological conditions including abnormal uterine bleeding, uterine polyps, uterine fibroids, congenital abnormalities, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer, inter-uterine adhesions, uterine abnormalities, retained placental fragments and ate in the removal foreign objects including inter-uterine devices which again should be removed whether they are copper-based or hormonal-based because inter-uterine devices prevent your partner from getting pregnant again you and your partner will need to discuss the results of her vaginal histroscopy with a gynecologist or another specialist to see if she's perfectly healthy or if she needs medical interventions before a successful implantation of a fertilized embryo can occur a vaginal histroscopy is particularly important for women who took performance anesthetic drugs in the past and whether those were antibiotic androgenic steroids, selective androgen receptor modulators or ancillaries like aromatized inhibitors or selective estrogen receptor modulators all of these can have a hormonal effects on the reproductive organs which can have a negative effect on the uterine lining and thickness making the chances of implantation rather difficult. PEDs can also result in eminorrhea, a temporary or long-term absence of menstruation which might have a negative effect on overall fertility as well even though the scientific evidence can be debated. Now female fertility is a whole subject on its own and the negative effects that performance anesthetic drugs have on female fertility are still poorly understood. I would highly suggest any female out there that took PEDs in the past to abstain from PEDs for at least two years and make sure that they have a regular menstrual cycle for approximately one year to track ovulation cycles properly before attempting to conceive a child. Okay so now both you and your partner have done the initial screening to assess if there's any structural issues which are reproductive organs any issues would seem in production the menstrual cycle or ovulation. Once that initial diagnosis has taken place you can proceed with the remainder of this fertility protocol discussed in this video. For you the next step is coming down to testosterone replacement therapy removing all non-biidentical hormones from your protocol and using fertility medication to recover testicular function unless you were already using human chorionic gonadotropin on cycle or alongside your TRT HRT protocol in which case testicular function, testosterone production and sperm to genesis was somewhat sustained. So during the next step you're going to let all antibiotic and genic steroids select the endogen receptor modulators and their metabolites which might be suppressive on testicular function metabolize from your body and then we're going to ramp up the fertility medication for sperm to genesis to get as high as possible. Here I'll provide all of the known and established half-lives of injectable steroid formulations whether they are esterfied or not but I go a lot more in depth on how esters work and what their individual half-lives are in this video. Long story short the half-life of an ester highly depends on the amount of carbon atoms that the ester contains and how readily these carbon atoms are cleaved off by the carboxyl esterases or the phosphodiesterases. That being said the carrier oil in which the esterfied steroid formulation is dissolved in also needs to be metabolized from the injection depot and this seems to influence the half-life as well. Hence for many of the steroids listed there's a half-life range stemming from various studies using different carrier oils examining how these esterfied steroids metabolize from the injection depot in different studies. The active life of each steroid is approximately five times its half-life which should allow for enough time for this anabolic androgenic steroid or selective anodromyceptrum modulator to metabolize from the body completely but the metabolites might linger around for months and the metabolites might have a long term suppressive effect on the hypothalmic-patiolatric testicular axis and impair fertility parameters. So if we state the clearance times of these metabolites under the evidence-based detection time wherever known again not all scientific evidence is available unfortunately just keep in mind that the evidence-based detection time is based on single administrations usually over several milligrams maybe five milligrams, ten milligrams, fifty milligrams at most not hundreds to thousands of milligrams following consecutive administrations for months on end you know the kind of stuff we do in the bodybuilding space. So I would highly advise you to stick with the reported detection time that is stemming from athletes being subject to drug testing when they discontinue a particular compound let's say six months later whether that's five months or 12 months or 18 months later they beat a drug test and that's how long it might take for these metabolites to clear from the system. Doing steroid cycles just means that the metabolites will build up over time resulting in a much longer excretion period and it means if you took decaduraballon at a thousand milligrams weekly for let's say a couple months during your off-season it might take 18 months before you can start improving your fertility parameters because nandrolone is being produced in the body endogenously being allowed to kept much higher than other metabolites and thus the negative effect that nandrolone might have on your fertility parameters might take 18 months before that goes away and then and only then can you really start seeing a significant improvement in your fertility parameters. Now that doesn't mean that your fertility parameters can't come up during this time but they will not be as stellar as having this nandrolone completely metabolized from your body because progenic nitin-orthostosterone derivatives have a quite tremendous negative effect on overall fertility parameters so when I told you it was going to take months if not years this is one of the reasons why and there's no information on the half-life the active life the detection time whether that is evidence-based or reported on SARMS or injectable SARMS for that matter so if you see a lot of unknowns in this list my sincere apologies this scientific evidence simply isn't up to par and I haven't really talked to much people using SARMS and going or reporting a particular detection time knowing that these SARM and their metabolites are completely metabolized from the body so again all the more reasons not to take SARMS and if you go with the half-life of most injectable estralis steroids suspensions like testosterone suspension, windstroll suspension or perhaps tremolone suspension then the half-life of an injectable SARM might be anywhere alongside 24 hours with an active life approximately five days the detection time of injectable SARMS might be anywhere between three weeks to five months depending on how deep it goes into the injection depot and how long those metabolites linger in the injection depot and again these estimates are purely based on speculation and don't really represent how long these compounds might suppress your hypotomic pituitary disticular axis and have a negative effect on overall fertility parameters still caution is advised and give yourself adequate time for these metabolites to clear from your system so here are the injectable androgen receptor agonists we have bouldinone acetate bouldinone sapionate bouldinone undesilate aka equi-poise diadro bouldinone sapionate aka DHB drostenolone propionate aka masterone drostenolone inethate methen-deanone suspension also known as deannable depot quite popular amongst the off-season body builder protocols nowadays it seems methenolone inethate aka prima bollin nandrolone phenolpropionate NPP nandrolone decanoate decadere bollin oxymetalon suspension also known as androl depot also very popular as an injectable pre-workout tremolone acetate phenagect but that's used in animals tremolone inethate tremolone hexahydro benzo carbonate aka para bollin chrystalline acetate aka ment chrystalline decanoate testosterone suspension aquiveron testosterone propionate testivine  typhyron, testosterone inethate, testosterone depo, testosterone sapionate, depotestosterone, testosterone undercanomate, nabito, and various testosterone blends including cystinone and omnidrin, and stenazolol suspension, aka windstroll depo. All of the half-lives, the active lives, the evidence-based detection time and the reported detection time were ever known. We're on the screen. You might have to pause that here and there so you know what to expect regarding the metabolism of these hormones. And here are the oral androgen receptor agonists, chloro-dehydro-omethyl-testastrone, CDMT, aka torrinibol, dimethicine, DMZ, fluoxymestralone, halotestine, mestrololone, proviron, methen-deanone, deanibol, metastrone or methyl-drostanolone, superdrol, methenone acetate, primibolone S, meblerone, check-drops, oxandrolone, aka anivar, oxymetrolone, aka anadrol, stenazolol, windstroll, testosterone undercanomate, andriol, and you have LGD-4033, ligandrol, MK-2866, austrin, RAD-140, fossilosarm, S4, andrin, and YK-11. Again, the details are all on the screen. Start with testosterone replacement therapy and give yourself adequate time for the metabolites to clear from your system. Now, minor fear-mongering aside, regardless of the compounds and dosages you were using, from all of the fertility consultations that I've done over the years, I've seen that most men recover spermatogenesis and semen parameters start to improve within three to six months. That being said, it takes approximately six to nine months before fertility parameters really start to shoot upwards, and in most cases you need to come off cycle completely for fertility parameters to be super duper fertile. So let's rewind a little bit. From the day you decide to father children is the day that you decide to come off all non-biogenetical hormones and limit yourself to the following compounds. Testosterone, any ester, with any injection frequency, any injection depth, whether that's sub-Q or intramuscular, I'll leave that entirely up to you. The hydro-epi-understerone, DHEA, pregnant loan. Human-choreonic gonadotropin, which is bioidentically men, albeit that they produce it in trace amounts, right? Usually men rely on luteinizing hormone, but recombinant luteinizing hormone is very difficult to source, and if you can source this, highly expensive. So most men would stick with either urine purified or recombinant human-choreonic gonadotropin in combination with either human menopausal gonadotropin containing urine purified, human-choreonic gonadotropin, follicle-stimulating hormone, or recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone, because again, urine purified follicle-stimulating hormone is only found in human menopausal gonadotropin. So you go with either HMG or RFSH, and feel free to combine that with a therapeutic dose of growth hormone that's always in recombinant version, whether that's generic or pharmaceutical. A replacement dose of growth hormone or a therapeutic dose of growth hormone has been scientifically proven, especially in the elderly, people over 30 years old, that it helps with fertility parameters, both him and her. So I would suggest you to stick with recombinant human-choreonic gonadotropin in combination with recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone based on all of the self-experimentation that I've done in order to get my wife pregnant. But again, cost sourcing and your response to these particular compounds can determine which compounds you're going to use for the next foreseeable months. With these bioidentical fertility enhancing drugs, you're going to aim to keep your sexual hormones in your neuro-stereotical levels within the clinically accepted, albeit highly masculine, reference ranges. Beta-human-choreonic gonadotropin is below 5 milli-iUs per milliliter, because otherwise you would be considered pregnant. But if you take exonitiveness recombinant or your impure-fied human-choreonic gonadotropin at 500 iUs three times per week the day after a subcutaneous administration, your beta-HCG levels will be approximately 12 to 15 milli-iUs per milliliter. After a thousand iUs HCG shots, your beta-HCG levels will be approximately, let's say, 22 to 27 milli-iUs per milliliter. So you know what to expect. If you go with the HCG route, all is discussed in the HCG deep dive, then beta-HCG levels will be super physiological, which is not the end of the world, because of the luteinizing hormone, even though the masculine reference range is between 1 to 11 milli-iUs per milliliter, if you're on exonitiveness recombinant replacement therapy, LH is going to be zero in each human choreonic gonadotropin to replace the luteinizing hormone signal from the pituitary glands. So beta-HCG level will be super physiological and LH will be well before clinically accepted parameters. Follicle stimulating hormone, the masculine reference range is between 1 to 13 milli-iUs per milliliter and you can take recombinant or your impure-fied follicle stimulating hormone coming from a human menopausal gonadotropin to bring follicle stimulating hormone levels up. Again, if you don't take HCG or FSH or HMG, your luteinizing hormone, follicle stimulating hormone and beta-human-choreonic gonadotropin levels are going to be zero and that means that fertility parameters are not going to improve. And I already know what you're going to ask me, Steve, can I use clomid or enclomaphen blood clots? There's a lot of risk. We'll get into that a little bit later on. I would not suggest you to take clomid and enclomaphen for months in duration because the longer you stay on these terms, the more you risk getting a blood clot, right? But I would recommend you to take this in mind. That's why I would rather recommend you HCG and FSH instead of selective estrogen receptor modulators. Again, more on this later when we discuss pyschotherapy in case you need to come off cycle completely because your fertility parameters are simply not improving by taking exogenous testosterone in combination with these fertility peptides. Doltatastosterone on the masculine reference range is between 250 to 1,100 nM per deciliter, 3-testosterone between 35 to 155 pKg per mL, bioavailable to testosterone between 40 to 257 nM per deciliter, that is testosterone DHT12265 nM per deciliter, estradiol 10 to 40 pKg per mL, saccharinobonyglobulin between 10 to 50 nanomoles per liter, the understron DHT8 between 21 to 491 nM per deciliter, TCSulfate between 20.8 to 459.6 mKg per deciliter, pregnant loan between 53 to 357 nM per deciliter, pregnant lossulfate between 1 to 23 pKg per mL and growth hormone between 1 to 10 nM per mL. Now of course some fluctuations are going to occur when you take exogenous testosterone, chorionic gonadotropin and folliculostimulatine hormone or HMG, but I would still advise you to stick as close as possible to these clinically established reference ranges, because that's what all of the scientific evidence is based on. The more you go supervisological, the higher you go, the more of these parameters go supervisological, the further and further away you get away from the scientific evidence, and it might mean that it gets more difficult and more difficult to get your partner pregnant even after years of using these fertility medications. As a comparison, before I forget, the feminist reference range that many charenandocrinologists and general practitioners are trying to force down your throat without the reach around, you can see here that the total testosterone levels are 270 nM per deciliter less than the masculine reference range. So I'm still trying to throw you a bone here. If you go with general practitioners or charenandocrinologists, you might bring your total testosterone level up to 839 nM per deciliter, but with a little bit of TRT in the mix alongside HCG, well, that's probably going to be too low for the majority of you guys. So feel free to do a comparison. I think that the masculine reference range is a good way to aim towards for the next couple of months. All right, so enough of that. Back to the reference range that we're going to use for this video. If you're using testosterone replacement therapy coming from steroid cycles over your been on testosterone replacement therapy the entire way through, again, like I mentioned before, luteinogenic hormone and follicle stimulating hormone are going to be bottomed out because your HPTA is completely shut down if it wasn't shut down to begin with before starting TRT because you needed it for medical purposes. But in an attempt to restore spermatogenesis to circular function and breathe testosterone levels up, well, simultaneously bring your exogenous testosterone levels down, the administrations can come down in dose and perhaps frequency. We're going to have to replace a luteinogenic hormone signal with eumachroionic gunatotropin and based on the outcomes of the HCG deep dive, it seems that 325 IU's HCG subcutaneous or intermuscularly three times per week is enough to sustain the stickler function while using exogenous testosterone compared to baseline before exogenous testosterone was added to the mix. And this is in healthy individuals, not the men suffering from hypogonadal states. And from 500 IU's HCG, either subcutaneous or intermuscular three times per week onwards, it seems that you produce more intersticular testosterone that you would normally from naturally occurring pulsatile luteinogenic hormone signaling coming from the pituitary. So again, I would highly advise you to watch the HCG deep dive for a lot more in depth and how to use exogenous HCG at various dosages. So during this time that you're trying to recover testicular function, the dose of exogenous HCG three times per week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday ideally might be anywhere between 325 IU's up to 1000 IU's. In order for you to sustain your masculinity, your sanity, your training intensity, your libido and your overall quality of life, you're allowed for now to use a complementary dose of exogenous testosterone replacement therapy alongside the eumachroionic gunatotropin and perhaps human menopausal gunatotropin or recombinant follicle stimulating hormone to bring your total testosterone levels up to the quarter top of the reference range. And that means that total testosterone might end up anywhere between 880 to 1100 nanograms per deciliter. If you want to go to 1500 nanograms per deciliter, be my guest, but that's not what the scientific evidence is based on. So let's say you start with 325 IU's HCG three times weekly, a total of approximately 1000 IU's HCG over the week. In combination with 150 nanograms testosterone in a state, Cp9, propranate, whatever ester you prefer, over the week split over three injections. So you have three injections, HCG, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 325 IU's every single time and then 50 nanograms testosterone in the ester in between those injections, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday or go with daily micromanage trations, whatever you prefer, right? If the HCG is giving you, let's say, 400 nanograms per deciliter on your total testosterone level and the exactness testosterone is giving you an additional 600 nanograms per deciliter on your total testosterone, resulting in the total testosterone level of 1000 nanograms per deciliter, that's more than enough to get the job done on all fronts. Regarding the use of aromatase inhibitors, there is some scientific evidence that litrosol and anastasol are able to increase and improve sperm concentration, motility and morphology in cases of subfertility. Regarding XMS stain, it has been studied less in men compared to litrosol and anastasol, but generally it has a mild positive effect on mild fertility, but this scientific evidence wasn't duplicated in the context of using exogenous testosterone replacement therapy in combination with these fertility peptides. So if you come from a state where you never touched steroids or sarms to begin with, then these aromatase inhibitors might be able to prevent the conversion of testosterone into estradiol. Estradiol causes the negative feedback on the hypothalamus and the pituitary and thus luteinase hormone, folliculostimulinary hormone levels, go up resulting in more testosterone, which again you're preventing the conversion of testosterone into additional estradiol, which would otherwise have a suppressive effect. And when LH and FSH levels go up and intrasticic testosterone levels go up and sperm to genesis is initiated to a greater extent than overall fertility parameters, improve. But this is not the sample group that we are. We shut down our HPTA with long term steroids use. So in the context of this fertility protocol, I would rather not have you use aromatase inhibitors instead bring your exogenous testosterone dose down to the point your serum estradiol levels are in range when you're combining the exogenous testosterone with human carionic gonadotropin, which will produce estradiol directly in the testicles. Yeah, it sucks, but that's the way it's going to be because even if you crush your serum estradiol levels to zero, it's going to take a very, very, very, very long time for luteinase hormone levels and folliculostimulinary hormone levels to come up as long as you're taking exogenous testosterone and then you might as well go with clomid or inclamaphene. So aromatase inhibitors in my humble opinion, off the menu, just bring your exogenous testosterone dose down to give you a level of estradiol that is satisfactory to you. And keep in mind that serum estradiol actually helps with folliculostimulinary hormone receptor sensitivity. So when you take recombinant folliculostimulinary hormone or your impurified folliculostimulinary hormone stemming from human menopause organadotropin, if you crush your serum estradiol levels to zero, the folliculostimulinary hormone receptor is not going to function correctly. And I hate to say this, but if you end up needing an aromatase inhibitor on a dose of HCG between 325 IUs up to 1000 IUs three times weekly with exogenous testosterone between 125 milligrams to 150 milligrams weekly, they are just too fat, bro. And you need to get that bad butt under control. Mr. Chunky McChunk, if you have 1000 IUs HCG and 150 milligrams testosterone intake per week, your testosterone levels will be super physiological. And even if your testosterone levels total testosterone is between 800 to 1100 milligrams per deciliter, that's more than enough to make gains regarding fertility parameters, right? It's fertility enhancement protocol, not a performance enhancing protocol. If you're in the slight correct deficit, it's not going to matter regarding your fertility parameters, but it's going to matter regarding your serum estradiol levels and your overall body fat levels. So if you're going to throw the HCG and the exogenous testosterone at it, if you're too fat at the start of this protocol, just get leaner so you don't need an aromatase inhibitor, which would otherwise potentially have a negative effect on your fertility parameters. Long term, right? What do you think is going to be more deleterious to your fertility being in a slight correct deficit or having a superficial logical testosterone levels? I'll leave that up to you. Ensuring that your serum estradiol stays around the quarter top of the reference range, let's say around 33 to 40 pikograms per milliliter, similar to how total testosterone will end up at the quarter top of the reference range, seems to be ideal for your blood work parameters, for your libido, your cognition, your overall sense of well-being, and your fertility parameters. The use of 5-file productase inhibitors has been linked to lower sperm count and lower sperm motility, albeit that these minor changes should not affect overall pregnancy outcome in men with normal semen parameters before they started finasteride or glutasteride treatment. But it's also in the context of not using exogenous testosterone, which shuts down the HPTA impairing overall semen parameters. So if your semen parameters were already in the gutter, then I would highly recommend you to take the finasteride or glutasteride out because they have a minor negative effect on total sperm count and a minor negative effect on sperm motility, which is already impaired from the exogenous testosterone that you've been taking. So unfortunately, whatever your dietary testosterone levels end up being on TRT plus HCG, that's where it's going to be. And if that results in hair loss, too bad because finasteride, glutasteride, and perhaps even RU58841 might have a negative effect on your fertility parameters. And keep in mind that the topical catechonazole aminoxidyl shampoos can also go systemic, which seem to have a negative effect on your overall sexual monocascate and might also affect your fertility parameters. Now regarding the systemic and negative effects of catechonazole aminoxidyl RU58841, finasteride, glutasteride, aromatazenibus, and a lot of other compounds that might affect the sexual monocascate, I already documented extensively in this video discussing why particular medications make you feel so bad, right? They might inhibit various steps of neurosteroid synthesis or sexual monosteroid synthesis, which ultimately downstream might impair fertility parameters. So you really have to be careful on what you take over the next couple of months. And this is why I tell you to stick with the bioidentical compounds only because non-biodentical compounds, especially medications, they can all have a negative effect on your overall fertility parameters. So personally, I do not recommend medical aromatazenibus or medical 5-alpha reductase inhibitors during this entire fertility protocol. But if you need to control your serum acerodial levels or your serum DST levels for whatever reason, then stick with over-the-counter supplements, which you still need to do research on if they have a negative effect on male fertility, right? Watch this video discussing particular over-the-counter supplements which have a suppressive effect on serum acerodial levels, whether those inhibit the aromatazenibus enzymes themselves or lower aromatazenibus expression or lower acerodial levels through another pathway. Please do additional research. I cannot possibly research every single compound that's out there regarding their effect on male fertility. Your sexual and body globulin levels will slowly come up to match your intake of exogenous testosterone and your human corionic gonadotropin protocol for normal conversion into estradiol. So I highly doubt you need to make any changes regarding your SHBG levels. On this protocol, regarding your DHA and pregnant low levels, you could supplement with exogenous DHA or pregnant low, or maybe the exogenous human corionic gonadotropin is able to stimulate the production of these neuro-steroids in the adrenal glands. Blood work is required throughout the entirety of this protocol. So if you're young, you can probably rely on HCG, but if you're a little bit older, you might need exogenous DHA and pregnant low to bring your levels to the quarter top of their respective reference ranges. However, the scientific evidence regarding DHA and pregnant low supplementation is rather inconsistent and inconclusive. DHA supplementation can improve fertility parameters in cases of energy and deficiency and subfertility, which is also the case for pregnant low supplementation, but that's mostly in the elderly. Now, it's very likely that you didn't supplement with DHA and pregnant low on cycle. So now's a good time to start because DHA and pregnant low might contribute to your overall fertility parameters and improve your male fertility over longer periods of time. So unless you've been supplementing with DHA and pregnant low throughout the entirety of your steroid cycles or your TRT and HRT protocols, it is very unlikely that your DHA, DHA, sub-fat, pregnant low, and pregnant low, and sub-fat levels are anywhere close to optimal. So feel free to start supplementing them in now to bring your DHA, DHA, sub-fat, pregnant low, and pregnant low, and sub-fat levels up to the top quarter of the reference range, which I think is very beneficial for your overall essential well-being and your fertility parameters, assuming that your ptotatastosterone, your estradiol, and your tattatastosterone levels are also towards the top quarter of the reference range. Just keep in mind that even a low dose of DHA and pregnant low can increase ptotatastosterone levels and increase aromatization into estradiol or 5-hub reduction into tattatastosterone when you start supplementing these alongside your TRT plus fertility peptides protocol. So again, do your blood work frequently, start low, build your way up, and if you notice the tattatastosterone, estradiol, and tattatastosterone levels are going to be physiological, or you need an aromatized inhibitor, or a 5-hub reduction inhibitor by adding in DHA and pregnant low, then bring your exogenous testosterone down a notch to maybe 100 milligrams weekly because it's the HCG that's restoring the spermatogenesis and improving your fertility parameters. Now the exogenous testosterone, it's the HCG that you need. In this protocol, HCG comes first in combination with follicle stimulating hormone or human menopausal gonadotropin, and the dose of your exogenous testosterone DHA and pregnant alone might need to be adjusted based on your serum level. So again, blood work is key as part of this fertility protocol. Throughout the entire time that you came off non-biidentical hormones on the day you decided to become a father to the time that you actually get your partner pregnant with a healthy baby, you need to avoid all of these drugs, these compounds, these medications as they might have a severe to low negative effect on your male fertility parameters. And the list is very long and extensive, but might not be 100% all-inclusive. So again, please do your additional research if you take a compound that's not listed here. So here are the compounds, drugs, and medications to avoid chemotherapy drugs, recreational drugs, antibiotic androgenic steroids, albeit that testosterone is approved for therapeutic and medical usage and potentially induces prometogenesis at higher dosages. And you see here that, well, Provirin and Halo-Testin were scientifically proven as fertility aids in cases of subfertility, again stemming from the studies from the 1960s and 70s. So your mileage might vary. And you should avoid selective androgen receptor modulators, androgen and endocrine disruptors. Including pesticides, industrial chemicals, dioxins, soy isoflavones, certain personal products, additives, natural androgen disruptors, heavy metals. You should avoid opioids. You should avoid selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, which again might take a while to face off and taper down from because withdrawal symptoms can be brutal. I'm talking from personal experience. I came off fluvoxamine called Turkey. It was not fun. The calcium channel blockers, you should avoid anti-androgens. Obviously, you should avoid several immunosuppressants should be avoided. Sulfo-cellosine should be avoided. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs should be avoided. Amphetamines should be avoided, just including the medical ones like Adderall, Dixodrine, and Vivant. Not a good idea to take as part of your fertility protocol. Fetal-fruiductase inhibitors should be avoided. And even Accutane and Modafinil should be avoided. I cannot emphasize this enough. I cannot possibly research all of the medications, drugs, and compounds that you could possibly be taking. So, write down a list of all the compounds that you are taking currently and do the research yourself on top of the research that I've already done for you to make sure that even if a compound has a marginal trace, minute, negative effects on male fertility, when you start stacking several compounds together, that might result into a tremendous severe negative effect on your male fertility. And then after nine months, you're wondering why your fertility parameters are still in the trash because you're taking five compounds that you shouldn't be taking, even if it's occasional usage. So, Epstein, as much as you can, personally, I decided not to take any chances and just removed everything, literally everything that did not have a clear established beneficial effect, even if it didn't have an established negative effect. And as you'll see from my fertility parameters a little bit later in this video, my fertility parameters were Godlike. Yeah, so if you want something similar, Epstein, from everything that doesn't show to have a clear beneficial positive effect on male fertility, you might get something similar. Now, enough of the stuff you shouldn't be taking, what should you be taking during the time that you're recovering spermatogenesis and throughout the entirety that you're trying to get your partner pregnant with copious amounts of practice? While you're recovering spermatogenesis, it's important to supplement with adequate micronutrients and antioxidants to improve the stickler function as testosterone and semen synthesis is a very nutrient costly process. So here's the multi-phase testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis recovery over the counter supplement, antioxidant and methods protocol. You do not have to do all of these at the same time, but the more of these you incorporate, the better your fertility parameters are going to be. And this obviously highly depends on how many micronutrients you're already getting from your diet. So go to chronometer or an application where you can track your micronutrient intake for all of the foods that you're eating every single day. Feel free to supplement with vitamin B9 folate folic acid between 100 micrograms to 1000 micrograms daily. Feel free to go with a vitamin B50 or B100 complex to get all of the B vitamins as part of your supplementation stack. Vitamin C, ascorbic acid between 2000 milligrams to 5000 milligrams daily vitamin D3 called shuffler soroll between 3000 to 5000 IOS daily. You can even break open the gel caps and apply the vitamin D3 directly to the testicles, which allegedly might help with testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis downstream. Magnesium 400 milligrams to 1200 milligrams daily. The vitamin E makes tocopherose and tocopherinols between 400 IOS to 800 IOS daily. Selenium between 100 micrograms to 200 micrograms daily for a maximum of 400 micrograms from dietary and supplementary sources. Zinc between 15 milligrams to 15 milligrams daily. Omega 3 fatty acids. That's up to let's say 3000 milligrams EPA and 2000 milligrams DHA daily. Ubiqunel, cons of Q10 between 100 milligrams to 400 milligrams daily. Carnitine, whether that's oral, L-quarantine, altartrate or oral acetyl L-quarantine between 2000 to 3000 milligrams daily or injectable quarantine, 500 milligrams sub-Q or intramuscularly daily. Glutathione, you can go with N-acetyl-16, 1200 milligrams, 2000 milligrams daily or S-adenosyl methionine, abbreviated to SAME between 400 milligrams to 800 milligrams daily. Reduced glutathione, 500 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily. S-acetyl glutathione, 200 milligrams to 300 milligrams daily or injectable glutathione, 1800 milligrams intravenously once weekly or 600 milligrams intramuscularly three times weekly. You have to choose between one or the other because there's multiple ways to increase your glutathione levels. Same for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide. You can increase that with nicotinamide mononucleotide between 300 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily or nicotinamide riboside, 300 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily or injectable nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams IV once weekly or 15 milligrams to 30 milligrams sub-Q or intramuscularly daily. Thorine, 3000 milligrams to 5000 milligrams daily. L-arginine, 2000 milligrams to 6000 milligrams daily. L-licin in combination with soy or sunflower lecithin, the L-licin would be 500 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily and the ideally sunflower lecithin, 3000 milligrams to 5000 milligrams daily. But L-licin and lecithin only improve semen volume, not fertility parameters. But of course, the more semen volume you have, the more you can deliver this sperm to where it's supposed to go. You can ice your testicles. Yes, increase the blood flow to your testicles filled with nutrients. I have a video about that. I'll link it somewhere down below. You apply an ice pack wrapped in a towel 20 minutes to your testicles two to three times daily. Again, this chills the testicles and as it's chilling, once the ice pack is removed, it facilitates blood flow to the testicles to heat the testicles up again to the ideal temperature. And while the blood is flowing to the testicles, assuming you supplement with a good amount of the previously mentioned overgut supplements and antioxidants, then this facilitates testicular function, testosterone synthesis, and spermatogenesis, especially if you take human coriandrogonadetropin and follicle stimulating hormone or human menopausal gonadetropin. Everything is rushing in there, assuming you don't have a virgo cell, which should greatly help with your fertility parameters. You can look into red light therapy, shining the red light directly on the testicles for 10 to 30 minutes. Once daily, make sure your testicles don't get hot. They still have an ideal temperature. After a certain temperature, spermatogenesis is completely arrested. No hot tubs, no saunas. And if you do red light therapy, make sure maybe chill your nuts with an ice pack before you do the red light therapy for 10 to 30 minutes. And while sleeping at least eight hours daily, sleeping and waking according to your circadian rhythm at the same time daily, greatly helps with testosterone synthesis and might contribute to fertility parameters as well. Again, not all of these supplements directly contribute to testicular function, testosterone synthesis, and spermatogenesis. There's a few supplements here which only contribute to semen volume. If you'd like to know more about massive loads, give the vigorous loads video a watch, which goes over everything you need to know to improve and enhance your ejaculation experience. Vigorous hypertrophy workouts or strength specific training on steroids, even a low and conservative dose of exogenous testosterone replacement therapy, can increase oxidative stress markers as well, but it will dive a lot more into oxidative stress when we get to the sex determination and differentiation as well.  as well as the potential autism risk segment of this video. That being said, during all consecutive phases of this fertility protocol, it's very important for you to improve and increase your overall antioxidant status while recovering and improving spermatogenesis as sperm morphology, sperm motility, and the chromosomes within the sperm are highly susceptible to oxidative stress. Okay, so we're probably already one hour into this fertility video. Let's proceed to phase one. We're going to discuss how to recover spermatogenesis and fertility parameters on the TRT+, protocol. Again, make sure you have the multi-phase particular function supplements, antioxidant, and methods in place, which will continue throughout all of the phases of this fertility protocol. You can decide between any ester of testosterone, whether that's proprenetsipinate in the date on the canoate, or cystinone blend, for example, just limit your weekly intake to, let's say 125 milligrams to 150 milligrams spaced out over various injections. If you go with three injections per week, let's say you do 42 to 50 milligrams subcure intramuscular upon waking Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and then in between those injections, you go with recombinant human-coreanic gonadotropin over urine purified. Human-coreanic gonadotropin, because the potency is so much better comparatively, and then you inject between 325 iso-500 isosuputaneously upon waking three times per week in between your testosterone injections on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. Now, if you're in a hurry, feel free, be my guest, by all means, increase your recombinant HCG dose to 1,000 IUs three times weekly, or 1,083 IUs to be exact, because the recombinant HCG pens, Merck OV Trail are 6,500 IUs, and if you split that over six shots, they get 1,083 IUs HCG per injection, but I can't say conclusively, based on all of the research that I did during the HCG deep dive, that more HCG regarding the recovery of sperm to genesis is better, so it highly depends on your finances, if you're really in a hurry, like if you took a nandrolone mechanoate, and you need 18 months to let that metabolize before you can really expect a solid fertility parameters, maybe start low at 325 IUs HCG, and build your way up as needed, as the nandrolone metabolites are clearing from your system, because again, nandrolone has this impressive effect on your fertility parameters, so why throw the kitchen sink at it, early on, when that would only result in a boatload of aromatization, because well, nandrolone promotes aromatization, unlike most of the other steroids, so again, start low and build your way up, but again, if you're in a hurry, feel free to go to 1,000 IUs HCG, and you might initiate sperm to genesis to a greater extent, comparatively to a lower dose. I think you'll get more by the addition of recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or go with your purified follicle stimulating hormone, stemming from human menopausal gonadotropin, three times per week on the testosterone injection days, but at least in between your HCG injection days, instead of throwing the high dose HCG at it, so a combination of HCG and FSH would be a more beneficial regarding sperm to genesis, than a higher dose of HCG solo. So if you go with recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or your purified human menopausal gonadotropin containing FSH, you go with 75 IUs subq, three times weekly, let's say Monday, Wednesday, Friday, this is optional, not mandatory during phase one, but certainly a part of phase 1.1, in case phase one is insufficient after three to six months, maybe even nine months, if you decide to wait that long for sperm to genesis and fertility parameters to really shoot upwards. Again, if you wanna get started with 1,000 IUs HCG, three times per week, and recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, 75 IUs every single day of the week, be my guest, we'll discuss that a little bit more in depth when we get to phase 1.1. Therapeutic dosages over recombinant growth hormone from exogenous sources have been shown to improve overall fertility parameters in both men and women that are slightly older, so if you're, let's say over 35 years old, and you expect a little bit of difficulty, because female fertility is impaired after 35 years old, feel free to introduce recombinant growth hormone, preferably pharmaceutical grade over generic growth hormone, a dosage just between 0.2 to 2 IUs subcutaneously before beds to improve sleep quality. Daily, this mostly seems to be beneficial in elderly people who want to get their partner pregnant. I'm talking about people over 30 years old, because well, unfortunately over 30 years old is elderly regarding fertility. After 30 years old, it just gets harder and harder and harder for conception to occur, especially in females, because the egg quality slowly goes down with age, so the chances of conception go down dramatically and recombinant growth hormone might be able to help with that. If you supplement with that, as well as your partner supplements with recombinant growth hormone. Unfortunately, I couldn't find any scientific evidence on growth hormone secretion dogs. If they might eat infertility, it doesn't mean that's not the case, but again, I would go with the scientific evidence and choose recombinant growth hormone, whether that's pharmaceutical or generic, over growth hormone secretion dogs. THCA, the hydro-epronduristrone, anywhere between 25 to 50 milligrams daily over two servings upon waking and before bed. Brignan alone anywhere between 10 to 25 milligrams daily, split over two servings upon waking and before bed. And then if you need it, and if you're not morbidly obese and you have decent body fat levels, maybe dindal methane, 100 milligrams upon waking and before bed, a total of 200 milligrams daily to control your serum estradiol levels by promoting the conversion into esterone. Again, when you take exogenous testosterone and human corionic gonadotropin, your estradiol levels will be disproportionately higher compared to your esterone levels, so you can lower the burden of estradiol by promoting the metabolism into esterone. And if you don't want to take dindal methane because you're convinced that it's an androgen blocker, which only has been proved in the context of prostate cancer, you can look into decaroinosital, which I used many a time at very high dose, just up to 3000 milligrams daily, did not seem to affect my serum estradiol level, so that's why I didn't include it in this protocol. You can always go with aromacin XMS stain as your aromatase inhibitor, but please, please, please, even though aromacin has not been proven to have a negative deleterious effect on fertility parameters, you might actually improve fertility parameters unless you're on testosterone replacement therapy, please confirm your exogenous testosterone dose and the use of an aromatase inhibitor with monthly blood work until you're settled on this TRT protocol. Because again, if you were taking nandrolone or testilone or deannibal or whatever else in the past, as you're phasing into this phase one of TRT plus to initiate spermatogenesis, then as these hormones are tapering down, obviously, you get additional aromatization, whether that's seven alpha methyl estradiol, methyl estradiol or additional estradiol, you probably still need an aromatase inhibitor to control your serum estradiol levels. Until everything kind of stabilizes and you can remove the aromacin or dinomethane and use nothing at all. During phase one, after let's say three to six months, maybe nine months at maximum, you should be able to restore and improve your fertility parameters to the minimum that's required to get your partner pregnant, assuming she's young and healthy. Keep in mind that female fertility goes down with age. So if your partner is, let's say, between 18 to 25 years old, I don't think you need to come off exogenous testosterone and rely on pneumocorionic gonadotropin without the follicle stimulating hormone to get her pregnant. But if she's over 35 years old, it's very likely that you need to discontinue exogenous testosterone placement therapy eventually and really hammer the fertility medications at it for your serum parameters to be as high as possible because her fertility parameters are slowly going down and there's not much you can do about it, even with fertility medications. So again, if you're young, dumb, well, you get the rest, you probably don't need to come off exogenous testosterone in combination with HG to get the job done. But if you're reasonably old from a fertility perspective, you probably need to remove the exogenous testosterone placement therapy and rely on pneumocorionic gonadotropin, adresmally high dosages, follicle stimulating hormone every single day, growth hormone every single day, a complete and very extensive antioxidant stack, and then maybe also continue with the DHA and pregnant loan because well, as your fertility parameters slowly goes up, your need to reach a super high level to compensate for the lack of fertility parameters that your wife, again, that's slightly older from a fertility perspective has. So depending on the scientific literature that you go with, here is an approximation of the chances of a healthy woman getting pregnant during each ovulation cycle, assuming that you have intercourse multiple times around ovulation. So if your partner is between 18 to 25 years old, she has a chance to get pregnant between 25 to 30% of the times that it means within three to four attempts, AKA three to four months, she should be pregnant, even on exogenous testosterone with just using pneumocorionic gonadotropin. If she's between the age of 25 to 35 years old, you have a 20 to 25% chance, meaning that you have four to five attempts, AKA four to five months before she's pregnant. Age 35 to 40 years old is 15 to 20%, so you need five to seven attempts. Age 40 to 45 years old, that's only five to 10%. So you need 10 to 20 attempts to get her pregnant. And the more attempts you need, the more she ages. So by the time you start, let's say she's 40 years old, after a year of trying, you went from a 10% chance to a 7% chance, right? Unfortunately, so you, as she ages, the chances get less and less and less, so you might be trying for almost two years. And then over 45 years old, it's less than 5% chances, so you need more than 20 attempts. By the time she gets pregnant, she's probably 50 years old and going IVF is a much quicker route to get the job done. Depending on your fertility levels at the start of phase one, which performance enhancing drugs you were taking in the months leading up to phase one, after three to six months on this fertility protocol of phase one, maybe nine months at maximum, you should be able to bring your fertility parameters to the following levels. These values are based on the lower end of the ranges of the sixth edition from the World Health Organization manual for human semen analysis published in 2021 and a guesstimated average based on all of the fertility consultations I've done over the years. Again, there's a lot of variables in place, so these are just some guidelines. The abstinence time should be over three days, so you have enough semen volume, at least 1.3 milliliters in many cases with all the fertility medications in place, that's two milliliters, three milliliters. Again, one milliliter of semen for every single day that you abstain on average. Sperm concentration should be over 12 million per one milliliter after three to six months on this fertility protocol. Total sperm purgectile should be over 35 million, in many cases that's way, way higher. Total sperm motility should be over 40%. Progressive motility should be over 30%, but since you're still on exogenous testosterone even with all the antioxidants in place, it's very likely that at this point, after three to six to nine months even on this fertility protocol, that your progressive motility is only between five to 20%, which is insufficient based on the statistics to get your partner pregnant, again, unless she's reasonably young. So even when semen volume and sperm concentration is well above the minimum, let's say four milliliters of semen volume and sperm concentration is over 50 million per one milliliter, if the progressive motility is, let's say, five to 20%, the fertility parameters are less than ideal. Non-progressive motility, again, will be about 1%, but in most cases that's way, way, way higher. Immortal sperm should be below 20%, but it will also probably be a lot, lot higher. Sperm vitality and viability should be over 50%, it's usually pretty accurate based on this fertility protocol and all of the fertility consultations that have done over the years. Morphology should be over 3.9% normal forms, but again, due to oxidative stress about taking exhaustion, testosterone, and training highly vigorously or doing strength training activity, you can expect a normal morphology of one to 2%. 4% is cutting it short. You should consider yourself highly, highly lucky if your normal morphology is over 4% at this start of your fertility protocol. And again, if your progressive motility is super high and your normal morphology is super high, kudos to you. Your testicles are super healthy and all of the performance and that's in charge that you took in the past did not take a deleterious toll on the quality of your sperm. pH should be over 7.2%, viscosity should be normal, liquefaction within 60 minutes, semen mixed anti-globulin reaction. The Mar test should be below 50% aka negative. White blood cells should be below 1 million. Red blood cells should be negative. Round cells should be negative. And DNA fragmentation should be below 25%, ideally below 15%. And again, the chromosomes within your sperm are highly susceptible to oxidative stress. So if your DNA fragmentation is really high, well, your antioxidant intake is not sufficient and your oxidant intake from smoking, alcohol, et cetera, needs to be tapered down, removed entirely for your DNA fragmentation to be ideal below 15%. And the semen fructose colative test again, should be normal between five to 30 millimoles. So again, if your progressive motility, your normal morphology in your DNA fragmentation, is it within or anywhere close to these parameters? You need to increase the dose of your fertility medication per se to phase 1.1, and re-assess your overall antioxidant intake. Maybe lower your training intensity. I know it's a cardinal sin, but sometimes it has to be done. Remove all potential compounds that might exacerbate oxidative stress or come off TRT entirely. Still increase your antioxidant intake and remove your oxidative stress burden and proceed to phase 2, 3, or 4, which we'll get into shortly. So like I alluded to earlier, phase 1.1 is simply a doubling of your fertility medications and simultaneously you lower the dose of exogenous testosterone because an increase in fertility medications will ultimately result in more testosterone synthesis, estradiol synthesis, and diatetestosterone synthesis. So if you want to keep your testosterone levels within the recommended masculine reference range at the top quarter, same for estradiol, same for diatetestosterone. If HG goes up, exogenous testosterone comes down, meaning that you lower the burden of oxidative stress slightly regarding if you're even a candidate for phase 1.1, it kind of depends on your finances because doubling the fertility medications obviously means a doubling of your expenses. Unless you buy in bulk and you get a bulk discount on your recommended HG and recommended FSH, it kind of depends on where you started at phase 1. If you were completely isospermic and your sperm count concentration was literally zero, then you probably started with phase 1.1 because you need to start a little bit more aggressively. And it kind of depends on the composition of your semen analysis. If your progressive mortality, your normal morphology, and DNA fragmentation values are in the gutter, then it's more an issue regarding oxidative stress compared to throwing the kitchen sink of fertility medications at it. But if you see that your semen volume, your sperm concentration, and your overall total sperm count is in the gutter, then you're a likely candidate for phase 1.1 where the fertility medications are literally doubled. And even though parameters that are susceptible to oxidative stress might be close to the recommended guidelines established by the World Health Organization in 2021, it's always good to reassess your antioxidant stack to make sure that these parameters are also coming up. And then over the next three to six months as your fertility parameters are improving, that everything falls as close to the recommended guidelines as possible. So again, lower the burden of oxidative stress, whether that's training, smoking, drinking, et cetera, or particular compound that induce oxidative stress while increasing your antioxidant stack slightly. So phase 1.1, testosterone and the ester, but the dose is lower, 75 milligrams to 125 milligrams weekly to compensate for the increase in recombinant human-choreonic gonadotropin at 1000 IUs to 1,083 IUs, subq upon waking three times weekly, in combination with recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or if you want urine purified, menopausal gonadotropin 75 IUs, subq upon waking daily, recombinant growth hormone is pretty much the same, the hydroepaondosterone, the HHA is pretty much the same, pregnealone is pretty much the same, and if you need some sort of estradiol management, that can be incorporated in the form of dinomethane, decharinositol, or aromacin, if needed, proven with blood work. So be patient, give this protocol another three to six months, nine months at maximum. Do semen analysis monthly to see how your semen parameters are improving month to month, and if you're not happy with your results, and your partner isn't pregnant yet, then you'll need to proceed to phase two, three, or four. So let me give you guys some insights on what to expect from a fertility protocol like this, using my own semen analysis results. This was my protocol leading up to the semen analysis, which I did on February 26th of 2023. I took all of the testicular function supplements, antioxidants, and methods that was all in place. I took 156 milligrams testosterone, and I think coming from Bayer Testivarin over multiple administrations over the week. I took 1,083 IU's Merck Ovitral Recombinant HCG, three times per week in between my testosterone injections, and then in between the Merck Ovitral administrations, on the same day I would do testosterone administrations, Ipsum myrionol, urine purified human menopausal, gonadotropin, HMG, containing trace amounts of urine purified, human carionic gonadotropin, UHCG, as well as what were after here, urine purified follicle stimulating hormone, UFSH, at a dose of 75 IU's subcutaneous upon waking, three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. 37.5 milligrams DHEA over the day, 12.5 milligrams spring menalone over the day, MSRM total testosterone levels ended up at 4,000 milligrams per deciliter, which is 309 milligrams per deciliter too high, based on the established masculine reference range going up to 1,100 milligrams per deciliter, and serum estradiol levels were 86 micrograms per milliliter, which is let's say 200% out of the reference range. And here were my results, at first glance, they actually looked very, very good, all according to the World Health Organization 2021 guidelines, but I didn't do a full examination because I just wanted to get a baseline reading after three months on TRT Plus fertility medications. I did sectional bone testing and semen analysis at a clinic that's just around the corner of my house, which doesn't offer extensive semen analysis, so the abstinence time at the time was four days, and the semen volume at the time was four milliliters. I hope that semen didn't get into your eye. Sperm concentration was 75 million per one milliliter, not too shabby. Total sperm per ejaculate, 288 million. Imagine if your army was 288 million soldiers strong. Total sperm motility, 76%, very good, but I didn't check my progressive motility, I didn't check my non-progressive motility, I didn't check my emotional sperm, my viability, sperm fatality, I didn't check. The morphology based on this lab was 27%. PH was eight, viscosity was an exam, the liquefaction was 29 minutes, so that's within 60 minutes. We didn't do a more test, but in this semen analysis though, my white blood cell counts were out of range. This is the only bad result I got on my white blood cell count on the semen analysis results, which I've done extensively over the years. That's between three to five HPF that stands for high power field. I'm not entirely sure how that translates to a certain amount of million white blood cells within a semen analysis, but three to five is considered high. All of the other results was between zero to one HPF, high power field. Red blood cells were zero to one high power field, which is considered negative. Round cells did an exam, a DNA fragmentation did an exam, and semer fructose qualitative tests didn't examine because the total semen count was sufficient. So initially, you think that these results are pretty damn good. Then I came off the exogenous testosterone because I wanted to come off exogenous testosterone due to the potential for oxidative stress, proceeded to phase two of my fertility enhancement protocol, which we'll discuss a little bit later on. A month later, I went to a clinic that specializes in male and female fertility, and in here my semen analysis results a month later on March 26th of 2023. Here you see that after three months on TRT plus, phase 1.1 and one month without TRT phase two, abstinence time was still four days, but this time my semen volume was three milliliters, so a reduction of 25% comparatively to the previous semen analysis results. Sperm concentration dropped to 53 million per one milliliter. A month earlier it was 72 million per one milliliter. Total sperm per ejaculate was 159 million, whereas previously it was 288 million. Total sperm mortality dropped to 60%. A month earlier it was 76%. Progressive mortality this time was 17%. I don't know what the progressive mortality was a month prior. Non-progressive mortality was 43%. That's absolutely terrible compared towards supposed to be below 1%. Immortal sperm was 40%. Sperm vitality, aka viability, was 67%, so at least that was in range. Morphology was 4%, like I alluded to earlier, is very common for normal morphology to only be 4%. When you've been taking exogenous steroids plus semen-coreanic United Charalpene for months on end, and again a month earlier it was 27% though, so it's a significant reduction between both semen analysis results, but it could also be lab error, right? That's very common between a regular semen analysis at the clinic that doesn't really specialize in it, to a semen analysis to a fertility clinic. There might be some discrepancy there and the price discrepancy was also quite significant. The pH was eight, viscosity was high, it should be normal, but sometimes you're in a rush to get the job done, right? You only get like 10 minutes in the room to do your donation in the semen sample cup, so maybe I should have my wife present for additional foreplay. Linguofaction was normal, meritest was normal, the white blood cell count was normal again between zero to one on the high power fields. Red blood cells negative, round cells negative, didn't examine the DNA fragmentation because at that time we weren't ready to start conceiving it anyway and DNA fragmentation tests is quite expensive. Semen fructose qualitative tests we didn't examine because the total semen count was sufficient. Now I know what you're going to say and in hindsight it makes complete sense. Steve, what about that study you started the video with? The study where you examined an animal model combining exogenous testosterone and a reasonably high dose with a super physiological level of luteinizing hormone follicle stimulating hormone, showing that semen parameters were very comparable to the baseline control group. And maybe that's what happened. By removing the exogenous testosterone, my total sperm concentration reduced from 72 to 53 million, my total sperm pre-jaculate reduced from 288 to 159 million, my total sperm mortality reduced from 76 to 60% and my let's see morphology reduced from 27 to 4%. I guess we'll never know dude. I guess we'll never know, but it could either be lab error, it could either be a tremendous amount of oxidative stress which occurred which I don't think because I was on my full blown antioxidant stack and at that time I wasn't training, that vigorously even though I'm a vigor Steve, so I should have been, but I knew I shouldn't be doing that. Always removing the exogenous testosterone. Needless to say at this point I was pretty disappointed that my progressive mortality and my normal morphology were below the recommended ranges. So I decided to go a little bit more aggressive on my antioxidant stack and double the recombinant follicle stimulating hormone from 75 I use three times per week to 75 I use every single day and keep in mind during phase 1.1, I was using your impure fight follicle stimulating hormone with trace amounts of human coronary gonadotropin stemming from human menopausal gonadotropin. So from this change, you can clearly see that there's a significant increase in overall fertility parameters and I'll show you those graphs a little bit later on in case you can't decide between phase two, three or four. So it might be that the discontinuation of the exogenous testosterone causes a steep decline in men fertility parameters after one month, but then doubling the follicle stimulating hormone from 75 I use three times per week to every single day. So steep decline will beyond what I got from the exogenous testosterone plus fertility peptide protocol. So to reiterate from this point onwards, if you're not happy with your fertility parameters and your partner isn't pregnant yet during phase 1.1, then you need to proceed and make a choice between phase two, three or four. Phase two means coming off all exogenous testosterone and neuro steroids replacement therapy and continuing with your fertility medications and double the dose in which case the protocol is going to look like this. Again, the multi-phase, the tickler function supplements, antioxidants and methods, perhaps phase two additional testosterone and fertility boosting supplements and methods. We'll get into that when we discuss phase two, three and four. It involves as we're going to root extract, tonkot, alley, that kind of stuff. So testosterone in the estuary is no longer allowed. You need to discontinue that. Recomendant human, Korean, or a urine purified human Korean, but again, we're coming at this way better. 1,000 or 1,083 IU's subcutaneous upon waking three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Recomendant follicle stimulating hormone or urine purified human menopausal gonadotropin, 75 IU subcutaneous upon waking daily. Recomendant growth hormone, if you do so desire, no more DHEA, no more pregnant and alone. And again, if you're a Mr. Chunky with Chunk and you can't control your body fat levels on this dose of exogenous human, Korean, gonadotropin, your estuary levels might still be elevated. So you might need dinomethane, dechirinositol or even an aromatous inhibitor. So let's fast forward a little bit and give you an indication what you can expect from a fertility protocol like this. Phase two after one year. Here are my fertility parameters after one year on a phase two protocol without exogenous testosterone as part of a TRT plus protocol. Abstinence time is five days. Seam and volume, four milliliters, hell yes. Sperma concentration, 142.8 million per one milliliter which is an increase of 269% compared to the first time and did a semen analysis on a phase two protocol. Total sperm peri-jaculate, 571.2 million. Yes, peri-jaculate, that's an increase of 359%. Nice work, again, compared to the first time and did a semen analysis on a phase two protocol. Total sperm mortality, 82%, an increase of 137%. Progressive mortality, 76%, an increase of 447%. Non-progressive mortality, 6%, a decrease by 86%. Immortal sperm, 18%, a decrease of 55%. Sperm vitality, aka viability, 89% of my semen was alive after one year without exogenous testosterone which is an increase of 133%. Morphology, 43%, 43% normal forms, steep. An increase of 1,050%. Morphology, based on the strict criteria, 29% should be over 14% normal forms. I didn't test this at the beginning because it's included in the DNA fragmentation test which I didn't do at the beginning because again, I just wanted to get some baseline readings to see how far I was along and if I needed to go a little bit more aggressive on my fertility stack which I did and this is the result of it. When I started testing for semen DNA fragmentation four months earlier, according to the strict criteria, my normal morphology was 15% and then over the course of four months, according to the strict criteria, my normal morphology increased to 29%. So that's almost double an increase of 193%. So again, the longer you stand in a protocol like this, the better your fertility parameters are going to be. After one year without exogenous testosterone, the pH was still eight, so no improvements there but I guess that's more than sufficient. The viscosity was normal, adequate time in the room where you need to give your semen sample. Like with actually it was 15 minutes, a more test was still negative below 15%. My blood cells 0 to 1, high power fields, red blood cells negative, round cells negative and DNA fragmentation 6%. And again, below 15% is considered good DNA integrity. Four months prior, it was about 15% so it was already good when I did DNA fragmentation test the first time and two months prior, it was 17% but that's I think after the trip to the United States.  we'll get into that when we discuss the graph. So overall, it was a reduction over the course of two to four months of about 63%. And the last couple of semen analysis tests that I did, the DNA fragmentation was 6%. Yeah, it took me a year to get it that low, but I think you can do it faster, because again, I had to go through a lot of self experimentation with antioxidants and fertility medications, but you don't have to because you have this awesome deep dive to present it to you on a silver platter, and all you need to do is spoon feed yourself. So these are the fertility parameters that you're looking for. I use this semen sample to fertilize three embryos through in vitro fertilization, one of which is already implanted in my wife and growing in her womb as we speak. And this semen sample and a previous semen sample are the ones that I froze for later use in case there's a nuclear apocalypse, and it's solely up to me to repopulate the planet afterwards. Yes, I have over one billion sperm frozen just in case. Too long didn't read, it took me 12 months to have godly fertility parameters on a phase two fertility protocol. Phase three means coming off the exogenous testosterone and neuro steroid replacement therapy and replacing your fertility peptide medications with either clomid or enclomaphen, in which case the protocol is going to look something like this. You have your multifaceted, vesicular function supplements, antioxidants and methods. Phase three additional testosterone and fertility boosting supplements and methods, no more testosterone. And then you're going to have to choose between either clomid, aka clomaphen citrate, or enclomaphen, aka enclomaphen citrate. And those use between 12.5 milligrams, three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, before bed, up to 25 milligrams daily, before bed, because that seems to mitigate some of the estrogenic side effects. And that those highly depends on how responsive your hypothalamus and pituitary are to estrogen, alpha and beta receptor blockades. Clomint and enclomaphen are selective estrogen receptor modulators and block the estrogen receptors in the hypothalamus and the pituitary, ultimately resulting over time, maybe weeks to months even, in an increase in luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, which will go downstream and stimulate the testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis in the test scores, improving overall the stickler function. But you might have a sustainable dip for months, even, if you were doing a phase one protocol, or phase 1.1 protocol, or maybe even a phase two protocol, with these fertility medications. If you replace LH and FSH with exogenous HCG and HMG, or HCG and FSH, then during the time that the selective estrogen receptor modulators are restoring luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels from the pituitary, while there's a dip, there's obviously no testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis. So that might mean that you have a three to six months delay before your fertility parameters actually gets good and then better again. And again, during phase three, you don't need any exogenous dihydroepaondosterone or pregnant alone, or use dinomethane or XMS-tane to control your shear master DAW levels, because they'll be bottomed out and even if your shear master DAW levels come up to a certain extent, then the selective estrogen receptor modulators in the form of clomid or in clomaphenes is blocking as your DAW at the receptor site. The reason why I can't recommend a phase three protocol, including selective estrogen receptor modulators for months on end, and prefer a phase one, 1.1, or phase two protocol, including recombinant human and carionic gonadotropin and recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or the close alternative being urine purified, HCG and HMG, is because selective estrogen receptor modulators are linked to blood clots. And if you're going to use clomid or in clomaphenes for months on end, because your fertility parameters need to improve over several months, then you increase the risk of having a blood clot, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or other venous complications. There are several case reports showing that deep vein thrombosis occurs in as little as 15 days on 25 milligrams clomaphenes followed by five days on 15 milligrams clomaphenes, so that's 20 days in total. And that's even shorter than commonly recommended pysychotherapy protocols, including up to 100 milligrams clomaphenes. Now, we don't hear so many issues regarding blood clots from selective estrogen receptor modulators used during pysychotherapy treatments, but again, those last four weeks, if you're going to take clomid or in clomaphenes for months on end, your chances of a blood clot or venous complications steadily increases. And while there are only 90 studies performed on in clomaphenes, which is one of the sterile isomers contained within clomaphenes at approximately 62%, the other 38% is the stereoisomer Zuclomaphenes, where allegedly all of the terrible side effects of clomaphenes are stemming from. So two thirds in clomaphenes and one third Zuclomaphenes within in clomaphenes, going with the extract of in clomaphenes at 100% of the dose, it shows great efficacy in hypochondatal men, increasing the glutamate hormone levels, follicle stimulating hormone levels, improving fertility parameters, and overall testosterone levels, after a longer term in clomaphenes treatments. The phase three clinical trials did show a 0.5 to 0.35% chance of developing deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. So that's something you need to take into consideration. If these percentages are very low to you and you're willing to take the risk, be my guest, it's certainly a lot cheaper to go with selective estrogen receptor modulators over fertility peptides, it also comes with risk and it's something you need to be aware of if you decide to go this route. That being said, there's a study showing that testosterone replacement therapy has a higher likelihood to cause deep vein thrombosis in hypochondatal men with other etiologies for deep vein thrombosis compared to clomaphenes. You can find the citation down below in case you want to do a comparative scientific analysis. It wasn't worth it to me, otherwise I would have just used the cheaper option, went with in clomaphenes therapy instead of exogenous recombinant HCG and FSH, which was significantly more expensive. Oh, and before I forget, serums are also known to cause estrogen-like effects in the brain, resulting in severe and tremendous emotional disturbances and irritability or instability, making the whole experience of getting your partner pregnant turn into a mental roller coaster. And by the way, what about the ocular changes and blurry vision that you might get on serums? In case you haven't caught on yet, I don't like serums and I don't like serums. I think you should stick to the tried and proven bioidentical compounds that your body produces naturally for your fertility parameters to get as high as possible without tremendous side effects. Phase four involves an actual pysychotherapy to recover your natural luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels. Again, and let biology sort out the rest. Just be forewarned, 99% of the people will get fat during PCT because you go through noticeable lengthy periods of androgen deficiency, and the only thing that allows you to cope with it is copious amounts of calories. And if the PCT is going to take several months and you have several months of androgen deficiency, that's a lot of calories to keep you going. And to be honest, I would only consider a pysychotherapy if you and your partner are still reasonably young, let's say below 30 years old, and you didn't need testosterone placement therapy or exogenous testosterone because you were hypergonadal to begin with, you did a baseline check before you ever took steroids in your life, in your luteinizing hormone, your follicle-stimulating hormone, your testosterone, your estradiol, your dietitistosterone, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, were all within normal parameters, and perhaps you did a semen analysis as well, right? But, well, the large majority of the people just got started with steroids, have hatchery and didn't check their hormone parameters or their fertility parameters before they got started. So if you do have a baseline reading and you're still reasonably young, then yes, you may be able to get away with PCT because you'll recover your HPTA just fine and then sperm degenesis a couple months later is more than sufficient to get your partner pregnant, who is also young, but if you were androgen deficient, your LH, your FSA, your testosterone, your estradiol, et cetera, were in the gutter and you needed TRT medically, then PCT is not a good idea. You can expect at least a three-month downtime in improving your fertility parameters, even though initially they might improve when you start with selective estrogen receptor modulators like enchromaphen or tomoxifin because both are able to raise the glutinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels which contribute to male fertility tremendously. But as soon as you stop the selective estrogen receptor modulators, your LH and FSH do not have that much incentive to stay that elevated. This is why there's a big difference between phase three where you continue with clomid or enchromaphen for a weeks to months to perhaps a year. Again, blood clots and ocular changes and emotional disturbances aside, a pocyclotherapy involves selective estrogen receptor modulators for let's say four to eight weeks at maximum. So once your HPTA is recovered, LH, FSH, testosterone, estradiol and the stimulatory effect that you get in your testicles regarding spermatogenesis takes a hit and then it might take three months or even longer for spermatogenesis to start really ramping up in your fertility parameters to be noticeably better. So a pocyclotherapy will be the most lengthy approach of all of the phases that you can choose from. And again, you gotta keep in mind that if you were on a hefty dose of testosterone with an enderloin to match with an 18 month detection time, they might need to be on a TRT protocol or TTPLUS protocol with HCG and HMG or FSH for close to a year to really let the enderloin metabolize from your body at 18 months preferably. And then you need to discontinue the testosterone for let's say four to six weeks to let the testosterone metabolize. Then you need to stop the HCG, the human coronary gonadotropin and the follicle stimulant hormone or the human menopausal gonadotropin for let's say one week. And then you can start pocyclotherapy. Yeah, again, I'm not joking when I said it's going to take months if not years. So like I said before, in order to prepare properly for phase four and have a successful outcome of your pocyclotherapy, discontinue the exogenous testosterone from your TRT plus protocol for at least four, preferably six weeks to let the testosterone completely metabolize from your body. Stop the HCG let's say one to two weeks before starting your pocyclotherapy in the same chemyset for FSH or HMG, right? You want your testosterone, your esredialin, or LH, your FSH levels to be basically bottomed out for the selective estrogen or receptor modulators to do their job properly. So phase four, the pocyclotherapy includes the multifaceted, particular function, supplements, antioxidants and methods. The phase four, additional testosterone fertility boosting supplements and methods. You can still continue with recombinant growth hormone at a therapeutic dose of 0.2 to 2IU sub-hutinously before bed. This is the only performance enhancing drugs that you're allowed to take during pocyclotherapy. Then you choose either between enchromaphen or clomaphen. Week one to two, you take 25 milligrams to 50 milligrams upon waking and before bed, a total of 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams daily. Then week three to four, you should have the dose to either 12.5 milligrams to 25 milligrams upon waking and before bed. So that's a total dose of 25 milligrams to 50 milligrams daily, after which you should check your blood work parameters because if testosterone, estradiol, and LH and FSH levels are not within the middle to the top of the reference range yet, then you probably need to continue pocyclotherapy for another four weeks. So week five to eight might look like this, having the dose again to either 12.5 milligrams to 25 milligrams either in clomaphen or clomaphen before bed in a single serving once per day. And you might need to combine that, the entire pocyclotherapy with tomoxifen, and nolvidex which has a metabolite, norindoxifen, which acts as an aromatized inhibitor. So if your estradiol levels were pretty high at the start of pocyclotherapy, then you might need some sort of aromatized inhibition in place to bring your estradiol levels down and allow for in clomaphen and clomps to block the estrogen receptors and provide the highest luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone signaling for proper testosterone synthesis and obviously spermatogenesis. And it also depends on how long your steroid cycles were and if you took significant time off in the meantime. So you might need to combine in clomaphen or clomaphen with tomoxifen. Week one to two would be 10 to 20 milligrams upon waking and before bed, the total dose of 20. The 40 milligrams daily, week three to four would be five milligrams to 10 milligrams upon waking and before bed, a total of 10 milligrams to 20 milligrams. Daily after which you should do your blood work. Again, to check if testosterone, estradiol, LH, and FSA levels are towards the middle top of the reference range. And if that's not the case, based on another four weeks, week five to eight, five milligrams to 10 milligrams before bed in a single serving, after which at week eight, your testosterone, estradiol, LH, and FSA levels should be middle of the middle to the top of the reference range. And if that's not the case, well, look into phase two or phase three instead. You can replace tomoxifen with XMS stain, but there's no cookie cutter answer for a XMS stain aromas in dose. You need to do your blood work frequently to see that you don't crush your sharemaster dial too low, because otherwise you're going to feel pretty freaking terrible throughout this entirety of the post-psychotherapy. And again, keep in mind that n-chlorophyne, chlamate, and tomoxifen can potentiate some estrogen-like effects in the brain. So if you get some emotional disturbances and it's a giant freaking roller coaster while you're watching movies, again, this was your choice. And now you got to see it through all the way to the end when your partner is pregnant and you can start juicing again. After you finish your post-psychotherapy, it should take about three, six, nine months for semen parameters to be really stellar. And during this time, you might still suffer from some sort of androgen deficiency, especially compared to where your testosterone levels were prior on TRT plus protocols or anything above like steroid cycles. So you won't feel too good. This is one of the reasons why I didn't do post-psychotherapy myself. I've done post-psychotherapy a couple of times. My testosterone levels come back between 400 to 600 nanograms per deciliter when I've faced two fertility protocol. My testosterone levels are 800 to 900 nanograms per deciliter and I feel 10 times better. During phase two, three and four, you can run the following additional testosterone fertility boosting supplements which should have a great synergy between the supplements we discussed previously as well as the fertility medications like human corionic gonadotropin, folliculostimulinin hormone, human menopausal gonadotropin or various selective estrogen receptor modulators. So during phase two, three and four, you can decide on the following additional supplements. KSM 66, ashwagandarut extract, tonkotali, phytogeagrestis extract, turbalis terrestis extract, boron to bring your SHBG levels down, deaspartic acid, fenogreek extract, cassalberry extract and macarote extract. Even though the last four are, well, negligible effects on testosterone production but maybe if you combine all of them together in this stack, then testosterone might end up being maybe 900 undergars per deciliter. Nonetheless, so look into these compounds individually and decide which ones you want to run alongside the fertility medications or the supplements which I've discussed previously. You might get a marginal effect which is noticeable in your overall libido cognition and training capacity while you're undergoing this entire fertility protocol, which again might take months to years. So might as well leverage all angles. So if you're unable to decide between phase two, phase three and four, feel free to use my own personal anecdotal evidence regarding fertility parameters improvements over several months, following either a post-psychotherapy or a blasting my socks off with fertility medications all the way through. Here you see what my sperm count parameters look like for nine months after finishing a post-psychotherapy and besides the first month in October 2020, all of these values are above the guidelines established by the World Health Organization in 2021. So the my fertility parameters improved as the guidelines were being published. At the ninth month mark, you see that sperm count really started to skyrocket and at the time my serum testosterone came up as high as 680 nanograms per deciliter and my LH and FSH levels were around the bottom middle of the reference range, even though there were middle top to the reference range while taking serums. So between let's say October 2020 to August 2021, a steep increase in my sperm count parameters ending up with a sperm concentration of let's say 125 million per one milliliter ending up with a total sperm pre-ejaculate around 350 million. And here you see my sperm count parameters during a total of 15 months of recombinant human-coreanic-gunadotropin and recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone therapy, which is already following several months of TRT+, which also included urine purified antre-recominant, human-coreanic-gunadotropin, as well as a human menopausal-gunadotropin containing urine purified follicle-stimulating hormone. After nine months, most parameters were very comparable to nine months after finishing the post-cycle therapy. We'll compare that head on head a little bit later on, albeit that at the 15 month mark, parameters were significantly higher. Now you can clearly see a steep dip in the graph around mid-November 2023, and that's when I went to the United States for an entire month. I was able to keep up with my full fertility protocol during this time. I smoked a couple cigars, drank a little bit of alcohol, ate out way too much, and it took me a few months to recover from that work slash holiday trip. So during your fertility protocol, don't misbehave. This is why I mentioned that you should abstain from certain things, because when I came back from the United States and I did my semen analysis, yeah, almost A-50% reduction, and it took me a while before I came back to the previously stellar fertility parameters. So when we started comparing between post-cycle therapy and fertility peptide therapy, at the nine month mark after post-cycle therapy, semen volume was three milliliters, sperm concentration per one milliliter was 120 million, total sperm pre-ejaculate 360 million, total model sperm 270 million, and model sperm per one milliliter, 19 million. Very comparable to nine months on our HCG and our FSH therapy, semen volume three and a half milliliters, so you get half a milliliter more, abstinence time between post-cycle therapy and this fertility peptide therapy was exactly four days. So you get a little bit more semen while you're using these fertility peptides. Sperm concentration per one milliliter was 116.4 million, so that's four million less almost, kind of disappointing, but total sperm per ejaculate was four times 7.3 million, so that's almost 50 million more. Total model sperm was 325.8 million, so that's also, let's say 50 million more model sperm, and model sperm per one milliliter was 93.1 million, so that's almost the same. But after 50 months of our HCG and our FSH therapy, you see a significant increase, so a little bit longer means much better semen parameters. Semen volume on a four day abstinence time was four milliliters, sperm concentration per one milliliter was 142.8 million, so that's another increase of 30 million per one milliliter, with a total sperm per ejaculate of 571.2 million. Epic. Total model sperm was 468.4 million, imagine that much model sperm invading, yeah, and the model sperm per one milliliter was 117.1 million, so that's a significant difference between post-cycle therapy and our HCG and our FSH, but again, I don't know what my semen parameters would have looked like if I abstained from anabolic energenics doubt and then some for another, what is it, six months after finishing that PCT, because I was very eager to get back in the gym and start kicking some ass again. So based on these results, you'd say that you should be able to start conceiving nine months after finishing a post-cycle therapy, which is ultimately a lot cheaper and doesn't involve daily injections. Wrong, there's a clear difference in semen motility and semen morphology where you rely on naturally produced luteinase hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. Again, in my case, it was in the bottom middle of the reference range, it might not be the case for you individually, if you're still reasonably young, I was 37 at the time, so I decided to go with recombinant, human-coreanic gonadotropin and recombinant follicle stimulating hormone therapy, which brought my beta-HG levels to supra-geological levels and kept my FSH levels in the middle of the range. So here you see in the graph the semen motility morphology nine months after finishing a post-cycle therapy, well actually the entire way through of finishing a post-cycle therapy and nine months later, progressive motility morphology is in the gutter. It's so low that the lines are overlapping. I started with a progressive motility morphology, let's say around 1-2% and ended up at 4%. Nine months of waiting for progressive motility and normal morphology to come up, nothing. And I was on a comparable antioxidant stack, doing everything right for the best testosterone synthesis and sperm degenesis within my testicles. But my natural, my endogenous LH and FSH was just not up to it, even though immortal sperm came down significantly from, let's say, 80% to ending up at 25% give or take. That's not what we're after. We're after the increase in progressive motility of the semen, as well as normal morphology of the semen. So we compare that to the semen motility morphology during 15 months of fertility peptide therapy. Again, the first month that I tested it was not at a suitable lab, so let's start at the second month, somewhere in March 2023, after removing the exogenous testosterone, my morphology was reasonably low, let's say 4%, and then it steadily went upwards to approximately 42% 15 months later. And same with the progressive motility that started low, and let's say 18%, and then steadily increased, minus the holiday to the United States to, well, what is it, 75% give or take? We have the actual data a little bit later on. So clear differences. Clear differences between relying on natural endogenous LH and FSH, or relying on exogenous RHG and RFSH. So here are the direct comparisons for sperm motility and sperm morphology. Nine months after finishing a post-psychotherapy, total sperm motility was 75%, but nine months during recombinant RHG and RFSH therapy, my total sperm motility was 80%, big difference. Progressive motility, 4% versus 68%, gigantic difference. Non-progressive motility, comparing 71%, which is very, very high, to 12%, which is almost where you want it to be. Immortal sperm, 25% versus 20%, sperm vitality, aka viability, 78% versus 86%, and it's still reasonably close. Normal morphology, 4% versus 35%, and morphology, according to strict criteria at the time, was 24%, but I did not check that after finishing a post-psychotherapy and relying on endogenous LH and FSH. Now, we fast forward a little bit, 50 months of RHG and RFSH therapy. Total sperm motility was 82%, so it's a little increase compared to the nine-month mark. Progressive motility, 76%, is another increase. Non-progressive motility reduced to 6%, immortal sperm reduced to 18%, minor changes. Sperm vitality, aka viability, increased to 89%. Normal morphology was 42%, but according to strict criteria, normal morphology was 29%. Again, that's double over where they recommended it to be. It should be over 14%, and DNA fragmentation ended up being 6%, which is very, very low, which is a good thing. So if you want to take it from me, right? It's one person, an NF1 anecdotal experience, doing copious amounts of semen analysis, way more than most people do, right? Comparing a phase two protocol involving fertility medications versus a phase four protocol doing a post-psychotherapy and then relying on endogenous LH and FSH, I would go with phase two. Would 100% go with phase two, even though it's significantly more expensive, you'll feel better, you'll look better, you'll be able to train harder and your fertility parameters will be godlike. Godlike, and that's ultimately what we're after, right? Now, big difference aside, obviously there's still a lot of variables in place, different phases of my life, 37 to 38 years old, 40 to 41 years old, different compounds being used, different stersers perhaps. And well, unlike you, I didn't have a video like this to design a fertility protocol with. So maybe you can get the job done a lot faster and don't need so many fertility medications, but I had to go through self experimentation, which you don't have to. All that aside, it's very important for you to do a monthly, yes, monthly, semen analysis. So you can keep track of how your semen analysis and fertility parameters are improving, because if you don't see steadily improving parameters for month to month, then your protocol probably needs some adjustments. And just because I got stellar fertility parameters by the end of my protocol, doesn't mean that you will. And just because you don't have stellar fertility parameters after months of trying to improve them to the highest possible you can, doesn't mean you can't get your partner pregnant. Let me look at my fertility parameters. After 15 months of trying naturally around ovulation multiple times, we decided to go with in vitro fertilization. And perhaps that's because my wife is a little bit older. She was 40 at the time that we really tried to conceive very, very, very actively, very enjoyable periods and nonetheless, but yeah, after months and months and months of trying and seeing negative results on the pregnancy test, we decided to go with IVF. I mean, I know bodybuilders that got their partner pregnant on cycle, you know, a proper bodybuilding cycle containing everything under sun with a total sperm peri-jaculate of only six million, not per milliliter peri-jaculate, just six million with a progressive motility of let's say 5% and a normal morphology of only 3%. And the baby is healthy, just the same. Beautiful childs growing up normally, no complications, but you and me both know that all of those children or large majority of them are girls. So again, on the topic of sex determination and sex differentiation, let's get into oxidative stress. So let's dive into this commonly reported higher likelihood of having a daughter compared to a son where you're trying to conceive a child during a steroid cycle or even after you've discontinued steroid usage. And this effect is observed anywhere from TRT and upwards and doesn't seem to be dose dependent. Men using steroids, whether that's TRT or there above, appear to have a higher chance of conceiving a daughter. So if you love steroids, I also hope that you love playing with Barbies or playing makeup. And if you're more kind of guided, like sitting with cars or play masculine sports, high contact sports, for example, you're going to have to let the steroids go for a while, buddy. To explain this observed effect and ways to potentially circumvent it, you need to understand the difference between the male Y chromosomes and the female X chromosomes. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome, but the Y chromosome is much smaller than the X chromosome and contains fewer genes, many of which are specific to male development and responsible for initiating male sex differentiation during pregnancy. Females have two X chromosomes, one of which is generally inactivated in all cells of the body. This inactive and condensed X chromosome found in the nuclei of female cells is also known as the bar body X chromatin or sex chromatin. The inactivation prevents overexpression from X linked genes. However, the inactivation is not always complete. Some of the genes actually escape inactivation and contributes to cellular function. So the cellular function of females is different from males due to the difference in chromosomes. The male Y chromosome has fewer mechanisms to repair DNA damage, due to its smaller size and lack of homologous pairing with a matching Y chromosome during myiosis. Males are XY, not YY. So you don't have a backup sort of say like females do with an X and X chromosome. This makes the Y chromosome more susceptible to mutations or loss of function under oxidative stress. Oxidative damage to the Y chromosomes can impair male fertility, reducing sperm counts, reducing mortality, reducing morphology and viability and severe damage to the S-R-Y gene on the Y chromosome can result in failure of male sex differentiation. So that basically means that if you're undergoing a lot of chronic oxidative stress, your sperm is now handicapped. And through somehow some way, some magical cosmic event, your sperm with limited swimming capacity and weird morphology is able to reach the...  eic penetrates and delivers the Y chromosomes, then it probably doesn't result in a healthy embryo. And even if you do get an embryo, it might not implant. And even if it doesn't implant, well, it's very likely that you have a miscarriage. And it's also because the female X chromosomes, being larger and present in duplicates in the cells, have redundancy, a.k.a. a backup. If one of the X chromosomes is damaged, the other can often compensate, which makes a female generally more resilient to genetic issues. And if your sperm delivers an X chromosome and your partner has an X chromosome, backups. But with the Y chromosome, unfortunately, there's no backup. That sort of means a lower likelihood of transporting that properly and fertilizing an embryo for a healthy baby. Imature sperm cells being spermatocytes or spermatids have underdeveloped antioxidant defenses, making them more susceptible to oxidative damage. All the genesis within the seminophorous tubules in the testes can take approximately 64 to 78 days, let's say about two to two and a half months. The epididymitis secretes antioxidants to protect sperm, but imbalances between reactive oxygen species and antioxidants can still occur. Spermaturation within the epididymitis takes approximately two to three weeks, let's say around half a month. Spermatism is stored for several days to weeks within the epididymitis and to a certain extent within the VAS deferent, albeit that semen mostly passes through the VAS deferents on the way to the seminal vesicles. Prolonged semen storage without ejaculation can lead to sperm aging and oxidative stress within the epididymitis and the VAS deferents, reducing sperm quality in overall fertility parameters. And this is one of the reasons why no FAP semen retention is such a terrible idea for fertility. Ideally, during the entire time that you're trying to improve your fertility parameters, you should ejaculate at least three times weekly and it doesn't matter where you ejaculate, all it matters is that you ejaculate frequently, let's say every other day or three times weekly, at minimum to minimize oxidative stress to the semen and ensure that you have the highest possible progressive motility as well as normal morphology percentages. Once you're ready to conceive, you can switch to every other day inseminations or daily inseminations around the time of ovulation, more on this later on. Semen transport to the seminal vesicles and ultimately the oh so enjoyable ejaculation usually only takes seconds to minutes, after which it can either attempt to fertilize an egg following ovulation or end up in a semen sample cup ready for analysis. And for the sake of this video, we'll forego all potential fates of semen after ejaculation, I'm sure you can use your imagination and come up with a couple scenarios. Oxidative stress can still occur within the seminal vesicles, the prostate and the cowper's glands which all contribute fluids that produce semen. And while seminal fluid contains high levels of antioxidants that protect sperm from reactive oxidant species during transport and ejaculation, oxidative stress can still occur within these glands reducing semen quality. The cowper's glands contribute to neutralizing pre-exaculatory fluid which helps protect the semen during ejaculation, however insufficient secretion can leave sperm vulnerable to oxidative stress and if that's not bad enough, exposing the semen to residual acidity from urine lift in the urethra can further cause oxidative stress. So long story short, wash your junk thoroughly and practice some foreplay before you ejaculate, so don't turn it into a 3 minute affair, take your sweet time for the oxidative stress to be minimized. And again oxidative stress can also affect progressive motility and normal morphology of sperm, if you're undergoing a lot of oxidative stress currently then you can expect low progressive motility, low normal morphology and high DNA fragmentation on your semen analysis results indicating a very very very low chance to conceive whether that's a boy or a girl. The sperm themselves also have limited DNA repair mechanisms due to their condensed chromatins being in a transcriptionally inactive state. Sperm carry either a Y chromosome or an X chromosome so you could say that sperm is either male or female, not both and nothing in between. The female egg only carries the X chromosome, not the Y chromosome, so a female egg is always female until a male sperm delivers a Y chromosome for sexual differentiation. Under conditions of high oxidative stress whether that's in the male or female or both, the proportion of Y sperm, Y chromosomes reaching the egg may decrease, favoring the conception of a female X-X offspring. So it's almost 100% up to the father to produce a male offspring but certainly 100% up to him to provide a Y chromosome that has been produced under a low oxidative stress environment in order to increase the chances of conceiving a boy with his partner. And that being said, once the male sperm with Y chromosomes entered a vagina and uterus but there's a lot of reactive oxygen species present, then these male sperm with Y chromosomes might not reach the female egg with X chromosomes, allowing for normal fertilization to occur. So again, you need to be under low oxidative stress environment for at least 3 months, for the semen to be normal and a higher chance for Y chromosomes to end up in the female egg and for her, she also needs to be under low oxidative stress environment throughout the entire time that the egg is maturing and certainly for the 9 months after she gets pregnant until she gives birth and even after giving birth during breastfeeding, low oxidative stress environment. Being oxidative stress is highly important for both partners. You know what increases oxidative stress the most in body butters or general fitness enthusiasts? Steroids plus exercise. And which ones of these are you willing to give up or at least reduce to the point that oxidative stress is completely minimized in order for you to conceive a son with your partner? Now there is some conflicting scientific evidence regarding the use of Exoticist Disaster Replacement Therapy and its effect on oxidative stress or if it actually protects against oxidative stress. In this study performed by Christensen at all, titled Whole Body Oxidative Stress Reduction During Testosterone Therapy in Aging Men, a Randomized Plesebo-Controlled Trial, you see that Exoticist Disaster Replacement Therapy was shown to reduce Whole Body Oxidative Stress in obese elderly men over 67 years old, which was attributed to the improvement in body composition. Is that the testosterone replacement therapy or just following a better lifestyle? And well we could say that obese elderly men over 67 years old should not really attempt to conceive again. Unfortunately, I couldn't find any scientific evidence that shows that oxidative stress occurs within the testicles of humans while using antibiotic energenics steroids, again where most of the oxidative stress on the semen occurs. But there are some in vivo studies and animal models which show exactly that. This has been confirmed for the following compounds. If I couldn't convince you with the steroids vs. fertility video, maybe I can convince you now. Here's the list of steroid-induced impaired fertility and testicular oxidative stress or injury with testosterone. It has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties in oxidative stress induction, animal and in vivo models. So if you're undergoing high oxidative stress and you identify as a cell in a petri dish or an animal, then exoxidant testosterone might actually offer antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. Exoxidant testosterone restores spermatogenesis in oligo-osteno-spermia stemming from an animal model which we discussed at the start of this video. So use the timestamps to skip back, well almost two hours. And exoxidant testosterone decreases antioxidant defenses in healthy animals. So again, conflicting scientific evidence does it cause oxidative stress or not? I'll leave it up to you to follow the citations and make a decision going forward. Exogenous estradiol coming from estradiol benzoate worsened oxidative stress when combined with eccentric exercise. Nandrolone stemming from decaderebolan worsened oxidative stress when combined with swimming exercise which was ameliorated by torene and melatonin which are very potent antioxidants. Archimetallone aka anadrol causes oxidative stress in the testicles and imperish fertility parameters but that can be ameliorated with royal jelly or watercress and Caucasian waffle berry hydro-alcoholic extracts which are all high in antioxidants. Baldenone equipoise causes oxidative stress in the testicles as well as the nasal winstrol causes oxidative stress. So all of these you should avoid and if you want to dive diaper into the potential benefits of exogenous testosterone regarding oxidative stress you're welcome to do the research but I would still highly recommend you to discontinue it. And even if you don't take steroids oxidative stress markers might still be slightly elevated if you're a bodybuilder or you train vigorously. This study performed on bodybuilders that didn't take steroids performed by Selig et al. from October 20th 2024 so that's a very very new titled assessment of paraoxonase 1 and arial estrus activities and lipid profile in bodybuilders and comparative study of physical activity and anthropometry on atherosclerosis. This study shows that unless bodybuilders supplemented with antioxidants that oxidative stress markers are also elevated again in bodybuilders that train vigorously. Oxonative stress was considerably higher in high intensity resistance trained bodybuilders compared to those who performed moderate intensity resistance exercise which has been shown to increase antioxidant status in otherwise normal healthy individuals. So again if you're a bodybuilder that trains vigorously maybe take that down a notch from high intensity exercise to medium intensity exercise and if you're on steroids which are known to cause oxidative stress bring it down to TRT like I've been saying this entire video. The benefits of moderate intensity resistance exercise regarding the reduction of chronic oxidative stress markers and improvement in overall health parameters has been well established. This average gym goer level of intensity strengthens the body antioxidant defenses and reduces the risk of oxidative damage over time. South testosterone replacement therapy reduces oxidative stress potentially what at least in aging men it does and moderate intensity resistance training strengthens the body's antioxidant defenses then why not combine both you might ask and yes it makes absolute total sense but I couldn't find any scientific evidence to support that otherwise healthy men running testosterone replacement therapy or hormone replacement therapy and training with moderate intensity exercises have an improved antioxidant status and increased antioxidant defenses. If the previously discussed TRT plus fertility peptides phase one or phase one point one protocols with all of the antioxidants that you feel comfortable with are not getting the job done improving your overall semen parameters then you need to proceed to either phase two, three and four reassess your antioxidant intake, reduce your training intensity or maybe both again assuming that you want a son without autism but if you want a girl then you might be able to get the job done with a phase one or phase one point one protocol where you keep the exactness of testosterone in place running the fertility peptides which I already discussed just make sure that you still stay on top of all the antioxidant supplements and reduce the burden of oxidative stress so your DNA fragmentation is very very low and the overall quality of your semen is very very high that still not mitigates the fact that your daughter might have autism so let's address that here in this segment of this video keep in mind that there's a clear correlation between oxidative stress in both parents whether that's the father the mother or both both before and during pregnancy and autism so besides the higher likelihood of bodybuilders having daughters there also seems to be a disproportionate amount of bodybuilders having children that are autistic so I felt it's only fair to address it here while we're on the topic of oxidative stress I would highly advise you to watch the podcast between Dr. Peter Atia and Dr. Trinh Sutcliffe it's linked down below right below the humor and podcast discussing all kinds of fertility aids and watch both if you're interested in conceiving a child in the future after you're done watching this video obviously that podcast with Dr. Peter Atia and Dr. Trinh Sutcliffe is very very very informative regarding autism all the potential risks and all the potential contributing factors it's impossible for me to discuss all of that here so if you want to know more give that podcast a watch it has excellent content so let me just summarize it quickly in case you're not convinced yet to increase your antioxidant defenses I had a plenty of studies to confirm that the father with higher oxidative stress markers have a greater likelihood of having children with autism spectrum disorder oxidative stress to the sperm of the father can result in epigenetic changes to the sperm DNA resulting in methylation and histone modifications which ultimately affect fetal brain development on the other side oxidative stress in the mother before enduring pregnancy can reduce mitochondrial function which impacts ick viability and early embryonic development and keep in mind of the mitochondria that the fetus contains are stemming from the mother not to the father there's no mitochondria in the sperm delivering either the X or Y chromosomes oxidative stress during outside maturation can affect gene regulation in the embryo contributing to autism risk maternal oxidative stress and inflammation before enduring pregnancy can trigger maternal immune system responses which also has autism risk during early pregnancy the field brain undergoes rapid development making it highly susceptible to oxidative stress during this time high oxidative stress can lead to neuronal damage impaired synops formation and inflammation of these factors are observed in autism spectrum disorder the placentes also sensitive to oxidative stress leading to reduced nutrient and oxygen supply to the developing fetal brain and body and even after giving birth oxidative stress continues to influence autism risk breast milk contains antioxidants and essential fatty acids that help reduce oxidative stress while some breast milk formulas lack these beneficial ingredients and again if the breastfeeding mother is undergoing a lot of oxidative stress and damage then she's literally breastfeeding these reactive oxygen species to your child's which potentially has all kinds of deleterious effects including autism risk once born the baby is susceptible to environmental air pollution pesticides and dietary toxins which can all induce oxidative stress in the infants and contribute to autism risk and furthermore oxidative stress may impair immune function contribute to gut dysbiosis and neuro inflammation in infants both are linked to autism spectrum disorder and I'm not trying to fear monger here obviously it's going to be a lot easier for you to raise a healthy child compared to a child with autism or other kinds of complications because you didn't pay attention to your oxidative stress markers so a little bit of caution is advised start preparing well in advance both you and your partner to keep the burden of oxidative stress as low as possible otherwise you might face the consequences for a very long time and in this case we could take yours truly as an example both my parents were smokers and drinkers my father drank and smoke while his semen was maturing and then when he got his wife my mother pregnant she was smoking and drinking throughout the entirety of pregnancy and when I was born I was sick as a dog I had asthma I had all kinds of allergies out all kinds of digestive issues rashes and it lasted for years until they figured it out to feed me a little bit better but as soon as I started eating like a bodybuilder and removed all of the carbohydrates from my diet so we're talking about 17 years old yeah then the asthma was gone and the rashes were gone and all of these digestive issues were significantly less so I had to suffer quite a bit in my younger years because so I suspect because my parents didn't do their due diligence researching regarding that what they should have been doing before during and after pregnancy so right with the information we have available nowadays we don't have to make the same mistakes as your parents did but if you do make the same mistakes your parents did then honestly dude you're not fit to be a parent and just get some dogs or a couple cats or whatever animal you prefer all right enough about that childhood traumas aside at least I don't have autism or I think that I don't I'll leave it up to you guys if you have autism or not I didn't end up being a girl due to the high oxidative stress that my parents were undergoing around the time of conception otherwise this youtube channel would have been called vigorous Stephanie and it would be about something entirely different at one point you're happy with your fertility parameters and you're ready to start inseminating not so fast buddy just because you're not shooting blanks and you're staying on target doesn't mean that you're going to hit the targets the cervix is closed for 23 to 26 days out of the menstrual cycle so you're knocking vigorously obviously and blasting against the door that only opens for two out of four days out of the month timing is everything you and your partner need to start tracking her ovulation well before you're ready to start conceiving assuming she has a regular menstrual cycle typically ovulation occurs around 14 days before the next period and it's highly advised to have at least three to six months of ovulation cycles tracked so you can time exactly when the cervix is fully opened and you can deliver your x and y chromosomes basically when you start improving your fertility parameters that's the exact same time that your partner starts tracking her ovulation cycle when you are ready to give she knows when she's ready to receive there are several apps that can track the menstruation cycle we use the cycle tracker by apple which is included in the iphone so ideally you track her menstrual cycle for about three to six months so you know exactly when ovulation occurs and then the ideal intercourse timing would be one to two days prior and one to two days after the expected ovulation you can go by basal body temperature tracking when the basal body temperature rises to about 0.3 to 0.5 degrees celsius or 0.5 to 1 degree Fahrenheit which indicates ovulation and then the ideal intercourse timing would again be one day to two days prior and one to two days after basal body temperature increases indicating that ovulation is occurring or you can go with urinary luteinase hormone testing where you test her urine in the morning and evening with an lh ovulation predictor kit abbreviated to opk's four to five days before expected ovulation a positive test indicates that ovulation will occur in 12 to 36 hours to so the ideal intercourse timing would be within 12 to 24 hours after receiving a positive lh opk test result and there's even cervical mucus tracking but you should leave that up to her because she's probably a lot more familiar with her mucus and how that's changing during the menstrual cycle than you are when the mucus turns clear stretching egg whites that usually appears two to three days before ovulation so the ideal intercourse timing would be one to four days after cervical mucus is changing regarding the intercourse timing frequency to put it simply more often is better you can already start about five days before the expected ovulation having intercourse every other day with everyday intercourse around the expected ovulation up to two days after the expected ovulation so that means seven days of highly enjoyable vigorous manual labor of a few minutes to let's say half an hour every single time and unfortunately for all the sex beans out there there's absolutely no reason to have intercourse more than once per day to prevent semen and sperm depletion keep in mind that while semen can survive in the cervix for up to five days the vagina is a somewhat hostile environment for semen no matter how much effort you put into your fertility protocol semen isn't stored in the uterus so if the cervix isn't open around the time of ovulation that semen ends up dying yeah so let me teach you how semen survives in the vagina and uterus the vaginal pH barrier the natural vaginal acidity has a pH of 3.5 to 4.5 which prevents infection but is hostile to sperm and again when the mucus changes to the clear stretchy egg whites like cervical mucus the pH of the vagina also changes and comes closer to semen alkalinity with a pH of 7.2 to 8 which also neutralizes vaginal acidity temporarily the semen coagulant which protects sperm from vaginal acidity usually forms within one minute of ejaculation semen liquefaction occurs a little bit later on where prostate specific antigen liquefies semen within 15 to 30 minutes 60 minutes at maximum allowing sperm to swim freely towards the cervix while vaginal acidity is neutralized again as the cervical mucus changes around the time of ovulation it acts as a sperm highway two to three days before ovulation cervical mucus protects sperm from vaginal acidity allowing it to enter the cervix within minutes of ejaculation and the cervical mucus protects the sperm for a few hours now the highly progressive motile sperm the one that we're after in our fertility parameters can end up and enter the cervical crypts which are tiny folds within the cervix where they can be stored for up to five days and this guarantees sperm survival this stored sperm survives until ovulation occurs increasing chances of conception so even though the cervix is open but ovulation hasn't occurred yet you can donate or deliver your sperm with high progressive motility into these cervical crypts allowing them to be released around the time of ovulation and then if you have additional intercourse around time of ovulation imagine how much progressively motile sperm with normal morphology is present increasing the likelihood of conception but only around one percent from each ejaculation make it past the cervix sperm with normal progressive motility rely on flagula movement aka tail whipping and uterine contractions more than that later to move towards the fallopian tubes this journey can take as little as 30 minutes to a few hours so again timing is everything but with a few hour timing window you should be okay in case um you know shit it's a fan and you need to do the deed a little bit later on even though ovulation has already occurred so don't stress don't stress you'll be all right unfortunately sperm only survives in the vagina for a couple minutes if the cervix isn't opened meaning that your entire army of precious swimmers die 23 to 26 days out of the entire menstrual cycle but they can survive for up to five days if you time it right and the cervix is opened and the cervical mucus helps your sperm along for the journey so here's the ideal intercourse timing around ovulation five days before ovulation even though the cervix is likely closed you can have intercourse then you skip one day four days before ovulation where the cervix is also likely closed three days before ovulation where the cervix is possibly opened you can have intercourse again then two days before ovulation where the cervix is certainly open you don't have intercourse one day before ovulation where the cervix is open you have intercourse again then on the day of the ovulation you have intercourse and even the day after ovulation where the cervix is still open you also have intercourse now if you want to do it a little bit differently you can have intercourse four days before ovulation two days before ovulation one day before ovulation the day of ovulation and the day after ovulation i'll leave an entirely up to you i've done it both ways and unfortunately after 15 months of trying naturally which was highly really enjoyable nonetheless, we decided to go IVF. After intercourse, have your partner lay in our back for about 15 to 30 minutes for normal semen coagulation and semen liquefaction to occur, reducing the acidity of the vagina and with the help of the cervical mucus, the sperm is now allowed to swim into the uterus through the cervix where it can potentially be stored for up to five days and otherwise, if you time this around ovulation, then conception can actually occur pretty much immediately. There is some scientific evidence that female orgasm increases semen or tension in the vagina by approximately 15.7% compared to not having an orgasm. How much that actually contributes to an increased chance of fertilization, I'm not entirely sure. It was a small study with only six participants and they used a semen simulant, not actual semen because they probably wanted to prevent pregnancy in these six participants to measure the backflow of the semen following the use of a vibrator. Again, the citations are down below. I got this paper from Dr. Dean St. Marts ages ago. I think his wife found it online somewhere, so she tried to convince him to give her an orgasm around the time of conception and I used it as scientific evidence to give my wife an orgasm around the time of conception. When you look at it closely, keep in mind that if you do try to increase fertilization chances by giving your partner an orgasm, her orgasm needs to occur after you've already ejaculated and the sperm has coagulated and liquefied for the semen to travel into the cervix and uterus. If you're like me, where your partner is an orgasm first and then you ejaculate, then her orgasm comes too late. She needs to have an orgasm after you ejaculate and the semen already went through the process of coagulation and liquefaction for the sperm to be liberated. So timing is a little bit off here. Still an orgasm for you and her, perhaps not in that order, is still highly enjoyable for emotional bonding and that kind of stuff. But if you go with this scientific evidence, you need to ejaculate first and then keep her going while she's laying on her back for approximately 15 to 30 minutes or you can bail out and set it to vibrate until you're to finish yourself off. A highly G-style. The correlation between female orgasm and pregnancy rates has been widely contested. In scientific evidence, you can read all about it following the citations down below. But take it for me, if you're loving and caring husbands, make sure and ensure that your partner, your wife, has an orgasm or two every time you're trying to conceive and even during the off period where she's not receptive to semen and you're still attempting to have a good time. Make sure that she has an orgasm or two because when she's pregnant, when she's highly pregnant towards the end of carrying your child, then intercourse might be a little bit difficult, but there's always alternative ways for you to get stimulated. Yeah, and that's where the gratitude starts to show for all those orgasms that she had. Alright, and I think that pretty much covers everything I wanted to discuss in this video. Keep trying until she's pregnant. It might take months to years, probably longer than you initially expected. And if it doesn't happen within a window of time that you feel comfortable with, both you and her, then you have the following alternative options. There's the secular sperm aspiration where they insert, inject a needle into the testicles and use aspiration to retrieve semen. I would consider this a last resort. I think the fertility medications are going to get the job done. If you follow this video all the way through, I don't think you need a particular sperm aspiration unless you did something terrible with your testicles or, well, cut the vast difference leading to infertility. There's a female fertility medications treatment that has nothing to do with you, but maybe that's something your wife or partner needs to consider. There's comaphein citrate, which stimulates egg maturation and induced ovulation, various gutadetropin, including human carionic gutadetropin, follicle-stimulating hormone, and luteinizing hormone injections, or various combination thereof, which stimulates egg maturation and also induces ovulation. There's let's resolve, which induces ovulation. Again, my cursing serum is for dialyvels, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone levels go up, works the same for her as it would for you in the context of not using exorcists to stop some replacement therapy. Glucophage, aka metformin, can improve ovulation in cases of polycystic ovarian syndrome. Again, a histroscopy will determine if your partner has PCOS. Then there's intrauterine insemination, where your sperm is washed and directly inserted into the uterus around 24 hours of ovulation, which is often combined with human carionic  gonadotropin treatment to induce ovulation in her. Then there's in vitro fertilization, where the eggs are retrieved from the ovaries and fertilized with sperm in a fertility laboratory. So if you're undergoing a good amount of gonadotropin treatment to stimulate egg maturation, that usually goes in combination with IVF, right, you have gonadotropins to stimulate egg maturation, so you get 12, 18 eggs, or maybe even more that are mature, ready for retrieval. Then with in vitro fertilization, they use needle aspiration to collect the eggs. So if you have 12 eggs, that's 12 insertions, aspirations of a needle, and if you have 18 eggs or more, that's again 18 aspirations or more. Whatever eggs are retrieved are fertilized in the laboratory, and then they can do special treatments for that. IVF intracytoplasmic sperm injection, where single sperm is injected directly into the egg. This is better known as ICSI, and then there's IVF intracytoplasmic morphologically selected sperm injection, better known as MC, where the sperm is examined under a high-powered microscope to identify abnormalities in the head, mid-piece, and tail, and then only a single morphologically healthy sperm is injected directly into an egg. IVF is cheaper than ICSI, and ICSI is cheaper than MC. Then you have donor sperm or donor eggs, where donated sperm or eggs are used for intrauterine insemination or in vitro fertilization, whether that's ICSI or MC, and as your last option, there's surrogacy or gestational carriers. With traditional surrogacy, the surrogate's egg is fertilized using a donor or partner sperm by direct insemination or intrauterine insemination, and gestational surrogacy involves an in vitro fertilized created embryo, which is then carried by a surrogate, and whether they use a donor egg in donor sperm or the egg and the sperm from the parents, in which case the embryo is being carried by a surrogate. I'll leave that up to you, which routes you need to go with, discuss that with a fertility specialist, obviously, and then last but not least, there's always adoption, right? You take somebody else's child and raise it as your own. So there's plenty of options. If you do wanna have a child, in case this fertility protocol is unsuccessful because of steroid abuse and high oxidative stress and whatnot, you did to your testicles. So there's always hope and always options, but I think the large majority of you guys can get the job done if you watch this video from start to finish and make sure you leave a like and a comment and subscribe if you haven't already, and if you have a son. I heard that Steve is a pretty cool name. All right, I'll leave it here. Thank you guys so much for watching. You can find everything that I'm associated with down below in the YouTube description section, the citations, the links to the graphics, additional material, podcasts, and videos, it's all there. Do additional research so you know exactly what you're getting yourself into when you're trying to get your partner pregnant after years and decades of steroid use and abuse. And while you're at it, use some of my discount codes and affiliates to get yourself a discount while shopping online. And if you go do your blood work, do it over at Merrick Health, which have extensive lists of blood work parameters so you can keep yourself healthy. They even have tests for oxidative stress markers, which not many clinics in the world have on offer. Vigor's Crew, you guys know what to do. A antibiotic high fertility furtherable bicep for you guys. Good luck inseminating. And well, if you have some good news for me to share, just tag me in your baby pictures. I'll be happy to see them over the next couple of years. See you guys in the next deep dive.

=== FILE: Injectable YK-11 Is Awesome! (Aromatase Inhibitor & Superdrol Replacement？) Operation Follistatin [QCTCV_iY1js].txt ===

 does YK-1, does YK-1, as awesome as people make it out to be, is it really that much more potent, compared to running YK-1 orally or sublingually, after two weeks on 30 milligrams daily, I can conclude that injectable YK-1 feels like Trembolone, tastes like Superdrol, looks like Anavar, and smells like, well, keep watching to find out more. Vaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguagu As part of this Operation Folistatin experiment, I decided to remove all of the fluff and just stick to a testosterone endotate base of 625 milligrams weekly, and then cycle through various folistatin secreting compounds, or actual folistatin 344, to see which of these compounds are actually worth running. First, I ran epicateogen between 180 milligrams to 900 milligrams daily, which was a fun experiment. I got some great results, but at 900 milligrams epicateogen daily, my high sensitivity C-reactive protein shot up to the moon and ended up at 21.8 milligrams per liter, which is in the cancer and cardiovascular disease territory. Luckily for me, hs-CRP dropped down to 2.8 milligrams per liter a week after stopping the epicateogen experiment and is now perfectly in range again. Next up was 30 milligrams oral YK-11 daily for two weeks, followed by 30 milligrams sublingual YK-11 daily for two weeks, and then finished off with 30 milligrams ejectable YK-11 daily for the last two weeks of this experiment. And this is exactly what this video is about. And I'll finish off this Operation Folistatin experiment with another two weeks of one milligram folistatin 344, intramuscularly daily split bilaterally for the last two weeks. And then I think I'm ready to throw in the towel and go back to TRT before my organs explode. Now, I discussed sublingual YK-11 at length in the YK-11 deep dive. Give it a watch if you haven't already, as this video is an extension of that deep dive and builds upon what I mentioned there. But since I'm a nice guy and all, here are the cliff notes from the YK-11 deep dive. I added some additional information as well. Here are the evidence-based unique characteristics of YK-11. YK-11 activates the androgen receptors but doesn't bind to the estrogen or glucocorticoid receptors, stemming from an in vitro study using C2, C12 mouse fibroblast cells. And this exact same study showed that YK-11 increases bone mineralization and bone formation, which is comparable or which was comparable to diet of testosterone at the exact same dosage range. And this same study also showed that YK-11 increases intercellular folistatin levels between 550 to 800%, which was a duration-dependent result. And in another study investigating an animal model using male BALB-C mice with bacterial sepsis, YK-11 was shown to increase serum folistatin levels between 10% to 13% in a dose-dependent fashion. And the same study showed that YK-11 reduces intramuscular fat mass. YK-11 didn't increase ALT and ACT liver enzymes but did increase blood urea nitrogen levels slightly. And YK-11 prevents muscle wasting, reduces organ damage, and mortality during this sepsis study. And this was observed between 350 mg YK-11 to 700 mg YK-11 per 1 kg of body weight daily. And calculating these dosage ranges to the human equivalent dose just makes you realize how unrealistic these dosages actually are. For example, a 100 kg bodybuilder would need to consume between 2,840 mg YK-11 to 5,676 mg YK-11 orally daily, albeit split in three servings if you will so desire, to get an increase in serum folistatin level between just 10% to 13%. Now, what we're obviously after is an increase in intercellar folistatin levels. Folistatin doesn't really do much in the bloodstream. And if we go with that single in vitro study using C2, C12 mouse fibroblast cells, we might be able to expect an increase between 550 to 800%. And in another in vitro study using C2, C12 mouse fibroblast cells, it was speculated that YK-11 might inhibit 5-alpha reductase type 2 enzymes, which are generally expressed in the skin and scalp after puberty in humans. And yes, I did check my serum DHT levels before and after this YK-11 experiment. But unfortunately, in the before blood work results, my serum DHT levels were over 2,500 picograms per milliliter. And beyond that, they don't detect any further. Again, keep in mind that I'm running 625 milligrams testosterone enatate and all. And it's very common for such a TR3 for three people that your serum DHT levels are going to be out of the detectable reference range. I did check it again following this experiment. But with a two to three week lead time, you're going to have to patiently wait and look for the comment section down below. When I finally get those results in, maybe it came down within the detectable range. And then we can have some hard evidence that serum DHT levels did decrease from undetectably higher ranges to somewhat in the reference range. But it wouldn't surprise me if both results before and after of this YK-11, my serum DHT levels ended up over 2,500 picograms per milliliter. And that means I kind of wasted $120 on that blood work result. Now, this doesn't mean that YK-11 is hair safe, right? Even though it might act as a 5-alph reductase type 2 enzyme inhibitor, YK-11 itself might cause hair loss, albeit that that's generally not reported anecdotally on Reddit or various steroid message boards. And lastly, in a more recent study in an animal model using rats, YK-11 was shown to have similar neurotoxic effects in the hippocampus compared to other antibiotic androgenic steroids. So at least we get the same level of damage. And the same study also showed that YK-11 increases oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in the hippocampus by increasing pro-inflammatory interleukin 1b and interleukin 6 cytokines. And it reduced anti-inflammatory interleukin 10 levels. But swimming exercises counteracted the IL-6 effects and elevated IL-10 levels. So if you're going to take YK-11, take your antioxidants, take your mitochondrial support stack and also do some f***ing exercise. Swimming exercise already counteracts some of the negative effects that YK-11 might potentiate in the hippocampus. Anyway, there's a lot more information in the YK-11 deep dive and the YK-11 addendum live stream video. Give those a watch if you haven't already. Let's proceed into the Operation Folistatin base protocol and what else I was doing and running at that time. So you can see what the base protocol was when I was cycling through the various YK-11 administration routes. Again, I was running 625 milligrams testosterone anthate coming from Bayard Testivarin. Half an ampule Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday injected subcutaneously for total weekly steroid intake of 625 milligrams. The total, obviously, and nothing else. No Primo, no Nandrolone, no Tristalone, no Trimbalone. Nothing else, guys. Very, very boring. But this is what it takes to do an experiment properly. Allegedly. And besides that, I was running a DHGA, 37.5 milligrams daily, Delmasaritan, 40 milligrams upon waking daily, ZMib, 10 milligrams upon waking daily, 50 milligrams fluvoxamine before bed daily, 10 milligrams methylene blue, five times per week on workout days. And again, there might be potential SSRI and Maui, serotonin syndrome, drug interactions between fluvoxamine and methylene blue, but so far, so good. No serotonin syndrome was observed as of yet. And nootropics, I cycle in as needed because I've got a lot of work to do and nootropics help with that tremendously. 10 milligrams oral dihexate, 10 milligrams oral Nupept, 25 to 50 milligrams bromantain, maybe 500 micrograms intranasal CMAX. And that's pretty much it. Oh yeah, sometimes it would take real mind respawn, cycled in maybe twice a week. So that will be my nootropics. And I don't think that any of these compounds besides the azenamide really have a dramatic effect on my blood work results. Well, obviously, DHA would increase my DHA sulfate and estradiol levels, but it was stable all the way through. So we have a valid before and after blood work result. And I took the following over-the-counter supplements throughout the entirety of this experiment and the previous epikatagen experiment. Let that scroll a little bit. A lot of information will be on the screen. And the only real change which I made since the epikatagen experiment to the end of the YK-11 experiment is that I stopped grillamide citrus bergamot because I wanted to try amla extract from Himalaya Organics. I ran 600 milligrams amla extract with breakfast and dinner, total 1,200 milligrams over the day. And as you can see from my before and after blood work results, my serum lipid concentrations are pretty much comparable, even though I added in 210 milligrams YK-11, which is an oral anabolic androgenic steroid, albeit injected, obviously, at the end of the experiment. 210 milligrams additional anabolic androgenic steroids on top of the 625 milligrams testosterone base that I was running. And my lipids are pretty much the same, leaving me to conclude that amla extract is maybe a little bit more potent than citrus bergamot. And the rest, again, is pretty much the same. All the details are on the screen. Let that scroll a little bit. And let's move over to the actual YK-11 protocol. To all of this, I added YK-11 for six weeks at the exact same dosage daily of 30 milligrams, but with various administration routes. Day one to 14, I took 15 milligrams YK-11 orally upon waking and before bed. Again, total 30 milligrams daily. So two weeks oral YK-11, 30 milligrams daily. Then from week three to four, day 15 to 28, I switched to 15 milligrams sublingual YK-11 upon waking and before bed, still 30 milligrams daily. So the reason why I take it morning and evening is because I took, in the previous experiment, 30 milligrams oral and sublingual YK-11 about an hour before workout and I did not notice any kind of enhancing effect. Is that due to a lack of bioavailability, whether you take that orally or sublingually, or due to a lack of acute androgen receptor mediated effects? When you take that around the workout, it's probably the first option because when I switched to injectable YK-11, within the first day, basically in the first workout, I already noticed a change. And certainly the second workout, there was a more pronounced effect, which again was a more heightened effect of the YK-11 I took sublingually previously. So day 29 to 42, which is week five and six, I took 15 milligrams injectable YK-11 intramuscularly split bilaterally, 60 or 30 minutes pre-workout or 30 milligrams subcutaneously on rest day, total 30 milligrams daily, obviously. So again, if I were to drink chest, 15 milligrams, 15 milligrams, and then go to the gym 30 to 60 minutes later and get a phenomenal super pump, basically acutely. So it seems to have some localized effect when you inject it bilaterally, intramuscularly. And from the, let's say, the second injection onwards, that is a more pronounced effect. So you have a little bit of spillover. Let's say I would do chest the first day and the next day I would do quads, intramuscularly, bilaterally, obviously. Then on the quad day, the effects would be a lot more pronounced compared to the first day. Where I would inject YK-11 into the chest. I did experience a little bit of post-injection pain. Obviously, I mean, it's a esterless compound in MCT oil that disperses quite rapidly. So I had no lumps and bumps if I were to inject intramuscularly. But if I were to inject 30 milligrams injectable YK-11 subcutaneously, I would have a bump for about seven to 10 days. And I attribute that to the MCT oil. I got that with various other products in MCT oil if I were to inject that subcutaneously. Never really got that from Castor oil, which is the oil which Bayer Testivirin uses for its testosterone anathate formulation. That dispersed and leaves a little bit of an oily lump, obviously, because it takes about 33 days to disperse from the injection depot. But with MCT oil, it seems to disperse a little bit more and then raise the tissue. And yeah, it takes about two weeks to go away. So going forward, if I were to do an injectable YK-11 experiment again, I would do everything intramuscularly so I don't have any lumps and bumps. The post-injection pain of YK-11 intramuscularly is not as bad as carnitine or glutathione. It went away post-workout, basically. So the pre-work and injection caused a little bit of post-injection pain. But by the end of the workout, that post-injection pain was gone. And I had no long-lasting post-injection pain or swelling or irritation at the injection sites. Now, I believe that MA produced 30 milligrams per one milliliter injectable YK-11 in the past. It's the batch that I used. But nowadays, they have 50 milligrams per one milliliter. So that's the batch you'll probably end up using if you decide to go with the injectable YK-11 route. This was my diet throughout the entirety of the experimentation period. The exact same diet I've been following for the majority of this year because I have some digestive issues. I do or I did an elimination diet and a food allergy test. And it basically meant that a certain food sources, like eggs, for example, I could not eat. So my meals were pretty much the same. Meal one, two, three, and five consisted of 150 grams ground beef, 25 grams ground beef liver, 150 grams ground chicken breast, and then 100 to 200 grams of kale or 100 grams and 100 grams green beans. And then some sauerkraut, some olive oil, salt, and chia seeds on top. And then meal four would be 300 grams of salmon, 50 grams of kimchi, some extra chia seeds, Himalaya pink salt, and then 200 grams of blueberries to get a little bit of carbs in post-workout. Now, sometimes meal three, I would just switch for a pre-workout protein shake containing a collagen type 1, 2, and 3 peptides. And then maybe some essential amino acids, depending on how intense my workout was going to be and how full, how stuffed my stomach would be at that point in the day pre-workout, right? And then, you know, sometimes it would add a little bit of tuna instead of beef or replace a meal for more chicken. So my diet was a little bit all over the place, all of the food sources that I could generally eat and digest properly. But this was basically the base diet, consisting of approximately 375 grams of protein, about 90 grams of carbs, 62 or 63 grams of fiber, and 85, sometimes 100 grams of fat over the day for an average food intake of 2,600 to let's say 3,000 calories per day. And again, the reason why I'm in a somewhat caloric deficit is because I want to see how much of a contributing factor this epicate gene, YK-11, and soon to be folistatin-344, actually has on the accrual of muscle mass, even if you're in a caloric deficit. Now, so far so good. I've been consistently gaining size and strength ever since we've started this experiment. I followed the following workout splits. Again, it hasn't changed. Monday and Thursday, I would do chest, triceps, shoulders, and abs. Tuesday and Friday, I would do quads, hamstrings, adductors, glutes, and calves. Wednesday and Sunday, I would rest. Sunday would be a refeed and cheese day. And Saturday, I would be back, rear delts, biceps, maybe a little bit of traps, some posterior chain, and that kind of stuff. My back is kind of, I mean, you can see my lats from the front. That's how fat they are. All right, oh my God, Becky. Lots of fat, I can see them from the front. So one back workout, two chest workouts, shoulder workouts, tricep workouts, and two leg workouts, basically, over the week with two rest days. One of which, I would eat a boatload of food with my wife. And here are the before and after pictures. And I look pretty much the same. If anything, I look fatter than I did before. And I think that's because I went to Bali for a week during this experiment. So I did the oral YK-11 before I went to Bali. During the time I was in Bali, I still went to the gym, but I took my YK-11 sublingually. And then as soon as I came back from Bali, I switched to the injectable YK-11 experiment. But I think I gained a little bit of fat in Bali, unfortunately. So I ended up a little bit softer. And judging by the pictures, I look exactly the same, even though my face and my quads are a little bit more fluffy. So, dude, I wish I had better results. Honestly, I wish I had better results. I feel a lot stronger. I look a lot bigger in the gym. But I think this place that I take my progress pictures is just not a good place to take my progress pictures anymore. Now, what you might notice from my left calf is that it's slowly starting to go away. That has nothing to do with the injectable YK-11 or the epicate gin. I think I have some nerve damage in my lower back or there's some impingement in my lower back, causing my left calf to atrophy like Dennis Wolf, Wesley Vissers or Ian Valleir, which is not a bad group to be in, but it's only happening on one side. So my left calf, I can no longer contract properly. I can move the exact same weight on my calf workouts. But yeah, it's slowly going away and it looks like at the epicate gin experiment, my calf, my left calf was a little bit bigger and more defined compared to now. It's honestly very discouraging after bodybuilding for 25 years that this is now happening. I know my legs are a little bit small, but I have a little bit of an excuse by doing that leg surgery. I don't feel 100% comfortable training super, super heavy on leg day yet. And honestly, 10 to 12 to 15 reps for quads, it doesn't really work for me. When I do a ketogenic diet, I should be doing six to eight reps. High weights, high intensity, slow reps, but doing moderate weight, a lot of reps and still high intensity, but longer time under tension. It doesn't really cut it. Maybe I'm just not eating enough food though. But yeah, let's say from the waist off, it's going well and from the waist down, yeah, embarrassing, to be honest. When switching to the backside, again, it looks pretty much the same, but my lower back is a little bit more chunky. my legs look a little bit bigger now. I have trouble contracting my right calf in the back pose. My hamstrings look a little bit bigger, albeit a little bit more fluffy. And you can clearly see that there's a discrepancy between the calves, especially on my left calf, where I can not really focus or not really contract it properly. Yeah, nerve damage. Great. And I might have a little bit of water retention at this time, right? It's hot in Thailand. I'm eating a lot of extra sodium over the day, making me look a little bit more blurry. So again, what I'll do is I'll go to Unreal Gym where I have a posing room. I'll take some progress pictures there. Fingers crossed, those actually look better. And then, well, I'll overlay those now because from these before and after pictures, I would say that the YK-11 experiment was a failure, even though I did get stronger in the gym. I did get bigger. My body weight is pretty much the same. And I do notice a very pronounced effect switching from epicate to gin to oral, sublingual, and then injectable YK-11 because injectable YK-11, that's PRs upon PRs basically the last two weeks. It was a lot of fun to run that experiment or finish off the YK-11 experiment with the injectable version. Like I mentioned before in the epicate to gin video, please understand that there's no accurate methods to detect folostatin or myostatin levels in serum. These tests aren't offered generally in the hospitals or the clinics here in Thailand or even in the rest of the world. These are the side effects of chronically elevated folostatin levels, which might show as an impaired hypothalamic pituitary testicular axis where serum follicle stimulating hormone levels are reduced. This is why folostatin is called folostatin by reducing follicle stimulating hormone, right? This was the first scientific evidence regarding folostatin that, oh, FSH levels go down. Now, obviously, my FSH levels are in the gutter because I take exoxicinous testosterone placement therapy. I'm not supplementing with recombinant FSH anymore because I have all the semen samples frozen and a boatload of embryos frozen and a healthy daughter on the way. So my FSH days are over. It could show as insulin resistant to hyperglycemia in an elevated blood glucose levels, not in my blood work, elevated fasting insulin levels, not in my blood work, elevated triglyceride levels, not in my blood work, or elevated hemoglobin A1c levels, again, not in my blood work. Folostatin may impair insulin signaling in adipose tissue and promotes lipolysis. But based on my before and after pictures, I would say that little lipolysis took place these last six months. Actually, I got quite lean for the Bali holiday, but I just gained a little bit of fat by the end of it, which I'm still trying to remove. God damn it. Let's see. Side effects of chronically elevated folostatin levels include hepatic stress or dysfunction, shown as elevated liver enzymes. My liver enzymes did go up, but not to the point I would expect. Certainly not to the point that Superdril would increase liver enzymes. It might show as thyroid dysfunction by elevated free thyroxine levels, potentially by lowering thyroid binding globulin levels. My thyroxine levels are pretty much identical to the previous blood work results. Shown as kidney stress by elevated creatinine and albumin levels. Creatinine did go up, but I also started training a lot more intensely compared to previously, and they're not in some sort of alarming territory where I feel that my kidneys are going to melt or explode or fall off my butt cheeks and then run away screaming because the folostatin levels are so increased. Folostatin might show systemic inflammation, might elevate its high sensitivity C-reactive protein levels. Now, this was the case with the epigatogen experiment going from, what was it, one milligram, a half milligram per liter to 21.8 milligrams per liter. Was that the folostatin or something going wrong with the epigatogen supplement? I think it was the epigatogen. Or it might show as elevated interleukin-6 levels, which I didn't test for, or elevated cystatin-C levels. None of my blood work results, actually cystatin-C levels, went down slightly, and there might be disease risk of elevated folostatin levels chronically, shown as insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Based on my blood work results, I would say that's not the case. So maybe my folostatin levels were not elevated in any way, shape, or form during this YK-11 experiment, and it only happened with epigatogen. But since I got stronger, more muscular, and I would say that based on the results, anecdotally, comparing epigatogen to injectable YK-11, injectable YK-11 wins hands down. But it's not as potent as injectable folostatin 344, which I had one injection in so far. Well, I won't save that for the other video. So let's get into the blood work results. Comparing the results of March 23rd at the end of the epigatogen experiment to the results of May 3rd at the end of the YK-11 experiment. In my urinalysis, the results are pretty much the same. Specific gravity came down a little bit because I was better hydrated, meaning that the pH of my urine was slightly higher, a little bit more basic, but still towards the acidic side. Five compared to six. And all of the results are negative or normal results. So no glucose, no protein, no blood, no nitrates, no ketones, no urobilinogen, no bilirubin, and no leukocytes in my urine. And red blood cell count, episquomus, bacteria, amorphous cast, crystal mucus, and budding yeast are all normal to none. Regarding the complete blood count, my red blood cell count increased by 35% from 4,600 to 6,200 cells per cubic millimeter. That could be from the injectable YK-11 because I'm doing more injections, obviously, daily injections for the last two weeks of this experiment. And you can also see that on my white blood cell differential that my neutrophils increased a little bit, my lymphocytes came down a little bit, monocytes came down a little bit, eosinophils came up a little bit, which is very common. When you inject stuff more frequently, basophils did exactly the same. So not saying that the injectable YK-11 is impure, but if you're piercing the skin every single day, then stuff like this, a skewing of your white blood cell or an increase of your white blood cell count can definitely occur. Scrolling up again, you see that hemoglobin, hematocrit, and red blood cell count increased, let's say, 2 to 3%. So that might mean that YK-11 has some sort of erythropoietic effects. And keep in mind that YK-11 obviously is an anabolic androgenic steroids and most anabolic androgenic steroids besides drostan alone were shown to have some sort of erythropoietic effect, but not to the extent of anadrol or pre-bobal acetate which is used medically to increase red blood cell count in anemic states. And the rest of my complete blood count is pretty much the same or normal results. So red blood cell morphology is normal and maybe due to the erythropoietic effects of YK-11, my red cell distribution width increased by approximately 10% from 13.5% to 14.8% which is somewhat out of the reference range. So that means that there's a little bit more of a skewed range between the small, the newer red blood cells and the mature red blood cells which are soon to be destroyed or it's just a matter of time because again it's been six weeks and how these red blood cells are formed whether YK-11 is in the picture or not has a little bit of a size changing effect. I'm not entirely sure I can't find anything in scientific evidence because the scientific evidence of YK-11 well, paper thing. And the rest of the complete blood count results are normal or non-detected. Moving over to blood chemistry and kidney function blood glucose is pretty much the same an increase of 3% nothing to report there blood urea nitrogen also increased by let's say 3.5% from 24.8 to 25.7 mg per deciliter and is now slightly well, basically towards the top of the reference range did not change anything to my protein intake if anything I'm drinking a lot more water but still BUN levels increased somewhat is that from chronically elevated full of satin levels maybe who knows creatinine increased from 1.42 to 1.48 mg per deciliter an increase of 4% albeit on March 30th a week after discontinuing the epicate gin my creatinine was 1.38 mg! per deciliter I would say that that's a normal increase from protein metabolism creatine metabolism in skeletal muscle because I'm training a lot harder and I'm hitting PRs left and right thanks to the injectable YK-11 C-stitin C came down by 3% from 0.74 to 0.72 mg per liter uric acid came down slightly again I'm a little bit more hydrated because it's hotter in Thailand even though blood urine nitrogen did go up so am I more hydrated or less hydrated? confusing creatine phosphokinez increased by 50% from 1,850 to 2,700 units per liter on March 30th a week after stopping the epicate gin and taking a little bit of time off from the gym it was 1300 units per liter so it went down and then shot up to double basically after another 5 weeks on YK-11 because training on YK-11 especially injectable YK-11 oh so pleasurable! my high sensitivity C-reactive protein went from 21.8 mg per liter which is atrocious thank you very much epicate gin went down by 98.2% to 0.4 mg per liter one week after discontinuing the epicate gin on March 30th my high sensitivity C-reactive protein was 2.8 mg! per liter so within one week of stopping the epicate gin a dramatic reduction from 21.8 to 2.8 mg per liter and then for the last 5 weeks that was running various YK-11 administration routes inflammation came even lower and no signs of terrible inflammation present thank you very much so long story short regarding inflammation epicate gin bad YK-11 good moving over to serum lipids pretty much the same albeit a dramatic reduction in triglyceride levels maybe that's because folostatin levels decreased dramatically or because I started training harder I think it's the latter so triglycerides came down from 47 to 23 mg per deciliter a dramatic reduction of 51.1% and all of the other lipids are pretty much the same so of course it came down slightly let's say 6 to 3% so total cholesterol came down 7% HGL 7% and LDL 3% is that the addition of the YK-11 or the switch from citric bergamot to MLA extract it's probably both but for running 835 mg anabolic androgenic steroids per week including the annotate ester I would say that these results are not bad so thank you MLA extract thank you azetamide and thank you YK-11 for not being so terrible on lipid parameters and lipoprotein little A apolipoprotein A1 and B are all within normal parameters so I would say that injectable YK-11 is pretty relatively safe for your lipids assuming that you do daily facet cardio take your azetamide MLA extract or citrus bergamot and shut the f*** up liver panel a small reduction or increase in total protein albumin globulin albumin to globulin ratio you do see that total bilirubin and direct bilirubin shot up by let's say 75 to 87% so that's a dramatic increase could be additional  autoprilagu recirculation of the bilirubin, meaning that it's excreted normally, but it's reabsorbed in the enteropatic recirculation and thus ends up in the bloodstream. Still taking my TUTCA, still taking my fiber, still taking all of these stuff. So I would say that this is, it could be expected from the increase of anabolic anogenic steroids, adding the YK-11 on top. But I would honestly say that that effect would be a little bit delayed after I would take the YK-11 out and that erythropoietic signaling is reduced. So I have to keep my eye on this. I'm not alarmed. It's still within normal parameters. Last time it's actually quite low and I've seen my total bilirubin and direct bilirubin within these ranges many, many, many a time on cycles, which included bulbenone or anagrol or just high dose test or test and primo together, which all potentiate a good amount of erythropoiesis. RBC goes up, hematocrit goes up. And then in the metabolism of RBC releasing or in destruction of red blood cells, releasing their hemoglobin and metabolizing that into bilirubin, these numbers are well to be expected. Liver enzymes did go up slightly. AST increased by 8% from 99 to 107 units per liter on March 30th after a week of rest and taking the epicateogen out. It was 67 units per liter. LTE increased by 21.4% from 56 to 68 units per liter. On March 30th, this was 46, so that's slightly lower than March 23rd. So all in all, it did go up and I would attribute that to training intensity, not actual liver stress because, well, all the other markers are somewhat normal, even though bilirubin increased. But again, we can explain that away through different pathways because gamma glutamyl transferase, gamma-GT, GTT went down by 9% from 11 to 10 units per liter. Iron levels, ferritin dropped down by 17% from 194 to 161 nanograms per milliliter. On March 30th, it was 188. So that's a slight reduction over time. And serum iron came up slightly. Again, last time was abysmally low at 50 micrograms per deciliter after, well, what I expect, a month of chronic inflammation due to the epicateogen experiment. And serum iron levels dropping is just a side effect of being chronically elevated, even though at the time I did not really feel to be chronically elevated. So I'm happy to see that serum iron is increasing, 14% increase from 50 to 57 micrograms per deciliter. And, but that also means that if I'm eating a bottle of beef containing hema iron, which is highly bioavailable and supplementing with vitamin C, which helps with iron absorption, that my iron stores are not sufficient. The recycling from the hemoglobin resulting into more serum iron is also not sufficient. So I'm going to have to start supplementing iron on top of my iron intake coming from beef and also supplement with a little bit of copper just to make sure that iron absorption alongside vitamin C is sufficient. And then I'll recheck this in two weeks and a couple weeks from now as this diet with iron supplementation and copper supplementation is proceeding basically. Thyroid panel, small changes. I would say that these are normal. Total T3 reduction of 7%, free T3 reduction of 12%, total T4 an increase of 14% and free T4 an increase of 15%. Thyroid stimulating hormone came down by almost 50% from 3.5 to 1.8 micro I use per milliliter. And honestly, best in these results, I don't think that has anything to do with follow satin levels, somehow changing thyroxine levels in serum. I think this is just a normal fluctuation. And because while T3 levels came down, T4 levels came up, but TSH levels came down. And since this is all occurring in a pulsatile fashion, probably the next time I test thyroid function again, it's closer to March 23rd results. And we just go back and forth. Again, I'm not on any thyroid supplementation and I'm not on any growth hormone. So I think this is just a normal fluctuation due to the pulsatile fashion of thyroid hormones. And finally, the sex hormones. Let me know down below if you use the timestamps to skip ahead to the sex hormones. Let me know if you like sex, period, just like I do. Serum cortisol, a reduction of 18% from 12 to 9.8 micrograms per deciliter. Does that mean that YK-11 has some sort of glucocorticoid blocking effect, albeit not through the receptor and not stemming from scientific evidence? In the scientific evidence, it shows in in vitro studies that YK-11 has no binding capacity for the glucocorticoid receptor, but maybe through another pathway, it lowers cortisol levels. And again, I remember on the previous blood work results when I was running YK-11 with polypharmacy, testosterone, enderone, terestalone, oxymethylone, and grothermone, and incrolex, and the ancillaries, that my cortisol was also quite low. So maybe there's an overlapping effect of YK-11 here, but I'm just speculating based on these, well, very small, limited set of data. Okay. That's your dial, a 16.3% reduction from 217.8 to just 182.4 bikg per maniliter. That's a reduction of 16.3%. Now, does that prove that YK-11 is an aromatized inhibitor? However, to a certain extent, I kept my testosterone dose exactly the same. The injection route, exactly the same. Basically, my body fat levels are exactly the same too, right? So I can't say that I got leaner over these last six weeks, even though I was a little bit leaner before I went to Bali. But again, that body fat right back and now actually look worse. Shame on me, you Steve, for doing such a terrible job with these before and after experiments. It's the best I can do, man. I have a life besides drug experiments. So a reduction of 16.3%, I would say is dramatic because when you look at it logically, 625 milligrams testosterone and 210 milligrams YK-11, discounting for the esterine stuff, right? Let's say that's a one-to-one or a three-to-one ratio. 625 to 210, a three-to-one ratio. In a one-to-one ratio of testosterone to primo or testosterone to bolderone or testosterone to mastrone, again, not for everybody, but for some individuals, mastrone also lowers serum estradiol levels. In a one-to-one ratio, most of the time you can expect A-50% reduction. So you have, let's say 625 milligrams testosterone, you add in 625 milligrams primo or bolderone or mastrone and serum estradiol comes down by half. By half. Now, I did a three-to-one ratio. So if you divide 50% by three, you get 16.7%. And this is pretty close. So I would say for a dose comparison regarding serum estradiol reduction, this is actually a very promising result. And I've seen guys on TRT that did like 210 or 200 milligrams testosterone and then added in injectable YK-11 or oral YK-11 at 30 milligrams per day. They got A-50% or close to 50% reduction in serum estradiol levels because a lot of you guys send in your blood work. I was running a gram test and started injectable YK-11 and it came down by 10%, but I was also using an aromatized inhibitor or primo or something else in the picture. But serum estradiol still came down with a solid percentage. I was running TRT of 150 to 200 milligrams, testosterone added in the oral YK-11 and serum estradiol dropped by 50%. And now I no longer need an aromatized inhibitor. I think I've seen about six to seven, maybe nine blood work results that you guys send in over the last six weeks. And it seems to be quite conclusive that YK-11 does lower serum estradiol levels. But again, if you do the injectable YK-11 at let's say 30 milligrams per day, 210 milligrams per week, and you're running a hefty dose of testosterone, like I was TRT for three people, then your serum estradiol will not reduce by 50%, but for a, let's say a ratio dependent fashion. So if it's three to one, 625 to 210, then you get a 16 or 17% reduction in serum estradiol levels. Now going forward, I'm going to stop the YK-11, obviously switch to folosatin 344 and use a good amount of XMS stain aromasin because after, well, it's been 10 weeks and high estradiol. Luckily my gyno didn't come back, but I'm kind of tired of it. I'm kind of tired of being a blood monster, especially at the end of the day where my face is super round. You guys wanted to see if YK-11 or epikathogen acted as an aromatized inhibitor. YK-11, yes. Epikathogen, no. And folosatin 344 probably also no. So I'm going to add in the aromasin, the XMS stain back in and bring this estradiol down to a healthy amount, to a respectable amount where I can actually see some definition in my body, discounting for the fat that is accumulating from holidays. And then bring it down to what, 45, 50 pounds per milliliter. So I actually can look somewhat good, discounting for the nerve damage in my calves. Progesterone increased by 30% from 0.17 to 0.22, 900 grams per milliliter is now out of the reference range. Is that the YK-11 detecting as progesterone or progesterone metabolizing less into aldosterone or some of the other metabolic intermediates downstream? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Again, I couldn't find anything in scientific evidence that YK-11 detects as progesterone. It's not progesterone based. If anything, it has some structural similarities with 19-0 testosterone derivatives. It could be due to non-sensitive testing or again, some sort of metabolism that happens from progesterone or inhibition of progesterone metabolism downstream. Maybe due to progestogenic signaling, my prolactin went up or a dopamine deficiency. It could be both. Let's see, a 22% increase in prolactin from 11.4 to 13.95. Nanograms per milliliter still within the reference range. My libido is good. My erections are rock hard. Don't you worry. Theta testosterone, free testosterone, bioavailable testosterone, I didn't test because this, what is it, chemiluminescence microparticle immunoassay, CMIA, only goes up to 3,450 nanograms per deciliter or more Theta testosterone, and when you go over an ampoule, bear test of iron, two ampoules per week, then it's undetectably high, so why waste the money? And it happens also for Theta testosterone, unfortunately, the conversion of 625 milligrams testosterone and annotate into diated testosterone through the 5-alpha reductase enzymes, potentially isoform type 2 in the scalp and skin of me personally, is very high. So my diated testosterone on March 23rd, after two weeks to three weeks waiting, came back at over 2,500 picograms per milliliter. They use ELISA testing, which is enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. And I retested this in the absolute hope that it went from slightly over 2,500 picograms per milliliter to slightly below 2,500 picograms per milliliter and is now detectable. So again, maybe two to three weeks from now, after I get those results, I'll post them down below. Please remind me if I forget. I'll post those results down below. If diated testosterone came from undetectably high to somewhat detectable, let's say 2,499 picograms per milliliter, then maybe we have proof that YK-11 also acts as a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, just like it acts clearly here on this blood work results and other blood work results, that YK-11 acts as an aromatized inhibitor as well. And then maybe you have a double whammy. Doesn't mean that it can prevent gyno or prevent hair loss, but at least you get some additional beneficial effects and you don't have to make it those other compounds to keep your estradiol and DHT levels suppressed. But honestly, my DHT levels are like 1,800 picograms per milliliter naturally. And naturally, my serum testosterone is 800 to 900 nanograms per deciliter on HCG. Well, that's naturally, obviously. So naturally, my serum testosterone is like 650, 600 nanograms per deciliter with a DHT level of 1,800 picograms per milliliter. So I would expect, let's say that that is a linear trend upwards. So if my total testosterone right now would be, let's say, 5,000 nanograms per deciliter times three, it will be 15,000 picograms per milliliter on my data testosterone level. And no amount of YK-11 is going to bring that down to a detectable range. So don't get your hopes up, but I will still post the results. And then maybe we get something to see. If you live in the United States, you can do blood work at Merrick Health. Do the blood work for me. They have liquid chromatography, retandem mass spectrometry, untotal testosterone, estradiol, and data testosterone. I can actually do high-sensitive testing. And unfortunately, I can't send my blood work results in because that would take even, even longer for those blood work results to come back. And since I don't live in the United States, these American-based hormone optimization and male health clinics cannot service me, even me, a sponsored athlete. But if I go to the United States, I would be able to do it. But I'm not going to travel to the US twice for these kinds of blood work results. I'm sure you guys can understand. A dramatic reduction in SHBG levels. Last time was only, or last time was 46.8 nanomoles per liter in the range, even on testosterone, but that's probably because serum estradiol was so goddamn high. And now it reduced by 61% to 18.3 nanomoles per liter, meaning that YK-11 has significantly lowered my SHBG levels while slightly lowering my estradiol levels. So again, androgen binding from YK-11 to SHBG drops dramatically. And then by dropping estradiol levels slightly, 16.3%, SHBG production went down also. And thyroid hormones are pretty much the same. So I don't think that thyroid hormone had an effect in this lowering of sexual hormone binding globulin. DHA sulfate, pretty much the same since last time. Again, supplementation is the same. Growth hormone levels came down somewhat. YK-11 has terrible negative effects on your growth hormone secretion. I think it's just the pulsatile fashion of growth hormone. So that's a reduction of 4%. IGF-1 came up by 6%. So maybe that's the negative feedback of IGF-1 and the growth hormone secretion. Again, pulsatile guys. Normal results, I would say IGF-1 binding protein 3, an increase of 6%. insulin came up slightly, a 5% increase from 2 to 2.1 micro IUs per milliliter. No observed effect from chronically elevated phylocytin levels here. And hemoglobin A1c, exactly the same. These were my blood work results. If you have additional blood work results, please share them down below. Did YK-11, particularly ejectable YK-11, lower your serum estradiol levels? Did it lower your serum DHT levels? Did it increase your liver enzymes, inflammatory markers, your creatine phosphokinase, lactose dehydrogenase, and creatinine levels, and maybe liver enzymes indicating that you're training balls to the wall because injectable YK-11 is so god-spotent. Way more potent than oral or sublingual YK-11. So in this sense, the community was absolutely 100% correct. Injectable YK-11 beats oral YK-11 and sublingual YK-11 out of the water and certainly puts epigatogen. The shame. So thank you guys so much for the suggestion. I don't think I would have run injectable YK-11 if it wasn't for you guys egging me on for this experiment, even though I would like to have seen a little bit better results, but that's totally my fault, right? I went to Bali, I ate like an asshole, I drank a little bit too much and restored a little bit of body fat. I think if my body fat levels were a little bit lower, you would see more dramatic changes, even though I feel that my muscularity did not improve that much, to be honest. But maybe I just need to take better pictures going forward. Fingers crossed those unreal pictures that I will take in the posing room look a little bit better. Now, from the second injection onwards, I would say that it already starts to work. So the first injection, you notice a little bit more pronounced effect if you take the injectable YK-11 pre-workout, but from the second injection onwards, it's night and day. It works tight fast similar to injectable testosterone suspension or windstorm suspension, tremble suspension or injectable anadrol. From the second injection onwards, you notice a dramatic change in how your body works in the gym. And then I started hitting PRs upon PRs upon PRs, close to the PRs that I was hitting when I was fully sauced a couple years ago. I mean, 625 tests and a little bit of injectable YK-11, no growth hormone, no insulin, is not fully sauced. It's just a little bit more than, it's TRT plus plus, okay? No plus, plus, plus, plus, yeah. TRT for three people plus the YK-11. Yeah, I think that's a fair statement. Again, I was close to my all-time strongest, certainly a lot stronger than on YK-11, almost as strong as when I was running a full-blown steroid cycle a couple months back in a caloric surplus. I think I came one increment below my maxes, let's say six months ago when I was eating 5,500 calories and running this cocktail of polypharmacy with testinandrol, tristalone, oxymethalone, and oral YK-11. So, injectable YK-11, again, quite, quite potent, even in a caloric deficit. The downside is, is that I also noticed from the second injection onwards that it became more irritable. Yeah, and I get this with injectable windstrawl, injectable suspension, injectable tristalone, obviously, never experienced irritability with injectable anadrol, but from the second injection onwards, the strength went up, but the irritability also went up, and you become a little bit argumentative and unreasonable towards the end of this injectable YK-11 cycle. I did not experience this in any way, shape, or form on the oral or sublingual YK-11, and I would compare the injectable YK-11 and 210 milligrams per week to, let's say, 50 to 100 milligrams, tremolone acetate weekly regarding the irritability and the argumentative nature and unreasonable nature that you have, because, yeah, it started to get to me. I'm going to be a little bit honest, and this is one of the reasons why I'll probably not run injectable YK-11 again, because as a soon-to-be father, I have a little bit more responsibilities than looking jacked and having PRs in the gym, and I can get similar jackedness and similar results and similar strength in the gym just by increasing my testosterone or adding a little bit of Primo, and if I go to 600 test, 600 Primo, I think I can get comparable results regarding how I look, how I feel, minus the irritability, and that's more desired for me at this point in my life. I would say that the fullness of YK-11 is compared to oral Superdrol at the exact same dosage, so if you compare 30 milligrams injectable YK-11 to 30 milligrams oral Superdrol, I say that the fullness is pretty much the same, and that means that since injectable YK-11 doesn't raise your liver enzymes or quit your lipids or gives you this CNS burnout, right, center nervous system fatigue that you get with oral Superdrol, even though the PRs in Superdrol, oral Superdrol are a little bit higher, maybe an increment or two higher, so the strength is a little bit higher, but the fullness is pretty much the same, so I mean, you could say that I'm on oral Superdrol, right, not entirely, Superdrol would be a little bit fuller, but I feel it's very comparable, and again, if there's not so much liver stress or lipid changes, or zero lipid changes in this case, then I would prefer injectable YK-11 over oral Superdrol. Cosmetically, I would say that injectable YK-11 falls somewhere in between Turinibol or Anavar, it's a little bit hard to determine, because again, I'm a little bit watery now, due to the heat and the additional water retention from the estradiol, and well, getting fat on Bali, that's a shame on me, that's totally my fault, but it happens, sometimes you just gotta chill and eat the fuck up, and again, I increase my sodium intake here in Thailand, because the temperature increased quite a bit, and when I go out to train in the gym without air conditioning, I sweat buckets, meaning that I don't want to go cramping, obviously, during my training session, and then my sodium intake needs to come up, but that also means, from the second meal onwards, I look a little bit like a water boy, so, you know, I'm doing the best I can, I'm hanging on for dear life here, guys, regarding what injectable YK-11 smells like, doesn't smell like anything, because it's suspended in MCT oil, and it's nothing like those old-school injectable anadrol, or injectable methyl tranyolone, aka methyl tranyolone, produced in guaycol, I mean, the bottle arrives in your house, and you can smell it through the package, and then you almost don't want to inject, and then when you do inject, you're literally dissolving your muscles from the inside, so don't do that, the injectable YK-11 doesn't smell or taste like anything, which I guess is a good thing, and to answer the question, will I ever run injectable YK-11 again, let's put it this way, if I ever feel like running oral superdrill again for a photo shoot, or stepping on stage, one in a million chance, that's going to happen with all of the responsibilities that I have, if I feel like running superdrill for whatever reason, I'll probably replace that with injectable YK-11, because again, liver enzymes are less dramatically changed, lipids don't seem to budge, I don't get this nervous system fatigue that I would already guys get from superdrill making me feel toxic after seven days, and then you persist for another seven days, and then you feel horrendous, after 14 days on 30 milligram superdrill, so if you ever feel like running superdrill again, I'll replace that with injectable YK-11, at the exact same dose, 30 milligrams per day, with the exact same injection protocol, like I discussed in this video, and then it's just a matter of time for the Tremblone irritability to manifest, and then I might still throw it in the trash, or give it to some other bodybuilder in need, let me know down below, your personal experience with YK-11, did you like it, you didn't like it, what was your results, did it compare to superdrill, or Tremblone, or Terinibol, or Anavar, right, there's not so many anecdotal reports on injectable YK-11, besides Reddit, but I don't really trust those Reddit reports, because there's no before and after blood work, no before and after pictures, even though again, my before and after pictures were, could have done better, all my sincere apologies, I took the pictures, I looked at it, I did the comparison, and was like, shame on you, Steve, well, it is what it is, the next experiment is going to be one milligram folosathin 344, if you have experience with folosathin 344, folosathin 288, 300, 315, let us know down below in the comment section, so I can prepare, I did one injection yesterday, 500 micrograms, 500 micrograms split bilaterally, man, it's so pumped, and it's so sore, and the contraction is so good, almost made me cry, but well, let's save that for the folosathin 344 deep dive, I think that folosathin 344 is going to blow injectable YK-11 out of the water, and then it's just a matter of budget, because that s*** ain't cheap, all right, I'll leave it here, do your blood work over at Merrick Health, get your pre-workouts at Guerrilla Minds, get your male beauty products over at Intelligent Shop, get your over-the-counter supplements, like all the crazy supplements I just listed, over at iHerb or Guerrilla Minds, they sell those over-the-counter supplements too, and if you can't find something specific, head over to my website, vigoroussteve.com, I got a lot of free articles for your reading pleasure, that could send you all over the internet for additional research, and then whatever I discussed in this video will be even more explained to you guys, vigorous crew, you guys know what to do, a injectable YK-11 30 milligrams per day front double bicep for you guys, I think it's not bad, maybe the pictures don't show it, but I mean, I think I look pretty hard in this, anyway, I'll take some pictures at Unreal Gym, and fingers crossed I actually look better than the pictures I took this morning, so let's finish this video off with a Captain Picard FacePalm, and I'll see you guys in the next one!

=== FILE: Is Epicatechin A WORTHY Half-Natty Follistatin-Secretagogue With STEROID-Like Gains？ [7lQkiHsdsNI].txt ===

 autoprilschoppoopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener, unboxschopener,! dirty half-natty that's afraid to shut down his HPTA. I gained something alright, but these were not the gains I was looking for. Keep watching to find out what happened. Vigorous Thief here. Let's talk about Epicatogen, a flavonol of the ketogen class, which is commonly found in green tea, dark chocolate, raspberry roots, but barely in raspberry fruit. Those only have negligible epicatogen content. I've been using from 180 milligrams up to 900 milligrams, yes, 900 milligrams, epicatogen daily for the last four weeks, running various incremental experiments. And I reviewed all of the scientific evidence in the meantime, or at least the scientific evidence that's relevant for this deep dive. So here's your evidence-based epicatogen deep dive that will contain a good amount of anecdotal reports. So we can put the evidence and the anecdotal report together and see if epicatogen is worth your hard-earned money. First things first, there's two versions of epicatogen. There's plus epicatogen and minus epicatogen. They are enantiomers, meaning that they're mirror images of each other, but vary in biological activity. Minus epicatogen is more prevalent in food sources and seems to offer more beneficial effects compared to plus catogen. So let's start comparing them head-on-head directly here. Regarding the enantiomer breakdown, minus epicatogen is a 2R3R stereoisomer and plus epicatogen is a 2S3S stereoisomer. The occurrence of minus epicatogen, it can be found in raspberry roots, green tea, also known as camellia sinensis, where most of the epicatogen extracts are coming from. It's also found in cocoa beans, dark chocolate products, grapes and grape seeds, and acai seeds. And plus epicatogen is only found in Cherokee rose and pavet ovariansis, but it's mostly formed from plus catogens found in nuts and seeds. So if you like nuts, then you might get free plus epicatogen by the conversion of plus catogen to plus epicatogen. Regarding the biological activity, minus epicatogen has a lot more benefits. It increases phallocytin levels and lowers myostatin levels, has potent antioxidant activity, has blood pressure lowering effects, potential anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties, and improves mitochondrial efficiency and biogenesis. And plus epicatogen only has moderate antioxidant activity and improves mitochondrial efficiency and biogenesis as well, but in a much lower extent compared to minus epicatogen. Minus epicatogen has a greater bioavailability compared to plus epicatogen. Minus epicatogen is a half-life between 1.2 to 3.1 hours with a mean half-life of approximately 2.5 hours. So frequent dosing is recommended. And plus epicatogen is a half-life of 1.2 to 4.9 hours, but I wouldn't suggest you eat these nuts that frequently. So let's focus on minus epicatogen, not plus epicatogen, because it's more readily available as a dietary supplement or found in food sources. The benefits are far greater, and most of the scientific evidence is stemming from minus epicatogen. But going forward, we'll just say that minus epicatogen is the epicatogen that we're after and not differentiate between minus and plus, because otherwise, well, it starts to get cumbersome. And a lot of pluses and minus turns this video into calculus, and that's not what we're after, obviously. Minus epicatogen, last time I promised, is found in these following food sources. I've included the total amount of milligrams for each of these food sources you would need to consume to get approximately 200 milligrams minus epicatogen in. Personally, I used a dietary supplement from ND. I don't want to promote this brand because, well, they have a little bit shady marketing strategy that I'm not really for, but this seems to be the most potent epicatogen on the market. It was contained 180 milligrams per capsule or per tablet, with also biopurine to allegedly increase the absorption, even though the results of my epicatogen experiment might not be entirely what you're after here, but we'll get into that when we discuss the blood work results. So here you see that if you want to get approximately 200 milligrams epicatogen in, you would need to consume 2,200 milligrams raspberry roots containing 9.2% minus epicatogen or 3,700 to 10,000 milligrams green tea or two to five cups of green tea daily. So that's actually quite promising. That's very doable. Green tea contains between 2 to 5.5% epicatogen. Cocoa beans and dark chocolate contain between 0.2 to 2.5% epicatogen. So you would need to consume 8 to 100 grams dark chocolate or cacao beans powdered, obviously, per day, which is also doable, I would say. Grapes or grapeseed contains less than 1.34% epicatogen. So you would need to consume over 15 grams grapes and grapeseeds. I believe that the grapeseeds actually contain more of the epicatogen compared to the flesh of the grape. So if you go with seedless grapes, you probably need to consume more than 15 grams over the day to get 200 milligrams epicatogen in. Akai seeds are less than half a percent epicatogen. You would need to consume 38 grams. Akai seeds over the day, also doable. Apples have negligible content, so you would need to consume over 700 grams. That's a bit steep. Cherries also have negligible epicatogen content. You would need to consume over 2.1 kilograms of cherries daily, matter how red your tongue would be in that context. Red raspberries, the fruit, not the roots, also have negligible epicatogen content. You would need to consume over 2.5 kilos, way too much. Various kinds of red wine also contain negligible amounts of epicatogen, even though it's readily found or more commonly found in grapes, which are used to produce red wine. You would need to consume over 100,000 liters of Pinot Noir or Cabernet Sauvignon to get 200 milligrams approximately of epicatogen in. Very unreasonable because that's 667 glasses. Ankycropia, Hololuca, and Maritime Pine are said to contain epicatogen, but I couldn't find the exact percentages or milligram content per 100 grams. So those have unknown epicatogen content. So while it might be possible to get adequate amounts of minus epicatogen in over the day from dietary sources, I mean, I'm not against taking, let's say, around 8 grams of cacao powder or up to 100 grams of dark chocolate, even though that contains a boatload of extra calories and might cause you a boatload of pimples as well, or a couple cups of green tea over the day. I'm not against that, but it's probably better. And what I did for this experiment to take a dietary supplement that contains around 100 to 200 milligrams epicatogen per capsule, and then space that out over the day for the folosatin secretion and the mitochondrial biogenesis and the antioxidant properties to manifest, again, without this burden of additional calories if you go with cacao or dark chocolate. But before we get ahead of ourselves and start discussing ideal dosing protocols, let's look into the evidence-based unique characteristics of epicatogen and see what kind of benefits we can get by supplementing that in alongside of the other supplements that we're taking on a daily basis and perhaps polypharmacy on top of that. Now, a simple search for epicatogen on PubMed gives you 20,500 studies approximately. So if I left something out, my sincere apologies. If you feel that I left out a particular study that is very important to you, put your citations down below with a lot of a description and interpretation of this study. If there's a lot more to discuss, we'll either discuss that during the epicatogen deep dive, which will drop a couple of days from now. Epicatogen improves mitochondrial function and promotes mitochondrial biogenesis. This has been shown and proven in human studies, animal models, and in vitro studies. When it comes to humans, though, they usually administer dark chocolate, resulting in about 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams epicatogen taken orally, obviously, twice daily, between 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams epicatogen total over the day for four weeks to three months. That's aggregating all the scientific evidence regarding humans together. But many of the studies performed on mitochondrial function and biogenesis are actually in vitro studies using cell cultures or animal models using mice or rats. This study by Dawson et al. performed on January 1st, 2021, titled Effects of Mining Epicatogen on Mitochondria, summarizes most of the scientific evidence. It's linked down below with all the other scientific evidence which we're discussing in this evidence-based unique characteristic segment of epicatogen. And here I highlighted two studies that used human subjects out of all of the studies that this study highlights. Epicatogen increases plasma antioxidant capacity and reduces endothelol-1, which is a marker of oxidative stress shown in humans, with 100 milligrams orally twice daily, so that's 200 milligrams epicatogen total over the day for four weeks. And the same study shows that epicatogen inhibits aerobic adaptation to cycling exercise at, well, the exact same dose, obviously. Epicatogen increases nitric oxide production and contributes to blood pressure management, also in human subjects, at the exact same dosing protocol. Epicatogen increases peroxisone proliferator-activated receptor 1 coactivator 1A, sirtuin 1, and mitochondrial transcription factor A in humans suffering from type 2 diabetes and heart failure. So this might not translate to healthy individuals, even though epicatogen increases mitochondrial function and biogenesis partially through PGC1A activity. This is coming from a study using dark chocolate containing 100 milligrams epicatogen administered orally once daily for three months in total. And this might mean that epicatogen has potential synergistic effect with telmosartene and cardarine, which go through similar pathways and also increase mitochondrial function and biogenesis to a certain extent. Epicatogen increases folostatin by 137.5% and increases myostatin by 136.4% and improves overall muscle function and regeneration in humans suffering from Becker muscular dystrophy at 50 milligrams epicatogen orally twice daily, 100 milligrams total for eight weeks. Epicatogen increases folostatin by 290.3% to 303.4% and reduces myostatin by 6.3% to 30.2% and improves left ventricular ejection fraction by 108.9%, albeit that this was shown in humans suffering from Friedrich's ataxia. Observed at a dose of 75 milligrams epicatogen orally once daily for 24 weeks and doubling the dose to 150 milligrams epicatogen orally once daily for 12 weeks. So before you get too excited about these numbers, Friedrich's ataxia is a rare inherited neurodegenerative disease that affects the nervous system, primarily the cerebellum and spinal cords. It causes progressive loss of coordination, balance, and muscle control. So in cases where folostatin really goes up and myostatin really comes down, when epicatogen is supplemented in, mostly observed in unhealthy people suffering from various conditions. Epicatogen might increase fat metabolism, improve insulin sensitivity, and lowers postprandial serum glucose levels in humans suffering from obesity. Postprandial means after the meal. This was observed at 100 milligrams epicatogen orally twice daily, so that's 200 milligrams total, again for four weeks consecutively. It increases folostatin by 126.7% to 161.2% and reduces myostatin by 15.4%. When combined with resistance training in cases of sarcopenia, it also prevents muscle loss, but this was shown in elderly patients. Now keep in mind that vigorous exercise also increases folostatin levels and reduces myostatin levels. As I mentioned in the myostatin deep dive I dropped last year, give or take. So give them one a watch if you haven't already. And this effect was observed at 70 milligrams epicatogen orally once daily for eight weeks consecutively. Epicatogen increases folostatin by 2% and decreases myostatin by 18.7% and improves overall muscle function and strength without exercise. Coming from a study using elderly human patients, at 600 milligrams tanase treated green tea extract orally once daily containing approximately 100 milligrams minus epicatogen. In healthy people though, epicatogen increases folostatin by 159.1% and the dose between 50 milligrams to 200 milligrams orally once daily for five days. And it also increases folostatin by 264.5% and reduces serum platelet count at 50 milligrams epicatogen orally twice daily. So that's 100 milligrams total for five days. Epicatogen increases hand grip strength by 7% and improves myostatin to folostatin ratio by approximately 49.2%. Also coming from a human study at 25 milligrams epicatogen orally once daily for seven days. Epicatogen increases folostatin by 56% and increases myostatin by 15% to 21% coming from an animal model using mice. Add one milligram per one kilogram of body weight orally once daily for two weeks. So that translates to 0.08 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight orally once daily for humans. That's approximately eight milligrams epicatogen for 100 kilogram bodybuilder. So that's very doable. And funnily enough, now that cerebral isin has been pulled off the market right after I finished the deep dive, I'm not sure if there's a correlation there, but unfortunately for me doing all the research on cerebral isin, the next day or a couple of days later, it was pulled off the market and it's no longer available for USA-based consumers. Epicatogen increases brain drive neurotropic factor BDNF by about 40% in the hippocampus and about 10% in the cortex of the brain of mice at four milligrams epicatogen orally daily. Now this loosely translates to about 148.15 milligrams epicatogen per one kilogram of body weight. When we take the average body weight of the mice used in this study, um, being about 27 grams, which would mean 12 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight for humans, AKA 1200 milligrams epicatogen daily for a hundred kilogram bodybuilder. Now personally, I ran 900 milligrams epicatogen at most for the last days of this epicatogen experiment. I did not notice any of the benefits that I otherwise got from five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebral isin before bed. I didn't notice that I got mitigation of post-exercise brain fog using epicatogen or enhanced sleep quality using epicatogen. So your mileage might vary. I would not take epicatogen to increase brain drive neurotropic factor, which has only been observed in an animal model. And this is quite interesting, even though it's based on a computer calculation, epicatogen might inhibit angiogenesis by blocking vascular and ulterior growth factor mediated activity, um, which is concerning obviously, because you do want to use epicatogen in a context where, um, angiogenesis can occur for recovery and blood flow and that kind of stuff. So if you're after BDNF and VEGF, that is probably better to use ribalicin or another angiogenesis promoting compound like TB-500, BBC157, et cetera, and leave the epicatogen, uh, well, in the supplement cabinet. Let's start reviewing scientific evidence when it comes to exercise, because that's the reason, the primary reason why we're using epicatogen, not only to increase folosatin levels, but to see if it has any performance enhancing benefits. Luckily for us, the benefits regarding an increase in performance and exercise capacity has been indexed in this study performed by German et al, published on January 22nd, 2024 titled new trends to treat muscular atrophy, the systemic review of epicatogen. Now I've highlighted all of the studies, which looked into epicatogen, but not the studies which used the cacao powder or dark chocolate is to also contain other polyphenols, which might offer a contributing beneficial effect. The scientific evidence shows that epicatogen anywhere between 25 milligrams to 400 milligrams daily, either in a single serving or administered twice daily at half the dose, obviously, for one to 24 weeks, suppressed mitochondrial adaptation to exercise, increased mitochondrial biogenesis. It lowers myostatin, it increases folostatin, and increases strength, all in human subjects. And with the animal models, whether that's mice or rats, they received one milligram epicatogen per one kilogram of body weight once or twice daily for 14 days to 15 weeks. C-reactive protein levels decreased, not sure about that. Antioxidant status increased, mitochondrial function and biogenesis improved, exercise performance improved, skeletal muscle size increased, vascular endothelial growth factor increased, even though a computer model showed that it potentially blocks vascular endothelial growth factor activity. So maybe it actually does, and thus vascular endothelial growth factor concentrations in the bloodstream go up because it can't bind to a specific receptor. And aging-related biomarkers and sarcopenia was reduced, suggesting anti-aging effects that epicatogen potentially has. It's a great study, give it a read, it's linked down below, as always. Okay, enough with the scientific evidence and the boring study overlays. What about the good old hands-on anecdotal experience from our online steroid daddy, Vigor Steve, who we literally forced to come down to testosterone only and not take anything else, not even an aromatous inhibitor, because we wanted to see if epicatogen has some sort of suppressive effect on serum estradiol levels, like we expect with YK-11 suppressing estradiol levels by inhibiting the aromatous enzyme selectively. So I didn't use an aromatous inhibitor. You guys literally want to torture me. My serum estradiol levels are off the scale. That's why my face is so freakishly around that I'm holding so much water. Actually, it's quite doable. It's quite okay. But yeah, it was an interesting experiment running testosterone only and coming off everything else, just to please you guys. And this is basically what I did for Operation Folostatin. This was the base protocol. I took Bayer Test of Iron half an ampoule Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday. Half an ampoule contains approximately 1.25 milliliters. That's how much milliliters I get. Out of a Bayer Test of Iron ampoule, they're generally overfilled. So that's 156.3 milligrams sub-Q upon waking Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday for total weekly intake of 625 milligrams testosterone in a date. Nothing else. No anivor, no primabolin, no mastrone, no de-anabol, nothing else, guys. Just 625 milligrams testosterone. That's it. And then alongside, well, if you want to count this, DHEA, right, 25 milligrams upon waking and 12.5 milligrams before bed. As you can see from my blood work, that serum DHEA solvent levels are nice towards the top of the reference range. I took Telmasartan to control my blood pressure, 40 milligrams upon waking. Azitamide to control my lipid levels, 10 milligrams upon waking. Fluvoxamine, 50 milligrams before bed to control my mood because it's not the greatest. Sometimes, especially while dieting, especially while taking the growth hormone out and all the other stuff out, right, I have to take something. And I took 10 milligrams methylene blue upon waking five times weekly on workout days. Now, there might be potential SSRI and MO inhibiting serotonin syndrome drug interaction there, but at 50 milligrams for voxamine and 10 milligrams methylene blue a couple times per week, I did not experience any symptoms of serotonin syndrome, luckily. Now, and the nootropics are as needed. So that's either 10 milligrams oral DHEXA, 10 milligrams oral NUPEPT, 50 milligrams Bromotain, 500 micrograms intranasal CMEX, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. I still need my nootropics to get some work done. I mean, if I can't take nootropics, then what's the point of making these deep types? These deep types would take twice as long because I need to force feed all of the scientific evidence in my head and draw appropriate conclusions to make entertaining content and informative content for you guys. So don't take my nootropics away. Don't you ever dare. Okay. The over-the-cutter supplements were as follows. The details are on the screen. I'll let that scroll a little bit, right? Just as a reminder, I had leg surgery, so that's why my vitamin D3 and vitamin K complex intake is reasonably high. I had leg surgery. I had an orthopedic plate removed, and thus I have seven screw holes left in my leg. So I need the excess bone mineralization to fill that hole up as fast as possible so I can actually train legs heavy again because, well, I've been doing five plates on the leg press. That's not, that's really not enjoyable. I'll tell you that. Let's see. What other adjustments did I make? I reduced my Tutska intake to see if that would have an overlapping effect on my liver enzymes, which, again, my liver enzymes went up a little bit. And I took a couple of compounds out, which might improve mitochondrial function like quercetin, for example, but I felt that that did not do anything in the total picture. I mean, comparing quercetin to methylene blue, that's not a fair comparison. So all the details are on the screen. I'll let that scroll a little bit. And again, as a quick reminder, I'm taking natokinase, seropeptase, and lumeroquinase to help break apart the scar tissue that I have on my lower chest because I did gynecomastial surgery at the same time with liposuction because I had stubborn fat that I'd never got away. So I did the surgery route and the easy way out, even though it's quite painful and expensive. So I'm taking these peptidases to help break apart scar tissue, which now there's a lot more detail on my lower chest, as you'll see from that before and after pictures. Now to all of this, for a month, I added the following minus epicatogen protocol coming from this over-the-counter supplement containing about 180 milligrams epicatogen extracted from green tea with a certain amount of biopurine to enhance the absorption. Allegedly, I took a 90% minus epicatogen extract. Day one to 10 of this experiment, I took 180 milligrams orally upon waking daily. Day 11 to 20, I took 180 milligrams orally upon waking and before bed. So that's a total of 360 milligrams daily. And then the last 10 days of this experiment, day 21 to 30, I ramped up the dose to 180 milligrams, one capsule every single meal for a total of 900 milligrams daily. Yeah, I'm going to say honestly that I did not notice much of a difference between 360 milligrams to 900 milligrams. I don't think that was warranted. I just wanted to see if it could offer a beneficial effect, but there was a clear difference switching from 180 milligrams to 360 milligrams. So that would be my sweet spot recommendation. This is my diet throughout the entire experimentation period. That did not change, even though some of the meals I changed for tuna, for example, or sea bass or another fish source, or sometimes I would just stick with steak or chicken. But most of the time I had a combination of 150 milligrams ground beef with 25 milligrams ground beef liver, 150 milligrams ground chicken breast, and then vegetables on top, 100 grams of kale, 100 grams of green beans, 50 grams of sauerkraut. But if I switched to a fish source, I would replace that with kimchi, a little bit of extra virgin olive oil to help with the cooking of the kale and the green beans, a tablespoon of chia seed, and then a healthy dose of Himalaya pink salt with iodized table salt. And I would eat that approximately two to three times or four times daily, unless I switched some meals around. Again, I have some digestive issues, which I'm still trying to figure out. All of the foods that I eat on a daily basis frequently, they digest very well for me. I can still pull a vacuum at the end of the day at about 2,600 calories. Sometimes I eat a little bit more, add in a little bit of mixed nuts for the epicateogen or plus catogen content, obviously. I need to mega dose the epicateogen if possible. So I would add in a little bit of mixed nuts based on my activity. But overall, my fat loss journey was a success because I got significantly leaner. And let's see, meal four post-workout was 300 grams of salmon, 50 grams of kimchi, a tablespoon of chia seeds, and 200 grams of blueberries. Sometimes I would eat a little bit more fruit for, let's say, 2,600 calories to 3,000 calories over the day. I followed the following workout splits, daily fasted cardio. I know everybody gets allergic from that, but that certainly works for me to get leaner. On Monday, I would train chest, tricep, shoulders. On Tuesday, I would train quads, hamstrings, adductors, glutes, and calves. Wednesday, I rest. Then Tuesday, I would do a push day again. And Friday, I would do a quad day again. And then Saturday, after taking months, months, months, months off from turning back. Guess what? We can see it from the front. That's how fat it is. I would train back again for the last couple of weeks just to get a little bit of back mass going and get those lats flaring nicely. Okay. So back, rear delts and biceps on Saturday. And then Sunday, I would rest and have my refeed and cheat day. Here are the before and after pics. In both pictures, I'm 105 kilos. So that's a nice re-comping effect. Both pictures, I'm taking 625 milligrams testosterone and nothing else. And the ancillaries that I mentioned. And in the after picture, I was running up to 900 milligrams apicathogen at least for 10 days at the end of this experiment. So I got leaner overall, which I'm happy with. Again, caloric restriction, cardio, that kind of stuff. That's to be expected. How much of this fat loss came from apicathogen? I'm not sure, but it has been shown scientifically to enhance fat loss to a certain extent and improve insulin sensitivity. I got a little bit bigger, I would say. My arms are a little bit bigger. Legs are certainly bigger, but that's also because I was only training legs for what, three or four weeks after taking two months off after that leg surgery. So give me a little bit of a break when it comes to the legs, right? That's a project that is in the making. I'm sure my legs will improve when I switch to YK-11 and then Follastatin 344 as part of this Operation Follastatin experiment. My vacuum is a little bit deeper, a lot more details. My lower chest is a lot more defined. So I'm pretty happy with these results. So the detail in my legs is also better and the volumization of the calves and the quads and the adductors even is improved. Also in the back, there's still a lot of work to be done, but I think you guys can clearly see that I have more details in my shoulders, arms and back and hamstrings even. In the before picture, I wasn't really flexing properly. Again, when you take a couple weeks off from the gym, you're also not flexing. So my flexing, my posing practice is basically non-existent. I pose when I take before and after pictures and that's about it. I'm not a full-time hardcore bodybuilder anymore. I take my pictures once a month, give or take. But I got noticeably leaner in the lower back and a little bit more detail in the arms, a little bit more volume in the arms, legs look a little bit bigger. So I would say that it's good progress for a month. Yeah, I'm quite happy with the results. Now, before we get into the actual before and after blood work results, it's very important to understand that there's no standardized testing or availability of serum folosatin levels or serum myostatin levels. Can't test that anywhere. I found some sort of source online that offers folosatin testing at home, but you still need to get that prescribed to a primary healthcare physician in the United States. And my insurance is not there and I don't work with a doctor in the United States. So that's completely off the table. I contacted a water-accredited lab here in Thailand, a university that can do all kinds of testing. But they told me that testing for folosatin and myostatin requires a reference standards, which costs several thousand dollars, especially when you reuse this reference standard and compare my serum folosatin and myostatin levels to this reference standards multiple times before the epicattagen experiment. And then after the epicattagen experiment, which is before the YK-11 experiment, and then before the folosatin 344 experiment, and then afterwards again, it would have cost me thousands of dollars. And by the time I realized this, it was already too late because it takes a while for these reference standards, folosatin and myostatin to come through. It has to be approved and ordered, obviously. So unfortunately, folosatin and myostatin I didn't test. It's basically impossible. And I don't think it was worth a couple thousand dollars to test that for supplements that people are going to take anyway. It's entirely up to your decision. My blood work parameters are not going to pivot you from taking it or not taking it. I mean, don't get me wrong. I have this money stuffed in a sock under a couch somewhere, but I'd rather spend this money on Incrolex, which I know will yield me much better results than knowing my serum folosatin or serum myostatin levels. So maybe we can interpret my before and after blood work results with the side effects associated with chronically elevated folosatin levels. It has an effect on the hypodermic but do it there. It's a thickly axis shown as a reduced follicle stimulating hormone levels in serum, which might affect fertility downstream. This was first observed when folosatin levels were increased in various human studies and animal models. And this is actually why folosatin is named folosatin because it's, well, it's a statin for follicle stimulating hormone, but it has a potential benefits regarding muscle growth and the inhibition of myostatin. So the naming convention is a little bit off regarding the actual effects. Chronically elevated folosatin levels might cause insulin resistance and hyperglycemia shown as elevated blood glucose levels, elevated fasting insulin levels, elevated triglyceride levels, and elevated hemoglobin A1c levels. And folosatin may impair insulin signaling in adipose tissue and promote lipolysis, which was shown in the scientific evidence proving that epicatechin might actually improve fat metabolism, albeit in obese individuals. I was a little bit obese before we started this experiment and I certainly got fat loss. Did that come from the caloric restriction or the folosatin increase caused by the epicatechin? I guess we'll never know. Chronically elevated folosatin levels might cause hepatic stress or dysfunction shown as elevated liver enzymes, ALT and AST, but those might also be elevated from vigorous exercise as these amino transphases are leaking from skeletal muscle, giving you a false positive on liver stress or dysfunction. Chronically elevated folosatin levels can cause thyroid dysfunction shown by elevated free thyroxine levels. It can cause kidney stress shown by elevated creatinine levels and albumin levels. It can cause systemic inflammation shown by elevated high sensitivity C-reactive protein levels, elevated interleukin-6 levels, and elevated cystatin-C levels. Guess which one of these is significantly elevated. And chronically elevated folosatin levels might have a disease risk, including insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Let's get into the blood work results, make a mental note of these potential side effects of chronically elevated folosatin levels, and then see how my blood work parameters have changed over the last four weeks. But I will do my due diligence explaining to you guys where these changes could potentially be coming from. So here's the blood work results from February 22nd, 2025, about a month ago, and March 23rd, 2025. It's a couple of days ago. It may be το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το το  autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl In both instances, I consumed at least two liters of water. And all of the other results are the same within normal parameters. So let's move over to the complete blood count. White blood cell count, a small change of half a percent. Hemoglobin, a small change of half a percent. Hematocrit, exactly the same. Red blood cell count, a change of 1%. Meacropolis volume, meacropolis hemoglobin, meacropolis hemoglobin concentration. All small changes of, let's say, half a percent to one half percent up. Red cell distribution with a small change of 4%. Platelet count, a small change of minus 3%. And regarding my white blood cell differential, a little bit more significant changes. Neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eucinophils, and basophils changed to normal parameters. But I think I had a little bit of a sickness, a little bit of a sniffle, a little bit of a cough on February 22nd. So last time I was probably slightly sick or coming down with something I can't remember, honestly. And then now a couple of days ago, I was perfectly healthy. And the other parameters are exactly the same within normal parameters. Regarding blood chemistry and kidney function, blood glucose increased by 6%. I don't think that's an indication of insulin resistance or full-blown to diabetes from chronically elevated polycytin levels. Blood-free or nitrogen actually improved by about 10% from 27.9 to 24.8 milligrams per deciliter, even though my protein intake is exactly the same. So it could be a hydration issue. So creatinine did increase from 1.34 to 1.42 milligrams per deciliter. So it's an increase of 6%. Is that from chronically elevated polycytin levels, from the epicartigine going up to 900 milligrams daily, or just because I gained more muscle mass and lost body fat, ending up the exact same weight? I think that's more likely because I also got stronger, obviously, as this experiment progressed. Cyshenity increased by about 6% from 0.7 to 0.74 milligrams per liter, which I say is a normal fluctuation. Usually I'm about 0.68 to 0.8 milligrams per liter, depending on how hydrated I am and how much my body weight is. So for 105 kilos, I would say that this is a normal result. Uric acid is the same. Creatine phosphokinease and lactose dehydrogenase increased by, let's say, 6% to 14%, give or take. Now, I'm not worried about that. Increased CPK and increased LDH is just common with increased training intensity. And since my creatinine went up and my liver enzymes also went up, I would say that it's all coming from training intensity, not from potential kidney problems or potential liver problems, like I highlighted in the potential side effects of chronically elevated polycytin levels. What is surprising and alarming and I'm very concerned about is an increase of 7,200% in my high-sensitivity seriactive protein. On February 22nd, before I ever took epicartigine, my high-sensitivity seriactive protein was 0.3 milligrams per liter. And now, March 23rd, 30 days on epicartigine, going up to 900 milligrams epicartigine daily, 21.8 milligrams per liter. That's an increase of 7,200%. You would need to have cancer or you would need to inject copious amounts of injectable anadrol suspended in glycol or injectable adenobl suspended in glycol to get your high-sensitivity seriactive protein up this high. You know what's funny? I don't feel like I have elevated seriactive protein. I don't feel inflamed. My joints don't hurt. I didn't get any problems with my joints over the last couple of weeks that I've been using epicartigine. So this could either be a one-off or a real result. I did take the epicartigine out. I will check my high-sensitivity seriactive protein levels this Sunday, so that's a week after discontinuing epicartigine, as I will check my homocysteine levels because I didn't test that this time. And I will check my ferritin levels, which are all markers of inflammation. Unfortunately, I can check for the other inflammatory markers like interleukin-6. So this is the best I can do for now. I will test it a week after discontinuing the epicartigine to see if high-sensitivity seriactive protein came down to approximately half, because half-life of seriactive protein is approximately five days. It usually takes a week for that to come down significantly. If it's exactly the same as something else that I'm taking or doing or environmental pollution, which I don't think – I mean, the PPM in Bangkok is kind of high, but it's not that high that my seriactive protein would be 21.8 milligrams per liter. I mean, it's fucking high, dude. So it could either come from the epicartigine or the biopurine, even though both have been associated with antioxidant effects and anti-inflammatory effects, so it shouldn't cause such an increase of seriactive protein. It could be some of the binder that this indie company uses in their minus epicartigine extract formulation, causing my seriactive protein to get that high. Again, I have digestive issues, so maybe it's something in there that is causing my seriactive protein to get that high. Maybe it's bound with gluten. It could be the case. Who knows? They don't disclose that on the product packaging from what I remember reading. So that could be the case. Or my phallocytin levels are so high that the only real observable effect on my blood work is fucking high CRP levels. So again, time will tell. I'll do blood work this Sunday and then mix in the results right after we finish the blood work results as an add-on segment. Okay, with that out of the way, let's move over to serum lipids. Total cholesterol, exactly the same, 119 milligrams per deciliter. Triglycerides went up with 50%, but still within normal parameters, from 30 to 47 milligrams per deciliter. It's that from chronically elevated phallocytin levels or simply because I forgot to inject my injectable carnitine. It's probably the latter. HDL went down with 8% from 49 to 45 milligrams per deciliter. I think that's a normal change from being on TRT for three for longer periods of time. LDL went up with 6% from 61 to 65 milligrams per deciliter. I think that's also a normal change from being on TRT, well, 625 milligrams of testosterone and ethate longer. And it's testosterone replacement therapy for three people, in case you didn't get to joke yet. Some people don't. It's unfortunate. But hey, not everybody has the same level of intelligence and joke interpreting capacity as I do. So LDL increased. HDL decreased. I don't think that's from chronically elevated phallocytin levels. I think that's just being on testosterone and ethate for a longer period of time at this particular dose. And I didn't check the other serum lipids because, well, on testosterone, I don't feel the need to check lipoprotein LA, apolipoprotein A1, or apolipoprotein B at all. Liver panel, I would say that these are normal changes, not abnormal numbers. So total protein, albumin, globulin, albumin to globulin ratio, total bilirubin and direct bilirubin all fall within normal parameters of other blood work results. When I'm on testosterone only, even though total bilirubin and direct bilirubin drop down quite a bit, it could also be because back in the day, right, when I did the February 22nd blood work results, I was off for a while. And then maybe I got increased red blood cell destruction and hemoglobin release being metabolized into bilirubin and thus it went up slightly from baseline because 0.35 on my total bilirubin, that's 0.35 milligrams per deciliter. That's more comparable to other blood work results than 0.56 milligrams per deciliter is. You do see a steep increase in liver enzymes. It went up with, what, 55 to 70%. AST went from 59 to 99 units per liter and LT went from 36 to 56 units per liter. And even though I took less compounds, my liver enzymes went up. Is it by reducing the TUTCA? Potentially. Is that from chronically elevated phalocytin levels? Potentially. Is it from the epicattagen itself causing hepatic stress or the biopurine or the binders or whatever in the product? Is that the capsules that I took multiple times per day causing liver stress, elevating my liver enzymes or training much harder? It's probably a combination of all of that. This is why I'm taking a week off this week and not eating any food to see if my liver enzymes are still this elevated or they drop by half. Yes. The things I need to do to my body to get accurate readings and interpretations, you guys have no idea. Alkaline phosphatase, pretty much the same. I didn't recheck my bone-specific alkaline phosphatase because the last time was 11.6 micrograms per liter, which falls within normal parameters. So the surgery did not make a change to my alkaline phosphatase or bone-specific alkaline phosphatase levels. Gamma GT, a serum normal item on top of my caffeine and glutathione intake. Even though this time I didn't eject my glutathione, I still take N-Syl-cysteine to increase my glutathione levels in the body for improved antioxidant status. You see here on my iron levels that ferritin dropped down by about 16% from 230 to 194 nanograms per milliliter. Ferritin is also an indication of liver stress. So if this is not elevated, then I don't think that there's so much inflammation occurring in my liver. But serum iron dropped down by a whopping 46% and is now below the reference range from 93 to 50 micrograms per deciliter. And that just indicates chronic inflammation. So I think the inflammation has been there for, well, a month because last time there was no indication of inflammation, right? Serum iron was normal and my high sensitivity C-reactive protein levels were normal. But then over the course of the month, during this time that I'm experimenting with various dosages of epicartagin, serum iron dropped almost 50%. Yeah, now below the reference range. I might go anemic. I might need some f***ing anadrol to get me out. No, no. Just need to keep eating beef and remove the epicartagin and resolve this systemic inflammation. Let's see what the blood work results said a week later after removing the epicartagin. And I will retest serum iron as well just to make sure that that's coming back up. Because, well, this week I don't eat any beef, obviously. But next week I'll start eating beef again. And beef contains a good amount of hema iron, which is highly bioavailable. And then I should be slowly but steadily be able to restore my iron stores and not go fully anemic, requiring me to take a bottle of anadrol, which is not part of this Operation Folostatin experiment, mind you. Regarding my thyroid panel, you see the total T3, free T3, and free T4 all went down with about 1% to 6%. But if you remember from the side effects of the chronically elevated folostatin levels, free T4 should actually go up. Total T4 did go up by 8%. And thyroid stimulating hormone went up by 41% from 2.5 to 3.5 micro IUs per milliliter. So I'll have to keep my eye on that. But again, it could be a normal fluctuation. I'm not taking growth hormone. I'm not taking exogenous T4, which would otherwise keep my thyroid stimulating hormone suppressed and giving me adequate T3 and T4 levels in the bloodstream. So now I'm solely relying on normal endogenous thyroid function without supplementing stuff like that in. So let's see how that progresses. If my thyroid stimulating hormone goes up to 8 milli IUs per milliliter, then obviously I'm going to supplement the T4 back in and keep my T3 levels sustained and my TSH levels at the bottom of the reference range, minimizing the burden on my thyroid. Sex hormones. Tell me in the comment section if you use timestamps to skip ahead. I know you guys like to skip ahead to the sex hormones. I'm pervert. Cortisol went up 18% from 10.2 to 12 micrograms per deciliter. I would say that that's a normal fluctuation. Estradile went up even more by 55% from 140 to 120 picagrass per milliliter. I mean, this is all your fault, right? I hope you feel responsible. For me having a serum Estradile levels of 220 picagrass per milliliter. I mean, I have ED, libido issues, emotional disturbances. I'm crying during movies all the time. I feel unmotivated. It's terrible, right? A full-blown PMSing 24. Actually, I have none of that. I feel totally fine. I have no issues with having my Estradile this high. I got my gyno removed. It's not growing back. My PP is rock hard whenever I need it. But even though I'm dieting, the frequency between rock hard PPs are not as frequent because, well, I'm dieting and that means less incentive to put those calories to work, unfortunately. So let's see what happens during the YK-11 experiment over the next couple of weeks. If that's able to drop my serum Estradile from 220 picagrass per milliliter to half or closer to the reference range. And this shows that epicate gin has no suppressive effect on serum Estradile unlike what's being claimed on Reddit. But on Reddit, nobody ever does blood work. So I did it for you. Again, progesterone, a slight reduction of 11%. Prolactin, a slight increase of 64%, but within the middle of the reference range. So no libido diminishing returns there. Total testosterone, free testosterone, bioavailable testosterone. I didn't measure because it all goes out of the reference range. So it's pointless to test that on 625 milligrams testosterone antide weekly. It will be over 3,400 nanograms per deciliter. And why would I spend another couple thousand baht or a couple tens of dollars to get a result that's exactly the same? Because it's unmeasurable beyond the detectable range. And unfortunately, we don't have liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry testing here in Thailand. So I have to go with, you know, basic non-sensitive testing, which goes up to 3,400 something nanograms per deciliter. And in both instances, it would definitely be over that. SASBG increased slightly because my estradiol increased or maybe because of the small changes to my thyroid hormones from 41.1 to 46.8 nanomoles per liter increase of about 14%. DHS sulfate increased by 7%. Growth hormone decreased by 16% from 3.5 to 3 nanograms per milliliter because I'm not allowed to use growth hormone for sake. IGF-1 decreased from 135 to 128 nanograms per milliliter, a decrease of 5.2%. IGF binding protein 3 decreased by 2.3%, but if you round it, it's about 3,000 nanograms per milliliter. insulin decreased by 20% from 2.5 to 2. MicroEU per milliliter and hemoglobin A1c decreased from 5.1 to 4.9%, which is a decrease of 4%. So from all of the chronically elevated folosythin levels, side effects, liver enzymes increasing, potential changes to kidney function, even though I think that's coming from an increase in muscle mass, right? Same body weight, but more muscle mass, as you can saw from the before and after pictures, and I'm certainly a lot stronger. And, well, this inflammatory reading off the scale. Now, I did some digging to see if epicate-gene is known to increase high sensitivity to C-reactive protein levels, whether that's scientifically or anecdotally. I could only find one case report where 100 milligrams epicate-gene daily from cacao powder increased C-reactive protein levels from 8.6 milligrams per deciliter to 12.7 milligrams per deciliter. So it was already elevated, and it elevated by, what, 50% give or take? And this is in a 56-year-old male patient with desmenopathy, which is a rare genetic disorder that affects desmen proteins, which is essential for the structure and the function of muscle. Desmenopathy is characterized by muscle inflammation and progressive muscle deterioration, which could potentially lead to increased inflammatory markers, albeit that there's no clear correlation between desmenopathy and elevated CRP levels. Maybe this particular combination of desmenopathy and taking epicate-gene increases CRP levels by 50%. Still not as high as a CRP increase of 7,200% that I got. Up until now, I have no explanation for it. Hopefully, a follow-up blood work will give me a little bit more insight on what's going on, or if I need to look somewhere else in my entire drug stack, and it has nothing to do with the epicate-gene at all. All right, I'm back with some updated blood work results, and it's not looking good. Actually, my blood work results look a lot better. It's just not looking good for NDs minus epicate-gene product. After I got the results back last week at a high-sensivity-seractive protein of 21.8 milligrams per liter, I felt a little bit uncomfortable the next day. So I decided to do a deload, a full week off from the gym and fast for five and a half days because when you get results like this and speculating about cardiovascular disease, wondering how long. High-sensivity-seractive protein levels were that elevated, right? 7,300% over the previous baseline results. I decided, you know what? No training, no foods. Let's get this under control. Take the minus epicate-gene product out. So from 900 milligrams daily to zero milligrams daily, and then a week later, I retested my blood to see if C-reactive protein and the other metabolic markers came down tremendously or somewhat. So let's get into the results right here. I didn't do a full blood work analysis. Obviously, only the markers, which I felt were going to be significantly impacted from taking the minus epicate-gene out and then also stopping training and stopping food for five and a half days, albeit that I had one day where I reintroduced the meals, which I just discussed, consisting of several meals with chicken, beef, and beef liver and a couple meals containing fish, predominantly salmon. Here you see that my blood chemistry and kidney function, creatinine, went from 1.34 to 1.42 back down to 1.39 milligrams per deciliter. So comparing the results from March 23rd to March 30th, a couple days ago, there's a reduction of about 3%, which I attribute to a reduction in food intake. And a complete cessation of going to the gym. Creatinine, phosphokinase, and lactose dehydrogenase decreased by approximately 21% to 28%. CPK went from 1,700 to 1,850 to 1,300 units per liter. And LDH went from 220 to 250 to 200 units per liter. So based on the results of March 23rd to March 30th, that's a reduction of about, let's say, 21% to 28.5%. And happily, luckily, thank God, high sensitivity to reactive protein came down with 87.2% from 21.8 milligrams per liter to 2.8 milligrams per liter, which I'm very, very happy about. Again, based on the last results, I could not notice that I was in a severe inflammatory state. But when you see your blood work results, then you feel chronically inflamed suddenly. So that's the reason why I decided not to go to the gym and take the food out just to get that inflammation under control as fast as possible. And obviously, take the minus epiketogen out as well. So this is a significant reduction, right? An increase of 7,300% from 0.3 to 21.8 milligrams per liter, and then a reduction of 87.2% from 21.8 to 2.8 milligrams per liter, still being more elevated than the baseline readings I took on February 22nd. So I'm happy to see this come down. Now, what I could do, and I honestly don't want to do it, but I have a couple tablets of this ND minus epiketogen left. I could do a couple days on 360 milligrams minus epiketogen, leading up to another blood work result, which I can do this weekend or Monday, the latest. So let's say two or three days on 360 milligrams minus epiketogen daily, a split 180 milligrams morning and evening. The more sustainable and perhaps tolerable dose regarding blood work parameters, and then see if my C-reactive protein comes up again, or that's purely attributed to this 900 milligram dose that I was running for the last 10 days before I did blood work on March 23rd. Let me know down below in the comment section. I'd rather not do it than suck myself to more potential inflammation, but if you guys really want to see it, and this is a result that's completely unheard of and none of you guys experienced this running minus epiketogen products yourself, then, well, I'm willing to undergo the self-experimentation. But if my C-reactive protein increases from 2.8 milligrams per liter to anything over that, it's not lower than that. If it's 5 or 10 or 12 milligrams per liter, that's pretty damning, and I would never touch that product ever again. Let's see. In my liver panel, I just rechecked my liver enzymes. AST, I went from 59 to 99 to 67. So there's a reduction of, let's say, 32% compared to March 23rd to March 30th. And ALT went from 36 to 56, back down to 46. Again, a reduction of about 18% between March 23rd and 30th. And I would attribute that reduction of, let's say, 18 to 32% simply by not going to the gym for a week. You see that CPK went down 30%, LDH went down 20%, AST down 30%, and ALT went down 20%. So it's all pretty similar. And TPK, LDH, AST, and ALT can all increase from training vigorously, which is something I was certainly doing on minus epicate gin, combined with 625 milligrams testosterone and nitrate. My ferritin, a slight reduction with 3% and serum iron, a slight reduction of 4%. Serum iron is still below the reference range. Now, it's very difficult to restore serum iron levels when you only ate one day, consisting of beef and beef liver. And chicken and salmon have a little bit of iron content, but it's mostly coming from the beef and beef liver. So I will keep my eye on my serum iron levels. If I feel that I'm going anemic, I will start supplementing with an iron ferrit shell ferrous bisglycinate chelate formula, which I honestly don't think that I'm going to be needing. Because if I continue with my beef and beef liver intake over the next couple of weeks, and I remove this inflammatory compound, the minus epicate gin, keeping my C-reactive protein levels nice and low like they were previously before starting this experiment, then I think that my iron stores will slowly start to come up. Again, I'm consuming a lot of vitamin C as well, which helps with iron absorption. And I get plenty of copper in my diet, which helps with iron absorption as well. So I don't think that I need to supplement with it. But if I see over the next couple of weeks that my serum iron doesn't come up, then obviously I will go with an iron ferrit shell ferrous bisglycinate chelate and update you guys as this operation folistatin experiment is continuing. And switching from epicate gin to YK-11 at 30 milligrams daily taken orally. I'm switching to sublingual administrations next week. Estradal saw a slight reduction by 3.5% from 220 to 210. By 2 grams per milliliter, previously it was 140. By 2 grams per milliliter, so we went from 140 to 220 to 210, which is a slight reduction of 3.5% between March 23rd and March 30th. So now after making that switch from 900 milligrams epicate gin to 30 milligrams YK-11 daily split 15 milligrams morning and evening. After 10 days, I can already conclude that the YK-11 is a lot more potent regarding strength and overall size and muscularity. Even though it's been only 10 days, I see noticeable difference in a noticeable response comparing 900 milligrams epicate gin to, again, 30 milligrams YK-11. Now, epicate gin has some mitochondrial benefits and anti-inflammatory benefits. Didn't happen to me, but allegedly, based on scientific evidence, has a lot of beneficial effects, right? Mostly mitochondrial function being upregulated and then this significant increase in folistatin levels. And YK-11 also has an increase in folistatin levels, but it is an androgenic compound, right? It's an anabolic androgenic steroid that was classified as a SARM, which is also known to increase folistatin levels quite dramatically, albeit that this is all stemming from animal models, not from human subjects like you see with epicate gin. The YK-11 animal models use quite high dosages if you extrapolate that to the human equivalent dose. So, the response regarding folistatin might not be identical compared to epicate gin. And again, I've never seen a study comparing the folistatin secreting effect of minus epicate gin to the folistatin secreting effect of YK-11, whether that was an animal model or in human subjects. So, I'm doing the experiment as an industry first. Now, if both of these compounds increase folistatin levels, but I get a more pronounced effect from YK-11, is there a difference in folistatin levels or the fact that YK-11 is an anabolic androgenic steroid that potentiates anabolism through the androgen receptors as well? So, you get two effects versus one, right? Even though epicate gin has some mitochondrial benefits, but I was on the full mitochondrial support stack before I started epicate gin, and I was still running Methyl and Blue, so I felt I did not get much of a benefit removing all of the mitochondrial support aids and sticking with Methyl and Epicata gin in combination. I feel that adding in YK-11 is a lot more potent in as little as 10 days, and I'm happy or I'm looking forward to see what the future, the next couple of days, is going to bring regarding the change from taking YK-11 orally to sublingually, switching to injectable, whether that's intramuscularly or subcutaneously, I haven't really decided yet. So, reduction, switching from epicate gin to YK-11, a reduction of 3.5% on my serum estradiol levels from 220 to 210 picograms per milliliter, that could be a normal fluctuation or an indication, an early indication, that YK-11 has some potential aromatized inhibiting effects, and with longer use, serum estradiol will come down quite significantly. Again, fingers crossed, there's no scientific evidence to support this, pure anecdotal evidence, that serum estradiol will end up around 100 picograms per milliliter, approximately half of where it was, switching from epicate gin to YK-11 at the exact same dose of testosterone. Now, we're getting a little bit ahead of ourselves. Let's stick to epicate gin. So, I'll wrap it up here and continue with the rest of the video discussing the epicate gin dosing protocols. And it brings us to the minus epicate gin dosing protocol, which is pretty similar for men and women, but for women, I would still keep the dose a little bit lower, because generally speaking, women have a lower body weight than men. Men, the sustainable and tolerable dose is anywhere between 50 milligrams to 200 milligrams orally twice daily. It seems that with the scientific evidence, twice daily administration resulted in higher folostatin levels compared to once daily administration of the same total daily intake dose. So, let's say that's total 100 milligrams or 400 milligrams daily, and then you might be able to ramp it up higher, but then based on my blood work results, and again, still don't have a concrete explanation of why my CRP levels ended up this high. So, a little bit of caution is advised. The deleterious dose might be between 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams orally five times daily, which is what I did. Let's say a total of 500 milligrams to 1,000 milligrams over the day. Now, personally, I took 180 milligrams epicate gin five times daily for total intake of 900 milligrams over the day. It's not something I can recommend, partially based on my blood work results, having such an elevated high sensitivity, seriactive protein levels to absolutely phenomenal, crazy levels. I wish I never saw that blood work result, but hey, that's what happened. But I didn't notice much of a benefit switching from 360 milligrams over two servings morning and evening to 900 milligrams. I think the results were pretty much the same. And since most of the results are probably coming from mitochondrial biogenesis, which I was still running methylene blue, and I got a lot of mitochondrial beneficial upregulation from the mitochondrial support stack that I was running before I switched to this operation folostatin-based protocol, just containing methylene blue but not SLU-PP32 and MOD-C. I think mitochondrial function did not change much on this epicate gin protocol, but if there's only so much folostatin you can increase, then 360 milligrams based on the scientific evidence should be more than enough to get this folostatin boosting effect, and then escalating the dose up to 900 milligrams are probably not required. I wish I had blood work on 360 milligrams, maybe in the future if you guys demand it, but for now I'm going to leave it for what it is. Maybe my CRP was like, I don't know, 10 milligrams per liter on 360 milligrams epicate gin over the day, and that's also way too high, right? So, moral of the story here is, do your blood work while running epicate gin, and if you don't get a similar response, then all the more power too. You can run it for longer periods of time, but as soon as you notice that seriactic protein goes up, and you don't get this anti-inflammatory effect, which was observed in clinical medical settings from scientific evidence, then epicate gin is not for you, just like it is not for me. Unfortunately, I'll stick to YK-11. YK-11 did not change my seriactive protein levels, didn't increase it to this much of a crazy amount. So, comparing epicate gin to YK-11, based on my previous results, I'm going to stick with YK-11, which is exactly what I'm running now. And anecdotally, users of epicate gin generally run between 100 milligrams to 300 milligrams daily. There are some reports of people going up to 500 milligrams epicate gin daily, whether that's in combination with other anabolic androgenic steroids, or NATI, or in combination with half NATI approved compounds that don't downregulate the HPTA. Anecdotally, people report that epicate gin supplementation increases muscle mass and vascularity, stemming from its folistatin increasing effects. Epicate gin improves cognitive function. Allegedly, it's not something I noticed, including enhanced motivation, memory, and mood, possibly due to an increase in endorphin levels and myoi inhibiting effects. Although the scientific evidence is very thin on this subject, that's why I didn't include it, regarding endorphins and myoi inhibiting effects. Epicate gin is noted to improve blood flow and provide mild energizing effects, which probably comes from its mitochondrial function and mitochondrial biogenesis benefits. And on the other hand, epicate gin like YK-11 is associated with joint pain or joint discomfort, which people speculate is coming from an estrogen lowering effect, which isn't supported.  cltltltltpoop教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op教op epicatogen at various dosages but I experienced none of that I'm usually happy-go-lucky guy unless I'm running a Trimbalone sandwich but I'm also on methylene blue and fluvoxamine obviously which keeps my mood regulated at an all-time high continuously which is absolutely fantastic all right I'll leave it here if you're interested in running epicatogen or you have experience running epicatogen let us know your anecdotal experience down below in the youtube comment section I would love to hear about it I don't think I'm going to use epicatogen ever again I'm still not convinced that epicatogen caused my c-reactive protein to be that elevated but at the first sign of trouble I abort and that's exactly what I did and thus epicatogen for me is off the menu but if you would like to run it in the future or you have experience with epicatogen and before and after blood work results showing that c-reactive protein went absolutely sky-fucking high and then came down again after you're disconced epicatogen let us know down below I would love to hear about it everybody would love to hear about it so we can make a more informed decision whether we want to use this compound or not do your blood work over at Merrick Health if you undergo a lot of self-experimentation if you live in the United States where you use epicatogen before and after other compounds which might affect your folosatin levels YK-11 for example or injectable folosatin variants and blood work is very important as you could see from my blood work results imagine if I ran epicatogen for months on end and then my c-reactive protein levels was chronically elevated to the point I got a cardiovascular disease from an over-the-counter supplement that would have been insane right but I do my blood work every month to stay on top of my health so I can abort whenever appropriate okay Merrick Health is a place to go for blood work if you live in the United States Kralamide has the best pre-workout and overall fitness supplements intelligent shop has the best frequencies and hair loss prevention compounds and iHerb has a good amount of health supplements as well you can find all of the discount codes for these companies down below and if you're looking for something particular head over to my website vigoroussteve.com I have a lot more sponsors and affiliates there so if you're looking for something particular that I don't mention in these YouTube videos it's probably available through the website bookmark that site you won't be disappointed vigorous crew you guys know what to do a post epicatogen front double bicep for you guys there's a boatload of YK-11 in these cannons right now taking that orally then we're switching to sublingual YK-11 and then injectable YK-11 and uh imagine how big these cannons are going to look once the YK-11 starts to hit and the fall of satin starts to increase and hopefully the c-reactive protein will come down all right we'll leave it there thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next deep dive you

=== FILE: Kidney Health Discussion, Boldenone Making A Comeback？ High-Dose SLU-PP-332 & Bioglutide Updates [z0IErAPiu0Q].txt ===

 amsitin, in anticipation, watching of what's going to happen with obviously the popularity of the high dose SLU, and I think you're going to try it, Steve. I'm on it right now. Let me tell you this, it's easy to get lean and difficult to get fat. So, yeah, so far so good, but I'll do some blood work and then I'll make a video about it and then draw my conclusions. What's the total usage? 400 milligrams per day. No, everything combined. Oh, everything combined? Oh, you have 20 minutes? Sure. Yeah, okay, okay, so I was on 300 tests, 300 deca and 150 train because I ran out of mint, so 750 milligrams total. So that's pretty okay, so advice. Then I did one milligram in-collects and mitochondrial support stack. So that's one milligram Mod-C, one milligram SS-31, 10 milligrams methylene blue, and then a whopping, albeit animal dose extrapolated, clinically approved dose for animals, 400 milligrams per day. Welcome to the Anabolic Ground Table, episode 15, that's one year in three months. Good luck finding underpriced, that's last so long. With Dr. Dean St. Mart and Kurt Havens, we're going to discuss about kidney health. But first, let's talk about combining tests, nandrolone, tracelone and tremblone. I wanted to do this. I want, I'm like, you know what, forget about it. Everybody says it's a bad idea. They have a combination of three-in-a-test, three-in-a-deca and 150-MENT alone has been good so far. So I started up on Tren and then I wanted to prepare my sterile valve with the following combination, three-in-a-test, three-in-a-deca, 150-MENT alone and starting with 25 milligrams of Tren and then just doubling it every week to the point I break. And then I ran out of MENT alone. I had 50 milligrams left and I contacted my source, you're like, dude, it's nothing right now. Primo, Mastrone and MENT alone, forget about it. So the test, deca and Tren it is. Which? So let's see the next episode of him in a good, last day. Okay. And so you were, you were, you were daily dosing the Tren and the test and the ment and then you were doing weekly injections. Now the ment, I had to replace the ment for the Tren alone because the ment ran out. So I have like one week of 50 milligrams of ment and 25 milligrams of Tren and three-in-a-deca, three-in-a-test. And I just dump it all the weeks worth into a sterile vial and then I draw what I need. Okay. Swallow around. Yeah. Okay. That's all micro dosages daily. Yeah. Okay. But this Tren or test, Tren or deca and 150 MENT alone, I've great mood. Now I take methylene blue and fluvoxamine. So I'm sure that has something to do with it. Just probably some level of balance happening with the fluvoxamine, a mitochondria level. You got a good balance probably between serotonin and dopamine. So one's probably not as dominant as would normally be in a normal environment if someone wasn't using an SSRI. Yeah. I think so too. You'd be sort of anticipating with that potent combination that you're going to be either very, very high in terms of like very elated and let's go do shit and then the complete opposite where the Jekyll and Heights and how it happens where the aggressive side comes out, which probably can happen in the gym if you're a very controlled emotional person. I think we touched on it before that as you get older and you've got emotional maturity and you've got emotional intelligence, you can almost contain that aggression for when you train or release that aggression when you train and allow it to interfere with personal or professional life. So you can be bipolar, but you have to release the one side of the bipolar in the gym only. No one else. So let's see, maybe four to four to five weeks from now I turn to a total dickhead and then my wife will tell me, say, I like you better on that previous cycle, but babe, I can't find Tristelon. So you gotta throw the mass drone then, baby. Guys, how are you? We haven't talked to him in five weeks. Kurt, what's been going on with you in the meantime? Same stuff, man. Discoaching. Discoaching. Yeah, fully booked. Working on that thing with, yeah, and working on that project with AJ. We're just trying to get that. When we can align our schedules we film, we should hopefully, you know, within a week or two we should have enough to get that up online and then we'll continue to add content to it. It's not, it's a little different than the other online stuff I've done or that's out there. It's not geared toward bodybuilders. It's more geared toward lifestyle guys and fathers specifically for husbands. I should sign up. It's men to be, yeah, you should sign up. Yeah, two months. It's just geared to help men become more optimal and how they incorporate all of these lifestyle things, you know, in a sane way because we're just seeing a lot of, we both realize that there's just a lot of really poor thinking out there as, you know, everything becomes obsessive and it doesn't need to be that way. You know, or in using all these silly things. While we make content about some of these, you know, some of these obscure compounds, most guys don't need to be used in 12 different things. Right? Most guys could just use TRT. They don't need to add. It's not going to bring much to the table for most guys to add this stuff. No, but it's Pandora's box, right? I always tell them on the podcast is once you start TRT, then it's TRT plus and then it's HRT plus and then you start adding pluses to the pointer plus size or you're like a 10 star rating, you know, like five stars on GTA when you get chased by the cops. I think the funny thing will be, I just want to put it out here first. I think the interesting thing will be as Primo and Mastron go the way the dinosaur, Echo Poise is going to come back. And all the people that talk down on Echo Poise are going to eat their words and they're going to slowly transition into talk about Echo Poise again. It's going to be kind of interesting. The other studies on kidney health, that's why we're doing the podcast today. But we need to keep that in mind, right? We got rat studies with the dose. It doesn't equate to a human dose. Much larger, right? We have case studies and I tell you first hand, a case study that's done in a hospital with some kidney failure that's doing steroids, it's going to liven up what they're using. It wasn't necessarily EQ. We don't know what it was on. No, I picked those studies apart when I did that deep dive like two years ago. It was two hours because people were so worried. So I was like, okay, I'll do a deep dive for you guys. Yeah. So if I stood over you in a white lab coat and your kidney's failing and I'm like, Steve, what are you on? You're very nervous, right? You think you're dying? You think you're going to get hooked up to a bunch of machines? You're going to become a really poor history teller and you're going to say, whatever you think I want to hear, you're not going to necessarily tell me what you're doing, right? Were you using DMP? Probably. Were you doing stuff that you shouldn't have done that actually destroyed your kidneys? Probably. Forgot what you told Mr. Aten did there. It was not 600 milligrams of EQ that destroyed the guys' kidneys. The other one that's going to be interesting to see, the people, I'll give people a really easy shortcut, you could probably accomplish the same thing that Prima does by using a little bit of Remedex and a little bit of Proviron. Probably do the same damn thing because I'm not really convinced Primo does anything on its own, right? In every study about Primo bone, it pretty much failed to grow muscle. No. They even stimulated lats. They stimulated the lats on a sheep, right? To get to grow literally grew no tissue, right? I would say Primo to me is a test modifier. You're talking about Mastro and Primo now. What's that? You're talking about Mastro and Primo. Primo. Primo. What study shows that Primo grew any significant amount of tissue over Plesibo? It's been a while since I made that deep dive. I know with Mastro and I couldn't find any scientific evidence that it grew muscle. Oh, well Mastro is a cosmetic drug. I've always said that Mastro didn't do anything. Primo is blood building though. It does increase hematocrit unlike Mastro. Yeah, no, I'm just saying, but as far as tissue growth point of view, I'm not against Primo. I just, I think it makes your testosterone work better is what I think. Yeah, as that is with the case with most DSE derivatives. Yeah, so all my point is like, we're not really missing much by Primo being out of the market. There's plenty of other ways to do it. I do like my Primo. Luckily, I have stock. Well, there you go. Yeah, I stocked up. We talked about this how many months ago, eight months ago, and I went through my rolodex. Yeah, and this buddy of mine brought me like, 30 ampoules of Bayerima Bollin last batch. So I'm good. But yeah, running a test deck and Trin now. So let's see if I survive. Dean, you went on holiday. I did. That's why we're representing the dead bod. We're delayed and I record them at my vacation. So it was well, well needed. But like anyone who's listening to this and if you like run a business, you don't really switch off. You check your emails in the morning for half an hour when the kids are still sleeping. In order to not only urgent needs for taking care of and the rest of it sat until I came home. So I came back to a nice list on Friday last week to plow through, but we're back on course again. So definitely two week vacation, well needed, nice food, nice time on the beach, nice tan. One more, can you ask for? Nice hair. Did you put any other deads at the shame over there in the beach? You know what, right? And I guess this would be fun for those who are listening. When you transition out of being a bodybuilder, and I've done this before with my retirement in 2022, but like this time I am mentally that's it. It's the end of competitive bodybuilder. Sure. Sure. Sure. I've heard this before. I tell myself every year. Is it like muscle dysmorphia? Like muscle dysmorphia, that you don't see yourself as big enough. Maybe it's like shred of morphia, but like you look at yourself and you think, oh, I could be more conditioned. And then like someone's probably looking at you thinking, geez, that guy's ripped and in your head, you're like comparing yourself to how you looked last year at like 4% body fat, you're thinking, man, I'm still fat here. And I remember like before we went away on holiday, I had planned to do the diet that we talked about back in like May, June. I had some stuff from my father got ill, business took over. So really, and then I tore ligaments in my back literally three weeks before our holiday that I couldn't train in the gym. So at that point, I'd already pulled the train out after like six weeks. When things took over at life, I was like, I'm not going to see the end of this diet considering how life is becoming. So I'm not under any pressure to get in condition for a holiday. Like mentally, you're like, I'm going to turn up probably in better shape than most guys not being ignorant, but you're going to be in a better condition than the average person. And so that's sort of pressure to get into like ripped conditions sort of came away from from me a little bit. And then when I tore my ligaments, my back and I literally couldn't train for the three weeks before the vacation. When I got away on holiday, you're like looking at yourself and you've got you've got a six pack, you look in condition when your head you're still thinking you're a fat beep. So disappointing to yourself. You know, so yeah, exactly. Well, like it, that is how polarizing bodybuilding and getting in bodybuilding conditioning can do that when you step away from it and you can, you can accept how you look visually and that you're not looking for more muscle mass, but you're still thinking in your head, man, you're so fat. And then you're thinking of what you're going to destroy to eat on holiday. Obviously, with me, it's not much recluting free, but you're still thinking I'm going to have this amount of food at dinner, I'm going to have a nice steak and have all these sort of things. But then part of your head is like, man, you could be so much more conditioned. You just gotta ask the wife if you look good enough. If she said, don't worry, you're still fuckable, then it's then it's okay. Exactly. Exactly. That's all reassurance. Obviously, Morgan as well as from Anna was a competitor, she's critical. She'll tell you now you got a bit fat there. You're looking a bit full. You got the premise in there. Say, babe, how do I look? Do I look good enough for holiday? You say, yeah, for holiday, you look okay. But for the stage, I get about it. I know. So I've been born, I've been back just straight up physiological. I've got nothing with everything going on. I've got barely enough time to try and train at the moment. So it's just, it's just a matter of trying to fit a couple of sessions in training. At the moment for me and my back, one of the things that the ligament there my back caused was the nerve running from L four down my leg was irritated. Literally, the most stupidest injury you could think about, I went to pick up a play from a way tree with a straight back. And with a sorry, a curved back, I reached over to pull the plate off the tree. And all I felt was my hip go click clunk. And when I stood up, I was like, Oh, that wasn't right. So I basically like self adjusted my hip and moved my hip to the right. And so the ligaments between L four and the the sacral iliac ligaments, they got torn. Luckily, between Morgan, Martin, the guy I see, and then we've a Dr. Lauren, she's a chiropractor beside as an educate, as an hope she adjusted me, but she was like, you really put your hips out of alignment with just lifting that plate like if basically self adjusted yourself the wrong way. And that's lifting a plate. I literally walked into the gym to start dead lifts first plate lift and the guy, the guy beside me, when I lifted the plate off, he looked at me and he's like, that didn't look good. And I'm standing there and my brain is trying to register what I don't because obviously it's not like when you tear like a muscle or you, I guess you do something with like your QL or you you sort of cause a muscle spasm, you know, it's a different feeling or one of your muscles locks up. This was like my brain was trying to figure out what the hell it happened with like this electric sensation ran up my leg. My spine just felt like it wasn't the right place. Are you straight home? Would you finish your workout? No, I went straight home. We were supposed to go to like a kids concert event in Belfast that we booked. Morgan, thankfully we had like an hour plan in that morning for me to train. So Morgan treated me instead of training in our clinic had me like sent me straight again to walk around. But literally I demoed to England that week and had the hips adjusted and everything else. So feels good now, but I'm still a bit cautious that when you do something like that. You get a false sense of confidence with those lower limb lumbar ligaments that I'll start slowly. How much she's from now on? Pretty, pretty much the, the lazy way of training. I did do a little bit. We had like a home gym sort of thing in the apartment complex on holiday and I felt good to do some really light stuff. But getting back into it now. You did exercise mimetic exercises. There's a pity I didn't pack up. Obviously we can delve into a layer of my, I didn't bring anything like that with me. And obviously at the end of the, the diet I did, I will say during that three week non-training period, I did keep continuing with SLU and the mitochondria stuff that I do put down to help and maintain body composition with no training. I was obviously a little flat looking, but you'd be surprised what you maintain with very little training. And then yeah, it usually takes like a month or two before it really goes away. And then it's like from one day to the next you wake up, you're like, what the hell happened? Did I get sarcopenia overnight? Well, it's with, with chemicals in place with natural people, there's been a bunch of studies to show how fast you lose it. There was a group, they did a study, they had people exercise for 12 weeks. They gained obviously different various amounts of tissue, right, depending on their genes, all natural. Then they had half of them stop lifting for 10 days. The group who stopped lifting for 10 days lost all of the tissue they gained for those 12 weeks. So three months of training gone in 10 days. That's about drugs. So atrophy occurs atrophy. And this is one of the reasons why a bro split doesn't work outside of being enhanced, because the atrophy effect, right? So you got about two days where it's ramped up, and then it goes right back down. So if you had chest every Monday, you're literally doing two steps forward, one and a half backwards. That's why natural guys don't grow doing that stuff. No, that's why you had push-ball legs or some sort of overlap training, worse love. That's a frequency is much more important than volume. I remember when I broke my leg in a motorcycle accident, and then by the time I flew home from Thailand to Holland, my leg was half the size. And it's like five days later. And I was at the peak of my natural, you know, not at the peak, and not at the end of my natural limit, but I was pretty close. And that leg was completely atrophied a week, insane. Just from immobility. And thank God, don't break your legs in a motorcycle accident, guys. Don't do it. How's everything been with the play out? Yeah, it's great. Actually, I got the gyna removed and the plate out, and I actually have an excuse to do a show about it. I just don't want to. I'm just using the drugs and getting lean and enjoying myself. It's my birthday end of the month. So we got a fit for 42 challenge for myself. And now that I put the work on a little bit of a downturn, so I don't force myself to be cognitively present during the day where I have to do deep research. I haven't done any deep research in a very long time. So I go to the gym when I want, I eat when I want. If I'm tired, it doesn't matter. And the rest of the time I spend with my daughter. So it's actually good. It's very productive for training. When I put in the towel on my business, and business is just continuous. So luckily, I didn't skip a beat. I think eventually it will. But for now, the income is steady and I'm just enjoying my body. So I'm getting leaner slowly. I think I got about eight weeks left. And then, but in four weeks, it should look pretty good. I think in four weeks, I'll take the deck and the train out and then I'll put some DHC derivatives for the cosmetic effect and see what I actually look like. Because now I'm basically a water balloon at the end of the day. In the morning, I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's funny though, like a couple days ago, I looked at the mirror from afar and I'm like, what the fuck is that big guy? I said, Oh, it's me. You know, when you train back, you're weird out and your traps are all pumped up and you start walking in a tank top. You're like, fucks that new guy in the gym. I said, Oh, it's me. Okay. I ran the right track. So I'm having a lot of fun, you know, bodybuilding and being a dad and driving motorcycles. It sucks though, because every every time I want to take my bike out, it starts raining. I have to take it out to the middle of the night because it's the traffic is so much more favorable. So yesterday and like the whole last week, 12 o'clock at midnight, let's take a bike out and go outside raining. Probably a bit too dangerous with considering the power of your bike. Yeah, yeah, and I just don't like riding in the rain. It's, it's not fun. You know, I like it to be sunny and hot and then you're blast. No, speed limit. Speed limit. Hey, Kurt, you found a study about exercise pills, not really being a metabolic booster. So let's discuss that. Let me share my screen. I woke up feeling spicy. Yeah, feeling rebellious. I guess to sort of open what this paper discusses is what we already know to be insanity of expecting to take a pill that will do the exact same as exercise. Whereas what we have done, or less, it's going to be less than that. Well, that's it. But what I mean is what we come at the angle of is some of these things that discusses in the paper alongside exercise. So yeah, this is sort of coming at the angle of what society would want to do. And that's just pop the pill and say that the exercise for an hour. Yeah, it's the same with the the Trevor Groom up and Grittism up, right? What they want is to take a pill and it grows muscle. Which I mean, some steroids or steroids do that to a certain extent. I mean, testosterone built issue without exercising. It will do it to an extent, depending if if you're a cow. Yeah, we touched on this. It more has to do with the age and the stem cell availability that the cow has at the time it's given. It's not most human males are already at their natural genetic limit. The same as if you give tremolone to a bull, they don't grow. Right. So, you know, we are, we would be considered bulls. You give a tremolo and you have a walk or an egress not going to grow. But that's not a tremolo and fault. That's an age fault or maturation fault from testosterone. What I find interesting is the problem I see with all these pills is that it breeds laziness. Right. Everyone's looking for this excuse or this thing that's going to get them to the next level. There is no thing that's going to get you there. And in fact, the laziness is so extreme now that I so when I posted it originally, I put just the abstract in my stories. Right. And then the next slide, I linked the whole story because I figured, well, if I want people to actually understand this, that they should probably read the whole study. And I know that most people probably don't know how to find the study. So I posted the link, the amount of DMs I got commenting on it and asking me what my opinion was when I gave them the study was like just reaffirmed the laziness. It's like they literally want to read themselves. They don't want to read it. Ask, you're going to ask me and you're not going to read it. If I were your teacher, I'd tell you. No joke. You know what the title of this podcast is going to be, exercise mimics don't work. I got to debate them in, man. That is a big, no, it doesn't work, but the study is just showing it's not a replacement for exercise. And that's that's all I've been saying since day one, when you guys brought this stuff up is that you can say, I do cardio, I run 20 miles a week. I guarantee you, my career is better than anyone that uses these stupid drugs. True. You know, what's funny with these drugs is that the term exercise mimics always comes from the animal models, right? They discuss that here in the study. They go over iCar and caroterein and metformin is discussed a little bit and they all discuss mitochondrial health here in this study. The term exercise mimics is basically a comparison in this high fat diet model or high fat high carb diet model where mice or rats are exposed to. And then they do one exercise group and one drug group and see that the results are comparable. But you know, if it speeds up metabolism, it doesn't means that it gives you the same metabolic and hormonal response as exercise. Because if you do research and exercise, what it releases, I mean, it releases growth hormone, testosterone, vascular and ulterior growth factor, brain drive neurotropic factor, MOTC levels go up from exercise. I discussed that in a MOTC deep dive. And none of these studies show that SLU, BP32 or iCar or metformin or whatever increase MOTC levels or any of these other hormonal markers that exercise does increase. Look at GOPs. We pretty GOP. They're naturally occurring thing. And you know what they come from? I tell you fiber. So the average American needs no fiber. They wonder why their guts are mess. And then they need to take a drug to basically replace the oatmeal that they should be eating anyway. Yeah, you know, not to people's oatmeal, but it doesn't make any sense. Just do the damn work. Right. If you want to add to that work by taking performance and dancing things, so be it. But don't try to use them as an excuse not to do things. Right. Now, that's what we see quite often is that, you know, people in the comment section, you know, compound XYZ didn't work. It's probably because you didn't work. Yeah, you didn't work. Exactly. Your diet sucks. Your training sucks. You don't do any cardio. Right. You're not getting sleep. You're getting sleep. You're stressed out. Yeah, oxidative stress and all that stuff. Your mitochondria are just broken. So it might take some time to fix them. And it starts again with the diet and, you know, making sure that that's all on point first. But like even exercise and comparing it to a single compound, so an exercise, memetic being a chemical. So let's be even more strict. So a single chemical can do the exact same work in our bodies as exercise being at the top of it, moving our muscular system. And from that, then use your cardiovascular system. And from the cardiovascular system, you have blood and nutrients going to the tissues and then the tissues using those nutrients for XYZ or doing exercise without nutrients available, operating off another energy system. It's bonkers to everything that we could develop a single compound, a single chemical that you ingest orally or inject and it's going to have the same effect as moving your muscular system alongside obviously your skeleton and your cardiovascular system and all the benefits that come from that. It's just crazy. So, Steve, post up an image of human metabolism, like the math of human metabolism. So people can see this when people try to summarize this in a statement like this does this. I don't know a single, I know some pretty smart people. I don't know a single person that can explain this whole diagram. Yeah, that diagram, it just, and when we're looking at like the Krebs cycle or the citric acid cycle, being a tiny little part of this whole big map, it's profound to even ever make absolute statements. And I guess that's where when we're talking about things like SLU, cardy and lipotropin, GH fragment, all these little things that play into helping move your skeleton, like resistance training, cardio exercise, we're using these things to augment the processes, not actually be the process. No, right. And that's the key thing to take away from. I will say that if you add these compounds in, stack them together with diet and exercise, it makes the diet and exercise significantly more effective and easier. Because I do remember, you know, doing natural, doing the whole diet and exercise thing and getting leaner took significantly longer, and was a lot more strenuous than it is now with these compounds in place. I also spend the time in the lake. Well, the value is... You did it. I think that there's a lot of importance in doing it naturally so you understand how your body works and what a response to, right? If you're 18 years old and you just throw drugs in the equation, you never actually learned what your body's doing. And then you become entirely reliant. Those are the same guys that when they either have to come off because their health fails or they go on a cruise, they lose all their tissue, right? And they're constantly going up and down because they never learned how to train. I trained it, I was natural, I was zero hormones until I was 40. Wow. Yeah. I could get more peeled. I mean, I said to you, picture, I could get leaner naturally than most pro bodybuilders are getting with all these freaking drugs because I have self-control and discipline. That's what you need to learn that first before you throw the chemicals in. If there's no substitution for work. True. Right? No. I brought that up before, like long before. Well, I always go back and say if I could teach everything I know now to like my 20, mid-20 year old self who had no problem with self-control, losing body fat and everything from martial arts, that would be so much easier. But it does start with the ethic of having the control of like when people look at what it takes to get truly contest peeled to the point where there is no fat on your feet, on your glutes, sitting, standing hurts, like once we all have big smiles on our faces, bloody hurts. Your feet, the feet are miserable. What would you know? When you have to wear three pairs of socks, and one of them is like those big thick fluffy socks as the final layer of socks. When you sit down, like you sit on something hard and you actually pinch your sciatic nerve because you got nothing left in your butt. You know, I've said it before, what we've spoken about before with using GLPs, the mitochondrial optimization. If you're someone who's had that ethic to get to that level of body fat, these things will make it harder.  emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions because quite honestly, the amount of cardio, the amount of dieting that's required repetitively to get down to those deep set points. We spoke about it before, but I chronicled in pictures on SN Education's forum before of like 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014. And each prep or long diet phase, I got harder and harder and harder as I broke through stick of points that you'd end up with at the end of a prep. Yeah. And you do have to do multiple diets to get past these plateaus more efficiently. Like you get to a plateau and you've got two choices out or really dig in deep with more cardio, less food, and you will get conditioned, which will end up like a skeleton with lots of muscle mass in the process. That if anyone's listening under first or second time competitors, you need to understand what your limits are for that first long diet, if it is your first ever diet. Yeah. And the difference between offseason and getting in shape is such a, it's mind fuck for most guys. Like I'm getting small and getting small and getting small that prevents them from actually getting lean because they never really get into that flat state that you need to be to really shave off that last little bit of body fat. Yep. Same with guys trying to get big, right? They get stuck in this, as soon as their face shows a little bit around this or where the body fat like even increases, they pull the food right back and they never grow, right? These are the guys that get stuck at 180 forever. Maintaining bro. Well, they're not even doing that because I never let my body fat get in control but I still had to eat. Yeah. You can still control your body fat and grow. That's why I would refer to it as progress season because you're not really off. That implies you're on vacation. There's no vacation when you want to look like a bodybuilder. No, and then most guys in the offseason they start eating hamburgers. Yeah, hamburgers. Yeah, stick with your hands. Then how can you eat? Why don't you eat the same things that got you lean? Just eat more of the same foods that got you lean. So you're a little bit of a surp... Yeah, if you just double your car portion, you'll grow. Yeah. It's really simple. You have a car, you see, wait. It's really that simple. I know, well, we've made it. The internet, I think, I was talking to my wife about that this morning. When I started doing this stuff, there was no internet. We had to look through books and stuff like, I've said this a million times. It's just, it's incredibly frustrating to me because most of the information on the internet is either garbage or confusing or misleading or it could seem like this complicated thing. And it's not that difficult to get in shape. You have to do the damn work. Yeah. But anyone can get in shape. I've never met anyone that couldn't get in shape. The ones that don't seem to do it are not putting the work. It's always surprising. Like now with the GLP, one receptor agonist in this mitochondrial support stack that people still cannot get in shape. Because it's so goddamn fucking easy on them. They're eating so easy. McDonald's three times a day. McDonald's one time a day. During the women in the United States use a GLP or are still doing as much cocaine and drink and diet coke as they were before the GLP. It's just, they're shit food. They don't exercise. When that study we looked at last video, we ranked these things with the initial, what was the first statement? It was about the population that uses GLP drugs. If they would simply exercise, they would not experience the side effects that is experienced at these drugs. But no one wants to do that. Yeah, it's a shame. It's a shame that it gets a bad rep. Yeah, I lost my vision on GLP once. So you stopped eating any kind of nutrition foods. And now you're, you know, I will say, I was in a meeting with pharmacists. I was in a meeting with pharmacists since our last video and we were discussing GLPs. And the, at least the stance in the United States is that we don't know the long-term effects of any of these drugs. So no doctor, no pharmacist, no scientist, at least in the United States can tell you that a GLP drug is safe long-term. We don't know, right? We've not, these drugs are rushed to the market. They continually rush to the market and they're not necessarily safe. I'm not saying don't use them. I'm saying just be aware that, especially if someone online is telling you that these are perfectly harmless, they're full of shit. We don't know that. No one can tell you that. Right, but there's no thing that's wrong. In the scientific evidence, you know, I mean, when I did a retrogelutide deep dive or even when I talked about lyricalutides, terzepidide back in the day, you know, you go through all the side effects and how you can mitigate them by just following a healthy lifestyle. Doesn't mean that they're not there. Like I just did my bloodthrower to see what, because I haven't used the GLP one receptor agonist for a while. So I started back with retrogelutide to make it died a little bit more tolerable. So my mood stays intact. And it's either hardcore dieting in no mood or using a GLP one to suppress the appetite and then my mood is high. So it's, you know, I'm trying to find a fucking balance. So that's why I use them because my mood is so much better on a GLP one, even though a lot of guys get depression on it, which is weird. I've seen the research around that, which is quite fascinating, but disruption to serotonin metabolism more so. And dopamine as well. And some of the suicidal tendencies that they're trying to postulate towards trezeppity more so is what you see a lot of anecdotal reports surrounding like increases in anxiety and then the anxiety trigger enough, not nice thoughts. So like Kurt said, we talk about these things. We talk about mechanistic actions, but yes, very well true that like us, we discuss these things, but there's never an absolute of you must do this or this is safe or whatever. There's people who will talk about these things and make them gospel that everyone should be taking a GLP and everyone should be doing this, that and the other, that just no way you could make these absolute statements towards stuff that existed for maybe, I think Lyric Glutide was released 50 and 16 years ago, I think after top of my head, it's not too long. Before it hit the market, I think it was first, I first started using it about four years ago. Yeah, four years because it was about six months before the Olympia. Then I started talking about it. Nobody talked about it about Lyric Glutide and semi-glutide. And then I went to the Olympia and it was on all the billboards. Ozympic, Ozympic everywhere. I was like, what the, this is my fault. Because nobody talked about it back then. So it's only been around for four years and you see plenty of issues, but that's always or most of the time in people who are unhealthy to begin with. So they were diabetic or that, you know, to life-solid issues. To this point though, I think drug was invented a long time ago. The drug was invented a long time ago. It just didn't come to the public eye. Like all these drugs, most of the time you don't see them for years. There's a process for the FDA to approve something. So I've just looked it up there. Lyric Glutide was approved by the FDA in 2010 for the US and 2009 for the EU. So it's been around, like I said, about 15 years that these sort of first line things that were designed for type two diabetes, we just started to make the connection between the GLP-1 receptor, improving pancreatic function. And then as a consequence, Grahlin become unsuppressed. That now obviously we're looking at using these compounds from an appetite suppression perspective as opposed to type two diabetes and a pancreatic effect. That I think slowly over time, these things will be classed as, well, they're already classed, but they will become anti-obesity drugs as opposed to diabetic drugs. Because I think right now, in terms of how they're discussed, here's a diabetic drug that you can take off label, which will suppress your appetites. Do you think it are gonna make a combination with AOD-9604? Well, the way it's going and bio-glutides, eventually you're gonna have this big giant protein that just serves bloody everything. And then maybe you're getting close to like, well Kurt is on about exercise memetics, that you just got this big giant protein that has all these peptide chains coming off it. Yeah. It just diffuses. It's like 20 different peptides. Which if anyone has any background in drug development, creating protein drugs is a big, big, big wormhole in that if the protein incorrectly falls, you are FUCKED. Yeah. So, like it's a pipe dream. A few moments later. Welcome to the Unabullet Ground Table, episode 15, part two. We had some technical difficulties the last time. And then scheduling happened. Kurt got busy, Dean got busy, and I got busy. And now we're back for part two. We were talking about bio-glutide. And I believe in the meantime, people were actually trying that, but I'm still not convinced that the bio-glutide that's on the market is actually real. Because there's no cast number. And the people that have been trying it so far, they've reported not really astronomical effects. Yeah. Did you guys hear anything in the meantime? No. Not really, right? Just so people are shown with the oral bio-glutides, whatever it is, SS, whatever the code name is, all of that. Yeah, and 931, I think. Yeah, sorry. So yeah, I mean, Time Hotel, and this alongside the other mega-dosing experiments we're seeing come out. I'm sitting in anticipation, watching of what's gonna happen. Obviously, the popularity of the high-dose SLU. And I think you're gonna try it, Steve. I'm on it right now. Now, let me tell you this. It's easier to get lean and difficult to get fat. So it's basically like DNP. And my hands are very clammy and sweaty, and it's very easy to get flat also. So I had to increase my carbs and fat loss is just continuous. So when my mom was here for three weeks, obviously you eat a little bit more off-diet. You wanted to eat Thai food and Italian and Japanese, and she had a whole list of restaurants ready. So we went to all of them, and I'm no longer at a point where I bring Tupperware. So if we go to a restaurant, I'm just gonna eat. Normally I would just get chunky in that setting, but I didn't. That's the first. After three weeks of eating in restaurants, I barely gained any fat. So it took me one week to get back on the program, and I'm continuously losing fat. So I did some blood work after the four-week mark, but I was also on trend. So I started my sister out and see went up slightly. That always happens to me when I'm on the Trimbalani sandwich. And now the blood work again, I think this weekend or the weekend after, and then I'll release a video about high-dose SLU. But so far, so good. I didn't see any negative effects besides my wallet being drained, because it's not cheap, but it's cheaper than doing the capsules because I got the powder from China, obviously. So yeah, so far, so good. But I'll do some blood work, and then I'll make a video about it, and then draw my conclusions. What's the total usage? 400 milligrams per day. No, everything combined. Everything combined? Oh, you have 20 minutes? Sure. Yeah, okay, okay, so. Fuck, here we go. I was on 300 tests, 300 DECA, and 150 trend, because I ran out of mint. So I did like, I ran out of mint, and I didn't want to get more. So I ran 2,500 grams of trend, because okay, that's fun. 50 milligrams of trend per week. Okay, that's fun. I was like, fuck it. I have like six weeks left on 150 milligrams. Got one valve of trend left. So I did six weeks on 150 milligrams trends. Not the end of the world, so 750 milligrams total. Yeah, so that's pretty okay, so I did one milligram in-collects, and mitochondrial support stack. So that's one milligram mod C, one milligram SS3-1, 10 milligrams methylene blue, and then a whopping, albeit animal dose extrapolated, clinically approved dose for animals, 400 milligrams per day. So that's 100 milligrams, four times per day, but because the half-life is pretty short, and I had one of those microgram scales, but in the end, I just eyeballed it with a little spoon, because I measured it like for two weeks, 100 milligrams so many times. So you know, this looks pretty accurate, so sometimes it's 90 milligrams, sometimes it's 120, so I'll probably end up between 350 and 450 per day. And yeah, it's strong, very energetic. One milligram of used in-collects a day? Yeah, cool. Yeah, it's close to the X-BREX. Actually, it's already expired. It expired September 2025. So I have three vials to go. And so that's another 120 days at one milligram a day. Yeah, I like it more than GH. Okay. I started GH yesterday at six, yeah, I started GH yesterday at six I use, and today I'm sleepy AF. So at least from in-collects, I don't get sleepy. The bumps are insane. Do you feel good on them? Yeah. Some guys have told me they don't feel great on in-collects. It definitely works, but... Really? Wow, what do they say? Just didn't feel very well. Hmm, send it to me. I'll take care of it. I think you finish it all. Oh, shit. Oh, that's fine. Yeah, so now last week I started 600 tests, 600 DECA, and 250, no, 250 on the draw. Okay. Yeah. That's the potent stack. Yeah. Yeah, added in the GH, and now we're gonna close it off until the end of the year with the buying, because again, I kept getting flat, and I kept eating more food. So the SLU is making me burn through carbohydrates quite fast. I'm at 150 carbs per day right now, still flat. So I was like, you know what, anodrol, GH, I don't wanna eat more, so I'm gonna get lean. And then hopefully at one point, this face will represent what I got going on underneath my shirt. Because yeah, with test DECA, anodrol and GH hold a lot of water. I wake up and I look nice. You're like, I look pretty lean, and then you have one meal and one workout. And you're like, ooh, the pumps are insane though. It's a lot of fun. So it's so far so good. Might add in a little bit of Primo later on. Take the DECA out, add the Primo, maybe a little bit of masteron. Still have some left. I'm like, remember when we warned everybody about the raw shortage, and nobody stocked up. Nope. And I did though, and I know you guys did also. So I'm enjoying myself running Test and Primo at masteron. And everybody else is like, ah, Steve, where'd you get it? Said, oh, I got it last year. When we know the shit was going to hit the fat. Yeah, they know when to listen. So surprisingly, I think some people at the Mr. Olympia showed that they were not really able to source high quality gear, even though it was one of the best lineups ever. You saw it like in a couple, like in the third and second, fourth call out, in classic physique, in mince physique, and also open bodybuilding, where some guys are like, doesn't look like your gear's real. Or you peaked horribly. Yeah. You know? Well. And bodybuilding's going to get interesting. Yeah, it's not going to get any better. Did you guys see the interview with Janak Shik at, I think, Big Bodybuilding? I heard. Okay. It's great. It's already at 20,000 views. The guy from Janak Shik, Mike, I think, his name, he said it's terrible right now. People can't even get test. Yep, I see that here. And then. Fuck, dude. Well, I don't think price is going to get even higher soon. Yeah, it's... Yeah, well, I mean... It's not even a price thing. If there's just no supply, what are they going to do? Yeah. TRT prescribed. Good. Yeah, I know a clinic. For you. Well, in the UK, a TRT prescription of four shots of sustenance per month, or even two every two weeks, is around 250 pounds. So it's... Wow. They dose the Susanan one shot every two weeks? Yeah, some of the TRT clinics in the UK do once every two weeks. It's got to feel good. Some of the clinics that then offer testosterone and anti-arcipinate as like a single vial, or it's normally a multi-dose vial, the prescriptions are insane and cost that. That's why a lot of people in the UK sort of go underground for their TRT, just from the share markup of what it is to get it pharmaceutical. Yeah, it's the same in most countries. The TRT prices are insane. My neighbor, he started TRT a couple months ago and he got it prescribed here through a reputable clinic and they were charging him on Arm and Leg. So I told him, watch this YouTube channel, my YouTube channel, about how to self administer TRT and then he just started buying it that the pharmacy did or recommended and now he spends like $10 a week or something on his test and a Romacin and some ancillaries. So he's like, man, it's been less than 50 bucks a month now. And that's how much TRT should cost in my opinion. Unless you need real proper guidance, like the guidance, okay, fine. Coach or some doctor that you have to pay for, fine. But if you know what to do, self prescription is reasonably inexpensive. Yeah. You know, so, well, it is what it is. So we're now like 50 minutes into this podcast. We wanted to talk about kidney health. So let's transition into that. Last time we talked a lot about blood pressure management. People got upset, but that's okay. Because telmasartan should be around year round. So I think now is a good time to kind of transition into kidney health and how to manage that. It's not so many things we can discuss obviously, because well, once the kidneys are broken, you're kind of done and dusted for, right? Career is over. So most of the stuff that we do is preventative. One of that is managing your blood pressure. So let's not hammer on that again. I want to start with Dean, because you're a doctor. So I'm told. Yeah, someone told. Someone said you're a doctor. I just play one online. At least I don't hold it above everybody's health, that I'm a doctor. So yeah, maybe you can share some insights on where to get started with kidney health, besides managing blood pressure. You know, hydration is always important. I think when we look at the causality of kidney disease and do steroids themselves cause kidney disease, I don't think we have conclusive evidence in humans to say that steroids cause kidney disease. It's almost a secondary artifact. I guess one thing that maybe may occur is if you've got genetic underlying susceptibility for glomular sclerosis, whether that is primary or secondary. So normally what you'll see most pro bodybuilders end up with is focal, segmental, glomular sclerosis, FSGS. That's what Flexwheeler ended up getting. And sometimes that can be primary driven by oxidative stress, no doubt from anabolic steroids, blood pressure, but there can be changes in the tubules of the kidney genetically. So I guess most people probably won't screen their genetics to see how they're at risk of kidney disease before going down this path. But the most important thing, obviously we've covered it in the last podcast, blood pressure is at the very top for kidney health because the kidneys are basically taking the brunt of that pressure. The way I was trying to explain it is, imagine your kidneys are like a spider web that those glomulars are like a spider web, very delicate, they catch and filter selective things. If you drop some water onto a spider web, gently, it'll pass down through the spider web out to the side. If you get a hose and you blast a spider web with a hose, go buy. You get an angry spider. Yeah, you get an angry spider. But that's sort of the analogy of the thinking ahead. If you're blasting these glomulars, they're very delicate web type structures with high blood pressure. Eventually over time, little tiny tears are going to occur and they're not going to select to be catch or filter what you're supposed to. So I guess without even segueing into like blood pressure, oxidative stress is the very first place to begin with the kidneys. Some really useful interest in research around the use of glutathione, cordyceps mushroom towards improving kidney health. We've also got some nice, I guess Chinese herbal studies with astragalus for selectively removing some creatinine from the bloodstream. And I guess, you know, when we're looking at kidney health, we shouldn't really panic surrounding a creatinine value specifically in that the amount of things that are going to influence creatinine like our liver markers, training intensity, creatinine supplementation, high protein diet. If we're really trying to assess kidney filtration rate, we'd probably best avoiding creatinine as a supplement for two weeks, lower protein intake down to maybe one gram per pound body weight, resting for four days prior to your blood draw. And this is only if we were really suspecting that that creatinine value is creating a very low filtration rate. But the other thing I guess to make people aware of is that the EGF4 calculation is based on the normal population. So it doesn't take into account BMO or so, it doesn't take into account how much muscle mass you're carrying, your age, your height, your race. So we see that there's difference between blacks and Caucasians in terms of the effects on blood pressure and EGF4 and creatinine production. It's more so then we have to then decide based on other factors like you said, there's cystatin C or ADMA, just so there's other markers that we can use to really accurately assess the kidneys. Yeah, you have the DMSA and ADMA. I tried to look for testing them here in Thailand, but they're not available, but cystatin C is, so it's dimethyl... Asymmetric dimethyl-erginine, the ADMA. And that's more so really a marker of ADMA is involved in nitric oxide breakdown. So it just gives us an idea surrounding oxidative stress in relation to the kidney health. So if you're methylene blue, then you might get a skewed level. Because it inhibits nitric oxide synthase. It's high dose. I think in terms of first step kidney health, one-on-one oxidative stress is at the top. And managing appropriately NAC or glutathione or your glycine glutamine, things that are laying into the creation of glutathione. And then do we have data to say like what we've discussed in the past with the steroid ranking, certain steroids are more nephrotoxic towards the kidneys? I don't think we have that data other than the rabbit study that we always bring up about baldenone. Well, there's actually quite a few studies that study the effects of baldenone in animals and humans. And humans are all retro-perfective studies, obviously, because it will be unethical to kind of prescribe people baldenone and then see what happens on with the kidneys. But long story short, the conclusions of most of these studies show that the nephrotoxic effects of baldenone can be prevented or ameliorated with antioxidants. Whether that's vitamin C or a royal jelly. So that's an extracted honey production process. What was it? Cordyceps and a few other things that ameliorated the negative effects of baldenone. So I always recommend it if you run baldenone, which is the only steroid that has been studied in the context of kidney toxicity. I think there was one deannable study as well showing some kidney toxicity that it's very important to take your antioxidant. And luckily people are now coming full circle to reintroduce antioxidants again, because the natural community was going a little bit hard on preventing antioxidant intake, especially around training, around to train before or after, because it blunts the post-exercise stress response. And of course, natties need every angle they can get, so they would not take antioxidants. And then the steroid community did a poor extrapolation from that time. We don't need it too, because otherwise our steroids are not going to work. That's how they avoided antioxidants altogether. That's a good way to get to kidney problems if you're running baldenone or perhaps some other steroids. And the funny thing is, like these studies that were performed on baldenone on the animals and humans have not been reproduced in other steroids. So based on the chemical composition, it's very likely that any kind of steroid due to oxidative stress could cause some kidney problems, but unfortunately it's never been studied. So people say that baldenone is kidney toxic, yes, but the other steroids probably also, unless you take some freaking antioxidant. And it seems not to matter what kind of antioxidant as long as you take some antioxidant. And it could be Methylene Blue, Glutathane, NAC, Vitamin E. Estradiol is some antioxidant effects in the endothelium. So I think if you keep your antioxidant status quite high, you're already preventing a world of pain later on in life. And that always makes me wonder, all these body butters that got kidney problems, how bad was their oxidative stress? You know, in hindsight. I guess so. I was just thinking the human studies was the EQ run solo, it was when it's parenable, right? Not equipoise. Yeah, parenable, yeah. So some are used parenable and others were using undergound labs. You don't know the carrier oil, you don't know how much benzoyl, benzoate, benzoalcohol was used, some people are allergic to those. You don't know, they weren't tested. Okay, I would say standard for EQ would be two and 20 for BA, BB. Yeah. So they can order to make it liquid at 200. What, I was just curious because I wonder if it were used solo, if the suppression, the full suppression of Estradiol from the EQ alone could have just allowed some oxidative stress to occur. Exactly. Right, so it wasn't necessarily again, EQ directly, it was what else the EQ on it's, like who would run EQ on its own? Yeah, a lot of Europeans go back in the day. Well, some horses, yeah. Horses, but it's a naturally carbon-hormone horses, so it's different than horse. Yeah, and beetles, I think. Okay. Yeah, I think more of a study with cows, right? And they did, they have the control group and the equipoise group, and when they tested them both at the end of the study, they all tested positive for equipoise, they realized that cows produced both unknown as well. Ah, right, right, right. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's funny in that sense that only bouldernut has been extensively studied in this context and not the other hormones, where you would expect, you know, in a safety and efficacy profile study, that mastrone or primobolon or trimbolone at least would have some scientific data, but again, mastrone and primobolon is paper thin and only in the context of cancer. And trimbolone, there's nothing to be found unless you go to the vault of Merck. And there was nothing out there to be stopped.  in-vitrofabriolab there. It's a trial on outcomes of pregnant women and things like that. Probably the reason why they did the EQ was when it was parenobol, it was around from what, 1939-1979? So it was prescription drugs for a long time. But hard to find. I don't know a lot of bodybuilders in the 70s that didn't even have access to it, even though it was around. Yeah, and otherwise they probably got the veterinary grade, 50ml for 1ml. Yeah, the Gannaball or whatever. Yeah, Gannaball. Oh man, or the big Pfizer-Equipoise bottles, 50ml. Yeah, the ones you can fucking hammer somebody to death with. Yeah, so in that context, scientifically there's not much to go with. And we do know that oxidative stress and high blood pressure obviously is deleterious to kidney health. But I always wonder if there's something else. Like regarding Boston Lloyd passing away, he was pre-erectalus. But we always suspected that due to his abuse of adipotide, that his kidney started to fail really later on in life. So adipotide is a peptide that causes apoptosis in the fat cells and you have to inject that sub-Q. But obviously if you inject something subcutaneously, it might cause systemic and it could probably also cause apoptosis in the nifrons. So I always tell people to avoid compounds like adipotide because that sounds like kidney disease in a bottle basically, or kidney failure in a bottle. Yeah, people still use it though. I'm fine. You're fine until you're not. Yeah, well, kids just don't really show physical stress until they're at 25%. And at that point, you're on dialysis. Mine was functioning at 40 and I had no physical signs. Oh, yeah, you have one kidney, right? Yeah, I have unilateral renal agenesis. Okay, so you have to be extra careful. So you make... Go on. No, you can... I'm just wondering, like, of course, you learn to live with that. So maybe you can give some insight on what you typically avoid, what you have to do proactively to keep your single kidney functioning at the highest capacity. So it's not as rare as people would think. It seems to mostly be occurring in men when women are born with... So it's something you're born with. It's supposed to be on chromosome 6. It's a defect of chromosome 6. I don't have a defect on my chromosome 6, so they're not sure where mine came from. It's generally carried on the mother's side down and expressed in the sun. It's found in mothers with double uterus. A lot of times, we'll pass on that kidney gene, but again, they don't understand the connection there. I didn't discover until I was 40. And I was out of the gym at that period of time for like a decade and I was drinking a lot of alcohol at that time, which I'm sure did not help my kidneys. I had smoked in the past, probably didn't help my kidneys. Not eating any sort of structured diet for that period of time as well. And when it was discovered, it was my EGFO was a 40. So again, no physical signs. It was running poorly, but close enough that it was a trouble. At that point, I just went back to the gym. I stopped drinking. I haven't drank since. Obviously, I cleaned my diet back up and I went back to what I'm doing now. I did introduce testosterone at that point, which just for general health, my testosterone was low. Later on, I introduced growth hormone, which probably was the largest contributor to improving my kidney function. My eGFR is now 108. So I went from 40 to 108 and re-grew my nephrons. And is an eGFR based on C-sat and C or creatinine? Even my regular eGFR with weight, not a lot of muscle, not included with some want to weight. Okay. So that was probably the largest contributor for me. But the warning is if people are using underground lab GH, that's not missing and have the same effect, right? Because of the Blocsimer 188 that we talked about in the letter one, right? Did we talk about the last video? Yeah. The additive that can cause other. So I usually see what guys do in the generic stuff when they get to like six IUs or two milligrams, the kidney function starts to go down. And when they type with the dose down, a lot of times it'll go back up. That doesn't mean every single brand of underground lab GH is going to do that, but we don't know what grade fillers they're using. That's the issue. No, they don't test for that. And John and Shayk or the other labs, they don't test for the fillers. No, they're just isolating the GH part. So just a warning, I wouldn't go trying to mimic that at home yourself without. So I monitored by a doctor. Right. So it's a little different. I mean, I don't think I do anything crazy out of the ordinary to my maintenance. Like I said, I would never drink alcohol again. I use creatine. So creatine in recent studies has actually shown that improves kidney function, especially people with kidney disease. My protein is a gram per pound or a little more. That doesn't affect kidney function. My pillow. Yeah, I burnt down a little bit. I think I used to eat more. Just I don't even know what it was doing when I was eating that much. Yeah, I don't think anything out of the ordinary. I think it's just being aware. You know, I obviously don't play any contact sports anymore, things like that. All right. You know, I think that's something I'm not supposed to ski anymore. You know, but I don't think anything really out of the ordinary. Just, you know, get labs. Right. Keep track of it. And it's, you know, it could be worth getting, you know, some scans or ultrasounds just to have a look at your organs. Because like I said, it's not that rare. They usually find it during an autopsy, though. Most men aren't aware that they have it for most of their life. Right. So it's something you live with and then it progresses to the point that it's still livable till you pass away. Well, what was fascinating is I guess a lot of people with not necessarily the majority, but a lot of people with it will end up developing high blood pressure or diabetes or something related to kidney health. Like that and something the doctor will start to figure out what's wrong. I didn't have any of those signs. My blood pressure was always normal. And obviously I'm not overweight out of diabetes. I don't have any of the classic symptoms of someone with kidney issues. Right. Because they went out and detected and when, you know, when you're younger and the doctor palpitates to like fill your organs, I don't know what he was feeling because there's no kidney there. So that's misdiagnosis of the century, right? Yeah. Please, please, please do an ultrasound or MRI. So see what's going on. Yeah, I've had my fair share of ultrasounds and MRIs on the kidney because you know, creatinine super high 1.95 at my highest, but it was very, very heavy and doing too many sets of failure and taking too much creatine. And then you realize when you do more research and this is what many bodybuilders go through. Where at first you do your creatinine test, you get your eGFR, it's like 50 or something like that. And the doctor is giving you the fear of mongering, preachy, you know, talk that you're going to die. And then later on you realize that, okay, creatinine can be elevated from training intensity and your hydration and creatine supplementation. And, you know, of course, you can look at two other biomarkers regarding your kidney health like creatine, phosphokines, blood through your nitrogen and cyst adenine or the asymmetrical dimethyl arginine. Yeah. Okay. So that one, that's what you find out later because general practitioners never bring that to the forefront. Now some of the T-articulantics talk about cyst adenine and what is it, ADMA? SMA? SMA. I can't remember what it is off the top, but it's a microvoxidine of stress. No, the ASMA, asymmetric dimethyl arginine. Oh, ADMA, sorry. ADMA, sorry. Okay. So later on you figure out that that's actually the correct way to keep track of it and protein in your urine. That's an early indication. So I don't know about you guys, but over the last decade, I've coached many a bodybuilder through the protein in the urine scare back to good health by recommending them to keep their estrogen in a range, looking into the oxidative stress, their blood pressure, and using something like astrogalus root extractor to lower the inflammation around the kidneys. Now it doesn't mean that it's always gets resolved. I think a slight amount of albumin in the urine is livable. Of course, it's not ideal, but if you see a protein plus one on your urinalysis, that's when I would start to worry. Have you guys seen that and how reversible is that? Well, what have you done to kind of improve the conditions of these bodybuilders because it's still happening, but it shouldn't happen anymore. I guess what you've touched on there is the size of the protein. So when we're looking at detecting creatinine in the urine, creatinine is a tiny little molecule. And then the next step up is the statin C, which is even bigger. So if you put into Google, anyone watching this, if you put creatinine molecular shape or molecular size, the statin molecular size and an albumin, you'd see the difference in the gradient of size of the amino acid structure. With albumin, I guess at that point, if you have a big, giant protein not being filtered back into the bloodstream by the kidneys, where the kidneys should basically be quite selective in what it filters, if you have a big, massive hole that's allowing the albumin to pass down into urine collection, I think once you've got a level of albumin, urea, as in you've got albumin versus protein, urea, it's going to be quite difficult to reverse repairing like the analogy with the spiderweb, where you've got a giant hole in the spiderweb. At that point, you're probably best off playing to your strengths and removing some of the stuff that's going to put pressure on the kidneys themselves, so that filtering capacity. So that's where some of the myths of high protein intakes being damaged into the kidneys come from, because obviously if you've got albumin, urea in your urine, and you're eating a very high protein diet, you're creating albumin within the body, which is then passing into your urine, so it's coming as a direct out effect of your nutrition. So you reduce your protein, of course you're going to have less protein in your urine then, but it doesn't necessarily mean that high protein diet is the cause for having the kidney disease in the first place. Or that you'll fix your kidneys somehow in the meantime. Correct. You're just leaking less because you're consume less. Correct. And I think at that point, your strategy is to almost, I wouldn't say cheat to result, but you've got a damaged kidney, which is going to be quite difficult to repair. So your strategy is basically how can I preserve the function of the kidney as it is now versus repairing the kidney. So it's not like the liver where we know the liver has those BMSC stem cells that can come in and repair the liver to an extent. It's very, very unlikely that you're going to get stem cell infiltration into repair nephrons that have been damaged. Like a nephron, if you look at the anatomy of a nephron versus the anatomy of like a hepatocyte liver cell, nephrons are so complex in that you've got at least 10 distinct sections too that are doing different jobs based on the point along the nephron. It's not just like a liver cell has CYP enzymes, it produces bile. It's a very relatively simple cell. The nephron, has a filtering capacity, has a reabsorption. It's tightly controlling the blood volume. It's correcting blood volume drops with renin. It's retaining sodium. It's excreting potassium. It's regulating glucose. There's so many different things to that. Once it's damaged, your best strategy is offsetting further damage than, oh, I'm going to fix my kidneys. Like I said, when people see these changes in creatinine, creatinine falls from removing creatine and not training to failure, not eating a high protein diet, some antioxidants. Yeah, of course, the un-papered EGF4 is going to go up because it's a calculation, but it doesn't necessarily mean that the actual physical structures repair itself. At that point, to be honest, when you've got some level of kidney disease or kidney damage, bloods are useful to monitor a track and progression of the disease. Really using something like CT scans of the kidneys or ultrasounds to track the physical progression of the organ in real time is really a better solution. You brought up anyone listening to this that's worried about kidney health, what you're doing. A hundred urine test strips on Amazon cost about $9. And for the cost of like $9 to tests, you could do one test every day and that's three months covered. What do you talk like $45 to cover yourself for a year? Not even at $36, $4 quarters. You know, it's a very inexpensive way. And then if you want, whenever you see your primary care physician, get them to do an advanced ACR test where they actually look at albumin to creatinine ratio of your urine to give you an even better insight. Yeah, you can also do a 24 hour urine collection test. I would recommend everybody to do that twice a year. It's very cumbersome obviously because if you drink like four to six to eight liters of water, you have to collect all of it. You can miss a drop because that's how they get the actual colonial filtration rate based on your urinary cyst adency and urinary creatinine levels compared to what's in your blood. And if you miss one urine, then obviously the calculation is not going to be correct. So that's what I would recommend everybody to do at least once or twice per year. And it's cumbersome, but it's less cumbersome than going in for an MRI or CT scan. You know, this you could do from the comforts of your home, you bring it back with you to the gym if you pee there and then you collect everything and just throw in a big jug and then take it with you to the clinic. Let's say, look at all the urine I produced, aren't you proud of me? I got like one time, I got like 10 liters. So and then I did the ultrasound right to see if anything was going on. I had one of those, you know, health preaches from the doctor after my creatinine was like 1.9. So I did the 24 hour urine collection test and an ultrasound and everything came back normally. And you see that the funny thing is the eGFR can be super low. And then you do the actual GFR based on the creatinine from your urine and your blood results. And then you see, okay, creatinine is highest in my blood, but it's also high in my urine and it's actually filtering appropriately. You just produce a lot more and then you check your system and see and it's perfectly in line like 0.68 milligrams per liter and you're like, okay, can breathe again. But I think many of these bodybuilders including myself, you know, when you don't know yet, you get, yeah, you get scared and then you go through the ringer of all these tests. But I think it's important to keep doing that every year because, you know, blood pressure you can manage obviously, liver will regenerate, but the kidneys are once it's broken, it's kind of broken forever. And I don't really feel that stem cells are that conclusive to make it better. And well, you could do a kidney transplant, but with the rejection drugs, you know, and then the invasive surgery, I don't think that's a permanent solution either. And then kidneys after the surgery, how long do you last, seven or 10 years, something like that, you know, it's not like they last the rest of your life. Yeah, so it's prevention is the best cure in the sense. I see a lot of guys that had protein urea was able to reverse it. But that's never really to the point that they had like a plus three or severe album, albumin aria, where, you know, they're beyond help, because at some point you just have to tell them to stop. I'm sure Dante Turgel could have some horror stories because everybody went to him. The point is just like he's exhausted because it keeps happening. And it's it's weird because it seems a lot of bodybuilders still don't control their blood pressure or manage to oxidize the stress or avoid compounds like FTP and anapotide. You know, Kurt, did you ever get like in your coaching career, like guys with severe kidney problems that were irreversible? No, I have a current client who has some ongoing kidney issues with infections in his kidneys, but he's under care of several doctors. I'm not sure exactly what's going on. Yeah, okay. I started Ben Chow did a show and he had some protein urea, he had some kidney issues, and he was able with a lower dose and some mitochondrial peptides, because I was able to keep everything under control while he was prepping for a show. So that's an anecdotal report of one, that it is doable to get back on stage. Of course, he didn't post his blood work results, but what I understood from the Instagram stories is that his kidney function actually improved during this contest prep. He kept the dose just moderate and he credits the improvement of the blood work regarding the kidney markers to the oxygen or to the mitochondrial peptides like MOTC, SS-31, and etc. Now there isn't really much in the scientific evidence to support it, these mitochondrial peptides, but you would say that upregulating mitochondrial function and reducing oxidative stress should have some overlapping benefits in the kidneys. My kidney markers did not improve over the last year that I've been using these peptides, but then again, my kidneys are functioning perfectly fine. My creatinine is a little bit elevated, but it's not something I'm worried about. Did you guys see anything, any improvement from certain compounds in kidney markers besides acergalozoic extract that is able to lower creatinine to a certain extent and growth hormone to a certain extent? Not really. I guess even what you said there about peptides improving kidney function are not seeing an improvement in kidney function blood work. I think it's very selective because you have to then view, do those peptides influence, creatinine metabolism and the fact that mechanical breakdown of muscle tissues can release creatinine and you're going to have an increase of creatinine activity. I think I'm very skeptical. Blood work, like I said a few moments ago, it's not the greatest controller of kidney health management. You could have a very high creatinine value and why I often say to people is your trend is more important than the actual figure. So let's say in the UK, I'm not sure of a milligram is per deciliter for the US, and I always have to use a calculator, but for the UK, the core off I think is around 125 for creatinine and the normal range. Let's say you start your cycle and your creatinine is 110 and you're training intensely, you're having creatinine as a supplementary, eating high protein diets and then six weeks later you've put on four or five kilos of muscle mass from going back on cycle. I probably expect that person's creatinine to maybe go up five or six, so go from 110 to about 115. That to me is a normal trend and then that's a steady trend because they have an influence on any of the factors that affect it like training, creatinine intake dietary protein, they've kept all the variables the same so there's no change in bias. Now if that person's baseline was 110, for six weeks on cycle it goes to 115 and then six weeks later at the end of the 12-week cycle, the creatinine is now about 145. That change in trend now to me is well, I really have put on 15 kilos of muscle mass or something's not right with the kidneys where more creatinine is going into your bloodstream. Again, you come off cycle, you lower that creatinine kinase activity, you lower obviously your muscle protein synthesis with being back to like either you know TRT or whatever that naturally might see that creatinine level fall and what maybe you might reflectively see is you're going from 145 back then to that baseline of 110 before you went on cycle. That's sort of returning to your baseline number on your trend and saying okay well something changed at the end of week 12-week cycle, whether it was oxidative stress or whatever which is causing more creatinine to come back into the bloodstream but now being back at TRT you're back to your baseline creatinine. Returning to that baseline number doesn't tell you that you didn't do damage to your kidney at that 145, it's just saying that all variables considered you've gone back to 110. And you lost all your gains. Is that your muscle mass is the same as before the cycle? It chips up elevated by two or three points so you know you're keeping some of the muscle mass in the strain. That's just an example of like if you ended up with a very high number and then coming off cycle and going back to like your baseline TRT and I'm talking like oh let's say you go back to TRT and we're at the end of your eight or nine weeks TRT before going back on again. At that point again it's not like green light that I've not done any damage to my kidneys, it's a sanity check but the sanity check is basically okay should I be doing 3D diagnostics or not? Okay let's just go back on cycle again. So the use of blood work you should be trying to do further calculations so the crock-fort gelt equation is the main one that uses BMR even though BMR is very flawed it sort of can assess your body mass ratio towards your kidney filtration and then it's able to deduce is that crackly in value coming from muscle mass or it changed the calculation slightly and then you've got this astatancy crackly in calculation or I think it's called the epi calculation that uses both values and you can add in other variables to the calculation in terms of ethnicity, age, height, weight and also if you suspect that you've got unstable kidney function it'll change the GF4 with an error ratio on it, add it so then you can then actually then get a relatively good understanding of well how well are my kidneys working because you have to view EGF4 was designed for when a drug has to be administered IV how well can the kidneys take this brunt because the kidneys are going to take that drug very quickly that if kidney filtration rate is very poor there's a likelihood that that drug administered intravenously is going to damage the kidneys potentially irreversibly so it's a risk decision matrix as well with even if you're going to have contrast CT scans. Yeah, I'm just going to bring the galonidium contrast and iodine to make the checker kidney function first because it's very heavy on the kidneys. And normally what they do is they'll do a it's basically what what the sort of term is an excessive hydration protocol that as soon as they administer the contrast agent they excessively flush the kidneys to dilute that compound down very quickly. It's like a shunt procedure but you know even in that case if let's just say someone does inject your kidney health and decides from listening to some of our education I'm going to book in for CT underground when they do the follow-up prior to giving the contrast agent they might well find out there's actually something wrong with your kidneys. That I will have to find that out before because I do extensive testing for the kidneys before and I had to argue one time because my creatinine was elevated so your creatinine is too high so I might have more muscle mass that they're creating and I trained pretty hard so please check my sister and see blood urine nitrogen etc and they're like okay your kidney function is actually fine so this is something you have to argue with a doctor as well as a bodybuilder okay your creatinine might be 1.6 1.7 even which is linear to your body weight and training intensity and then they might not even accept you a purchase from several bodybuilders as well so yeah they didn't want to do galvanidium contrast or radioactive iodine for a CT scan so then you will run into this issue where you actually need to stop training stop creatinine and and over hydrate yourself for two weeks leading into the CT scan so you qualify and your your kidney markers are actually in an acceptable range for the doctor you know so this is always a bit of an issue I get the more muscular you get and the more gear you take the further you get away from what is accepted in the medical field and you might be perfectly healthy but on paper it doesn't look that way you know and then you can't even do the ultrasound through the CT scan because you're paying it's the same as blood donations right yeah your hemoglobin is way too high bro you can't donate what am I gonna do now you know let me take care of some of this ematicrate and so yeah these are the problems you're running to but it's it's also induced right it's we do it to ourselves to get so far away from the medical field and what's generally accepted so you need to wise it up and you know be a little bit ahead of the curve did you ever did you guys ever see a correlation between training intensity training volume training frequency in creatinine levels yeah as I have yeah yeah card for sure yeah I mean it just to break down right just yeah it's generally if you tell guys to not train so hard for a couple days before labs you should go back down I've seen I forgot about this I saw a former client his creatinine got over two from TMP did you do labs in your TMP I did TMP once and I didn't run labs okay I was just curious if you saw the same thing I don't have a ton of experience with TMP I was in Holland so you can only do labs once a year we didn't have private clinics so I would be you know like on TRT dose or off off everything okay when I did labs but like most of my experimentation with labs was here in Thailand because I could just run it every month if I want to you know have you seen it with TMP I'm not personally know but I can I can understand why it may may occur I mean you have to think how DMP works as a mechanistic factor of creating oxidative stress with uncoupling if you're creating oxidative stress in the body like what we talked about at the very beginning with something like DMP where it's unhinged oxidative stress it's very well likely that you're going to have the kidneys take that brunt as well as you know muscle protein breakdown with something like DMP unless you're using something to slow down or improve nitrogen retention like being on cycle and have an appropriate diet setup with that excessive lipolysis and free fatty acid oxidation with the uncoupling yeah it's very well understandable to see someone's crackney and go sky high with DMP especially if you're basically cooking cells from the inside out yeah I didn't I didn't advise them to take TMP I didn't find out till they went to the hospital that he was using DMP oh god  alucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucuc and figure out the ratio between test and EQ, right? So you're not running it at a weird amount, right? Exactly, so you keep your estrogen nicely at the top of the reference range or slightly over. So no, the kidney issues from both the known is in the scientific evidence, but anecdotally for the bodybuilders who bodybuild, who know how to do this properly and stay healthy, no issues. I've seen it with DMP, you know, other people, obviously, and in other drugs, worsening kidney functions or uncontrolled blood pressure, where you just see creatinine or raptomialysis, which also happens sometimes, but that's usually in the endurance athletes, where they're like, I'm gonna run a marathon and then they don't consume adequate carbohydrates. And then they get raptomialysis and then there are CPKs, like 25,000 and creatinine is four and shaking, shivering in the hospital. Yeah. You know, and then they think they come back from that also, you know, this is the hydration for three days, four days, and it's perfectly fine again. My record with CPK looking on blood work is 12,000 and a world's strongest man athlete. So someone's yet to beat that record, but everything was creatinine was perfect, the statin C was perfect. So it shows you the density that these guys train at is. 12,000. On human. The highest ever guy, it was 3,500, 5,000 something like that. Gotta train harder. What you were saying before about labs and kidney function, my, I have scans done on mine. That's why I know there's an improvement. We're not just going by more curse than the blood, like you're saying. No. Yeah, it's important to do the scans. You know, it's cumbersome and annoying and you have to go through the doctor and explain why that you want to be preventative. But I think it's important to do every six months or depending on your source, assourcing or at least once a year. Of course, if you're on TRT, you're managing your blood pressure, you know, once every five years, fine. But if you're like for me, I use drugs to experiment and make videos about. So I go to a hospital all the time just to make sure that I'm okay and that I don't need to pull the plug or that I need to pull the plug because the experiment is a little bit too crazy for my liking, you know? So I do it frequently just to stay on top of my health. But so far, not on wood, besides that spout with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease which was food induced, not drug induced, you know, prevented from taking drugs obviously because of the stem cells in the liver. But yeah, I was able to resolve that as well. So I do notice that with training intensity, sometimes the back in the day you get clients and they're really like their drop sets in high density, right? They're hours in the gym and you see that the creatinine, the CPK is really high. And then you bring them down to, you know, maybe more frequency, higher intensity with low volume approach. And then the CPK and the creatinine goes down and they actually start growing because there's a lot less muscle breakdown instead of doing these crazy triple drop sets. And then I go, I'm finally growing, I'm a kidney marker, you're improving. So you're not burning yourself away from the inside out. So all these little things, you know, can contribute as well. And that's why I think that some of the bigger guys that train that way and have a high protein or a high carbohydrate diet, which also acts protein sparing obviously because it's an energy source more readily available than protein. So you have less muscle protein breakdown. I think their creatinine levels are actually quite okay because they train optimally and they eat optimally. And there's very low breakdown of protein and that's represented in the serum creatinine and creatine phosphokines. Yep, I drink carbs while I lift to prevent. Oh, really? Okay. Yeah. Yeah, so I think one of the reasons my micron levels are a little bit higher is because due to a ketogenic diet, I'm always on a high protein diet and I don't do interworkout carbs because that brings me out of ketosis. I have post-workout carbs, seven grams from fruits, but it's not much or 150 in disguise, but most of the time it's 70. You mean you're not doing the fruit diet? We don't know. No, no, no, I tried that. I was kidding. And then my insulin levels are all over the place. It was fun though. It's fun to eat a lot of candy. I felt like a little boy. I've been like a teenager. Felt like Halloween every day. Hahaha. Hahaha. Man, what a fun two months it was. No, nobody does it now. It went away quickly. Do we ruin that for everyone? Yeah. It's like one of those fat diets. I tried it though. I mean Chase, we tried it. Chase, come off of it after a couple of weeks. I think Mark Bell stopped. I stopped after four days. It was fun while it lasted man. Yeah. It was fun while it lasted. I think probably a dirty side that we've not discussed is the D word when it comes to kidney health. Diabetes. That and diuretics. Diuretics, yeah. We're talking about the fruit that they have, the sugar diet. Yeah. I mean, I'm considering the weekend that has gone by and some of the protocols I've seen. Sometimes utilized in the past. It's no wonder that some of the 90s bodybuilders ended up with kidney problems where you're sucking the kidneys dry almost like the Sahara Desert. Mercury based diuretics baby. You drink this. You have this. What is it Chad? It'll make your first place. Okay. Between injectable asics and, you know, I think what obviously what everything we've noticed over the last two years with bodybuilding since we started this podcast people are doing less crazy shit now when it comes to they're talking about it less because they don't want to get out it. Yeah. Well, yeah, well, that's that's to I mean, I mean, I've seen a well known pro bodybuilding coach. This is now like four years ago and one of the peaking protocols was A-50 milligram diazide every six to eight hours from four to five days out. Five days out. On the stage. Yeah. Five days. So this competitor ended up like a mummy on stage. Oh, it's not even a mummy. It's the end of the posts. Like the homostatic rebound. You're talking about a blood pressure. You know, but like a competitor that ends up like a Mitchell a man of like the marshmallow man with excessive anti diuretic hormone basically just goes out the window and now the person's sucking up every ounce of fluids that they're eating or drinking postage. The mineral imbalance heading for an arrhythmia. So when it comes to like kidney health, diuretics can be a big contributor towards chronic kidney disease. Yeah. And it can be so acute in terms of the window that it's been used that the damage that's done from that acute use is irreversible long term. So, you know, we've done the podcast on pleaking and getting ready for shows. Right. If someone has to, you know, manipulate diuresis and help their body expel a bit of fluid, you know, being a bit more intelligent with diuretic usage, understanding, you know, metabolically for their blood panel, if they've got, you know, healthy, magnesium, sodium, potassium chloride under bloods before even messing with diuretic skin on stage. We're going to for it. What's interesting is that with a telnosartan and bageloflowsen before bed, you can actually induce enough diuresis the night of or the day before the show and that you just get a driver look without this excessive sodium or potassium excretion that you get from traditional diuretics. So we're talking about 20 to 40 milligrams telnosartan and 25 milligrams and bageloflowsen. Or what is it? Half the dose of the bageloflowsen, but in bageloflowsen, it's a little bit easier to source. You can dry out quite nice and reduce the load of sodium without this weird, aldosterone rebound. And it seems to be quite favorable if you do growth hormone loading. So you use the impact of flow and to, you know, remove a little bit of the sodium in the glucose that might be excessive after a carb load, whereas with the diuretics, you you flush out all the water. It takes the water away from your intestinal tract and the kidneys, obviously. And they have blood pressure issues and constipation. So the coaches and the competitors I talked to, they switched the impact of flow and telnosartan for diuresis instead of. I was going to. You might, you might, if you go a little bit crazy post show, you use a little bit of aldactone to kind of keep the diuresis going. But again, with the impact of flow and you can retain the sodium balance quite well. And then, of course, you get the ad benefit of the glucose excretion where you don't get into this weird hormonal diabetes roller coaster because you're celebrating eating cheesecake 24 hours a day. You know, I was kind of joke that you mean you don't correct spale with more diuretics. Yeah, you do IV lasics every six hours, right? Right on the clock. 20 milligrams per somebody and two mls. Fuck, man. Back in the day, that was all it was available, dude. Yeah, normal is really using SGT2 as an intelligent way of clean. I'm going to get so many emails about this right now. And I'll read you. Yeah, we're giving away the secrets. Yeah, shit. People are going to be like, so we can use diabetic medications to correct. So you can't bulk it up. What about metformin? Can I use metformin? If you want to buy a bloated stomach on stage. Sure. Well, you know, that that aside diuretics and kidney health, you know, never mind steroids, the ad diuretics, heavy stimulant use, you know, excessive water consumption. You know, there is a lot of peaking protocols that relied around water ramping, which makes sense. Which makes which makes sense on paper. But again, every sort of swing there's around about that. If you drive water intake up higher and higher and higher, you're obviously diluting blood sodium with the excretion. And all top process there was basically that your body's going to accommodate diuresis to whatever fluid you're going to take your ramp up to something. Let's say normally you're drinking four litres and then by the end of the week, you're drinking 10. The kidneys get used to accommodate that 10 litre excretion that when you stop drinking the fluid, you continue to excrete or overshoot. But it's a temporary change with aldosterone and actually got a radical. Yeah, it's going up. But then eventually ADH comes up to me that and you've got about an eight to ten window, eight to ten hour window to take advantage of and then biology takes over. And then you retain everything and that's how you get cart failure. Yeah. And then obviously the blood pressure impacting the kidneys. So post show kidney out management, never mind running a cycle into a show. The two or three days peaking if you start doing silly things. You're doing everything right or leading into the show. It's usually after the show that you damage yourself. There's actually several Thai bodybuilders that died here. They did the Mr. Thailand. They do the aldosterone and the LASIK protocol the one week on aldosterone, 100 milligrams a day and then injectable LASIKs or tablet LASIKs the night before the show to make weight and get into the class and stand constipated on stage, but good enough to win. Then they qualify for Southeast Asia Championships or Asia Championships. Like, fuck man, I got to be in shape in three months. I better start eating because I can only eat for a week. And then I get to get back on a diet and then they retain everything. They stop the diuretics, stop the cycle and they retain all that water. They gain 25 kilos, not pounds, 50 pounds. And they have a heart attack. And this happened multiple times here in Thailand and all over Asia because these guys, they don't know. They just eat like assholes and then they don't be for a week, basically. And then the heart fills. Yeah. It's insane. So luckily, the English speaking bodybuilders, they're a little bit more aware. You should do that. You know, Steve, can you discuss the growth hormone loading thing that you're talking about? Ah, OK, so growth hormone loading is basically, you know, for the guys that are not 100 percent in shape, they take the growth hormone out three weeks before. I don't know. Let's be honest. True conditioning is hard to get by. Yeah. And like a look at Samson Dauda and Andrew Jack this weekend from the Olympia, they're finally in shape. After how many shows? All right. And then both of them are small. That's why Andrew was fourth. Samson was third because he retains the muscle a little bit better. So for the guys that have never been in shape, you take the growth hormone out and you manipulate the drugs a little bit to get fullness for something else, maybe from superdraw or halotest or whatever. You take the growth hormone out at the two week, three week mark and then you reintroduce it the last couple of days, the last two days, for example, before the show to restore a little bit of fullness that you might not get from carbohydrates or the steroids. Works very well for women. It's going to say, yeah, men, a little risk. It works very well for men, but you need to run like 24 IE's per day. One or one water retention that would occur with it. No, because it usually takes three or four days to say. OK, so you're missing that. Yes, so you're so from one or two days of growth hormone loading, especially after a weigh in, right? You you cut down your you might fast or cut fluids for the weigh in. Then you start growth hormone loading. And if you manipulate the electrolytes well, then the fullness comes back to the point that looks athletic. OK. And so and then the water comes after the show. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then after the show, you might need to take some old actone to kind of clear that up or in back with frozen to kind of, you know, because you do retain a little bit of exorciodium. So it's a careful, little balancing act. But if you do it right, I did it at the World Championships many times because growth hormone doesn't show up on a urine test. It all supposed to be natural, right? On the day of the show. So you do like for the women, maybe eight to twelve IE's or for the men, 24 IE's and they're off all the all the PD's on the day of the show. And then growth hormone is basically the only thing you can load into them because it's you can't detect that in serum or in urine urine. Yeah. And then and then we'll get some fullness that is unique. And they're like, I can't put my finger on it. And that's exactly what I wanted. Because they look fuller than everybody else. You know, so it's and of course, I would be there in person to kind of coach them through that protocol. And I believe, Dean, we discussed the protocol about glucagon, right? That's also a way to load up. It's also not detectable. I've never used it myself. But like all these little strategies is something you can practice with, but you need to take the growth hormone out. But you don't need to take the growth hormone out if you're truly in shape. Yeah, I agree. Let's be honest. I usually just lower it. Yeah, lower it. Yeah. You know, you go from from 18, I use the 12 or something like that. Or most guys I have go 46. Yeah. So you reduce the water attention that way. And again, if you're truly in shape and you only need a quarter dyes at or something like that at the end, that's fine. You know. Mm. I I found some ways to get to the stage. I found if if it was left in, you have like a much more like rounder looking physique. Whereas if I took it out for 10 days, you are absolutely like detail or as deep lines in the condition. So for me, anyway, the sensitivity of the the fluid or mineral retention was quite noticeable towards whether you're looking for a big visual globally appearance on stage or whether you really want to show the judges what sort of lines are in the glutes and hamstring. Yeah. And it seems that the water attention is only in the muscle if you do it for one or two days. Can it depends on the individual? Some people can get away with three days, but after three to four days, you you start to get subcutaneous water attention and you lose detail. So it's a it's a balancing act that most of the time paid off for my athletes. Now, keep in mind, most of my athletes were either bikini or they were covered in dream time or you don't see detail anyway. So you'd rather bring the fullness and separation. I had to give these guys a hug and you're it's like you've been wrestling in the mud, dude. I gave a lot of hugs at the World Championships because a lot of my guys are top three in the prize money. So I was like, bring it in, bro. And then you're like, you got to hold dream time. I love your body. Yeah, disgusting. Disgusting. Yeah, but that's, you know, that's what I was because still coaching. But I know several people do the growth from unloading and to great success. And it does bring a nice athletic and aesthetic look to the physique. Yeah, but you would change the water after the show, so you got to be extra careful. So it's OK, you can eat the night of the show, right? You go get your cheesecake factory in your in your, you know, your red velvet cheesecake, eight to nerd calories. And then Sunday, you're back on a diet. It's that simple. You got to deplete because you were 95, 99% carb-loaded for the show. Maybe you did some fat loading. So your insulin sensitivity is already ruined on the day of the show. You don't eat so much, right? Because you want to retain that look. You might do some growth hormone and anodrol and suspension or whatever. You have your cheesecake in the evening and then Sunday, you're back on the cardio machine and the dieting, you're just hydrating. But because if you start, if you continue to eat. That ain't good, man. You're beyond full. Then you're turned to the Michelin man, you know, in your old things starts to. I would do my wife on time. She was like eating for two days and then we flew back and you get more water attention in the place. Right. Then by the time she arrived, oh my God, she looked like worse than she started her diet. I said, okay, we're not doing this anymore. Yeah. So the diuretics for kidney health. Not a good idea unless you stay hydrated and you control your electrolyte intake because some guys like Chase, for example, he's on a low dose hydrochlorothiazide with his high dose growth hormone and it seems to be working quite well. And his kidney function is intact. I think that the problems come from kidney use is when you do it in combination of weird sodium and potassium protocols and water restriction, especially lasix like loop diuretics that are pushing against the kidneys to excrete, but there's no nothing to excrete. That's that's right. The problem is coming again, you know, mercury based diuretics are not being used anymore because they don't do diuretic testing into the Olympia anymore, but that that used to be a thing. Or a coach, which is recommended some weird protocol or insane diuretics in any combination thereof because they were not on the list yet. And then, you know, whatever we can do to get a diuretics effect, which again, most of these guys were in true shape. So it wasn't even necessary. Yeah. Then again, when you look at the pictures of the nineties to look a little bit better than the athletes now. So maybe maybe you do have to sacrifice your kidneys for a couple Olympias. Hey, man. I don't know. And I saw some on Instagram. You see the comparison. This was Mr. Olympia 2000, I don't know, 97 or something. And this is the current Mr. Olympia. Worst detail versus separation, worst vascularity. I'm like, there's something to say for that, you know? So maybe you just need to sacrifice your health to look absolutely insane inside out. Although, I mean, back then dieting mentality compared to today as well, back then they were just they'd eat sawdust, you know, they'd eat sawdust, if they're told today it's like it's been 24 hours and I haven't had a refeed. Yeah. I need some carbs. It's like, you know, I'm not. I honestly with some of the physiques, yeah, they have huge amounts of muscle mass and then you've got the area where these guys need to eat a lot of food to maintain that muscle mass. No doubt. But the point is to get on stage with like 90s conditioning, where you can like put your finger in between the distraitions that. Today are the guys truly dieting as hard as they should be, you know? And I think a lot of a lot of the coaches are being emotionally manipulated to keep them fed. So it's sort of like, OK, well, I need to keep this client on my side to retain this person and in the current business. Now, you need to keep these guys, you know, you see the fallout sometimes when a high level competitor leaves a coach, it's just drama all around. They didn't have to deal with that in the 90s. You had the bodybuilding magazines that was all filtered. There's no social media. You'd be lucky if you see one of these guys at a guest posing at your local gym or local bodybuilding show. But now everything is 24 seven full time access and there's a huge business. You know, so yeah, I think some of the coaches are a little bit complacent because they're afraid to lose the client and coach hopping is a real thing, obviously. And then social media blows smoke up their asses. So yeah, my coach is just telling me to fucking do two hours of cardio and no food. And fuck this guy. Everybody tells me I'm the greatest ever, you know. So you have to keep it real. I lost a lot of clients this way back in the day. Because, you know, they were the best in our country. And I tell them, suck fucking up and actually come in shape, you know, and train, keep the intensity going because how are you going to retain muscle mass? And I'm so tired. They should shut the fuck up. And you have to do this. Yeah, it's probably welcome to the real world. I'm hungry. I'm fly hungry. And dude, then now you can't even say that anymore because there's retarded tight. You know, she's just a retarded. Tired. They should. You know, this is what I'm tired. What are you talking about? You know, that's what I wear. And I just read some of the current levels of open bodybuilding. Very impressive physics. But it also is the Georgian. The Georgian is rewarding, fuller looking physics beyond, you know, 90s condition. Then it sort of comes with a game of least effort of I just have to be just in shape or I have just a bit of indentation to my glutes. And that's it. Not like wall not cracking lines, you know, completely stride down the glutes, full separation hamstrings. It's like I just have to be just on the mark and then my fullness will carry me through to win that. Personally, I think the sort of 90s level condition was always what I strive for. Competing. That's why classic is so much fun because these guys are actually in shape. I mean, that was a great line up this year. They have to make their weight. Yeah. Like Ramon Dino, he looked inside out. Mike Summer fell also because he had to drop because he was not as tall as you thought he was. Yeah, I think Logan looked really good. Yeah, Logan was really good. And he was so, it was kind of far down. I think he needed to fill up a little bit. His condition is pretty good. When you're in true condition and you have a weigh in today before, two days before, it's hard to load up. It's hard to load up, you know. That's the problem with making a weight class. That is what it is. The top three in classic. For me, maybe I'm biased because I really like classic bodybuilding. But the top three of classic physique were the shine outs of the weekend, in my view. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, that seems a little bit more attainable, even though when I stood next to Ramon Dino, he dwarfed me and we were the same weight. I was like, why are you so fucking? It's a whole different animal, obviously. But it seems a little bit within arm's length. If I just train hard enough, I can be a classic guy. But if you see like, you know, Adityupan or Somsondatta, you're like, or Derek or Andrew, you're like, I can never be this way. When I met Jay Cutler in 2006, it's how I felt. After he won the Mr. Olympia, I shook his hand. He came to Holland for the Dutch Grand Prix. I shook his hand. I was like, I can never, it will never happen for me to be like this. So I literally just said, fuck it. You know, it's not the direction I want to go in. Because, and then William Bonac and a couple other Dutch bodybuilders were there as well, but they were still not that size, that Mr. Olympia size. So I remember when I met Jay Cutler at that time, I was like, no, fuck it. It will never happen for me. You know, so thank God for classic to keep us motivated. Anything else to discuss about kidney health? We're pretty much done. I think for what we've covered, blood pressure aside and hydration, oxidative stress, check your protein and in your check of your own for protein with very simple to buy test strips on Amazon or wherever. Maybe do an ACR every six or 12 months. If depending on how long you've been on, maybe do an ultrasound of the kidneys. You know, if you've been using things for at least two years, an ultrasound is non-invasive. It'll see if there's any shattering on the kidneys. Give you a bit of an insight before you have to pay for either an MRI or a CT scan. And obviously the radiation with CT has to be considered. Hey, attention, I've seen this. We never touched on this, but cost of chondritis, inflammation of the intracastal muscles can give the faults, can give the fault signal of pain around your kidneys. They get increased echosynicity of the kidneys and then they worry a little bit also. Yeah, that's why it's also good to take some time off, especially if you're thick back, take some time off when you do an ultrasound. Because again, it's not the most accurate way. And with all the muscle in between, especially if it's inflamed, it can cause some sort of false positive or misreading of the echosynicity of your kidneys. So yeah, that's important. And then diuretics most definitely don't do five days of diazide before an ultrasound. And I can't take LASIKs in the morning if I want to look at Instagram. Probably not. I knew a guy. I knew a guy would take LASIKs every morning and take his pictures. Oh, every day. Good following, though. Yeah. Is he still alive? Yeah, still alive. But the following is leaving because he had to shrink down. Because he had to quit. Some guys are insane, man. Some guys are insane. It's a shame, though, because the information again is out there. You don't have to destroy your kidneys. Again, it's okay to call a throw in the towel when you see something off in your blood to work or ultrasound or you're like, hmm, I don't really feel comfortable with this. It's not bad yet, but I better stop for now and assess what's going on. Like I recently had a talk with a bodybuilder who saw a little bit of protein and insuring and just decided to come off everything and go risk averse or risk off and just let his muscle mass come down and it improved. But there was still a bit of protein and insuring. So he's like, oh, fuck it. I'm done. No more competing. I'm just going to do social media and on TRT, most of us can still look pretty good. I will look crazy now, but if you've built a good amount of muscle mass, you can sustain it on TRT and that's pretty kidney friendly, in my opinion. Yeah.  and all. So, do you guys want to run the Olympia a little bit and then throw in a talk for this podcast? Sure. Yeah, did you guys watch it? Would you watch a live stream or something like that? I do not. Like I said, I would send a service. Oh, right. Yeah, it was a service. Right. Okay, Dean, did you watch it? I didn't watch it live. We were at my parents for the weekend, so I had to catch up Saturday and Sunday morning. So I sort of had an embargo on social media so I couldn't see what was going on on Saturday and Sunday so that I didn't ruin it for myself. So you were like off social media, no Instagram to get spoiled? No scrolling on my phone, anyway. Answer some DMs and out of it. Because I wanted to watch it. I wanted to watch back the stream. So I guess the open, I was a bit, I don't know, it was always going to be a trope between Derek, Hadi and Samson, to an extent. Now with Samson placing fourth, this sort of goes back to Samson played the conditioning game this year to come in a little bit smaller and then compared to Derek or Hadi who were a little more fuller for their height, that sort of luck was rewarded. And I guess we open now, we're getting stuck in it. And a never ending loop of fullness. The detail is still amazing at pro level, but it could be just a little bit better. I know we're always going on about more fat loss or whatever, but the detail could be a little bit better compared to what we see in classic in the open guys. But then you're having to sacrifice the fullness of what we see in Samson. So it's, I don't know, I think for the next two or three years that bigger, softer look, if you want to call it, is getting rewarded. I mean, I say soft, it's not a disrespectful soft. It's just not that granite hard conditioning. Yeah, I think it's the passing open. Hadi has it a little bit from the back, that sort of graininess, but then from the front, that doesn't really display the same way. I don't know, I think it's all up in the air now whether Derek will hold it. You know, it's nice to see someone repeat what Jade on in 2009 was, then say it come and re-win the title back. You must be tired though. You did the Arnold Classic and the Pittsburgh and the Mr. Olympia. That's three shows. And for the Pittsburgh, you looked a little bit off. I think his best look was at the Arnold Classic. That's in my opinion, like a top 10 physique of all time. That was like perfectly peak, perfectly full, perfectly dry, good condition, good detail. Pittsburgh a little bit off and then Mr. Olympia was close to the Arnold, but still not quite. I mean, it's a two day show. It's a lot of obligations. These guys are fucking tired. You know, Martin Fitzwater really brought it. I thought Sasan Haradi looked absolutely amazing. Didn't get a fair vote. Yeah, that's a six. Sixteenth. She has sixteenth. I'd have him in the top 10 over other guys, you know, but he's he's a new face. So, you know, you got to earn your stripes, I guess. Nick, a little bit of a mistiming peak issue. Lakes were a little bit small, even though his upper body was quite large and then he had some stomach issues. So you need to go back to the drawing board and then. Yeah, Andrew Jack really impressed me. But I mean, how many Olympias did he do before you finally nailed it? It's like his third, fourth, fifth Olympia. So can you hold that? It's like another big Rami story, right? Where he nails it once and then gets a high placing and then let's see what happened the next year. Yeah, so I'll probably go to the Arnold Classic, but I bootlegged the Olympia the first time since it was live streamed. I was about to live stream, but after last year with the LEDs and the back and the bad quality of the lighting, I decided to know what this year I'm just going to do a free YouTube stream and see what goes on. And they, they turned off the LEDs for the, for the pre-judging for open, but not for classic physique or the other classes. So I still felt that it was very hard to see the physiques. And you see it in the pictures also, like some pictures, these athletes look really, really good. And other pictures, they look completely washed out. And I think it's just the backdrop. So I decided to use my money as a voting power and not vote. I'm spending my $80 somewhere else. So, yeah, I mean, the, the whole thing is lighting will make or break different physiques as well. You know, and that can create a less level playing field, depending on shadows on someone's contour shape or body. It's a no-protein-surfing. That's for sure. Can't not see anything. You just see contours because he's backlit, you know, and he's a dark guy just by himself, you know, he uses a little bit of protein. Not as much as the other competitors, but yeah, if you're a little bit lighter skin, then it contrasts better with the background that has a boatload of LEDs blasting your face. So, you know, Terrence is not doing himself any favors. He was just, should do the Arnold Classic or he get a black backdrop or the Detroit pro like Fawad's show where you get a black backdrop. I think these guys would look a lot better. So, um, yeah, that's why this year I didn't want to go to the Olympia and one of those reasons, because last year was called VIP. I said, I'm roll seven and he like, I couldn't see anything. No, it's a very expensive ticket not to see anything. So I try to go to the Arnold Classic now and then actually watch the show there would have a black backdrop and proper lighting, you know, where it's made by Arnold and you would have final say. So let's see. Yeah, but it was a good show though. Still the Mr. Limp, it was a good show from a classic physique perspective. Very interesting. Very good physiques. I find it crazy how they can have, I didn't see the exact number this year. I know last year it was, I think 42 or 43. 58. It was 58 this year. Yeah, but a couple guys didn't make height, I think, or didn't make weight. Cause they had to re-weight everybody. That is, I don't know how you can judge like some of these guys are obviously carried points and they've won shows and they're just not getting a look in because of, as a George, how can you remember beyond, beyond three callouts of six, like six, 12, 18, after that, it's just a pot look. There were some amazing guys in like the 16th place, right? You don't get placed after 16th place. I think you look at some of the pictures like, how the fuck this guy not make top 10, you know, of course it's a very tough class and it really depends on what you like. Yeah, but a lot of guys higher than where they placed and it's a little bit of popularity contest also, you know, because if you're a big name, you're more likely to place higher than, you know, a new face or somebody was from China or from an Arab country because they don't know you. You know, so yeah, it makes it tough. Let's see what happens next year when they introduce the differences in a point system and, and you know, make it a little bit different to qualify. But yeah, if the sanctions fees are cheaper, I believe for classic physique and men's physique shows. So there's more men's physique shows and classic physique shows than our 212 and open shows correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it's cheaper to host the classic and the prize money is less. So if you want to do an IHB show alongside your MPC amateur show where you give away pro cards, then yeah, it's easier to do classic physique because it's easier to host and the ticket sales give me lower and you don't have to give away so much of the prize money. Whereas where it's open now, it's almost unaffordable. I had Pittsburgh is 100 K out of classic is 500 K and then Mr. Olympia 600 K just take it away from 212. The key on person went from 90 K to 50 K. You see that? That's just change in prize money. Have have to. I would be pissed. He's so pissed. Yes, I watched the bootleg and then the desktop bodybuildings play by play. It was actually quite enjoyable. Xavier did a good play by play. So that's what I watched. Pretty enjoyable weekend. All right, guys, let's wrap it up here. I think we have two hours and 15 minutes. You'll be good enough. Let's do the next one about liver health. Okay. And then then we got all the major, major organs met. And then after that, what organ should we do? Maybe digestion. That's going to get no views because it's not about drugs. Brain brain brain. Man, you're going to ruffle some feathers there. Yeah, we could do the brain. No, we could do the brain. Okay. So we do liver brain and then let's see what's left. But let's meet a little bit earlier because we're way behind now on the counter. So maybe in two weeks, three weeks, we'll do another podcast and then plus I miss talk to you guys. So, you know, I don't make any videos with me on so might as well do more on the ground tables. Cool. Okay, guys, it was great to talk to you. We'll see you next time. Guys, you can find all of your social media links down below. As usual, I care to have the social media account and Dean also, even though they don't post much, which is shit. I would just go on about a ground table once a month is enough. It is enough. Right. So we'll see you guys in a couple of weeks. And for now, right of time, I hope you guys enjoyed it and don't forget the like. Peace out.

=== FILE: Liver Health Discussion, Oral Vs. Injectable Steroids, TRT & Stem Cell Recovery, TUDCA & Fiber Detox [T6o0qBQwDVM].txt ===

 what about honorable mention for DHB, right? That's an injectable drug that's overtoxic. Yeah, but it's only two studies. But it was pretty toxic in the long. Yeah, it was brief. 112 milligrams for a 220-pound person. Yeah. So liver growth. Yeah, and apparently, anecdotally, as of recently, there's a lot of bodybuilders running it in the placement of an astronaut in Primo, because it's so much easier to get and so much more affordable, and they get comparable cosmetic results, but no post-injection pain and no significant changes to liver enzymes. So it's one of those drugs that still haven't touched it yet, the list. The list is very small. I wonder if there's... I don't know of any way to brew it without guicol. So I wonder if there is any... Okay, yeah, because that's what I think was the previous formulations, was just in guicol. But you could smell that when the package arrives. Welcome to the Anabolic Groundtable, episode 16. We wanted to do the brain, but our brain surgeon couldn't make it. So we're going to discuss the liver instead. We have no show notes, zero preparation, and Dean got punched or kicked in the face. So let's get started with that. Dean, you did not do rhinoplasty after your hair transplant. You didn't want to level up the prettiness. Actually, you got... In your attempt to get a medal in kickboxing, you got kicked in the face. So please... Yeah, hooked in the face. So yeah, my brother convinced me to go back to martial arts after an 11-year break. And we went to the WKA World Championships. I had a final of the kumite, 20 seconds to go, got hooked right across the face. In counter to the guy threw a kick, I dodged it, countered with a punch in the stomach. And as the punch landed in the stomach, my nose decided to go on holiday off to the right. It was one of those punches where you know it's not even like... When I was growing up doing kickboxing, you get punched in the face, and you turn around to someone behind you go, have I broke my nose? You've always had this worry that something's going to happen to your nose and you get punched in the face. But this was like... I didn't even have to ask anyone you knew just by the feel of the bone was sitting over here. So you were right there in your peripheral vision, like, yeah, that's broken. And then blood coming down the back of my throat and the bone coming out the side there. So yeah, I was admitted to hospital over in Sheffield. ENT basically said unless your nose is fixed ASAP within like 20 minutes, 30 minutes, you have to wait four to five days for the inflammation to settle. Luckily, CT scan was clear of septal hematoma that's your biggest risk when you break your nose. And he just basically said you're cleared to fly home, like it's only a 30 minute flight back to Belfast. If it does bleed, go straight to A&E on your way home driving the car. And then I booked him a private surgeon and he, you know, assessed everything and basically said I'll make a slot ASAP this Sunday. So within a week between it being broke and it was fixed again under general anesthetic. So I've got this lovely splint for the next six weeks. So we're like, what, nine or 10 days in middle of December, it'll be reviewed. But yesterday night in my sleep, this, this is almost like a spring that like grip your nose with some adhesive. It came off in my sleep was slowly slipping off my nose over the last few days. But happy to say my nose is straight underneath. So it's just a matter of patience. And do you say that again, you dropped out a little bit? Oh, sorry, it's just a matter of patience. So wait until the middle of December for the splints to come off. All right. Doing all the usual sort of stuff. Wait, I was just gonna ask, like, what's the fucking healing protocol? One, no, two, wait, wait, wait. Obviously, when you have surgery, even like tendon surgeries, muscle tears, but you know, any sort of surgery, the best thing is waiting for the inflammation to die down from like, let your body let your immune system go in and clean up the debris and the mess, you know, you've had technically with like, no surgery, you've had someone go in with an instrument up your nose and push everything back straight. Which I'd say is quite fun if you were to watch because I mean, I've, I broke my finger years ago, when I was a goalkeeper growing up and that had to be set back in place. Yeah, it happened to me with a dislocation on my pinky playing basketball, just up. All right, it sticks up and then you yeah, because the doctor's gonna do it. And so you just pull it back like that low, like this little game, you know, pull it back. And the doctor looked at me like, what the fuck are you doing? So they did, you can't do it, then I'm gonna have to do it myself. Well, I, that pinky was out of place off to like, to the right and the orthopedic consultant, I think it was like 16, give it a local anesthetic. And I remember at the time he said to me, you know, I can do this to someone no problem. But I probably throw up if someone was to do it to me. And I'm like, what do you mean? And he literally just got my finger bent in an L shape across the other fingers. Let go and it just click, click, click back straight. And like, you're just watching this obviously can't feel a thing, but you're like, it would be like almost just like torture and somewhere you just grabbed her finger on the body of body of lice with fingers get like, so with the protocol being diligent, the first whatever week, staying very hydrated, it was a general anesthetic. So that's gonna have knock on effects or like dizziness, dehydration, tiredness, conservation, you know, yeah, concept. I think to be honest, my bells didn't really take a hit, which is good. The first two days, it was like having a very bad cold, there was a lot of congestion, a lot of mucus, but you know, using saline nasal spray rinse you can buy in the UK, you can get Stereo-Mar, which is just a pressurized nozzle with saline water, keep spraying it up to gently break up, I guess, the mucus, or whatever else is up there. You don't have those, the pseudo fed nasal sprays that all the Americans get addicted to, right? You don't have that there. So after the surgery, that is one of the things that is prescribed. Oh, shit. You know, the Psyllomatazolean or oxymatazolean spray. But like you said there, yeah, if you're using these things chronically, you're going to get addicted to them and that. When you stop using it, like PPI is there's a rebound from homeostasis. So I've tried to limit the use of it. I can see the logic and that helps you to breathe through your nose, helps relieve some of the congestion, but just keeping things clean and sterile, no blowing of your nose, just letting sort of stuff come down naturally. Yeah, I think I'm pretty much in the clear now. Like just I had one day like last week, last Wednesday where it was throbbing. But at that point it was throbbing because all the left side of my nose was real itchy from that laceration of the bone that went out that way. Last night I seen that's completely healed. There's not even a scar, which is amazing. I think, you know, from where I take things now, it's really about you're not allowed to do any training for two weeks and I can accept that you can't do anything that raises your blood pressure strain or, you know, valve salvia where you're like bracing your core and building pressure in your head. But my plan is from next week to get back to some level of like 50, 60% in the gym because it's been well, maybe three and a half weeks since I've gone to gym. Like we discussed the last time with the back injury, my body weight has held 88, 89 kilos on my back. Less full. Just a little bit more to your T-dose? Yeah, if you're less full, you know, border or not, there's been no muscle loss to speak, which we covered. With moving from here, now we're into this sort of cleared period where like 12 to 40 in days post surgery or we're getting there. Start using stuff like PPC157 TB-500 to improve angiogenesis, improve blood flow, but try improve collagen deposition because part of your bone matrix is collagen. So we've got, you know, we've got good data to show that collagen, tripeptide collagen, which is a three peptide, three amino acid peptides. KBV would be a tripeptide, but just tripeptide collagen would be hydroxyproline, proline, and I think lysine, I think is your own that's attached. It's just a three short chain amino acid peptide that acts like a cell signaling molecule to improve collagen deposition as well and has interior higher bioavailability absorption than regular marine collagen. So I've got a mixture of that between like our joint stack and we've got a tripeptide collagen product for female skin health, but obviously it applies to bone as well. That's where the basis of then trying to get that collagen matrix building up again as the condrocytes then go in and create the hard and the bone. So normally fractures first two weeks is like inflammation, resolving inflammation. Then the next order two to three weeks is what they call like callus formation where you've got like soft tissue deposition into the fracture. And then after that, you have like reorganization of the matrix of tissue where it then starts to develop hard bone, which is where I think the like recovery period of six to eight weeks. With the surgeon, you're not allowed to contact sports for at least four to six months, and you know, to let it let itself itself. When I do go back to martial arts, I didn't go back, go back competing for another few years. More than likely I wear a face guard to protect my nose because I don't think I want to go through this whole procedure again because that was a wanting when I said to Morgan, my wife, I was going back kickbox and said, don't get hurt. First, first, first competition you have boom, boom. I mean, I would have loving it being a joke tour will Friday after the kumite when I sent her a text message. Oh, yeah, by the way, we're on our way to A&E. She's like immediately trying to follow me video call and the phone to my brother. I'm like I can't even face her. And my brother was just like to a broke as those will let you know later. So between BBC TV 500, do you know one that is very interesting? And I ran it before and it did have some level of benefit over on to a broke my elbow years ago as a goalkeeper. Again, all these injuries are goalkeeping around cartilacs as a bioregular peptide. Obviously, has some research obviously out of Russia to improving condosite activity and then improving cartilage and bone remineralization that my plan is to run cartilacs for six to eight weeks. I think when people look at bioregulators, there the evidence is super thin. So I got offered by regulators like all of them from previous sponsors. And I look at the scientific evidence and there's nothing, literally nothing. And nobody was talking about it. So I've heard one or two people talk about cartilacs that they got some results out of that from chronic knee pain or elbow pain. So if you have results, if you have data, please let us know because yeah, I mean, whether it works or not, right? Data is data. I want to see obviously, I know that this based on how it looked last night with the split fall of my sleep, my nose looks as I had my small bit of inflammation at the bridge of where it's been fixed. It's pretty much looks good. There's no bruising. Yeah, you would expect you to look like a panda, you know, like blood protrusions all over your nose and I wrote off work for two weeks. I was like, I'm not going to be able to do anything for two weeks. I'm going to be like publicly at all people who see me beating up from surgery. But we're out to the other side and like when I've got broke, I didn't even have the black eyes then. You see me after my gyno surgery, I was like, I blood up until my penis basically. I did the liposuction also. I was a mess dude and like inflammation and it looked like jelly rolls, black jelly rolls. You have to wait for the immune system to clean up the mess. Two weeks. I think like you said, with bioregulators, they're not like peptides and that, they are peptides, but they work at a genome level. So the influence histone deacetylation and switching on and off genes related to whatever area they've been isolated from. And again, you've got obviously the cartilax as in the alax, bioregulators and you have to like add gen. So all these sort of peptides you see like cortogen, cortilax, there are so many of them. And of course, it's all Russian made so that or Indian made and the research is obviously a little bit and I watched it talking about research. We should talk about bioglutide. Holy moly. But continue with cartilax. In terms of like that, the evidence, yeah, it's pretty thin. Is it it? Running two milligrams for six weeks cost wise. I think in terms of like the 20 milligram vials, which is 10 days, you're going to need about 20 milligrams, 10 days, 40 days, you're gonna need four or five vials, which is about 250 pounds. If that two milligrams every day speeds up the callus formation. So what I'm thinking here is in six weeks, this splint comes off, you're still at risk of damaging your nose until the bone fully hardens. Can I speed up that collagen deposition that when I get to six or seven weeks after the surgery, I'm in a position where that matrix has gone beyond the soft stage and starting to develop hard that I might get back to contact sports much quicker than four to six months. Like I might be able to go back to some level of competition, you know, after 12 or 14 weeks, anything that reduces time to speed up the recovery process. I would take it to pick your opponents very carefully. Yeah, I mean, not the face. Maybe you can make like a back job before you do actual competitions when you go sparring today. Anything got liver punches, shoulder tabs, back of the head fine, but not nose pain. What I bought is like a big face shield for my head guard. So kids wear these. Yeah, but your nose is still exposed, right? No, no, no. This one basically comes out like a fishbowl from your face completely. Like a motorcycle. Yeah, it's basically like that. And I said to my brother when I looked at it, safe strike by top 10, I said to him like, for sparring and, you know, sparring in the beginning with him and entering maybe some competitions next year, I'll wear it. But it comes out from your face that you're giving that space when you do point fighting, you know, like sport karate or point fighting kickboxing, which is what we we do or kumite, obviously can't wear a head guard and kumite. You you're giving space where you have someone that hits the front of your face, guys, they're going to get a point rather than hitting your face through, you know, there's a bit of a three inch gap from your face with the face shield. Right. That I'm not going to wear that forever, but it'll be something to gain a bit of confidence that I know I'm not going to break my nose from the first punch I get come back. That aside, what are things have I been looking at? Probably during this time. Vitamin D, vitamin K, magnesium, phosphorus. Yeah, exactly. All these simple things that, again, I made a post on it during the day of as much as it's crazy to do like all these protocols, optimal hormones and everything else. When it comes to like a break and it's being set, like new nutritional basics and patients pays off, but, you know, optimal vitamin D, where it's based on where you live, it could be 5000 10,000 I use of vitamin D tree, vitamin K2, 100 to 200 micrograms, vitamin K2, MK7 daily calcium, 800 to 1200 milligrams of calcium, elemental calcium, depending on your nutrition, magnesium, I've probably doubled my magnesium intake over where it sits at the moment. So it's close to about 2000 milligrams elemental. And what was your phosphorus? Phosphorus, I keep around four or 500 milligrams from potassium diphosphate, which is in one of our products. So, you know, it's hard to find like you have 99 milligram phosphate phosphorus tablets, but phosphorus is found in a lot of animal protein. So if you go through an nutritional database and you index all your food, you see that you get a couple thousand milligrams of phosphorus already. So I did like 200 milligrams of phosphorus when I had that leg surgery. But even then three months after a leg surgery, you could see that the bone was healing, but these still have like these little holes where the screws used to be. Now it feels a lot better though. Yeah, but now it's almost one year post-op. Taking time like that with patients and letting it adjust itself. So yeah, basics, basics always first with something like this, not really, you know, you laugh, but like rest and having to take a step back. I think what humbled me about the whole scenario was after the CT scan, they admitted me into awards to see an NHS ENT consultant to sort of say, okay, yeah, you can fly home. It was after midnight when they admitted me into the ward. So I just went to sleep waiting until the next morning. But the next morning, there was three other guys in the ward room with me. And one of them just overheard how the injury happened. And he went, oh, a kickboxer, are you? And then he sort of got into, you know, a conversation of how he's in there. And it turns out the other three guys that were in the ward were undergoing therapy for cancer, like Troton, Troton neck cancer, for my remember. I don't, I don't, I didn't really press on it. But with the guy that was talking to me, he was in his like early 80s, he had been in there three weeks still waiting on a decision matrix on surgery, medication, chemo, radiotherapy. And he said, to be honest, he was just getting to the point and there was like, you're just time is being wasted on not taking action. That's a medical system in the Western world, man. That's why a lot of medical tourism just just goes somewhere else and pay the money. But if you don't have money, then it's difficult. You know, with that, that really quickly reframes and I've said this to perspective, like I'm there with a broken nose and you're thinking, this is, this sucks, I have to have surgery and whatever, you know, around the weekend of doing other divisions. But at three o'clock on Saturday afternoon, when the consultant came back and said, yeah, your blood count is, is after dropping, but we're happy that, you know, you've not had excessive blood loss from it, that we can release you saying goodbye to that guy in the bed across from me. You know, feeling gratitude that I get to walk out at Ward and these guys are in a much more serious position. I always reminds you that when things happen to you, there could be much worse things going on in other people's lives that not that you feel guilty, but saying goodbye to those guys, getting that sort of release of, yeah, you're free to go and it can be fixed. That, you know, made me really grateful for it. And you'll heal like two times faster than average also, because you got all the cheat codes. Yeah, you know, as much of an inconvenience as it is, you know, I appreciate that it sort of made me slow down a bit the last couple of weeks with work and everything and being in the family, obviously trying to explain to the boys that it was an accident and not kickboxing related because one of them does karate and you don't want to have him thinking, oh, I'm going to get seriously hurt doing karate. It happens, man. It happens just not an unfortunate accident. It's just one of those things, but like they had it, the reframing, it's always a nice reminder that things can be much worse. Yeah, I know. Kurt, what's new with you? Nothing, man. Just working. Still healthy, still working. Still healthy. Been more than a year on TRT. Man, any injuries? The Olympics was one year. No. Honestly, no. I'm pretty convinced it's because I sleep really well that allows me to keep the size and the condition. Okay. You know, because you notice right when you ramp the gear up, your sleep goes to shit and then you need more gear to keep going. Your sleep goes even worse and I'm pretty convinced the sleep is probably the most performance and dancing thing we have available. Yeah, and then you're enhancing your sleep with how many milligrams, six milligrams? Three milligrams of zirustym? Three. Three, right. Six, six I use. Or nine I use. Nine. Yeah, I came off the GH because it was making me too sleepy. So I just do 10 I use post leg day and that's it. Okay. Because otherwise I got too much stuff going. So I finished the high dose SLU experiment. No change on blood rock, besides my lipids were lower. So HDL came down to 40. LDL was like 55. But then again, I take a ZMI, Bersinger-Bergamot and Emla extract, but that came down from 70 to 55 give or take. Triglycerides were like 24. Oh, wow, with your diet too. Yeah. So and I've had diet low triglycerides. It's the lowest I've ever seen it. And everything else is pretty much the same. Hemoglobin A1c was like 4.6. It's great. So that's pretty low. So I checked my counter markers, checked everything and yeah. So apparently no on blood work, nothing. I didn't do any imaging yet, but I'll do that somewhere in January. Your A1c was trending higher though, for it. No, it was like 4.9. I mean, I do a ketogenic diet. So when hemoglobin A1c is like I have like 70 grams of carbs, maybe 100 grams of carbs per day. I was eating a little bit more carbs because I felt hypoglycemic at times. That feels that it SLU, PP332 with a higher dose really speeds up your metabolism. So fat loss was easy and getting fat was difficult, which is weird for me. Usually getting fat is easy. Yeah. So I'm happy I ran it for like eight to nine weeks and I stopped it and no rebound. I think the mitochondrial upregulation is longer lasting because mitochondria, depending on the resource that you read, they have approximately a hundred day active life. So every hundred days you can turn over with mitochondria, but it could be years, could be a couple of days, depending on oxidative stress. But since I manage oxidative stress, let's just assume that mitochondrial biogenesis and content of my body is upregulated for a hundred days after stopping the SLU. And I'm still taking my C and SS3-1. So I get some upregulation in that sense. I think I'm good until the end of the year. Yeah, and that's exactly what my diet ends. So pre-lein and it was a fun experiment, but nothing to really show in blood work. What's the percent upregulation in mitochondria? That you really don't see in the data. Okay. You don't see that with MOTC or SS3-1 either. Just say mitochondrial biogenesis through a particular pathway, whether that's the estrogen-related receptor alpha or MOTC directly helping with mitochondrial biogenesis. Yeah, the percentages are, I can't remember reading that in the scientific. I've never seen it. No, Dean, did you see anything in it? No. No, I've never seen anything directly. That's why I'm very interested to see the long-term aspect is with HIDOS SLU. I guess one thing I've done, a bit of a, not a deep dive to speak, but I'm covering it with SN education on SLU of looking at what are some of the metabolic pathways that estrogen receptor-related alpha and PGC1 alpha interact with in terms of like the knock-on effect to oxidative phosphorylation. Obviously, when we have lipolysis or fatty acid oxidation is probably the better term. When we have fatty acid oxidation occurring chronically within our cells, there is a potential risk that our PDK4 enzyme basically gets up-regulated, so PDH-down regulates, and so your ability to use glucose by the cell gets impacted. I'm very intrigued. I think it's great and a great experiment, but I'm just thinking of the long-term picture, four to six weeks might not show anything chronically. So doing the sort of imaging and markers, cancer markers, everything else like that is a great way of proving this is the outcome. Yeah, but if you do it multiple cycles, then you might still get some. Yeah, the only downside that I noticed was hypoglycemia, but then again, when you don't eat so many carbs, you take retidutide, which is a glucocon agonist. What is doing what? I think it's one of those ones where there's going to be a sweet spot. We have the human equivalent dosage from animals. Is that technically the best dosage for humans? And when you screen everything out, I think what would be really cool to do would be looking at I guess some markers of mitochondrial health and mitochondrial efficiency, like actually being able to work out the efficiency of the mitochondrial complexes. I think there's a private test I see online, Mito, which basically characterizes the efficiency of each complex in the mitochondria. I'm not sure how their assay works, but I think it's a saliva test. It'll be a really useful way of pre and post SLU to show what's the change in the energy kinetics of each of the complexes. Now somebody in the US has to do that because I think they only deliver in the US. And otherwise I have to use my shipping forwarder, but then I'm not sure how stable it would be. It takes about four weeks to arrive. So my motorcycle parts are stuck with my shipping forwarder. It takes weeks, man. Yes, that would be a fun experiment, but I'm done for now. So I'm just going to see how long this up regulation of energy and enhanced fat loss lasts. And then if it's approximately, I don't know, the lifespan of mitochondria, then I know 100 days later give or take when the energy level starts to diminish that the regulation is complete and then back to baseline, which would be a longer effect and or a similar effect to up regulating your amatocrit with the EPO or bold and on around a draw and a little bit longer effect compared to TRT, right? You stopped your TRT six weeks later, you're in the gutter. But the first four weeks, you're like, you know, actually, I feel pretty okay. And then suddenly you do your blood to work week five or six, you're androgen deficient, and then you feel it. So I think that at one point there will be a crash or decline back to baseline and then I'll feel it. But so far, so far so good. Yeah. Dean, maybe talk about the different dosing protocol for the GLPs, the combated stuff versus the the pharma stuff you did post on Instagram, right? So it wasn't even there's obviously the debate both sides. One is on about micro dosing. One's on about macro dosing. There's no debate. It's no debate. We don't listen to chiropractors. I think I think what I wanted to do is present both sides on. Yeah, maybe there's forum and against the both sides. Macro dosing, you're going to see a bigger occupation of the receptors very quickly in terms of C max, which  could bring adverse events, which is interiorly the appetite suppression. And then the other side is, if you microdose your offset and C-max in that period of time of absorption, but from a pharmacokinetics perspective, by the time you get to the half-life of the company, like five half lives, steady state concentration in theory is achieved. But in saying that, I mean, they've been studied with one injection per week, but that's how we have to view these drugs we're designed for, I don't like saying it, but unhealthy people speak. And injection convenience, just like Nabilo, you go to the doctor, you take one shot every 12 weeks, first four weeks are great. And the last eight weeks, you're like, oh, there's also chemical difference between the compounded and the foam stuff. In terms of like, when we look at potentially the pharmaceutical made GLPs versus what is made underground, if you want to call it that, they could still be interiorly from a pharmaceutical facility. A lot of these, like a lot of drugs have some level of patent protection in terms of how they are delivered. There's some level of absorption matrix associated with the compound, which favors how well it stays in the body. And we know with, for example, triseptide, overretetrutide, we have this aspect linker on the peptide, which enhances stability. If the underground manufacturer wasn't as careful at creating the same compound, then there might be differences in how the drug is absorbed and distributed versus the underground versus pharmaceutical. And so interiorly and underground made version might need to be dosed more frequent if it's not of the same pharmacology as a real pharmaceutical. Because the pharmacokinetics are affected in the half-life is shorter. Correct. Is that okay? That's what we're seeing here. Is the study the one that's the most important? I didn't take that into consideration. I can't argue for it. Both of them make sense, to be honest. This is where I don't think one is wrong over the other. But we know obviously how it's been studied. These unhealthy populations may have some level of glucogon, well, not glucogon even, the GLP receptor could be internalized. So it is a cell service receptor like insulin. In unhealthy populations, like type 1 diabetics or even type 2, you might need to dose this once per week to get a big high C max in order to see an effect from the drug. And that effect, I guess, at week like five, six of these compounds, the outcome is HBNC control, like controlling blood sugar stabilization. The appetite suppression is technically a side effect of the drug. It's not. Yes. It's purpose to be the primary outcome for obese people who may or may not have type 2 diabetes. But dosing it in that large bolus might actually cause issues for a metabolically healthy person who may need to dose it less frequently or dose it more frequently for a much lower dose, sort of micro-dose. Which one is the correct way, again, compliance, safety, if you do like not to create dosages, but let's say you do two and a half milligrams of retitroutide or two milligrams of terzepotide, you try and mirror what the clinical studies have. And that, for that person who has like, I don't know, eight to 10% body fat, that it just makes them completely nauseous, causes pain and paralysis after, you know, smooth muscle of the intestine. Then they might benefit from going to a lower dose, whereby the appetite suppression is still present, but it's not to the extent that it's causing adversity. And you're still getting maybe some of the GLP, one response of improving pancreatic control of insulin, etc. So it wasn't, my post wasn't like, one's right, one's wrong, there's arguments for and against, but like Kurt brought up, I wanted to highlight, when you look at the research on the pharmaceutical made compound of how it's been engineered, that, I forget now what you call it exactly, but the part of the polymer that's coming off the GLP aspect is what is making it resistant to TP4. So in terms of to bep to the peptidol peptidol is four enzymes, which cleave that metabolism, these kinds of hormones. What I would also like to contribute is that these people that are in the studies, right, they're higher body fat levels. And I'm sure you guys have noticed that with insulin, for example, if you take five I use post-workout, you're 20% body fat, your blood glucose levels are not as affected as when you take them at 8% body fat, five I use, because the dispersion and the absorption at a lower body fat percentage is significantly higher. So if you take a pharmaceutical compound at 25% body fat once per week, maybe the the curve of absorption is significantly different compared to micro dosing, lower dosages, multiple times per week, because you have low body fat levels and you use it purely for appetite control because you can control your hemoglobin and you won't see your blood glucose and because you live the lifestyle. So I think maybe a ballast dose is better for fat ease. And micro dosing is better for people who are actually in shape and uses for appetite suppression because you don't want too much appetite suppression. Because I remember when lyricly tight came out, I used a pharmaceutical brand to it. But that's the only thing that was available. We didn't have generics of lyricly tight at that time three, four years ago. So I got the pharmaceutical version, paid an arm and a leg. And I would dose that six days a week and skip it on Sunday. Because on Sunday, I wouldn't get too much appetite suppression so I could have my refeeds. And this seemed to work quite well. Now with these longer acting to look like the time to type your jeopardy retrogensite. Obviously, you can't skip a day or two because it's still active. It has a multiple day half-life. But it seems that with the micro dosages, you don't have to suffer through these nauseating effects, which a lot of people experience with. Bolas injections, especially at lower body fat levels. So the first couple of days, you're just knocked out. Good luck doing a heavy squat. Good luck doing leg presses or reverse hyper extensions or what is it? You know, glute work where you have a barbell in your chest, in your stomach. It just presses your stomach too much and you can't even train properly. So I would always favor towards micro dose just simply from a management perspective. Minimal side effects, maximum results. But if Bolas injection for fat is, yeah, and they don't know how to inject and use the auto injector, I did two milligram semi-glute tight or the one half milligram duly glute tight. Sure. Go for it. But I don't identify as a fatty. Yeah. No, I was just, I wanted to talk about it because I was just trying to point out the differences that people can understand. Right. So you're looking at obese people with the pharma grade. Right. And what's happening when your body fats over 15 or much higher, there's chronic inflammation, right? So the phospholipid layer of the cell doesn't allow that receptor to go to the surface is easy. That's why one of the reasons why the bigger dose will work better. Maybe there's also micro dosing simply because it gets absorbed so slowly. You have more steady state release. Just want people to understand the difference. It's almost like an ester attach, right? The difference between the pharma, GOP and the underground potentially similar to growth hormone, right? It's the same parent thing. But it just made to do a different process. So it's not going to react the same way at the same delivery mechanism. Is different. I mean, everybody who's tried the lyroglutide or the diligulatide or the semi-glutide pens compared to underground lab, there's a unique smell. And it's the same with growth hormone insulin. Some brands may have a unique smell. Some just smell like nothing. But that's the additional ingredients that help with the delivery. Yeah. It contributes a little bit to the aroma, basically. And you're injecting that. But yeah, with peptides, it's a couple of binders and probably not of the patented ingredients that help with the pharmacodynamics or kinetics. Did you guys read up? I was going to say, it's good that we've sort of talked about that publicly to not play into. Do you say this and they're wrong? It's, you know, just let's discuss it logically, right? I get very emotionally filled. Yeah. Well, we have enough educators like that already. Did you guys read up on bioglutide that it might potentially just be a scam and that all the scientific evidence is fraudulent and found? I didn't say that. Yes. There's a guy that really went into the research and you see that the research from bioglutide done by Biomed, the guy that owns it, a Vietnamese guy, it's a known scammer or counterfeiter. And he probably copied a lot of the scientific evidence from terzeparite and retrogethite into the scientific evidence of bioglutide to make it appear that it's just as effective or more effective with this additional IGF-1 agonism, but hey, there's no cast number. And all the people that I know that allegedly got bioglutide from China, there's one or two sources that were selling it, said that it didn't do anything. So the scientific evidence is saying that the owner of Biomed might not be a legitimate businessman. Yeah, no cast number. And again, those studies of bioglutide don't think they're published in reputable publication sites. So bioglutide, I think we can write off. Okay. If you want IGF-1, use IGF-1. Or similar to the curcumin stuff, all that original data on curcumin and all those health benefits and cancer stuff that was done in India turns out that guy literally made up all the data. Yeah. And when you dive into cerebral lysine, it's the same thing. I did a cerebral lysine deep dive and you realize that it doesn't contain brain drive, neurotropic factor. We're initially, that's what they claimed. It might act as a brain drive neurotropic factor, a secretagogue, with some of the peptide chains, but exercise also enhances brain drive. No neurotropic factor. Cerebral lysine does do something though. I mean, it's not placebo. It clearly does something in higher dose juice where it removes brain fog and makes you feel more recovered from a mental perspective. But what it contains exactly, you know, I think bioglutide, cerebrolysin and some of the bioregulators, it's a bit dubious from what I've seen so far. The last thing before we get into the liver stuff, we've been rambling quite long already. Victor Conte passed away. So I wanted to give him an honorable mention because he's one of the first drug educators and influencers and the guys that did drug design for people to beat the drug test. You passed away at a belief 72 years old. I'm not exactly sure what the cause is, but I mean, he was one of the OG guys back in the day that contributed quite a bit to the athletic community like tetrahydro just renown. That's the compound he designed and many athletes. We shall not name any names, but has used that compound until they had a drug test for it. Did you guys do any research on Victor Conte and what kind of things you contributed or don't really know? No, I know the name. Ordered on the very interesting Netflix documentary made on him. Yeah, fascinating. You know, fascinating how they set up their own like analytical lab for these athletes and how they, you know, alongside his chemist Patrick, how they how they reshaped that athletics, the documentary of anyone as Netflix watching this go on to it. I think it's like uncovering the truth or something of what it is. It's something like series, but yeah, it was fascinating to see how eventually they got them, which was by just searching through the trash. Yeah, basically. And then I think you went to jail for this stuff, right? For a while. I think, but then I guess the positive span at the end of the documentary was he then took a serious role in trying to develop, you know, drug testing and becoming affiliated with that sort of background knowledge. I guess it sort of stands on what we're seeing with, you know, how transparency is evolving over time. Back then, how secretive it was to hide the use of, you know, hormone optimization or, you know, anything that's going to have an anabolic aids. What what risks they'd go to, I guess is what you'd say. Yeah. To make sure that they're like, what was crazy to see was they, they got ahead of the curve at like the epi-test-ostrone ratio. So they were like administering epi-test-ostrone so that when he had urine tests, they were maintaining the ratio of, I think anything above, I think it's sixes to one, is it Steve? Yeah, six to one, four to one, for six to one, depending on the federation. Four to one's the natural limit, right? Right. Yeah, you know, the upper limit of six to one, which is wild. Yeah. So you could actually buy epi-test-ostrone on many of the chemical research websites. And of course, it doesn't really matter because nowadays they have carbon radio isotoping. So you could see that the testosterone and epi-testosterone is coming from exhaustion of sources, but back in the day when they didn't have carbon radio isotoping, yeah, you could just administer epi-testosterone sub-Q and four to one ratio and then figure out the clearance. And then, you know, with a good lab, you could actually detect that and, you know, I might have helped with similar practices too. With testosterone propionate, you can see carbon 12 and carbon 13 running parallel in C-RET. First, like an antincipinate, you only see the exogenous. Right. Yeah. So if you don't do that, that carbon radio isotoping and you just go by epi-testosterone to testosterone ratio, two days before the show, before the drug test, it's enough to get a favorable rating. Yeah. When you have to fail the epi-ratio first before they do the other tests, because the cost is too great. Yeah. So you'd have to be pretty dumb to fail that first. Yeah, it's an acute test, just like Victor Conte said at the Joe Rogan podcast. It's an acute test, not a drug test. So yeah, I learned a lot from that guy in my career of helping athlete to beat the drug test at the Olympics and various other sports at the world championships and that kind of stuff. It's just very hard to keep track of it, because every year there's new testing parameters and it goes super fast now. So that's why I retired from it, because it's very hard to keep track. And there's more and more drugs that are getting added and then you try to go through the metabolic pathways and there's no data on it. That's a little tricky to keep track. And everybody wants to use the new and approved stuff. But if it's on the list and have a testing parameter for it, then it's very difficult to make them or help them beat the test. So I retired from that stuff. All right, with that out of the way, 45 minutes of rambling, let's get into the liver health. Where should we start? Should we start with the liver enzyme ratio, the ALT and the AST being elevated by training? You know, just start off simple. A lot of people, they do their blood work the first time. They go to a hepatologist and the hepatologist thinks you have liver cancer or liver failure because your liver enzymes are over 50. The ALT and the AST are over 50. Doesn't realize that amino trans races are also found in skeletal muscle and then raised within a couple of days following training, but they stay elevated and compound due to continuous workouts. And I believe that ALT is a half-life. What was it? 18 hours or AST is a half-life of 18 hours and ALT is a little bit longer, 48 hours. But since AST is produced so fast, you often see in body butters that AST is higher, especially in hands body butters because probably some overlap from drug metabolism. That AST is one and a half times or twice as high as ALT and stays elevated shorter compared to ALT. So if you stop training for a week, you stop taking all this oral garbage. You see that these liver enzymes drop in half and then your doctor is like, how the hell did you drop your liver enzymes this fast? So I took the drugs out and I took the training out. And if you're fast, you can, you know, you stop eating besides maybe a little bit of vegetables, then it goes on even faster. This is no enteropathic recirculation. You basically 100 percent detoxifying all these liver enzymes. So usually. Sorry, if you usually get to test TGT and Vilebrupa and two, if those are normal, it just shows exercise. Right. Right. So gamma G T is is related to what? Glutathione. So it's a part of the cell membrane that is what is the very susceptible or helps with glutathione metabolism. Dean, help me out here. It's cleavage. Obviously, glutathione is glutamic acid. Now I'm having a brain. Glutamic acid, glycine and. I'm stuck now of what the three amino acids are of glutathione, which is strange. Glycine, glutamic acid and cystine. Jesus Christ. Cystine, the most important one. Yeah. So gamma glutamyl transferase basically breaks. I think it's the bond between the cystine, glycine and glutamic acid to recycle the peptide back into the amino acid constituents. So like you said, it sits on the cell membrane. And I think inside the cell, you have GCC, which is what couples cystine onto glycine and glutamic acid to make glutathione. So when GTT goes up, it's a sign that you've created more copies of the enzyme on the surface of the receptor to try and recycle glutathione faster back into the cell is constituents back in. So when GTT goes up, it can be a sign of, I guess, acute liver inflammation. It can be a sign of acute infection, which will affect liver inflammation as well. You're using glutathione to offset infections. I think all cause mortality. I think we covered this before GTT. Once it starts going above 25 to 30, all cause mortality starts increasing quite quickly. So it's one of those ones that needs to be appreciated. With, like Kurt said, ALT and AST ratio is what's normally more important than the actual numbers. Normally there are one is to one ratio. I think and what it's called is the Doritis ratio. If you have a higher amount, let's say one and a half to two times AST, I think it's a sign of acute liver inflammation. And if there's a higher ALT to AST ratio, it's a sign of longer term potential fibrosis or even cirrhosis. So it's looking at and when it's in the red, you have to take into consideration, like Kurt said, well, where's Billy Rubin? Where's ALP? Because ALP, if the if the biliary tree is obstructed, ALP will go up and Billy Rubin will go up. GTT might go up. You're trying to paint a bigger picture that AST and ALT if they are raised in the red, but it's a one is to one ratio to speak. You can do like you said, you just take a break from training for four to five days and see do the numbers fall in tandem together in that one is to one ratio. If if we look at, you know, the markers on blood work and we see raised Billy Rubin and raised ALP, but ALT and AST are still not elevated, you know, in the hundreds. But we've got raised Billy Rubin and raised ALP. You're probably going to start seeing this function, the liver enzymes coming from the biliary tree and boil, right crystallizing and causing potential fatty liver disease. So I guess. Like cancer risk or fibrosis, cirrhosis, I think the very first thing most bodybuilders need to consider when it comes to the liver is fatty liver disease or it's it's not even like non alcohol, fatty liver disease is not how they term anymore. I think it's muscles, which is metabolic associated steatotic disease. Yeah, they're reaching this, yeah, which is to be a bit more PC, I think, towards the impact of chemicals, medications, the environment, etc. on developing fat in the liver. That's not just because you were staying from alcohol, saying non alcohol, fatty liver. When you associate to metabolic inflammation and metabolic steatosis, then you have to figure out, well, what's the root cause? Is it raised cholesterol? Is it impact from what you're ingesting? Lack of choline, inositolic improving fat transport down into the small intestine. Risk wise, I guess if you do suspect something's not right with delivered, then you can do, you know, non invasive fiber scan, which is a transient elastography, which sends a pulse of energy across the liver and measures the resistance or the sheer force of the the pulse of energy going across the liver to give you a sign of like liver flexibility or liver steatosis from resistance. But with fiber scanners, there is a caveat that because it's it's a pulsed wave that goes in between your ribs from the side. So it's not invasive. It's relatively straight forward, it's about 10 or 15 minutes to do. And you get an answer very quickly on your your like your fat score of your liver and your liver's elasticity. You could still get a good result with a fiber scan, but miss a small pocket of scaring on the liver that a global scan with an ultrasound would pick up. Yeah, like like the global picture should come from MRI or a a abdomen ultrasound, but fiber scans, non invasive, you can do it, you know, privately, relatively easily. And you can then take direct action off that result versus what your blood enzymes are saying. So it's I guess it's it's important to track the liver enzymes, especially with like contest prep, etc. Probably because and a lot of people misunderstand what I've said before. So I think it's good to clarify this. The animal research suggests that when the endomethceptor is activated within the liver, the bone derived mesenchymal stem cells cannot infiltrate the liver. So they've done a really nice study with rats, whereby they basically have a super physiological level of testosterone and then they knock out the endogen receptor within the liver and show that when they induce a level of damage to the liver, the ones that have the endogen receptor knocked out allow the stem cells in to repair the insult to the liver, where the ones that endogen receptor activation don't see as much of an improvement to tissue regeneration. And that was where my hypothesis is that if you are running chronic, super physiological levels of androgens, if that research from animals does apply to humans and you're running toxic oral cycles to speak where you're creating liver inflammation, you're creating stress on the liver cells and you're still cruising in a super physiological level. The inflammation you've created at the liver, you're stopping that, I guess, repair process or the infiltration of the stem cells. And that potentially is where I think maybe that link of hepatocarcinoma come from. What we see in the case reports of guys developing liver cancer is because they blocked that infiltration of stem cells. Does that happen all throughout the body? There's no other evidence to say that. So it's not blocking stem cells of everywhere in the body, but it is very well postulate that if it does occur in the liver, there is probably some potential of other stem cell infiltrations being interfered with. It enters. They enter the inflammatory cells in the paddock tissue and they cause the paddock cell growth as well. Like you're saying, through the endogen receptor, we don't see that in other parts of the body. That's why you see liver weight usually goes up in these Herzberger Bioassay studies with the steroids in rat models, where liver weight significantly increases. And that's what that is proven with most steroids. Now, I've also said that I've had many clients that do stem cells. And the large majority of the stem cell clinic, regardless of what kind of stem cells they inject, always recommend the client to come off steroids completely for the duration that the treatment takes place. And it could be a couple of weeks, depending on the stem cell, or at least a couple of days before the stem cell treatment, depends if it's systemic or localized, because a lot of clinics offer the systemic stem cell treatment. It goes intravenous with all kinds of other treatment options. And what they do is upregulate mitochondrial biogenesis with SS31 and somatomidecondrial peptides, administer the stem cells all while you're basically hydrogen deficient. And that seems to have a good outcome. This is why at DMA, I talked about this, I think in a previous video, this is why it's important to blast in cruise. Right. This is what the cruise below super physiological amounts are needed for, so the stem cells can actually go to the liver and help with repair. Yeah, regenerate and heal the damage. If someone's on TRT and they blast, it's not like you're going on a cruise, you're recovering. What are you recovering? You shut down anyway. It's just so the stem cells can do their job. Right. Because otherwise, they get that pluripotent amount of stem cells, the ones that are vague, that can go anywhere, are just committed to the muscle line from the androgens. And how long would you suggest the cruising period? And we're talking about like, super physiological levels or low, right? Just 800, 900, 900 grams per deciliter, no more. What's the... Yeah, I mean, what's the safest way is where time on equals time off? Hmm, right. And then I've argued that that super physiological level could be dictated off your genetic makeup. So if you were unfortunate and you have low testosterone naturally, like 350, 300 nanogram per deciliter, and you're running TRT at 800 nanogram per deciliter, in theory, depending on how your genetics change from the exposure to the androgens over time and epigenetic control, technically, that TRT, those versus where you sat naturally, couldn't really be super physiological. So even going on your TRT health phase could have that effect. So you're in a position of... Like you see there with the...  stem cell clinics where you have to come off everything. And that's to ensure that, yeah, it might suck, you might be in a hypergonadal state, but it's allowing the stem cells to infiltrate, take residency, I guess, mature, and then you can influence their biology with hormone optimization once they've taken residency. So, yeah, it's fascinating. I might explain why some stem cells fail because they don't take that aspect seriously. Yeah, you go back to the gym too fast and you create localized inflammation, which also damages or prevents the stem cells from taking residency. I had a lot of people that, yeah, I'm going to go to the gym again and then surgery or treatment failed, because the body's just too stressed from the workout. And super physiological amounts of testosterone is not just defined by the blood level. That's where the 300 milligram and above become super physiological, because that's the time that there's a body response that's greater than the body can naturally do. And 250 and under, that's why that's generally at the TRT range, because even if you're nanogram per deciliter is 2,000, you're probably not getting much more of a response at the end of the receptor than you would from your natural hormones. That's why you can't just look at the blood level and determine super physiological versus not. Yeah, it might just be better to do an HCG protocol or come off completely. I mean, it's not the end of the world. It's come off many times. And you're underdind deficient for a while, if that makes your stem cells work better. It's three months, even in three months underdind deficiency, it's okay, it sucks, but if it allows you to heal. Yeah, and if you're still lifting, you're not going to lose much muscle. No, right? No. I think so, and underdind deficiency. No, I'm not saying it doesn't. But the guys that tend to lose, the guys that gain a bunch when they blast and then lose a bunch when they cruise, it's because they're training, they're creating like a lunatic when they're on drugs and then they can't maintain that when they're not. And so the stimulus from exercise is reduced. So then the muscle mass is reduced. If you train the same, whether you're on or you're off, like blaster cruise or whatever, then the muscle mass should be maintained. Yeah. You're going to lose some fluid and some inflammation when you come off, but you shouldn't see these big problems. No, you shouldn't. But when you see the guys that blow up on a cycle and then travel up and blow up. Yeah, the Lebronis, no. You're an alcoholic off cycle and then train your balls off on cycle and take all the anodrome that you can find. So let's move on with the oral steroids. I mean, that's always been touted as very damaging to the liver. Now we see that scientifically, especially with halo testin, superdrol, I think all the case reports on superdrol have shown liver failure or liver injury. In many of these case reports, people are also drinking and taking other pro hormones. So it's case reports, you can't really take too much about it. But I remember when I did the superdrol deep dive, every single case report showed liver problems. And in halo testin, it's a case with anodrol, it seems to be less likely, even though the... I thought halo testin was safe for women and kids. Yeah, allegedly. Oh, shit. I didn't see as liver enzymes go up on a halo testin or only cycle. Yeah, yeah, okay. Good luck. Good luck with that. You know, some of the orals are, of course, less invasive than others, but then dose and duration and what else you're doing, like proviron. I mean, it's not really anabolic, it lowers SHBG, but it also doesn't really seem to affect liver enzymes. That's where the methyl group is. Yeah, exactly. It doesn't do the methyl group. The lower down the methyl is on the carbon chain, the less toxic it is. As you move up, it tends to become more toxic. Or the more methyls you add. Yeah, halo testin, all those are like very toxic. And that's why, so that's why primoacetate and proviron aren't particularly liver toxic, but they have huge phase one metabolisms that just, right, you lose a huge portion. Yeah, you lose a lot. Yeah. And that brings us to the injectable orals. Now, the only ones that are really work are injectable anodrol and injectable YK-11. YK-11 injectable... Winsraw. Oh, yeah, injectable Winsraw. And people make injectable D-ball. Oh, right. Yeah, never used that though. Did that change liver enzymes for you guys? Did you ever try it? I never tried it. I've seen both of them. Because it's still 17 alpha-alkylated. Right. And it's a warning of the equipoise. Right. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, so with YK-11, it had no effect on my liver enzymes after six weeks of 30 milligrams per day. That's the only injectable oral that had no effect on my liver enzymes. But it does when it's orally, when it's observable. I think also not. Interesting. Well, that would make sense because why would it become more liver toxic if you inject it if it's not to be injectable? Right, exactly. The problem is, like Winsraw is the same drug. You're just changing where it's being administered. It's not going to change the fact that it's still toxic. Yeah. But Winsraw seems to destroy your lipids more than your liver enzymes. Yeah. Well, that's hepatic lipase clearance. Yeah. So the androdens increase hepatic lipase, so then the etchils is going to get excreted faster than you can produce it. Right. Orals have a much worse effect there. Right. But the liver also magnifies these drugs as well. That's why EQ and D-Ball are the same chemical, but when you, right, because it's methylated D-Ball and you take it orally, it magnifies its response. Right. Yeah. And you have a little bit of different metabolism because it goes through the liver so you have more methyl ester dial. Whereas injectable bolvenone seems to produce more esterone. And some of the metabolites... Because it's interesting to own. It goes down to interesting to own. Right. So with the oral steroids, are there some guidelines that we can follow to make them less liver toxic besides not taking them or limiting the dose into duration? Four to six weeks. One's twice a year. I usually want guys to either save it for a prep for a show. Right. Or if they're very large and they need to leverage it in an offseason, I try to minimize it at the end of the cycle for a very short period of time. Yeah. Like, I don't know, four weeks, right? Because your appetizers are going to go to shit anyway. And I wouldn't leverage... I wouldn't let anivar, windstraw, those to me are more cosmetic. I wouldn't leverage them in an offseason. Right. You know. No, I agree. Yeah. So you do anodual at the end of a quote unquote offseason phase where you need to break through some strict plateaus. Yes. Or maybe you use it throughout but once a week. And your weaker body parts develop a little bit of this non-genomic signaling that helps with strength. You could break it. If you're getting stronger, you're going to get bigger. I would still default to the more classic if you're just trying to get growth out of it, just use it daily. Right. Because you're only in the spiritual period of time versus, you know, as a pre-workout, I know that's really common now. Right. And we talked about why anivar and windstraw work that way as well. Right. Because those two specifically commit the three amino acids for creatine production to creatine. Right. So they ramp up strength immediately and through non-genomic methods. But they also... One of the reasons why they build skeletal muscle is because you're now missing three amino acids out of the liver that should go to protein synthesis. Yeah. You know. And the rat liver and where they went wrong is the rat liver is not a human liver. Right. We see this with tremolone too. When you look at the metabolite studies, the way a rat breaks down tremolone has totally different metabolites than a human. Right. We're much more similar to a cow when it comes to the metabolites. Yeah. That's what the mistake with the anabolic ratings for a lot of these drugs is it was based on a rat or a rooster. We're not even remotely close to a rat. No, I know. I know. I know. But people still... And then some of the anabolic ratings are just taken out of thin air. Yeah. 500, 500. Show me the fucking Hursberger Bioassay. Show it to me. What's Helo-Test in the game, G-100? Yeah, or 2300 or something like that. Ridiculous. Couldn't find it. Couldn't find that Hursberger Bioassay. I looked everywhere. It doesn't exist. Yeah. Yeah, some of them exist. And then they have the anabolic to androgenic disassociation times 100 is the anabolic to androgenic rating. That's what William Lebelin did based on what is the handbook for experimental pharmacology, volume 43, some German by Charles D. Kokakian. I did a super long deep dive on it and he realized that he just multiplied it by 100. Yeah. And the ranges come from multiple studies. And he tried to find those studies, the ones that are indexed in that handbook experimental pharmacology you could find. But there's some of the references in anabolic 11. They don't exist. They don't exist. They don't exist. They don't exist. What about the EQ1? Yeah. That was just made up. Yeah. Yeah, or a nandrolone is compared or a trimblon hexhydrobenzoacarbonyate was compared to nandrolone acetate. I looked everywhere, dude. Couldn't find. Couldn't find. It's not even trimblon versus testosterone. It's trimblon versus nandrolone. And then there are follow-up Hursberger Bioassays that show completely different anabolic to degrading or disassociation. If you kind of go back in time and re-engineer or backwards engineer the formulas that they use for that, I think it's in a trimblon deep dive, what the actual trimblon compared to testosterone. And then it's versus testosterone injected and methyl testosterone orally. So that's even not the delury methods aren't even the same. And they don't account for the ester. So yeah, it was a clusterfuck. So let's not even go there. What I do think is that when you go on oral steroids, it's very important to take some inocidal choline and totca to help with fat acid transport and bowel acid synthesis, bowel acid excretion, and eat some freaking fiber in your diet to bind up those fibers and toxins or to bind up the bowel acid and the toxins. Because otherwise you get interopatic recirculation and all the toxins that you're just excreting, you just reabsorb. That's why in some guys that don't eat fiber, their bilirubin is sky high. So at a carnivore diet doesn't really work. It's just zero fiber. I mean, you see that in ferritin and bilirubin and all these crazy itch increases over time. It just gets reabsorbed. Dean, I know we talked about this in a previous podcast about totca, ox bile, choline, right? We discussed obviously when you're taking oral, stay effect, bile viscosity and potential bile output from the liver itself. Bile is very important because it helps with maintaining pH of the intestine. It's a lubricant as well. It helps move things along. That's why normally you get a bowel movement when you wake up in the morning. You have a mass movement in response to bile being secreted from the gallbladder down into the intestine and getting everything moving along. I think when we talked about that, things like ox bile, totca, choline, inositol, the ox bile and totca is playing into the bile viscosity, which is going to, you have secondary protein within the guts whereby if there is per bile output, it can have downstream effects on to leptin signalling. Then you effectively feel fuller for longer. That's where that lack of appetite and all of that with high oral dosage tends to come from that. If you supplement with an adequate amount of ox bile or totca, whichever sort of suits your nutrition and your fat intake tends to offset some of the appetite issues that come at orals towards the liver. We also have to view that with the liver, anything that's absorbed from the guts, the first place it's heading to is the liver. Also in terms of, someone asked me before about, you have systemic circulation of oral compounds. Normally what happens with oral steroids is you will get packaging alongside chylomicrons, cholesterol particles of the oral lipophilic steroid into systemic circulation, into the bloodstream and into the liver. You can also have lymphatic absorption of a compound where an oral could be distributed in your lymph, but to be honest, it operates like 5% absorption roughly. I think it's a little bit more if you inject the lymphatic absorption compared to oral absorption because the lymphatic system is of course activated by movement and it's basically on the outside of your body. Whereas if you take oral steroids through a portal vein, you absorb everything through the liver and then it might end up in the lymphatic system a little bit later on. Someone asked me about figuring out different ways of improving absorption, like fat intake, which is where some people do suggest taking fat alongside an oral to improve the chylomicron delivery of the drug across the membrane of the guts. But what I am saying that is if our bio-health isn't optimal, you could be at risk then of dysbiosis of imbalance in the commensal bacteria. It doesn't necessarily mean that it's pathogenic that there's going to be a disease coming from it, but the lining of the gut then can become compromised based on the dysbiosis. Now, interior you could develop some level of leaky gut or gut permeability, which can let local endotoxin from your gut microbiome or LPS, lipopolysaccharide, pass into the bloodstream straight to the liver and cause liver inflammation. That obviously can affect your liver enzymes and your cholesterol. A good marker towards gut related liver inflammation to speak is ferritin. Ferritin is the stored form of iron inside your tissue, mainly inside your liver. But the ferritin that the assay operates on for blood work is basically an empty cage that would contain iron. Basically, when you detect ferritin in your bloodstream, the iron that was inside the cage is missing. It's been offloaded like a shotgun shell, bursts out into your tissues. First place that ferritin normally interferes with is your liver insulin receptors. It can cause insulin resistance or hepatic insulin resistance, which can then have knock-on effects on your liver, liver, glycogen and everything else. Using that to then decide what impact does the oral having to the gut microbiome link back to the liver. Estrogen, for all we joke about, estrogen receptor beta, they think is a contributor to keeping our gut tight, keeping our gut junctions tight. So in theory, like that balance of when you're using an oral androgen, if you're not producing enough estrogen to fulfill that estrogen beta interaction in the gut, you could be creating some level of leaky gut junctions, which then opens up the liver to inflammation. So there's a lot of things here that, you know, is there human data there? So this is all biochemistry based thinking, but the biggest impact aurals will have in my view is towards upsetting. Obviously, demethylation that delivers what creates the liver inflammation, but it's the downstream effects on bile health, bile flow, bile viscosity, which then impacts your gut and your body, which then can feed into inflammation into the body silently. So the aurals, is there a way of doing them safely to sort of answer what we said? Maybe if you stay on top of your bile health, like I said, fiber, prebiotics, paying attention to your digestive response to certain foods, fermentation, other things, you know, antioxidants, GGT will give you an idea of how much support you need from NAC or glutathione directly, whether that's liposomal, injectable, reduced oral glutathione, which to be honest is a waste of time. That will allow you to see what impact is that drug having on your detox mechanism, because obviously one of the ways we make these drugs, I guess, how we inactivate them or make them inaccessible to the body is by changing. But also changing their structure through phase two metabolism, which is making them more readily excreted, which is where sulfation, glucuronidation and glutathione conjugation comes in. That, again, having adequate nutrition to play into sulfation, to provide sulfate groups for your body to utilize, similarly with glucuronic acids, where it's for calcium deglucrate or cruciferous vegetables, or you're sort of ensuring that your fiber intake is optimal. When people look at things like for supporting the liver, like taking dim or... CdG. Dynomethane and... You have dim and then you've got IEC tree, sorry, which is a di-carbonate, which is the precursor. How they work is by helping to induce enzymes within the liver. So I guess this is another side junction to cover is that depending on what you are taking, where that's supplements, food, the environment, different things are going to affect your CYP enzymes, whether they're going to induce them, which is speed them up, or inhibit them, which is slow them down. There's big implications here. Luckily on Wikipedia, that's all indexed. It is, and there's some nice papers where it's all indexed as well. For example, when we're looking at testosterone, CYP3A4 is the main oxidation enzyme that we consider. That is within the gut as well. So CYPs aren't just within the liver, they're in basically every cell, but we basically say they're at the liver because that's what delivers a role is to do these metabolic transformations with first-past metabolism. With CYP3A4, I think off the top of my head, one of the inducers of it, which will speed it up, is St. John's Wart. St. John's Wart is an inducer. If you speed up CYP3A4, you're going to metabolize and clear testosterone quicker. Not only testosterone, there's a whole list of substrates that go through the 3A4. Caffeine is another one that goes through 3A4. Normally, a crude way of assessing whether genetically, from an inheriting aspect of your CYP3A4 genetics is if caffeine is a substance that causes anxiety or jitters with low dose exposure, it's probably a way to assume that your testosterone metabolism is going to be slow. So your caffeine metabolism is slow, causing side effects, which means that in terms of how you then assess your response to testosterone, if you don't get on the caffeine, you might want to consider when you're using testosterone using a lower dose, because in theory you're going to be a slow metabolizer. But in saying that, it just becomes a mind field in terms of there's that many interactions with CYP3A4. I did videos on this. It's a mind fuck. You could be taking one supplement that induces it, but another supplement that inhibits it, and then another supplement that induces it, and then over on net effect, you don't even know what's going on. No, you don't know. So rather than getting a tizzy over, I'm taking this supplement which slows it down, this one speeds it up, monitoring like GGT, ALP, AST. It gives you a better idea of what's going on within the internal biology than hyperfocusing that. It shouldn't take this because it's going to speed it up, shouldn't take this because it's going to slow it down. I did experience with this, with grapefruit and fluvoxamine and Moudafonelle and St. John's words with all inhibit or induce 3A4 to a certain extent. There's no change on blood work. No change. Does grapefruit and fluvoxamine make your anodrol more potent? I think sublingual or injectable administration is more potent than oral administration, noticeably. And if you inject your anodrol, man, the pumps are almost twice as pronounced. If you take anodrol sublingually, you bypass first metabolism, then you don't get that metabolite, the very androgenic metabolite, again, based on Hershberg bioassays. What was it, mastanolone or no menstrual loan is providing. There's a metabolite of anodrol that is produced in the liver that is very androgenic, allegedly. And if you take it sublingually or you inject it, you miss this first pass metabolism into this active metabolite. And allegedly, that should be a less androgenic effect and thus make anodrol more anabolic. So I noticed from injectable anodrol, but then again from injectable deanobol, you know, people that I talked to, is that it's way more potent in descent and less strenuous on the liver. That being said, if you have more of this active hormone in your body, the second pass would get a harder punch, sort of say, to make it easy, because there's more molecules now, because there's no first pass, right? So it hits harder on the androgen receptor on skeletal muscle, exactly what you want. But then there's more flow through the liver on the second pass. So the liver damage might still be exactly the same. Yeah, because the anodrol doesn't interact with the androgen receptor at all. So we don't know. You don't know what it's doing, right? Or the liver. Okay, yeah. I do like injectable anodrol. What about honorable mention for DHB, right? That's an injectable drug that's over toxic. Yeah, but it's only two studies. And it's weird. I've seen it in person, though. Yeah, you've seen it in person also, right? And I've seen it in person also. And then Skipp Hill has been recommending DHB because Primo Mastrone are not available. And his clients do blood work and they love it. And there's no liver changes. And so they, yeah, they recently did a very extensive DHB podcast, basically on Think Big. I'll link it down below, guys. You should watch it where Scott was recommending it and Skip and Andrew and they say it's like a budget Primo and Mastrone that is a little bit better than EQ. And all their clients love it and it doesn't seem to be toxic at all. And there's no post injection pain, like with the first couple of batches of DHB. So there might be something to say for it, but there's two studies that showed that it's highly liver toxic. Yeah, apparently as of recent, the humans seem to be responding quite well to it. And winning shows. Yeah, I don't know of any liver toxicity of glycol, but could it be glycol using DHB? Yeah, maybe in the studies. Same as with, what is Epi-Conan alone, one of the metabolites from testosterone that shows that it's a pyrogenic, but they're all injecting pro-plynglycol or polyethylene glycol, which is a fucking pyrogenic as well. So is it the Epi-Conanan alone or are you pronouncing it or is it the ejecting carioral? Because if they did it IV, there was no response like that. But if they injected it, there was like tremendous post injection pain and, you know, side irritation and redness. And that's the, if you inject it, it goes systemic. And then if you do it intramuscularly, it causes localized irritation. But is it the drug or the carior oil? So I figured it was the carior oil because it's not used in medical settings. And there's even a black label warning that they shouldn't use polyethylene glycol or pro-prylene glycol in pediatrics because it was so fucking toxic. And it would literally ruin these kids. So DHB, I don't know, the scientific, it's only two studies that I was able to find. But it was pretty toxic in the one. Yeah, it was pretty fucking toxic. 112 milligrams for a 220 pound person. Yeah. It's your liver growth, which is... Yeah, and apparently anecdotally, as of recently, there's a lot of bodybuilders running it in a placement of an astronaut and a premote because it's so much easier to get and so much more affordable and they get comparable cosmetic results. But no post injection pain and no, no significant changes deliver in them. So yeah, I might have to talk with Skip and Andrew and, you know, Scott and maybe they can convince me. It's one of those drugs that's still on the haven't touched it yet list. The list is very small. I don't know of any way to brew it without glycol. So I wonder if there is any. Okay, yeah. Because it does fall out. Even an MCT. I believe so. Yeah. Because that's what I think it was the previous formulations was just in glycol. But you could smell that when the package arrives. Yeah. Did you? The postman's like, I don't know what this is. It's gross. But it doesn't smell right. And you open it, you take all the bubble wrap and the silver foil and all the extra secret stuff that they put in there to make it deliver safe. And you could smell it through everything before you even draw. You smell the glycol. That's that's how I got introduced. I ordered some injectable anodol and it was 100% glycol. And you get it on your finger, your finger shorts burning and you rub it over the syringe and the whole syringe falls apart and the rubber stopper starts to expand right before your eyes. What the fuck is this? I injected it once and then I felt toxic for a week. Never again. You could probably use grain alcohol with anodol instead of glycol. Yeah. Or just take it sublingually or orally like like it's like just taking the way it's designed to hit. Yeah. But he injectable anodol and MCT oil works fine. Man, I got it in the drawer maybe. And it stays liquid. Yeah. Yeah. 50 milligrams per mil. And it's like a USB and BB at trends like Elmer's glue. Oh, really? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know so much about brewing, but I know the injectable anodol that I have here is stays in solution and it gives me crazy pumps. Yeah. 50 milligrams pre-workout, 25 milligrams bilaterally. No hepatic changes. I love it. There you go. To come back to the bowel flow. Yeah. Glucogon, insulin, thyroid hormones and sobotarone, the GC1, that experimental thyroid hormone replacement. They all increase bowel flow. And what you see with a lot of guys that have, that don't take T4 with their growth hormone for increased thyroid conversion, right? To kind of compensate for that. Or they get into this 1200 calorie crash diet. Their bowel flow reduces to the point it's zero. Then their liver enzymes, their ferritin and their high sensitivity seroactive protein goes up. And everything, the little food that they eat just stays there until they take adult colax or vicinity. And that's, it's very common. You see it on blood work and especially back in the day when people would do these crazy crash diets and didn't understand how to piece everything together. You see the blood work. You see thyroid is zero basically. TSH is sky high. What is it? Hashimoto's disease levels. And then T4, T3 is basically in the gutter. And they eat like a little girl that's like 10 years old. They probably eat more or a ballerina or whatever about bulimic person. And they haven't gone to the bathroom in 10 days. You know exactly what's going on.  well, we see it, you learned of it because of postmenopausal women when their estrogen goes down to the to the dysthetonary, because biofluo is impaired by that. You see that it's probably one of the contributors to the distended gut, especially from bodybuilders from 20 years ago. They've leveraged too many AIs to crush the estrogen before a show, then they have no digestion, and the gut is sticking out. Yeah, and at three days of car body is still in there on stage. People can't move. Yeah, so the smarter coach now keeps the estrogen in the range, unless you really need to crush it for peak conditions. I don't crush guys anymore. No, and then otherwise you would use TATCA and what is it called, the high dose magnesium and maybe a little bit of sanity to kind of move everything along. And those guys are not distended at all, can pull vacuums on the day of the show. Of course, like jeans competitions, a lot of guys just don't eat on competition day. I don't think guys like to do the show. No, never. No, should be in there locked, sealed away. And then you just relax and your inflatable mattress backstage. And you don't need to eat much. You just bump up your gone stage and you go back to your inflatable mattress. Maybe check some glucagon, Stafel or AMP. Yeah. What you said there about estrogen is very interesting because low estrogen will reduce bile synthesis. So your your bile level goes down. But high estrogen makes your bile more viscous and more sludge like so that how the bile is flowing gets impacted. So you're making enough bile, but it's not. It doesn't have to correct viscosity to flow properly down through the bile channels. And that's where if you do have high estrogen, and you do see some issues with constipation, just touch ox bile to help improve that viscosity, overcome it will help things to move move down and along. When it's probably the high estrogen bile impedances probably goes back to females. So during ovulation during pregnancy, as estrogen goes up, it's going to slow that down. It's acting to slow digestion down to this more nutrition, right? So the transient time in the intestines is longer. Some more nutrition is extracted from the food, right? But we're mimicking that a man that are running their estrogen high. That's that's right. The meta this is we keep estrogen in range, right? Low is bad, high is bad. You just put it in the middle. Yeah, or at least top of the range to match your testosterone, which is super physiological. Like for me, 30 to 40, 45, 50. Yeah. It's ideal. So that's basically top of 175 to 200 bicarbones for Dean. Basically, what is 160 right at the top of the reference range in bicarbones? Yeah, 150 to 160 is the top then. So I think it has a 35 to 40 pika gram per mil, is it? Yeah. So I always keep mine around 40, 45 and digestion issues zero. But I also have my prebiotics and my totka every meal. And I love my sauerkraut every meal. It's sauerkraut and chia seeds, man. It's magic. Two wipes, you're done. Yeah, I mean, it's a matter of how much I would really take. I mean, I like what you brought there. Bowel health towards liver health. You know, stomach acidity aside, some of that, you know, when you go to the bathroom, it should be one pass and clean wipe on the way you go. That can give you an insight into your digestive health, whether it's your stomach acidity or your bile output, the quality of your stool and the frequency, obviously. That again, links back to the liver and the gut health, potential permeable guts, low pancreatic out of pancreatic lipase. You know, it's just a lot going on with when we look at the liver cell to know how steroids affect the liver. Yeah, the liver's disease is prominent. But we have to remember that when the liver gets diseased, you increase oxidative stress from ferritin, from increased cholesterol production, from potential lower glutathione turnover or higher demand for glutathione. That yeah, it was we often view like the liver as being like, yeah, it's regenerative. Like depending on the risks that you do, yeah, until you really throttle it and your lifestyle doesn't really support that recovery. It's very resilient. If you support it, it will support you. So, you know, when you're trying to assess gut health, deliver enzymes alongside cholesterol, alongside GGT, can't let you know that there's an issue going on at the gut if the gut is inflaming the liver from that first pass from the portal vein delivery. And like you said, about the enterahepatic recirculation, if you are having a lot of bowel urgency, where you're actually maybe producing too much boil, whether that you know, is it a flush mechanism from the liver or the gallbladder? That can often be a sign of like low fiber in your nutrition, where the boil isn't getting bound up in your your roughage or your, you know, your mass still. That enterahepatic recirculation, you only excrete about 5% of your boil per day. And you're about 600 milliliters or something like that. And the most of it you reabsorb. 95% as you pass from the small intestine to the large intestine, you have enterahepatic recirculation, where you bring that boil back to the gallbladder to be stored. That if we do have excess boil being excreted, I mean, a bile acid malabsorption or bile acid diarrhea, that can also change the gut microbiome in that you're flushing out a lot of your beneficial bacteria that can produce natural like lactase. So now you've got some level of lactose intolerance developing just transiently from bile acid diarrhea. That yeah, it comes back to your serotonin, now you're depressed. Yeah, I mean, coming from the liver, it's fascinating that when we've broken down these individual organs, how, in one sense, you treat the organ for its job and what it does. But in the bigger scheme of it, what's fascinating is that this is where, you know, I think how functional medicine thinks versus conventional medicine, it connects the organs and that the liver isn't just the liver, the liver affects digestive health, digestive health and the gut affects the liver. If the liver isn't operating efficiently, then you're going to see issues with malabsorption of food, regardless of the stomach. So it's, it's fascinating how when we just talked about the kidneys, kidneys are affected by the adrenal gland and the lung health and the blood pressure then carrying over onto cardiovascular health and cerebral vascular health. Like it's, at the end of the day, when we're doing all this education, it's to see the big picture and focusing on I got to protect my kidneys. I got to protect all of it. You know, you got a whole system that interacts, which is beautiful. When another one with the two, the kidneys liver together, if you're dehydrated, the kidneys can no longer filter your blood, right? So then the job goes to the liver, then the liver can't produce bile, right? So then it screws everything up that way too. And it doesn't take a lot of dehydration to cause that. No, these are common issues with alcoholics, because they dehydrate themselves with the alcohol, obviously the whole time, then the whole system falls apart. And dehydration is contributing factor. And the liver can't do anything. No, it can detox if all the toxins. Yeah, it's, it's especially with, you know, polypharmacy, it's, unfortunately, most of it hasn't really been studied in a sense where you see how it affects the organs. It's all separately, right? So we have to do our best estimate and guess based on what we know, and how to connect everything together. But yeah, again, when you already look at the cytochrome P450 enzymes, and the overlap there, the substrates and the inducers and the inhibitors, I mean, it will blow your mind. You would never want to do polypharmacy, unless that's what you're after, right? You take your mirror background to make your LSD more effective. Allegedly, you don't notice a difference in their aspect either. You take 200 milligrams mirror-becroded, microdoses don't feel more pouted. Or maybe my 2A5 enzymes are broken anyway. I remember when I did that deep dive, I had found the research for the LSD and then people skipped, you see a clear peak in that timestamp, like people are all, the arrow-witch community is all like, hey, you can take this bladder medication to make my LSD more potent. It doesn't work like that, unfortunately. Yeah, unfortunately, just take it sublingually, bypass first hepatic metabolism. That bed works. Yeah, works faster also, allegedly. What else can we cover on the liver topic? Let me think. We've covered the liver enzymes, so the ratios AST, ALT, ALP, is not specific to the liver again, just to cover that briefly. That's useful in terms of phosphate transport in the body, which is important for bone health, and to a certain extent, phosphate content of our cells. ALP is a magnesium core, so we've covered this before, that it's a nice insight into your magnesium status of the body. Research suggests anywhere around 65 to 70 IU on blood work is sort of your sweet spot to say that you're making enough without there being signs of biliary disease, and aiming for 10 milligrams per kilogram elemental magnesium to try and get to that ALP level of support. We've covered GGT, covered bilirubin. These alkaline phosphatase levels are sky high, but that's the bone specific alkaline phosphatase. So for the guys that ever see that my ALP levels are so high, I must, I must take too much magnesium. No, you might have a micro fracture somewhere. That's another thing that you have to correlate to bilirubin off the ALP, is a biliary disease. And if it is, if your ALP and bilirubin are raised, go and get an abdomen ultrasound and see what it finds in terms of blockage. I guess one thing that I have seen is you can have SKUs in bilirubin and SKUs in the ALT and ASC that are linked to denying growths within the liver. So we have like a hay pattern and genoma, which is basically like a clot within the liver. Those are mostly hereditary. It's like a centimeter across. Hereditary, because obviously if bilirubin is raised, you also have to rule out Gilbert's syndrome. Yeah, you have issues with bilirubin clearance. And that's where you sort of look at direct or indirect or conjugated and unconjugated bilirubin to see what the overall health of the liver is and go about our storage. We've covered metabolism. So phase one, phase two, doing the transformations, looking at supporting the substrates to help phase two for excretion. The liver's impact onto the small intestine and cholesterol, hepatic lipase being suppressed, sorry, hepatic lipase being increased with a higher level of androgens, which suppresses HDL. And that for some reason, windstraw and anovir seem to be the two that really drive that hepatic lipase activity. What else can we talk about? To bring it back to the total indirect bilirubin, in the entire robotic recirculation, you have glucuronidates, right? That breaks glucuronidates away from the bilirubin. That's basically the difference between total and direct bilirubin. One is glucuronidated or conjugated and the other one is not. So if you take something that promotes glucuronidates activity or inhibits, no inhibitors would actually promote the excretion. So if you do something that messes with the glucuronidates, your total bilirubin would come up. How was it direct? Direct is the unconjugated, right? Yeah, you put me on the spot now, but yeah. I think direct is unconjugated. For the sake of this video, let's just say that direct is unconjugated as the glucuronidate removed. So if you get a lot of inter-hepatic recirculation, you see that direct bilirubin goes up because you're reabsorbing that, but if total bilirubin is fine, then it's not a problem with excretion, it's a problem with reabsorption. And if this happens at the end of a cycle where you're hematocrit and ribosoccount and hemoglobin concentration of your complete blood count was sky high, that means you're actually metabolizing the hemoglobin into your body, but you're reabsorbing the bilirubin as a metabolic byproduct. And you could also see your serum iron start to creep up over time if you do frequent blood work. But this is also an issue with low fiber diets and something that messes with these enzymes. It's a rare occurrence, but I've seen it happen a couple times where you're like iron is high, hemoglobin is low, and bilirubin is sky high, and then there's some digestive issues taking place also. Yeah, because that's basically the earliest steps to jaundice. I'm Irish, my skin's so yellow, am I? I'm turning Chinese, no. That's your anodrol being flushed out of your system. With that, like, yeah, beta glucuronidate, that increase in activity can come from dyspiosis as well. Right. And that that recirculates hormones as well back into the body. So glucuronidated estrogen gets recirculated back in. So now you've got more estrogen going back into circulation of the body right and being cleared out. Research wise, L aspartic acids has been shown to inhibit beta glucuronidase, looking at fibers, chia, flaxseeds. Brus milk. Hey, that's the difference between brus milk and formula, right? That's the cause of jaundice. It's the beta glucuronidase inhibitors. That's why in brus milk and hydrolyzed casein protein. So I would always recommend hydrolyzed casein protein because it has a beta glucuronidase inhibitor in there to make sure that these guys would pass the drug test because a lot of the beta glucuronidase, if they get reabsorbed, they get sulfated. And then the sulfate metabolites are longer lasting. That's the one that you usually fail for. Testosterone sulfate or trimblone sulfate or, you know. So yeah. Drink from the boob to pass the test? I would. I might have. Steve's selling some. Yeah, yeah. No, I'm not selling it. It's all mine and my daughter's. Link down below. Yeah, link down below. Yeah, yeah. They put it on eBay. Start bidding. 1000 bucks per liter. And stevemoke.com. Frozen for longer shelf life. Fuck. How do we get here? My fault. My bad. So yeah, with the liver stuff and the digestion, there's so much correlation there that you could either do it completely right. Like if you're really focusing your digestion, your liver will thank you for it. And if you eat like an asshole, then your liver will not be happy. And all the drugs that you're taking, the metabolism of it, and we see that with guys, they feel toxic and you change your diet. You don't even change their protocol because they're on a mild protocol. And you shouldn't feel like this. Your liver engine shouldn't be this high. And then you fix your diet and everything just falls back at the baseline. It's not the drugs. It's the shitty lifestyle. Yeah. You know. To sort of go back from an ideal of into the research on celiac disease, raised liver enzymes can be a sign of gut inflammation coming from the HLA genetic activation with celiac. So if you've got unexplained liver enzymes being elevated despite resting, despite avoiding, but like whatever is toxic to your liver substances, the environment, it could be a sign of you've got some level of genetic response towards gluten or dairy. So raised ALT when you delve into it can be from a sign of gut dysfunction from gluten intolerance or autoimmunity towards gluten. And similarly, with gluten, CYP3A4 expression will, or activity, I should say, will increase. So what you'll see is a slowdown in the pharmacokinetics of an oral drug. If your gut is inflamed and CYP3A4 is slowed in its activity. So now you have a higher oral... We can't have anadroprostromy sandwiches. Well, prostromy sandwiches is a ribrid, right? I don't know. I would have gluten. So now you're slowing down. I guess the clearance of the drugs or improved bioavailability or the ability to pass from the gut to intubus. It's a good idea to sprinkle a little bit on your... Well, once you're not... Well, this is assuming that you have HLA genetics and so maybe it might not be worth the inflammation from the gluten to your immune system to just... I mean, you get a pump everywhere, especially when you've got... Yeah. I mean, in hindsight, that when my mind became apparent, that pain in my stomach, I wouldn't wish on an... Yeah, that was a hard one to figure out two years ago, because I remember seeing your Botarachia. I'm like, what the hell is going on? And then you figured out it was the Celiac disease. I sent it to you. I was like, see, my cholesterol is very, very high in this set of loads, but the historic trend you're just seeing everything like sub-even tree for LDL and this one result was up at... It couldn't even be detected to triglyceride. So it was above 8 on LDL. And I remember saying to this has to be an assay issue with the lab and they done another test and it was... It came down a little bit, but it was still saying, okay, well, something's not right here in the sort of health of the liver. And then eventually, obviously doing the anti-tissue transglutamides and antibodies give that answer. But yeah, if you've got hidden gut dysfunction, it can influence how you metabolise drugs at the liver as well. So that's another link with the gut and the liver. Did you guys ever... I'm sure you do regular or occasional cancer marker screening with your clients, right? And then you see, most of them are in range. And then occasionally you see a guy with a hepatocelular carcinoma where PIVCA2 is elevated and let's say vitamin K related marker that is produced in a hepatocelular carcinoma. In many cases, what is it? Not AOP, but what's the one? The other one? The other marker. AFP. Proteins. Yes, exactly. It's then also elevated. Did you guys ever reverse something like that in cases with oral steroid abuse? No. Have you seen it? I've never seen it. Never seen it. Okay. I've seen it in oral steroid abuse where PIVCA2 is slightly elevated and then over time as you do more diagnostics, AFP goes up as well. Then surprisingly, diisodicloroacetate, DADA, the ATP recycler actually helps with that. Or else what's going to take him? 150 a day. Anadrol, halo together. For longer periods of time. Yeah, ask how long you say I can't remember. It's been months. It said how angry are you? I'm used to it now. Months. Months. Looks like a lump of swiss cheese. What was that bodybuilder's name? Where the liver was melting? Andres Mernser. That liver was literally melting out of his stomach. He was also taking bulk loads of oils. And the mealers told him, so you know these three diuretics are the same thing, right? He's like, no, they're different names. You know, it's the same thing. It's like three kinds of triametreins or something. Potassium sparing diuretic. Yeah, mental. Yeah, we've come a long way. Legitly, Derek Lonsworth was cramping up backstage pretty hard. Did you hear guys hear that rumor? Yeah, that's why that's why he came out last. Samson should have come out last. Well, that's just a rumor, guys. It's a Chrissacito potassium loading special. Allegedly. I haven't recommended that one in decades. It's okay. Just get leaner. Yeah, well, these guys get lean. I mean, I don't know. Look at the comparison photos from 10 years ago. Yeah. The condition is not what it used to be. No, I think it's the water retention from turns they fall from the orals and the growth. They run the test in, right? These guys run the test in the show, which is dumb. They worry too much about being full. Right. And then they overload, they use too much insulin and they try to clean the shit up. All right, diuretics. Keeps happening, man. I wonder why they're distended. Just get leaner. I know. Pull the test. Yeah, pull the test. And then you don't need to take an aromatizing order to kill the damn test. 2.5 milligrams of letrosol, bro. It's out both and just pull the goddamn test out. Yeah. It's not the end of the world. Two, three weeks, four weeks. Honestly, if you timer rate that the only day where it's fully bottomed out is the day of the show. Yeah. No, it's like, well, no. It's okay, man. There's levels to the shit as we know. So we covered the diagnostics as well. The MRIs, the ultrasounds, I think people should do that just regularly. I'm due for my big round of diagnostics in January, usually do that after Christmas and New Year's because then the hospitals are empty because nobody wants to go. So I can do all my stuff in one day. And let's see how bad it is after abusing the SLU BB332 for four weeks. Yeah. It's a fun experiment. Like I said, I'm intrigued. I mean, even with SLU, I'm not really knowing fully the half-life and the bioavailability. I think when I, you know, I don't want to break down on the pharmacology of it from a medicinal chemistry perspective and how the drug is created. You've got a phenol and typically phenol based drugs have quite rapid phase one clearance. So all of a sudden, your bioavailability, the compound is limited from a metabolism perspective, metabolic first pass. But on the other side of it, in terms of the bioavailability of being absorbed from the gut. So you have to view swallow orally. In theory, you've got the amide bond and the imine that can be hydrolyzed by stomach acid, but it does look like it's in terms of the PKA of that being hydrolyzed. It's in a position where it should pass from the stomach down. How it gets absorbed in the gut based on the phenol and the naftaline structure. You'd anticipate somewhere around 50 to 60% bioavailability from the gut absorbed across. But if you're absorbed, let's say it is, if you've done a big bowl of stozo 400 milligrams, let's say 50, 60% of it is absorbed into the bloodstream, first pass metabolism based on the phenol could be quite quick. That when you have seeing people dose it throughout the day, there's some merit to that and that you're keeping the drugs level consistently topped up. But I am just really intrigued based on PDK and PDH, the interaction of long term free fatty acid oxidation on mitochondria energetics. It could be something that then turns into excessive glycolysis and acytoplasm because your mitochondria's efficiency to use glucose goes down. So you head more towards a Warburg effect of the cell, which can be linked to cancer and affect just glucose utilization by cells. If PDK for activity is switched on and PDH can't work properly, you're not bringing acetyl CoA in into the TCA cycle to feed into the electron transport chain. That if you starve cells of glucose like the heart or the brain in teres, there could be some cellular dysfunction that comes off that. So I'm intrigued. I think if it works based on what anecdotally 600 micrograms max for me, and to be honest, like I said, I ran this sort of experiment for a long time was over 12 months at that low exposure. I will be doing advanced marker soon. But based on that long term exposure, the risk probably still is the same of the high dose exposure. That, you know, to me, the sweet spot with these compounds from looking at it is potentially short term like 8 to 12 weeks, get your benefit, get out, and then see what sustains from it. Yeah, and they rely on ModC and SS3-1 if you want to boost mitochondrial function in the long term because those why SS3-1 is now FDA approved actually as Bindava or a little bit of appetite. I know. Yes, I'm pronounceable to these names. It's a pediatric disease. I remember reading the application approval because there is no, it's basically an inherited mitochondrial dysfunction and there's no known therapy for correcting it. That SS3-1 based on what the data says of improving mitochondrial efficiency, it's sort of like, well, yeah, we're going to approve this as like an off label adjunct to this disease that has no cure. I can't remember the name of it for me in the FDA. Yeah, it's been a while since I read the studies. Yeah, it's very promising though. But yeah, the SLU, I know it's not really, I don't think there's any more data. I think the last study was like one half years ago and since everybody started experimenting with it, besides that one study that Kurt found about exercise mnemonics not really being...  exorcismamidix, which we talked about the last podcast. This hasn't been any new data on it. Let me ask you this, Steve. How was your blood pressure taking a high dose S-L-U? Because there was a paper, no, the reason why I'm asking is there's a paper from last year that suggests SLU-PP332 mechanistically could be an anti-COVD therapy because of it lowering ACE2 expression. So it can have positive effects as an ACE2 inhibitor. I didn't notice anything, but then again I used Tomasartan. So, you know, because I'm only one half grams a gear, so it's better to control it. If someone isn't using an A or B or an ACE high and they decide to run a high dose, that might prove some of that theory. It was just a plausible mechanistic paper. It wasn't, this is going to have great impacts on blood pressure control, but one of the things where what we can do is lower ACE2 expression that can impact that pathogenesis S-L-U, boost your mitochondria, which can improve obviously your metabolism, improve obviously immune function and secondary lower ACE2 and the Androtensin activation, Androtensin 2 activation that can feed into what that causes. It's weird that SLU-PP815 was never brought to market. That was shown to have like all kinds of benefits in chronic kidney disease. And you've got SLU-PP, I think it's 1008 as from 2020 was another one. Yeah, it's another one, yeah. What was studied towards improving prostate cancer. Oh. So, anti-cancer benefits. All the high-master-one guys are looking forward to that one. Had anti-prostate cancer effects by inhibiting metabolic pathways and playing to prostate cancer. So, they're really interesting. I mean, the scaffold of the drug, I think 2014 was when they isolated the pharmacophore of like the immune bridge and the naftaline ring. But it's, it'll be interesting to see how quick someone tries to capitalize on this becoming a therapy like SS-31. Well, I've recommended it to drug designers. You know, so this is, if you want to bring a drug to market, this is the one, but you need clinical trials. Problem is, you make a lot of other medications obsolete if it turns out to be something good because it lowers hemoglobin A1c, it improves blood glucose, it lowers triglycerides, all right, and it improves body composition. So, and it might even preserve muscle mass by over-regulating, you know, mitochondrial function. So, it seems to be multifaceted in that sense. It's lipophilic, so you have to make tablets or injectable, but injectable that doesn't go in MCT. The people that make it do it in DMSO, I wouldn't want to inject that. No. That's it. With the fee and all, again, I covered this in the lecture looking at improving a potential drug delivery mechanisms where you make it, you know, more lipophilic or you encapsulate it inside like a liposome or you change. Again, we don't know is SLU-PP-332 the actual active molecule creating the effect or is it a prodrug that the phenol, the phenol gets metabolised and it creates the active component that just because the phenol is an OH and it's normally classically linked with increased sulfation. I think one of the first two studies is a pharmacokinetics and dynamic study, but I can't remember if they investigated metabolites as well. I don't remember reading it now, it could be wrong, but, you know, just classically looking at drug design phenols, normally if your active drug is a phenol, you'd protect it as a prodrug and then it creates the phenol after first pass metabolism. Yeah, I'm intrigued, you know, as much as people fail at your some level, again, of emotion of you're just like, let's just be very careful if you're going to do this, you're doing it at your own risk, right? And saying, someone said it on the internet. I ran low dose for a year now up to one milligram and this 400 milligrams split over four servings of 100 milligrams for eight or nine weeks after ramping up the dose, I did like one milligram, two milligrams a couple days, five milligrams, 10 milligrams, 20 milligrams, 50 milligrams, right? And then just continuously wrapping it up till I saw some negative thing occur. And besides, bouts of hypoglycemia. That's it. That's it. And it was expensive. It was pretty expensive, but not as expensive as getting it from I got it directly from China. Not as expensive as buying over the counter pre bottled. So, so the blood work is more expensive than the four rounds of blood work like before, during, after and then two weeks after to see if anything changed, which my triglycerides came up slightly and lipids stayed pretty much the same. So I wanted to see what would happen after I discontinued this drug, like if I would spontaneously combust or melt or freeze over. You don't take the SLU PP332 anymore, you might have conjured now dead and you figured it out soon enough, you know, you're completely reliant on it now you stop and it's came over. So but nothing really changed. Which is pretty positive. So again, it proves into that short burst cycles, take advantage of it, exit and assess. Yeah. Yeah, because the energy levels and the fat loss that I sustained was insane. Insane. Yeah. It's a big difference. All right, let's leave it there. Next time we'll discuss hopefully brain health with a neurosurgeon. And then we'll get into why steroids are completely deleterious for your brain function, as you could tell from us three, and were completely ruined from all the steroids we took. Three smartest minds together. I took a bottle out of steroids, especially Kurt. I think I took the most steroids out of all of us, which is very noticeable. Look at this fucking jawline. Jesus Christ. So next time we'll discuss brain health. Guys, it was a pleasure on how you got to talk to you a little bit faster than the last couple times because that felt like an eternity. And that felt like an eternity. So let's let's let's let's squeeze in one more before Christmas. Cool. You know, early December, and then and then summer middle of January when everybody's got their moon face under control. I know I will. I know I'll be eating for Thanksgiving and Christmas and New Year. I'm going to enjoy myself. Guys, all your social media links are down below. Give these guys a subscribe even though they don't have their own YouTube channels. They have Instagrams. I have my own channel. I just don't contribute to it. You should. You should. Get back on the on the on the tube. And maybe you can get yourself deleted, like as a badge of honor, like me Paul Chase Chase is not back yet, but we're working on it. Yeah, but me, I got banned and I got back. Paul got banned and then he got back. So I think you're in running with your opinions to get banned on YouTube also. And then I'll continue just like get kicked off. Yeah. Yeah. And then you got to rumble. All right, guys, this was a pleasure. We'll see you next month. And guys, enjoy your weekend or whatever day it is. We'll discuss more about staying healthy on steroids very, very soon. Peace out.

=== FILE: Maximizing Trenbolone During Offseason, Anadrol, Thyroid Meds, Insulin & Digestion, Offseason Gains! [FdqiA-rBkQc].txt ===

 Did you have any mental sides on 800Train Alex? How did you end up with it? It never makes me like aggressive. Like some of the things that I've heard from other people, I don't get it like that. If I'm dieting really hard, then the sleep will become an issue. But as long as I'm eating a lot and I'm keeping everything else in check, I feel pretty good, I feel fine. That's also why we left the Tesla, I found. Probably what you see now that's more common is guys run the huge amount of tests, they have a grammar test, and then they want a micro dose trend. It seems a little backwards because the trend is gonna do most of the work. It's gonna have a much higher affinity to the Android and receptor, right? The testosterone can't really act on anything favorable at that point. So they have it all backwards. Not that guys need to run a grammar trend, but typically I would just leave tests in there as a TRT or low TRT amount, just to support health, and let the stronger drugs do the work. Welcome to the antibiotic ground table, episode 18 with Kurt Havens, Dr. Dean St. Mart, and Alex Marlier, joining in the podcast because we wanna discuss his off-season gains, and that's what this podcast is all about, making so many gains during the off-season, because the last couple of podcasts discussing health, got no views, because nobody cares about being healthy. They just wanna make phenomenal gains. So we got Alex on board, he is under Kurt's guidance, and we saw some phenomenal progress on his part. So Alex, why don't you introduce yourself? No pressure, take it easy. Welcome to YouTube. Don't treat the comments. Oh. Hi everyone, I'm Alex Marlier. I've been working with Kurt for a couple months now, and we have been bodybuilding for the last year after a 10-year hiatus, and we had a productive off-season and continue to be productive going forward, so we're gonna go through that. Yeah, and I saw your broker's pictures, it's very, very good. Well, where did you end up at after 10 years or before your hiatus? Like what was your stats back in the day? So we know how much is muscle memory and how much you gained on top of that. Yeah, so I was about 200 pounds, so I'm five foot nine and a half, got at the half. And so when I finished 10 years ago, I mean you kinda overshoot and then the water comes off, right? So you take the compath, water comes off. When I dried out, I was like 195 to 200. Okay, that's still pretty good at five, nine. Yeah, that's good. So what is your weight now? 225. Okay, so that's solid 25 pounds on top of what your max was 10 years ago. Yeah, so that's serious muscle. That's serious muscle, that's good stuff. And then you've been working with Kurt for the last couple of months, and that was right, you basically got back called Turkey and then you signed up with Kurt, and then the gains were made. Yeah, I mean I was trying to figure things out for myself. I think we go through that, it's like how can I, and I've been watching your channel, I saw Kurt on there, I was watching Kurt's channels, and I'm like, this, I think this guy knows what he's doing. So yeah, I reached out to him, I was on the forum first, and we kinda chatted back and forth, and yeah. Hey Kurt, you went through something similar, right? You had a what, a nine year hiatus, and then you came back? Yeah, I stopped at 29, I got married, had my first kid, and I had a corporate job in the city. I didn't mean to stop lifting, it just, I was getting up at four in the morning to get on a bus or a train, to go to New York City, and just exercise just kinda fell out, and then at 39 I made my way back. And I'm still not, at that point, I think my max, in my 20s was like 185 or something, I'm shorter than Alex, but five, I don't know, you've seen me, one of my five seven, five eight, the most. Five four? Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Yeah, exactly, that's like two 12 size. And then I put on whatever, when I came back to the gym I was like 130, and I got to just under 240, and then I downsized similar to Chase, I put my birth on 215, that's kinda where I sit now. Okay, that's a pretty good point. Yeah. I'm still pretty big for what, five seven? You know, when I was 50, just seems like a better place. Yeah. I don't think it could be 240 at that. I know, I know, you take your shirt off, and then you look better than any other 50 year olds, and that's what the game's all about, right? I mean, I went to Costa Moya, I was the best looking dude until I went to the gym, and then Urskol since goes there. Fuck, fuck. I thought it was gonna be the wrong gym. Yeah, I picked the wrong gym, I should have gone to a CrossFit gym. Dean, what's up with you? You were looking lean in the face. Yeah, so you pointed out not by any, I guess deliberate means, just busy life, and most of it fell off when I was in Dubai, with all the activity you do in Dubai, walking around and the mall, and I guess not enough time to eat properly with all the meetings out there, so I came back three kilos lighter than the last time we spoke, so obviously it's showing in my face here. So you're also probably retired, like normally when you're in the offseason relaxing a little bit, you know, me is eating meals, but it sounds like you missed a couple meals in the way it suffered. It has, I mean, even when I said to my brother, obviously with kickboxing, my weight class for kickboxes under 90 kilos, and now I've just by chance fallen into under 85 or under 84, so like we said before we come on air, I don't think we can be friends yet, or at the moment because I'm a sub 200 pounds, I have to be in the 200 pound club to hang out with you guys. Yeah, yeah, you gotta be at least 200 pounds to be a part of the Annabelle Grand Table, so I gotta send you a care package with some injectable anodrol and the acrylics, and then you can jump right back on. So we'll see you for episode 20, okay? Episode 19, you're just gonna have to train harder. Yeah, I'm gonna have to step up. Obviously my birthday is in three weeks, so let's see what can go back on. I think, like we're obviously not eating as much as I would in the past, the way hasn't come back up to like 87, 88 kilos, so well, I'm happy for the fat loss. I have definitely lost some size with not training, and obviously I hadn't trained in the gym with my mother-in-law passing away and stuff like that, so personal circumstances have caught up, but I think let's see what I can do over the next three weeks before I turn 38. Well, we're going to discuss the offseason gains, so you got three weeks to put them in practice. It's only three weeks, only three weeks, so you can get up to 90 kilos, that's like 200 pounds, so you're gonna be a little bit watery, but at least it'll be full and dense. Alex came just because you asked, Alex came to me on 9, 29 September, 29th, and that first cycle ran from September 29th until 11, 30, so two months exactly. Okay, so what did you guys do at that time? What was the cycle? What was the training? What was the food? Did everything change? Like spilled beans? What did you do before, Alex? What did you talk about? So when I, so for a couple of weeks before, like I ran like a mini cut, so I did that mostly on TRT, and then I introduced, so TRT I was on 175, or 175 tests, E, and then I added in 200 milligrams of Tron, and then I started increasing my calories. And so I went from, I think at the low point, I was at like 2800 calories, went up to like 3200 and 3600 pretty quickly. So when I got to Kurt, I think I had revved it up at that point to 200 tests, 100 pre-mal, 300 TRON, and I don't remember what the food was at. I was eating like 650 grams of carbs. I remember that. When you came, when you came. But I was doing carb cycling, yeah. I was carb cycling, so I was doing, at that point I had a low day and medium day high day. So high day was probably 650, you know, I can't. We'd have to go back and look. Yeah, I got them here in front of me. So then when I got with Kurt, we didn't adjust so much of the PDs. At first we adjusted the growth hormone. I started taking more growth hormone and better quality growth hormone. So we got on the serostim. Oh wow. Which was, yeah. So big change, so that was a huge change. We got on half a bottle of serostim. We started moving the TRON higher and moving the food higher. So I don't remember exactly where we'd lead to. I think we ended up at like 600 TRON. Yup. You want me to take the higher one? And then, and then we would, I know when we finished we were on 800. So finished at 800 TRON. Oh wow. I don't think the test and the pre-mal moved. I think maybe it was 300 tests. Right, we started at 600 tests, 400 primo. Yeah. 600 TRON. Yes. And then we flipped it around, we brought the test down, brought the pre-mode down, right? Add a little bit of mass in there to make up some milligrams. So we brought the TRON up. Right, and the carbs went up to 975 at one point. And we ditched the three day carb cycling. We went to two. Yup. I have to do a whole lot of guys who have a lot more food. It becomes kind of pointless to do a low day. For these guys, they're really just getting an off day diet and a training day diet, which kind of follows more of a natural rhythm than three anyway. And it was basically, his training days, he was eating almost 1000 grams carbs. Yeah. Yeah, that's pretty standard for this weight. And then the fat intake was like 80 grams, 70 grams, pretty low. Low. Low. Let me see, growth. 50. 50 on 25 on training days. Low, yeah. So your appetite was probably ravenous. There's no fat buffer here. Intestinal tract, they're gonna slow down the carbs. So the carbs were passing through rapidly. And then of course with a good amount of training, was there any thyroid medications to kind of help speed everything up? No. No, his labs are fine. Okay. No, we just lever a bunch. Right, and T and T is normal. T4, T3 didn't really budge. Okay. Yeah, because with growth hormone, what I commonly see, and I think why it's misunderstood, is you'll see perhaps the T4 itself go down a little bit, right? TSH should stay normal in theory. And then T3 uptake will go up, which that's what actually matters. The T4 doesn't really matter much. As long as the T3 is fine, and the TSH is not going out of range, it doesn't warrant necessarily adding more T4, because the T3 is already super high. Right, and if the TSH doesn't go up, because you're deficient in T4 and T3, then there's no need to supplement with T4. Exactly, supertutor doesn't see any need to produce more. Were you guys supplementing with any iodized potassium salt or iodized sodium table salt? You used, which used the thorn multivitamin? Yeah, thorn. No, I used all thorn and all-nutri-bio. Yeah. I ate a ton of potassium through my diet. I incorporated a few things. I had coconut water, black-shrat molasses, spinach, all the good stuff there. All the good stuff, yeah. Okay, and then your weight kind of rapidly started shooting up, obviously. Did you have any issues with tendons and ligaments because you're strengthening up so much? Or that was pretty matched? Yeah. Pretty well managed. My elbows tend to get problematic. So I had to take out things like skull crushers, but I was fine with all the other pressing movements that I was doing. All right, right, right. So the cycle ended up being with pre-neutest, pre-neupremo, 400 mastron and 800 trim at the end after eight weeks? No, no, no. So we ended up dropping the mastron because my E2 shot up. So we replaced the mastron with pre-neutest. I think it was 300 tests, 200 pre-neupremo, 800 trend. We incorporated anodrol starting at 50 milligrams. And we tried, like we tried seeing what higher would be like. I got past 50, I just get sides. Yeah. And then we, for a period of time, I think it was like four weeks, three weeks, something we had, sorry, a bottle of serastim. Yep. Wow. And it went from 195 to 224 in two months. Any, yeah. Let me show you the pictures real quick. So these are the before pictures, right? Yeah. So you started at a very good lean position. I think that's a very good takeaway for most people that if you start your off-season lean, you enter off-season lean. So we're talking about this, what, 8% body fat? Maybe a little bit lower? Yeah, give or take. Yeah, give or take. So you started at a very good low body fat percentage. And I think that's very, very important for people to understand that your off-season is going to be so much more productive if you start lean, whereas a lot of people, they start a little bit fluffy and then they ended up fat as fuck, basically. They don't have the off-season. So there's eight weeks in between these pictures, right? Give or take? No, no, no. So the first picture was when I started the bodybuilding a bit a little over a year ago. So I wasn't even here in the first picture. Yeah. So there's about a year between the pictures. Yeah, yeah. And so... Oh, that's funny. I gotta get the picture. Yeah. We'll get the picture. What a transition. Yeah, so, yeah. So the overall, like, I think I got confused with the assignment when Kurt sounded to me. It's like, how much, how fast you put on size. So that was from 165 to 220. So that's about 60 pounds. Jesus. And yeah, most of it. And yeah, between August, 2024, was it? Yeah, 24 to, they'll guess, November, 2000. Yeah, it's a little bit over a year. Yeah. It looks like got leaner in the meantime as well. Yeah. So that's pretty good. And I think the compound selection too is not this, it's not a cookie cutter thing that I want people to take away from this video. It's like, that's the key to making this progress. I have guys doing the similar stuff, similar progress on Test and Primo. I have guys using Test and EQ. Guys who just test. The compound stuff comes down to that person's genetics, like what they need to get to that point. And I think people need to understand that, that's why you can't copy someone a cycle per se. Right? Most of it's already... It's already been a tolerated 800 trend. Right. Alex, it came to you on a certain cycle. So like, do you want to make rapid changes and put them on test only? Or do you want to just see where this cycle takes him and then progress from there and take it as a learning experience? Because that's probably what you were doing. Okay, it's already on this. You want eight weeks more progress. How much more changes can you really make? And of course, if you go from this cycle to something completely different, then there's so many variables that you need to manage as a coach. I'd rather just, I would do the same thing. Yeah, see how far you can take it. Yeah, it's already on trend. Yeah, might as well take a little bit more. Yeah. One thing too is, sorry, Kurt. Go ahead. No, I was just talking about the test. I was going to say, when we came to the cycle too, I have a genetic mutation with my blood cells. So I get very, very high red blood cell count. So for me, it's like, if I run high test, I run a high hematocrit. If I run EQ, I run a high hematocrit. Same with Prima. So the one thing I don't run into high hematocrit with is either DECA or TRN. And I don't tolerate DECA. Oddly enough, I tolerate TRN. I don't. Did you ever try Mint? No, I've never tried Mint. Okay, I can highly recommend it as a replacement for test. I've seen this where some people don't tolerate Nandralone like mentally, but tolerate trend is fine mentally. You just don't get along. Nandralone tends to create apatic changes and they have depressed moods. Whereas with TRN, well, with them reason, they tolerate TRN quite fine mentally, which is very interesting from a genetic perspective of how it's interacting within the brain, how it's, I guess, it's probably some level of the progestin activity of Nandralone, influencing estrogen signaling within the brain. That you didn't get along with DECA, but 800 milligrams of TRN overall, probably neurologically was fine. Yeah, well, it makes sense, right? Just because DECA or Nandralone and TRN are 19-nors, you can't judge that chemical just on the carbon 19, right? They're structurally, they're totally different. They're polar opposite drugs. I'd say like Dean was getting at the, Nandralone is gonna primarily leverage serotonin, things like that, which can cause depressive behavior and Tremblon's gonna be more of a dopamine driver. So they're totally like from a neurological point of view, they're totally different drugs. Right. You know, people love to group things, right? Like DHT derivatives are here, but it doesn't mean that, right? Winstraw is not necessarily the same as Anivar as Mastron. Right. Well, they're all, I mean, all these drugs have like overlapping characteristics, but also various characteristics. And even if they fall within the same classification of derivatives, they can still potentiate vastly different effects. And in the end, you just gotta use what your body likes. Right. And if you tried DECA in the past and it doesn't work, then just take it off the list. You can get joint lubrication from other compounds, you know? And that's primarily what we use DECA for. Like I use DECA 600 milligrams with 600 tests and 150 train and 150 mint. And people thought I would get Gaino the size of fembots and prolactin through the roof that I would not wanna have sex with my wife and nothing happened. Prolactin was normal. And Gaino was addressed because of data surgery. So I cheated a little bit on that front, but I had zero issues. And the weird thing is during the cycle, I didn't really notice much of the benefits of the DECA because my elbows and knees still hurt until I took the DECA out. And then my knees and elbows really hurt. So I had to reduce the training intensity a little bit now that I'm cruising. Because otherwise I can't function. So it's weird with these drugs. Sometimes you don't really notice the benefits until you take it out. Same as with train. Like you don't notice some people turn to complete dickheads to take the train out. Like, aha. That was kind of like acting like an asshole. But like, did you have any mental size on 800 train? Alex, how did you handle that much train? No, so I don't, man, I don't get a whole lot of, I mean, obviously there's a dose that I would probably get crazy side effects on. But one thing we do is we keep the estrogen on the lower end. So, for me, I've noticed if my E2 is high, like I'll be a little bit like short, I guess. It never makes me like aggressive. Like some of the things that I've heard from other people, I don't get it like that. If I don't have food in, like if I'm dieting really hard, then the sleep will become an issue. But as long as I'm eating a lot and I'm keeping everything else in check, I feel pretty good. I feel fine. I don't notice any different than taking anything else, really. That's also why we left the Tesla I found in a lot of guys. Probably what you see now that's more common is guys run the huge amount of tests, they have a grandma test, and then they want a micro dose trend. Well, it seems a little backwards because the trend is going to do most of the work. It's going to have a much higher affinity to the Android receptor. The testosterone can't really act on anything favorable at that point. So they have it all backwards. Not that guys need to run a grandma trend, but typically I would just leave tests in there as a TRT or low TRT amount just to support health and let the stronger drugs do the work. Right. Yeah, there's kind of like two trains of thought now. Like we know the trend can be a little bit toxic in some people, but in the mental side effects. So if you don't want any side effects, because you're prone to the side effects, then I would recommend people to keep the trend low, like 50 milligrams, 25 milligrams, 150 milligrams, kind of where you end up. Like usually 150 I can manage, but 350, even when my estrogen is low and I bring my testosterone down to TRT levels, just a point of diminishing returns where mentally I can't handle it physically. I'm fine. I can sleep, I can train. I don't really get out of breath because I do my daily fast cardio, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But it's just mentally for me that that's the point of no return basically. So I'd rather keep it low and then leverage the test in the pre-mode to minimize the side effects, but still get some of the benefits of TRT. But if you don't have any of the other side effects that the mental side effects or sleep quality or trend sweats or whatever, then yeah, bring the test down because it's just filling up the receptor with low or lower anablysm potential. Yeah. I've run those cycles in the past too, where you do like 700 TRT in 150 tests or 175 tests. So it's 100 TRT a day in 2500 milligrams of tests per day. Whether that's in the offseason or cutting phase, it works great. And you look better and you stay leaner because trends are so much more potent. It helps the IGF-1 sensitivity, it probably promotes insulin sensitivity to the stomach. Aromatizing. Yeah, that's not aromatizing, even though if you do conventional blood work it shows up as esertile. So do your sensitive testing, like a liquid chromatography tandem as per geometry to really get your esertile levels back, besides the classical chemiluminescence, esertile testing, then your esertile would be sky high because it's actually trained. And in that sense, it's way easier to grow or make progress because train is such more potent drug, milligram for milligram. Yeah, and if you can tolerate it by all means. How are your kidney parameters, blood pressure, all that thing when you were doing your offseason? Because with a lot of foods, obviously you would expect some blood pressure changes on this much train. Honestly, perfect. It's called Supremian. There was times it would get, like my systolic would get in the 130s, my diastolic never gets above 80, but we would adjust, we just add more potassium and then it come down. My kidney is my systatin C on the last test was a 0.8. Then even after my GFR was a 116 I think, and then our 109, something like that. And then after, because we pulled bloods, not the last blood work, but before that, the day after the cycle, and my systatin C was still a 0.8. If we're gonna love this podcast, I'm gonna put train like three times in the title. Yeah, and my blood pressure was as low as, when we started even bringing up doses, my blood pressure was as low as being under 120 over 80. So it moves. I mean, it's not like it was always completely perfect, but it never got to a point where there's ever concern. And we could always make a dietary change to bring things back to a better place. But I think that's important. My point of view on it is there's so much we could pull from the nutritional levers. And something like trend isn't very forgiving. So when you get to the trend, GHG seems they can add water and cause other complications with the nervous system. I think it's so much more important. That's what I found from working with Curt and him, he advised me through it. And I know how Curt operates. So you probably had minimal cheat meals and just ate clean the entire way through. Yeah, that's another big part of it too. I mean, of course, you're going out. How many people can adhere to that? I'm not sure. Most of the guys do. Well, yeah, okay. That's true. I mean, it depends on their goal. Alex wants to accomplish big things, right? You gotta work hard to get, if you just wanna look better than you did, you know, then you'd be 80% compliant. Well, I think it's also not as complicated as people make it. So I have a diet I really enjoy. That's another thing we've made sure to work on. And I have a family. So I still go out, I have social meals where I go out with my family. The thing is like, my family's pretty healthy, my wife's very healthy. We go out with my parents, you know, my dad's really big in longevity. So is my mom. So we don't, there's always a good option. You know, I can always eat on plan with what we're doing. Most people, they go through the same restaurants anyway. You know, you like to think we do things that are so different all the time. And like we need all this variety, but we really kind of go to things that we know are gonna be good. You know, so. Yeah, especially if you have a whole family that's into health and fitness. And you probably end up with a steak and a potato, right? Yeah. Or some sushi or something. And then that's pretty much similar to what you were eating anyway, which you have that variety where you don't have to clean up and you can tip somebody to prepare it for you. So yeah, that's, at least you feel somewhat normal. But yeah, I think a lot of people make that mistake in the offseason that they think they can get away with like a dirty bulk. And that's where a lot of the issues come from. The blood pressure and the indigestion and the weird sleep patterns. Yeah, because you just fold it saturated fats and simple sugars and then your body's digesting the whole night, you know, your sweating buckets. And that's where a lot of these misconceptions with trend comes from. Like, of course, if you eat a bucket of Ben and Jerry's before bed to gain size, and you're not gonna sleep that well, you know. And that's also the hardest part for most guys. You get up to 5,000, 6,000 calories and it's all clean. You know, then you really have to work on your digestion, your appetite, just to make sure that you can fit it all in. If you ended up at a thousand grams of carbs, you can lower your protein accordingly to make sure that everything was passing through, Alex. Yeah, so we, what do we have at 275 grams a day? Yeah, 270. Yeah, and we just, yeah, 270, sorry. And we just manage it, you know, if I start getting, if I were to get heartburn or something like that, I would bring it down. There's times in the beginning where I was eating a lot more. Before working with Kurt, I was eating a lot more protein, figuring it out. And that wasn't good. You know, you start to feel those effects in your digestion. And so you scale it back, you scale it back. And, you know, we found something that works. And then of course, adding in all the probiotics and, you know, through food, the food-based probiotics make a huge difference as well, I think. When two variables, sorry, two variables that Alex isn't mentioning, but that he follows is he attracts everything, right? I know he knows exactly what he's eating every day and he knows exactly how he's training. He posts that in my forum every day. He is like his log. So I can see every single thing he's doing, every weight, how many reps he's doing it for, what his diet is, and he communicates. Like Alex, we probably talk almost every day about something, whether it's just small talk or we're bouncing ideas off each other with something. But I think those are two key components that guys miss, it's just willy nilly, take these drugs, eat this amount of food and just do whatever all the variables are counted for. So it's easy to diagnose when, if Alex runs into an issue, we know exactly where we can look. Like he said, we can move these things around because everything is documented and it's right. Yeah, when once all issues start to manifest, you can probably catch them early on. So like you mentioned the digestion and acid reflux, you're like, today's a little bit off and then the next day it's probably worse. So that about a third data adjustment is already made and then the issue is resolved. And if you work very closely between the coach and the client and then there's no real issues and you can keep progressing without running into roadblocks or something like that. Yeah. You know? And we do loop of exercise too, right? If something's lagging or something's bothering, we just, we go over what he's starting to accomplish and what other options are, just gonna make it work. Rather than one point, your knees are screwed up, right? You're gonna change the split squats. Yeah. But I'm aware that a lot of clients don't communicate that to their coach, right? They'll just start changing things and not tell anyone, right? And you don't.  even know what they're really even doing. Yeah, but Alex, you're coaching yourself, right, also. So, you know how important it is to keep that coach-client relationship going and make sure that you communicate everything. Because, yeah, a lot of people, they're just used to getting a plan, and then they follow the plan without any feedback. But the plan is only as good as the feedback that you give it, so you can create a new plan and keep it dynamic. And that's it, because the body keeps changing. As you get bigger, your leverage is changing, your digestion changes, and obviously your digestion and all that stuff. So continuous feedback, I think, is very important during the off-season. If you coach yourself, then it's very important to keep a log and just be mindful of all the changes that are taking place. And sometimes you just got to coach yourself. You write it down, and then you don't look at it for a day, and then you read it back. You're like, hey, wait a minute. You analyze your own shit, and you pinpoint the problem the next day. Or you take the pictures and you crop it off from the neck down. You only look from the neck down so you know that it's a client and not yourself. It's pretty easy to do. You just take the emotion out of it. So would you guys do a similar approach going forward? Like would the off-season always contain trend, or would the next off-season be a little bit of a variation based on what you learned just off-season? We entered a second off-season, and we tried a similar approach. A lot of times I'll try. If we know something works, rather than just try to reinvent the wheel, we'll try to stick with it again and see what we can get. After cruise, labs, but we didn't have quite the same momentum. I mean, Alex, you want to talk about what the variables were that changed there that floated down because it wasn't necessarily the most obvious stuff. But it's probably mistakes a lot of guys make. Yeah, man. You know, when we started, when you're early on, you don't weigh a lot, and you don't have a lot of muscle mass, and you don't have a lot of strength. It's easy to want to live in the gym, and you can see progress, and you can push really hard. So I started with a six-day, a week push, pull, leg split, and then as we were moving along and I was getting stronger, it was like, okay, we'll scale up back the push, pull, legs, rest, and it was working. So it was like, what's not fixed, what isn't broken? Eventually my strength went up. I mean, it went up significantly. It's like 30 pounds of, you put on a lot of strength across all your lifts. So when we got to this cycle, I was already burnt out. I would wake up in the morning and feel like I got hit by a car, but I didn't realize, you know, sometimes you don't realize it until like, I just ignored it because I had this momentum behind me, right? So I'm like, I'm going to keep doing what I've been doing. It's working. It's just part of the game. I'm supposed to feel this way. And then it's like, for the first week, first two weeks, things were really, really good, and then it's like, it just crashed. And I would notice, I'm like, man, things just aren't moving along in the gym. But I would notice like my legs were still getting bigger, which my legs had the least amount of volume. And so my thought process was like, oh man, like I need to do more on my upper body. Like I tried such a leg, I need to do more. And I'm just getting more sore, more sore. And then finally like, you know, Kurt's like, Hey man, like I think you need to scale it back. And I'd already been thinking about it. And I'm like, you know, you're right. We should. We've now dialed it back quite a bit to what always worked even before. Like when I was in my 20s, you know, especially training as a natural, like I trained, you know, four days a week, upper, lower, or I do a full body. And I didn't have a lot of volume. I just focused on getting really strong at the exercise as good as much out of it as I could, you know, without completely thrashing my CNS. And then I could recover from that, you know, I have a 10 month old at home too. So that's a part of it. Even like if I can sleep perfectly, I can't always sleep perfectly. You know what I mean? So there's things that will impact my recovery capacity. And I think a lot of guys in their 30s will experience this where we just can't push like that. Not only because we're older, you know, we can say, okay, being older is part of it, but just having that family life, having some little things, responsibilities, you know, maybe you got some stress at work, we lose some of that. So trying to do what I was doing, trying to add more, trying to push every day in the gym, it just burnt me out. And so now it's like, okay, let's flush out that fatigue. And what's, what's bringing it back up from here. So Dean, Dean came up with the growth hormone replacement dose for parents. Those are dose again. For years, by the years. Yeah, I'm sure we're well past that in the discussion here, if the saw you go in. Have a bottle or a bottle of stairs. But I think we, you know, you've really touched on what I even learned when I talked about my prep of that, like minimal effective volume, or like you've got minimal effective volume and maximum recoverable volume. Yeah. If you're like in my 20s, I was doing that like balls, the walls, every set was total failure, your loading set back offset. Following, you know, dog crapper Dante's way of training. And then when I got to my 30s, it was like, I've talked about like iron case. They was like, you can't train this way. Your nervous system as you get older, just won't facilitate proper recovery. And he introduced like reps and reserve training, even from that perspective of like lowering total volume, but not taxing your, your body. And even like back then, I had that me head attitude of like, what you mean? You can't like train to failure. And when I was trying to even train that way in the gym, but reps and reserve, it was so hard not to do that last rep where you knew this is going to be the grinder, but this is the one you most enjoy. But then in terms of like what I gained, it was no difference to train and to failure by leaving that rep in the tank. You were able to give more efforts to the next set. And obviously what you've sort of seen where you accumulate that fatigue, you can bully yourself week on week to just ignore that fatigue and try and go into the gym and look what's in the logbook. But eventually it catches up with you where you have to do a D load. You have to stop training the gym for a week or you have to really significantly reduce the load for a week where you know, you've lost a week's progress this week by having to rest, where you can keep that momentum going week on week with your progressive overload. That's where the change occurs. When I was getting my head around that was it's it can look like a pussy way of training. If you can keep progressive overload going week on week on week on without this D load that you classically see where someone trottles themselves hard for eight to 10 weeks and then has to take a week off. Well, if the other person can keep the momentum going week on week, they're not going to have to stop at week 10. You know, at week 10 they're still making progress and that progress keeps accumulating. So yeah, it's a good lesson to learn that what works in our 20s as we get older might not work for us, you know, long term. Yeah. Yeah. I noticed over the years that I just keep producing the volume. The intensity is still always there. I might leave one rep and reserve that the one that you would either get buried or you get it. Um, and I also noticed that if I do less exercises per, um, or less sets per exercise that will recover better as well. So now I'm at a point where I do six exercises, six sets. That's it. So I do one set of exercise and just leave it there. No more backup sets, no drop sets, no bullshit fluff work. I might do a feeler set like in between the exercises. So you go from incline, dumble, press the flies. And of course flies is a bit of a stretch movement. So I would do like one to kind of prime the movement, six reps. And then I go to my working weight and I might leave one rep in a tank, which is like three reps beyond failure for most people. Yeah. For me, it would be true failure, but that's 27 years in the gym with no breaks, no real breaks. Um, so I'm pretty in tune with that. But I noticed that the best thing I've done over the last year or so is just to one set per exercise. And if I didn't get it, I'm not going to do, like, if I'm not happy with the set, like something that happened. So you're like, I kind of messed that one up, you know, like on rep three, my, my knees were not positioned correctly. And then you feel you're, you're angry with yourself to all see these starts to kickings and I got to do another set. No, it's done. You get to try out a three days later because I do push pull legs as well. Right. Um, and that was the biggest game changer for me. And then my central nervous system is way better. My elbow pain, knee pain is not a severe. It's still there, but 27 years of beating yourself up. And what do you expect? Uh, there's not enough deck in the world to get that away. Um, so, you know, things like this, the learning experience and just listening to your body, but it's very, very hard for bodybuilders to ease back. Cause you're on all these drugs and you're eating all this food and you want to put it to work. When in reality, the best thing you can do to put it to work is just to take one step back so we can continuously make progress. What, and I just want to talk about fatigue and, um, recovery. Cause I think they're misunderstood. So the mechanisms of fatigue from exercise or CNS fatigue, calcium, ion related fatigue and proximity to failure. Right. So you talked about, you know, ideally you want to be one rep from reserve from most of the studies is sometimes it's difficult. It's hard to tell when you're actually going to hit failure. Right. And a lot of guys don't go close enough to it. So they're probably five reps in reserve. That's wasting your time. Um, right. Where in calcium, I am fatigue can be from too much volume, too many sets. That sort of stuff more calcium ions will enter the muscle and they'll aggravate, um, the nervous system through that method. And then the CNS fatigue. And I think where we talk about recovery, we say things like steroids improve recovery. They technically don't, they were, they were up on protein synthesis. So at the muscle, they cause growth, but they're not technically improving recovery because recovery is in the nervous system. They don't do anything for that. And the fact, if you take too many drugs and you're not sleeping, your recovery is going to actually get worse. Even though you're getting stronger and bigger, your, your actual recovery is down. That's why most guys feel so beat up at the end of their cycle. Cause the muscle and the, and the progress in the gym is continuous. And at one point it kind of tabbers off after 12 weeks. And then the central nervous system is messed up. And that's why we got that term, the post contest blues, which a lot of guys experience out at the end of their offseason as well, because they're just fried, they were full of stimulants and sleeping pills. And then they take the drugs out and they're wondering, they're on the couch and they're just getting fatter and fatter and fatter and losing all their gains because they're completely burned out. Yeah. And something that I, the galaxy I talk about all the time with training is I advise most guys train like they're natural. Like the, the three pathways that cause muscle growth from steroids and the one pathway from exercise, which is mechanical tension are not related. They're totally separate things that occur independently. And there might be an additive effect if you take steroids and you lift, but they're not synergistic drugs don't magnify training. They're both occurring at the same time simultaneously. If you train like you're natural, you can do continuous progress. Like you're talking about instead of pushing too hard, masking with the drugs. And then you have to take a D load, right? And then now you've gone down and then you go back up and you see this in the guys that train like that. They make some progress when they do a cycle. And then when they cruise, they lose all this weight and then they make some progress and they literally stay the same. Right. They go from 262 40 to 260 240 260 240. They never get any better versus continually ramping up in size. Right. It's, it's now I can't maintain the strength here and there's a drug. Really? Right. Because it's all drug, drug related. Yeah. Let the drugs do their thing. You don't need to, you know, you don't need to intervene in that. The drugs work perfectly fine. Mm hmm. So next, next, next, like, well, what is the setup for the next offseason? Or is there a cutting like, I mean, you look super lean, Alex. So I don't think you need to do a cut. We were cruising for a little bit to kind of give this break and reevaluating, you know, giving this body a break and then we'll push again. What we use, I mean, it might not be those same compounds. Yeah. Like I would see before it doesn't, that's rare. I mean, two under guys, I might have less than five that are using trend. It's not. Right. Alex is just an example of someone who that, that seemed to work for. Right. You know, that's the majority of these guys are not using that stuff. I wouldn't be able to use it in the offseason. I got to be very selective when I use my trend and then it's a six week love affair at a low dose and I make tremendous progress if I'm already lean and turn into a freak and then my mental capacity is my mental bath with issues at the end of the road and I need to stop. Otherwise I'll end up single and 50% less. My capital. So, so now I got to be, be very, very careful. Yeah. But if you can run it, you can run it, but of course it's not something you can run all the time. So you can do training the offseason and then go into a contest prep, for example. So yeah. And then you're training, training the whole year. I'm sure that takes it stall. So let's say, is there a contest coming up at any time? And then how would you structure your, your offseason around a prep that's following the offseason? Like how, how would you guys address that? Do you have a show of mind, Alex? So I'm about to move to Florida the next sometime here in the next three or four months, um, probably get out there in two months or something in rent. Um, we're looking for a house. So we'll wrap this up. We'll cruise. And then I'll probably, we'll probably go from there, whether we want to run one more growth phase. Um, Florida, there's a show every weekend, basically. So I mean, you don't have to be silly. I live in Arizona right now. You'd have to be a little bit more planned. Florida, we could just say, Hey, let's go do this on, on this day. And if, if we're not ready, if we want to extend it out, something doesn't go according to plan, you know, a family thing comes up. It's like, okay, we'll do it this two weeks later. And it's, it's not going to make much of a difference. So it's a benefit of being there. Um, so we'll see, man, you know, we'll see. Right. Cause next year for sure, within the year. Yeah. I mean, he wants to be an open, he wants to go and open. So, okay, time again, bigger. Yeah. I just, just spend the time to get bigger. And then when you're ready to compete with the big guys, then you step on stage. There's no need to really step on stage earlier. I see a lot of guys that keep doing shows and then they mess up their offseason because they're doing all these shows and not really making any progress. I mean, it's hard to make progress at, at open bodybuilder level. If you don't do a full blown offseason. Yeah. You know, and, and you see what the guys that continuously compete, they barely make any progress unless they're genetic freaks. Yeah. And, uh, yeah, that's, that's only a select few. So the next offseason, what do you think? Well, what would excite you to do the next offseason with? And, and where do you end think end up food wise? Alex? Um, what excites me about it? I mean, who I love the journey of bodybuilding, man. Like I love the process. I love the lifestyle, like the train. Um, mostly I like that, you know, watching things change, you know, watching my body change. And for me, it was always a bucket list thing. Like I had put off for so long. So my twenties, it's something I had to table. Um, and I always thought I was like, I'll come back to it when I'm 30. And then I'm 30 and it's like, I just can't get, I couldn't get into it, you know, because there's a food and everything. It's not, it's not just something you can just pick up. Like you have to have your mind into the game. Um, and so like when my baby was coming, it was kind of like the shit or get off the pot moment. I'm either going to do this or I'm not. And I found myself falling in love with it again, getting into the process. Um, so yeah, man, like I'm not, you know, what excites me, um, seeing progress, putting on some more size, you know, I think, uh, in my head, it's like, let's get the 240. Um, let's get the 240, 250, you know, and then, and then go from there. Um, I don't know how long it would take, you know, what to see. Oh, it's probably going to take a couple of months. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, this last one, I was like, you know, we'll get the maybe, you know, maybe I'll get the two times ended up at 225. Yeah. I mean, if you're dialed in the progress is people don't realize if you're completely dialed in and you can set all the time aside that you need for body building and you have the finances, obviously, because well, Sarah's they make cheap. Um, you know, it's not free. Not for, not for most of us. So like that, that's also a factor over a lot of people. They kind of have a super productive offseason or contest preps because financially they're simply not there yet. And it costs quite a bit of money to ruin the best stuff. You can. Um, so, but when that is all in place, it can make dramatic progress. I noticed it to myself too. If I really set my mind to an offseason, I just get super freaky big and, and, and, and super strong. Okay. I get a little bit fluffy because that's how my body wants to be. Um, but I end up at two, two 65 to 70. No problem. And it's, it's not difficult to do like ours. Do you put one offseason? Now he's 132 kilos or or Samson Doughty does an offseason. He's 156 kilos. Of course, Samson is a bit of a different animal, you know, gorilla, obviously. Silverback, but it's, yeah, I think if you really put your mind to it, you can accomplish quite a bit. And I see that with Kurtz clients and my own clients and then with Dean, all the guys that he's helping, like for the guys that are really putting their minds to it, the progress is not what people realize is possible, but it is possible with, with the right attitude. Are there any, any particular compounds you would like to try or you're like, you know, what do you figure out the formula? I'm just going to stick with this. Maybe it's men. Um, yeah, maybe try that. Yeah, I don't know, man. Like I'm, I'm pretty dynamic with things when I've, I mean, I only ran, um, two cycles when I was in my, uh, 20s when I was doing bodybuilding, I didn't have a very big run with it, but I got to kind of experiment there. I was working with an older school coach. So we would, every four weeks to rotate compounds. You get to try them all. Those others and receptors, man, they burn out. It's right. Dean, yeah. I got to try a little bit of muscle confusion. Yeah. So I tried, you know, we tried everything in that four week rotation over 20 weeks and, um, so I, you know, I follow your black book today. I got 26 compounds. It just, I'm going to run all of them. Yeah. Yeah. And they're all good, man. There's not, you know, they're all, they're all good. I like them all. So I'll start to peek. He goes, something else. Yeah. It worked. They got the job done. So, um, yeah. I mean, whatever Kurt really, um, decides like I'm not an expert when it comes to PDs by any means, um, but I'm not attached to what I'm doing now. It's not like I have to do, oh, it's got to be trying. Like people get to where they're going. Um, when I look at different people and what they're doing, everyone's doing something different, you know, it's kind of like, I look at it kind of like any other medication, like if you go to, if you and I go to a doctor for the same exact problem, we're probably going to end up on two different protocols with different dosing schemes. But we'll both get to where we're trying to go. Right. So, so what I noticed in my last, well, 15 to 42, so that's 27 years. Um, everything works if you work. You can make the silliest drug combinations. Assuming you don't get unhealthy. Like the last cycle I did was silly, basically on paper, but it worked. And I got big and I got strong and I got lean, even on a quote, quote, with compounds for the offseason, right? 600 tests, 600 deca, no AI, high dose generic G H it all works. If you just, if you just work, so people always look for these magical cocktails. Um, I think the magical cocktails that you just eat on time and sleep well and train hard was boring as it sounds. Yeah. And it all works. You can die. You can fucking cycle on anything. It just, it's your body agrees with it. And for that, you got to experiment obviously a little bit to see what works and what doesn't and not be afraid to pull the plug because if, if Primo doesn't work, okay, just throw it in the trash or give it away. It's like you do item. Yeah. Yeah. Instead of keeping doing it, I need training masteron this cycle. Otherwise I'm not going to write, but if it works, obviously you keep it in, but some guys don't respond well to it. Okay. Just don't use it then. You know, like your offseason doesn't have to consist of tests, deca and the animal, just because it worked for some other guy. Um, could be just test. Could be just, I've made phenomenal progress. I made phenomenal progress in this test too. Just test G-H at insulin man. I got up to 260. No problem. Recently lean, full as a house, strong as an ox. And my blood work was the perfect. I was literally all in range. Yeah. Even HDL was like 45 and people like, how is that possible? I didn't run windstroll and, and training, you know, and all that shit. So you can actually make your offseason quite simple. If you just slowly ramp up the training intensity in the fold and the drugs to leverage or recovery all day. If, if it were just a drug thing, Jim's would be loaded with big monstrous guys, right? Jim's are loaded with guys on. Well, that's the thing. That's the sad reality that people are taking compounds and just fluffing about in the gym and expecting, okay, yes, we know you take, if you take trend, you're going to gain some level of lean body mass, regardless of what you do in the gym, but it's, it's training. And it's quite often hard for people to see that as a, a, a thing surrounding how they make progress in their offseason as they're training. Like Alex saying, if your training goes to shit, your growth phase is going to go to shit. And then the other side is if you don't know how to train properly, you're never going to create the mechanical tension stimulus to grow that muscle tissue outer. So it's, it really comes back to basics. And as boring as training is, you need to know how to train intensely. Yeah. I mean, I have a guy's come to be young kids that have watched stuff we've said and totally misinterpreted it. They're on three grams a gear and they weigh 160 pounds. You know, you basically have to say, do you look like you're on three grams a gear? It's not anything. You probably eating nothing at all either, right? Yeah, because I want to stay lean and they're on everything else too. They're on 20 different peptides. They're on thyroid medicine. They're on all this crap. Right. I've seen guys come to me with a list of stuff. There was one guy in particular and I told him, said, you're on more drugs than an 80 year old on with cancer. Like, well, I need all this shit. It's not doing anything for you. Yeah. And then you recommend them to cruise for a while so you can dial in their diet. And that's when they usually never hear. You're hitting them again. Yeah. We should disappear. They'll go find someone else to justify it. You know, that is the worst thing about it is that if you're not willing to entertain the PD conversation because of the basics like that, they'll just find someone who's going to lever and go, yep, here's your cycle away you go. And they're probably selling the drugs to them as well. Yeah. That is what it is, man. I mean, it takes time to grow. I mean, it doesn't have to take decades, but it does take a couple of years to really build a phenomenal physique, but it doesn't mean you can make crazy progress in the offseason or even during a contest prep or cutting phase. If you just put your mind to it, but it's rarely, it's really about the drugs. It's very boring. You have no life. I did it for many years until I kind of decided, you know, what I'm big enough and it's easy to maintain. And now I want to live a little bit, you know, skip a workout to drive motorcycle. But at least I put in the work, you know, in my younger years. And now it's just a matter of maintaining 230. It's, it's maintaining 230 or 200 pounds is super easy. You know, unless you do what Dean did and just walk and don't eat. And then it goes away. It's counterproductive. You know, at least he got a nice shredded face as a result of that. And some, you know, it's got a great head of hair too. Yeah. I forget it. Yeah. Um, um, de de aging. De aging. Yeah. I mean, like, I'm not saying, you know, looking back at it when I was competing, you, you obviously have to leverage PDs to an extent. But like Kurt said, the best thing you can learn is how to train as a natural. And then from there, obviously the PDs will facilitate more volume and then more volume means more mechanical tension. But as to come to a point, like what you say, and where six to eight working sets per body part, that's what the research seems to suggest is your sweet spot for growth and they're working sets. Like people get carried away with, well, I don't 12 sets or 15 sets for chests. I was like, well, how many of those were warm ups sets or feeder sets? Like how many were ones that actually created mechanical tension or a growth stimulus? It's not to say your feeder sets aren't contributing, but are they really the thing that's driving the stress that will create the muscle protein synthesis and elongation of the muscle tissue? So it's, it's really important that you understand again, where you're, you're, you're minimum effective volume or that like you're working sets in the gym of how effective they are. And you'll only learn that by training like a natural. Yeah, but natural's are hard to follow because they don't not so big. So it doesn't look exciting, but I got the most knowledge from the natural lifting community. I mean, luckily I was natural for 10 years. So I did learn something. And you just keep applying that as you, you know, how many extra sets can you do on steroids? One, two. That's about it. And then creatine gives you a couple of extra reps, you know, and the anodol gives you a couple of extra reps. But in the end, you're still going to listen to your body and just make sure that it's, you have a very productive workout. And that means that beyond a certain point, you just got to go home. Otherwise you're creating stress and cortisol and impairing sleep quality. And then it's counterproductive. And again, the steroids are just masking that. So I'm 30 grams a gear. Yeah, you can train for hours. Will you make progress? No. Not really. Well, right. There's, I mean, there's two kinds of people. There's process people, there's results people going to the gym as a process. Right. Yeah. Growing is the result. If you're not growing, who cares what the process is? You go to the gym for 12 hours a week. You're not getting any bigger. What are you doing? Yeah. Yeah, let's have a training addiction. And the training is the result. So do you guys think that you end up like a next offseason, like 6,000 calories, 7,000 calories and what will you guys do at that point where digestion becomes an issue? Like, do you stretch the offseason? Or do you like really maximize all the tools that we have to kind of keep progressing at that pace? It depends if it goes or not. I mean, sometimes I've guys use easier to digest stuff, dependent where their food is. You know, really depends. We could. Yeah, it's hard to talk. It's up to an IV. I'll be in plasma expanders. Let's go. I mean, I was trying to set the calories here. Usually I think that's that's usually the rate of like the limiting factor where digestion just becomes difficult. And that's usually six, 7,000 calories. Okay. You can speed up digestion by taking away a little bit of the bloodstream limitation by using insulin. Now I know you, I don't, you don't like insulin. Kurt. Um, but I always found that at that point where digestion becomes an issue, then you speed up the digestion slightly with thyroid hormones and using insulin just to create that pathway to the skeletal muscle. And at that point, the volume, the junk volume might need to increase a little bit to remove the carbohydrates from the skeletal muscle. So you can have this protein signaling.  so you create extra volume, it's junk volume, to kind of deplete the muscle tissue. Now you could say eat less and take less drugs, but from what I've noticed working with pretty big, yeah, so this is completely counterproductive and this only works with big guys, you leverage the drugs to facilitate the nutrient absorption and you burn some of those nutrients away with junk volume to help with the protein signal and that seems to only be necessary at higher body weights, that we're talking about 270 to 300 pounds. So that's why sometimes, or that might be an explanation why you see some of these bigger guys do so much volume and not really train the failure anymore, because it's more about nutrient signaling than it is about actual training intensity. Yeah, you just need to get the nutrients. Yeah, exactly, so the drugs and the food disgusting the growth and the training is just a formality. And yeah, and with insulin usually, the only time I'd implement it is if the A1c starts to trend up, right? So you see that the pancreas can't keep up, outside of that I wouldn't add it earlier because the risks associated with it. Yeah, and it's of course one of the more harder drugs to manage, you really need to live the lifestyle, of course you can use long-acty insulin and a little bit of fast acting pre or post-workout. But yeah, you need some years under your belt before that even becomes necessary. Usually you need to reach a point of food consumption where it actually starts to matter. Yeah, yeah, like I mean, he's approaching it, he was at, we ended at 5,000 calories. Yeah. You might need at least another thousand calories. But then I think the other important question is how efficient is the system and how well is absorbing at the gut, you know, if someone's, you know, looking back at my own historical career to speak, you know, a lot of that was unmanaged celiac disease where Cal and my coach was feeding me you know, 900 to 1000 grams of carbs, but it was because I was having to run to the bathroom multiple times per day because of the gluten and some of the foods. And like that historically, looking back, I remember within the first year of working with Cal, we put in bagels and I said to him, Cal, I don't think these bagels are agree with me. And he's like, why did you think that? And I was like, because my stomach seems to swell in the evening time when the bagels go in, you know, like blouts and you're thinking, all right, well, it's just bloating you, let's put in a different carbohydrate, like cocoa pops or rice Krispies, which still has glue, which still has gluten in it. But, you know, looking back all these signals of indigestion, running to the bathroom multiple times, but I'm eating 5000 calories, like people swing their dick around a little bit of a meat and all this food, but half it is being shit into the toilet. So, right, you know, if you can then say, I'm officially absorbing the food, I'm having like two solid stool movements morning, evening time that are like a type four, then you might have the conversation, okay, well, maybe more food is warranted. But if you are running to the bathroom multiple times throughout the day, maybe fix the absorption of food rather than adding more calories in. Yeah, or leveraging the insulin to facilitate the absorption, like you're not going to improve digestion with insulin, you know, you can speed up digestion, but you're not going to improve it. And for a time with thyroid hormones, you can improve the speed of digestion a little bit, but it's not improving. For that, you need to do, you know, really be mindful of what you're eating, you maybe need to do a stool analysis or food allergy test, or just go meal by meal, right, seeing how it digest and sits, can you still pull a vacuum at the end of the day, which if you're really up on top of your digestion, you should be able to do some sort of moderate vacuum, even if you're eating 1000 grams of carbs, because again, it's the proteins and the fats that slow down in the fiber. But if you're really changing your fiber sources to maybe some kimchi, sauerkraut or probiotic stuff, then yeah, you can get away with quite little fiber over the day and then, you know, 40 grams is easy to reach. Like if you want to eat a kilo of kale during cutting phase, sure. Yeah, I mean, that's what I do when I'm cutting to eat a kilo of kale. And you create great stools of that because there's zero carbs, you know, a little bit of fat. So you really have to like, just because you're eating so much during a cutting phase, doesn't mean you have to keep eating so much protein and fiber during your offseason, you can really bring them down. And that's, you know, that's a good point, like we're offseason, I'm bulking and dirty bulking and everything else that like fiber so neglected with an offseason to speak like, yes, your vegetable intake is going to be a little bit lower versus when you're trying to create, I guess, more volume to your meals if you have poor calories coating. That doesn't mean neglect fiber, you can use soluble fibers, you can use psyllium husk, apple fiber, pre hydrolyzed guar gum, you can use liquid sources of fibers that are very easy to drink first thing in the morning when you wake up and let them get to work through today is you're drinking more fluids. Right. Yeah, and they can create intestinal lubrication with things like magnesium, that ox bile. Yeah, aloe vera. Yeah, it's all these other things you can leverage before you add in the insulin. But eventually, there might be a point where the insulin comes into the picture. And that's when, yeah, the next level progress is going to be met in my opinion. I really, I like insulin. I like insulin. It works very well if you got everything dialed in. Yeah, you see, usually you like with the guys that run higher doses in the offseason, like maybe two grams of gear, that can actually reduce the gear dosage because the insulin helps with nutrient partitioning and should look. Yeah, that's not for everybody. Founded with the Grythoma one too. You don't know. Yeah, of course. Yeah, yeah, Grythoma on insulin and then you're on the gramma gear instead of two. But two grams of gear is cheaper than a gramma gear and a vial of serostim. What's the health tool? The health tool is going to be worse on two grams of gear probably. Yeah, that's for sure. Yeah, but that's an afterthought if you look at the financial drain for most guys. $200 or $700. And if you're not sleeping, you're probably not growing either. True. How is your sleep quality on a vial of serostim, Alex? I've never used it. I always ask, I want to know what the experiences are. I mean, it's good, really good. I mean, the hardest part about that is sometimes there's some carryover into the morning. So you wake up a little bit sleepy. That was one thing we actually had to dial back the serostim at the end of the last cycle because of, you know, carpal tunnel becomes a big issue on a bottle. So sleep quality is really good until your hands start getting really, really numb and then you wake up with numb hands in the middle of the night and it's like, okay, we've got to dial this back to improve sleep quality. But yeah, when things are going great, you sleep like a baby. Yeah. Yeah, I got to get some serostim too, dammit. Then again, I'm happy being 230 minutes. I always get excited from these kinds of conversations. I had a seizure but somebody makes so much progress and then I want to get my hands dirty again, but I don't know, maybe 290. Yeah, probably 270 at least and I'm snoring up a storm and sweating buckets. Did you end up using a CPAP machine? Or you're still CPAP free, Alex? No, I'm on CPAP. Yeah, yeah. I didn't, you know, once I started to get that, and I was like 190, I started to get a little bit of sleep apnea where I started snoring. And I didn't wait. I just right away, I went and did the sleep tests and, okay, yeah, they gave me the prescription for the PAP. And it's been a year or did you use a CPAP before you got back into the bodybuilding? No, no, no, I've only been on it for probably about a year. Maybe a little less, give or take. My wife's a lot happier. Yeah, the noise that a CPAP makes is minimal compared to how bodybuilders can snore and gas for air. Oh yeah. They're quiet. The CPAPs are really quiet now. It's not like the old, I remember I had a roommate back in college with a CPAP and man, that thing was loud. That's probably air sound like that. Or I just made one or something. Like you got the AirSense 11 that's the one I use with the nasal pillow. You barely hear it. I only use like one ear plug to kind of block the noise out and I'm so used to it now. Yeah, it made a huge difference for my sleep quality. Yeah, I still use it now at 230 and I started using it when I was 260, 265. And that's sleep quality really improved. But I still use it now because I'm kind of used to sleeping that way. And you just wake up feeling so much more refreshed to use it. Yeah. Yeah. I like it. I can recommend it to anybody, especially people that are undiagnosed, sleep apnea, sleep apnea and have elevated hematocrit. Did the CPAP improve heramatocrit or that wasn't the case? Oh yeah. No, it did. And that was one of the, so between the snoring, my wife was like, you got to do something about this. My hematocrit was getting high. And you start to notice inconsistencies with blood pressure. So it's not one of those things like I wanted to let go untreated. I knew it's like, okay, I'm just going to solve this. And then a lot of these problems will go away. And then I can start to look at how I can mitigate from here. But it's really hard to try to clean all these things up when you have this massive driver. And it's like, oh, I'll just eventually get it done. It's like, just get it done. Get it taken care of. It's so unbodybuilding of you. Most bodybuilders would just wait until there's a point of an hour and a half. Yeah. I mean, that's, you know, with sleep apnea, I had a recently in a liquid consult where it was someone on TRT and changes in their hematocrit over time. And what he actually came to me about the consult for was to improve their daily energy. I was looking at the blood work I see in hematocrit change and constantly sitting around like 53, 54%. Hemoglobin up at like 178, 179. And what then same guy in the consultation, you know, you know, so it went three, three blood works for blood works, and it goes from like 52 to 55.4. And it's changing over time. Yeah. And I mean, in terms of like, you got a double opinion. Well, exactly like I did. Well, I tell you, to be honest, this is, this is probably a lot of different people like having this same scenario. So it's probably coincidence. What sort of gave him, gave it away to us. He like anxiety, waking up feeling anxious, never waking up feeling rested. And then you start explaining, you know, and this was under the care of a TRT clinic in the UK that you're like, same guy, 100%. You're saying, you know, over time, what's going on here is the reality is there's apnea at current and then it sort of clicks on the head of, okay, now this makes sense to go and investigate it. So if people are listening to this, like even offices, you're waking up feeling anxious, you're waking up feeling tired, no matter how many hours rest you get. Snoring is not normal, you know, jaw structure, how your throat is relaxing in your sleep, you're doing everything in terms of like no strip, mouth tape lying on your side, knee pillow, blah, blah, blah, all these simple structural changes. You might just need a CPAP to make sure that the airways stay open regardless of where you move in the bed. And then all of a sudden your daily energy comes back, you don't need to think about NAD or MOTC or, you know, the simple solution is fix in the mechanical. We're going to have to set you up an affiliate with a CPAP company. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah, Rismuth, give me a call. No more second hand at the eBay. Let's get a fresh one. But it's very, very true and it's very easy to soft diagnose this CPAP, a sleep apnea. I made a video about this ages ago where you just record with the laptop, you record yourself at night, you use OBS or some sort of other recording software, use the built-in microphone and the built-in video camera, and you just look for these crazy peaks in the audio track. And then the audio track, if you see like a jump, that's usually you gasping for air. And then you could just listen back to it and count how many episodes you have. Okay, a sleep study would be more accurate, but it takes time to schedule sleep study, then it takes some time to analyze sleep study results, and then it takes them more time to write your prescription to get a CPAP machine, which you can now buy over the country in many countries. I got mine within one day. I guess I need a CPAP, I bought it online and it was there the next day. That's Thailand, you know. So I never did a sleep study, but I recorded myself and I just see these gasping for air in the crazy snoring episodes. It's like, ah, this can be good. You know, and of course my wife is complaining. So you just get the sleep, you know, the at-home sleep study done, with your laptop, and recording a one hour or one sleep session, and then you order it online. And it's a game changer for most of us. And then it's usually the turning point of the off-season where I wasn't making any gains, and now I'm making a lot of gains. Yeah, because you're sleeping, finally. You're recovering at night, and instead of throwing more drugs at it, you just get a CPAP machine. Like a thousand bucks. So how much does a kid of serostim go for nowadays? A thousand? 600, 600 to 700. Okay, so just a kid of serostim or a CPAP machine. You probably make better progress off the CPAP if you are not using it. Even if you're not sleeping, yeah. Yeah. You know, because again, it's not always throwing more drugs at it. It's fixing the digestion and the sleep and all that stuff. But yeah. Sleep is our most performance enhancing thing we have. Yeah. How many hours of sleep did you get? Eight, nine? Alex? I sleep seven to eight. Sometimes more. Like, you know, in my rest days, I'll get eight to nine. The most seven to eight. Yeah, usually in the off-season, I end up at nine, and then a half an hour and power nap in the afternoon. Yeah. Yeah. That seems to work best for me. And for most guys, I train and then during prep, it's a little bit more difficult because you're, you know, depleted and, you know, taking some stimulants to get the fat off. So you get about seven to eight hours in, but nevertheless, seven. No, no, I would say seven and a half to eight. And then the 30 minute nap has always been big for me in the afternoon. So yeah, you take a power nap also. Yeah. Oh yeah. I have been doing that for years now, man. It's just, my body loves it. So mandatory, man. It's, I can't go without it. I already know, I already feel it coming. And then my wife's like, you need to take it on an app. I say, yeah, I see, I see in 30. You know, I'm completely recharged. It's so weird. I'm so used to it now. Again, you can feel it coming like 30 minutes ahead of time. And you just fucking knock yourself out. And sometimes you're in the car and tell the wife said, Hey, just go have lunch or something. I'll see you in 30 minutes. Keep the air conditioning running and then recline all the way back. I did that on holiday too. Yeah, no issues, man. It's Dean, did you get any power naps in in Dubai or you had to skip? I wish. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Dubai, I even said to my wife, this trip to Dubai was just full on. I think I've seen this on for 30 minutes on the Friday morning. I didn't see you on social media either. It's like, man, he does not be having a good time. It was a very different trip for me and Lee, all the meetings we had, but productive. But one of those ones where you you're in the country, but you're not really in the country. Like I had people DM me saying, Oh, you want to meet up? I'm like, honestly, I wish I could. But we left you off the plane on the Saturday morning at 6am the morning. We were in a meeting then that afternoon at like 1pm till nine o'clock at night. And I just the whole week was set up that way. So yeah, no, no naps by the pool. Unfortunately, how many retropics and stimulants did you go through? More do you like to admit? Yes, it was it was a full on week. And then you wonder when you come home, you're a bit exhausted from from trolling things, but needs must I guess when you're when you're trying to keep up with the demands of like a four person, probably four person job. We have the knowledge to do it, but it's about the payback afterwards of like that having the downtime to let your brain just come back to reality. And they had a forced elote. So now you're like super motivated to get back into it. Let's see how quick I can put on six kilos before the next podcast. Yeah, you better disqualify. I got to get back into the 90 kilo club. I want to I want to hear what everybody's ideal offseason would look like. Like, you know, like your romanticize an offseason like 16 weeks, make phenomenal progress. Like, what would everybody's ideal offseason look like so we can take that as a learning experience? Of course, there's going to be fluctuations and variations and setbacks and that kind of stuff that you need to address. But like Alex, if you were to do your next offseason, you would do it without Kurt. So just romanticize it by yourself. Like, how would your next offseason look? And then I'll let Kurt comment on it. He fired me already. No, I just want to see I just want to see like, because he learned something. And then of course, you have your ideas like my offseason would be test, CH and insulin and a lot of food. Nothing else to stay as healthy as possible. But everybody has their own ideal offseason. So I just want to hear from Alex from Kurt from Dean and myself. I just build it. But Alex can go first because he's the new boy in town. I mean, honestly, like last offseason was really good. I've been bouncing around just doing the test, GH, insulin. I mean, it's simple, man. I don't think there's a lot of compounds you could throw in. Maybe end it the last three, four weeks, throw some anadrol at the end. Just to wrap things up. You know, GH, like nine I use minimum, I think with the insulin. It's interesting. I've never tried the two together. So now that we're talking about it, that would be interesting. I'm about to see how far we could take food. Ideally, I think the perfect offseason, I would get gut mapping done before, during the cleanup phase, see anything that I can clean up there, anything I can fix, optimize there. So then when I'm taking food up, I'm getting the most out of it. Because that to me, it's like more interesting than all the drugs and everything else. Because if I can get things really working there, my sleep will improve, all my health markers will improve, my training will go really well, my recovery would be great. And for me, it's all about how much progress can I get in the gym. Like that's the thing that motivates me the most. When I get in the gym and I see the weights go up, I see the reps go up. So just having that smooth weights and reps are going up. There's no injury. I'm feeling good. I'm sleeping good. And it's just steady progress, right? Yeah, digestion is intact. You don't have any lingering inflammation because your digestion is not optimal, which carries over into your performance in the gym. And if you're slightly inflamed, I mean, and the training can be inflammatory enough as it is, but that goes away. The food inflammation is just continuous and then you might actually get injured or just have a point where you can't control your stomach and then either explode up or downwards. That happens also. So Kurt, how does it sound to you? And how would your ideal offseason look like if you were to do an offseason again? Probably two options. If I were to just want to get back to where I was, I'd probably just use test and GH, gramma test, whatever. I think I could easily get back there just with that. If I needed to push past that. So your biggest was when we made a TOE olympia right around that time? Yeah, give or take. Yeah. Yeah. If I needed to get past that fucking unit, I would probably use on similar to what I'd probably leverage trend, anadrol at the end of it, and maybe something else in there to add milligrams, something more in the middle and EQ a primo a masteron it, something that's not really going to add a ton of size just to get more milligrams that I where I couldn't tolerate. Right. Cause you're going to use so much training, you can only use so much test, so much anadrol. So I would add something else in there if I needed it, but either one of those, you know, if you said I needed to be 240 again in the next three months, I could probably do that and just test and GH. Yeah. You know, muscle memory. What would be your food? Like what is an outliner? My friend's joke, I have a tapeworm. I couldn't do it clean. I don't think I could do it clean because even at that point I was running out of room with food. I would have to do, I'd probably keep it as 80% clean and then add garbage to it every day. What kind of garbage are we talking about? Cookies, ice cream, cheesecake, I think just better than fatty food. Yeah. But hamburgers, whatever I could get in my hands, I don't think it's that good. So that's okay. You know, depends if it's a McDonald's or like a Gourmet hamburger. Yeah, I would rather better quality food than McDonald's. Yeah. And keep an eye on blood work because you end up screwing your blood work up big time eating that. True. Yeah. That was honestly, that's probably the biggest limiting factor is just trying to be able to eat enough. Yeah, because you eat a ton for your size and you eat a disproportionate amount of food, I feel. My main thing seems to be around 5000 calories at my current size, at my current age. So at 50 years old, it's a lot of damn food. And you never thought about taking a bed of block or just to slow the heart rate down a little bit and end work. drostanolone is like in the high 40s. Oh yeah. Yeah, you don't want that. No, I'd probably be dead. Like I could use a heartbeat of like a like a like a whale, you know, like two beats a minute. I'm pulled most of the cardio out. Most days I'm sitting more now. Is it maybe because you're like living a very cold place and you just have to radiate? It's hot here in the summer. 200 degrees in the summer. I think a lot of it is just I'm naturally thin. Yeah. So my natural set points 130 pounds and I'm 100 pounds of muscle over that. What do you expect your metabolism to do? Yeah, right. Yeah. Yeah, that's weird. Everybody's so different. Like if I eat 5000 calories now, your maintenance, I would grow so fast. Yeah, well, you remember when we went out to that steakhouse? Yeah. I think I helped chase finishes food. Yeah, he was a red, he was a boatload of red. You're like, yeah, you know what that's take sure. Hand it over us that cheesecake. Yeah. Yeah, cheesecake was good. I went out with ours also to Cheesecake Factory. A couple days ago and he really get this huge portions right and he's like, I don't remember that cheesecake portions being this big because he in Europe, you don't have it only in Dubai and in Thailand, Shanghai and America, obviously. So he's like, man, it's a lot because he wanted to go to Shake Shack afterwards to get a hamburger, but he was pretty full. And then we had a fourth guy or massage therapist from Japan, who doesn't eat that much. So we had four cheesecakes and he was he had two bites and he was done. So we helped him fit his cheesecake too. Because yeah, I mean, I can eat a ton of food, even though I shouldn't. And then ours is obviously in the offseason. He's like, yeah, I have like three cheats a week. Because otherwise, just prep is like nine months. To really get that diced because you can't dye it down too fast now. Because he doesn't have to make white. So he was eating a boatload of food. But yeah, I can't imagine you have a living and needing to live off 5000 calories just to maintain. Wow. It's gross. Yeah, it's gross. Yeah. So you need a little bit of a, I bet you got like a whole case of Ben and Jerry's in the fridge just to keep you. And not the cheap one. Dean, if you were to make a comeback and you wanted to get up to 240 pounds, what would you do? Oh, the healthy way or the unhealthy way? I mean, I know you're the most health conscious guy on this podcast, I'm sure. So do the Dean one. If I was to do it my way, it'd probably be quite similar to what you said with test GH insulin. You know, I did leverage some insulin during my career with GH, obviously. If I wanted to do it on health, if you went to me, okay, I need you to be 235 or 240 in the next, I'd say 20 weeks, we might go Alex's route of like T or T plus a load of trend and then maybe some Anivar. But that is not, you know, yeah, and a lot of that's not advice though, but that would be if, if I had someone said, you have to be this size and this length of time, obviously a lot of a little bit. Six weeks or five weeks until you are not classic, you get a VIP ticket, but you got to be 240. What are you going to do? Yeah, muscle memory then. Yeah, I mean, I am, I am going into that gym and like we talked about recoverable volume those five weeks, reps and reserve and back offsets, whatever. We bullied away back on again. But again, that's, is that true growth? Like, and obviously that's me trying to put back on, you know, 30 or 40 pounds of maybe 20, 25 pounds of muscle. But again, it's muscle memory. It's glycogen and everything else on top. So if I was to go back and do things, you know, in a more intelligent way, everything we know about training and nutrition and yeah, tests, GH insulin, I've got high aromatization, you know, of high CYP-19 genetics. So I'd have to use an AI hair wise. If I didn't have like undiagnosed celiac and background thyroid problems, maybe, you know, topical finasteroid, if I was really worried about androgenic alopecia. Very simple. Just really put the effort and focus into training, training and eating and not ignoring that. Like I said, running to the bathroom four times a day, chronic heartburn and indigestion, you know, silly things that I look back in my like late 20s, early 30s and think, why don't you just like stop and critically think that none of this is normal to accept. Right. Yeah. You can't be bloated. I don't put on 5 kilos. Yeah, it doesn't count. That's not real life. That's a bubblegum baby. Why am I losing 10 pounds overnight? I look back at like when I was like 30, 31 and I can see the inflammation in my face. Like you can just you can spot that back then. Obviously, you're that engrossed with bodybuilding and you're like, I'm just going to do what it takes. I'm going to eat this food because it's what I need to eat. And then you're putting more food in because obviously the food that you're eating isn't being absorbed and digested. But I can look back at like 30, 31 and I don't really recognize myself like I see just this big bloated face that is coming from inflammation. It's a final boss. That's what you look like. Right. Yeah. So, you know, all the lessons that last prep and 2024, you know, that was putting all the digestive health and everything that I learned, you know, with the seed, like journey into practice that don't write off like your digestive health. Chronic carapurn isn't normal. It's probably a sign that you've got low stomach acidity or, you know, the foods that you're trying to digest are sitting in your stomach for too long of a time. Your bile is probably per so now you've got dysbiosis issues. And then that's going to cause bloating and distension and malabsorption. It's alongside training your digestive health to your next sort of anchor. And then the gear is just like the cherry on the top. Yeah. Yeah.  abaduslinly similar, just make sure that my digestion was absolutely optimal, and then slowly start ramping up the food as I got stronger. I would just slowly start ramping everything up, and then when I feel that I need like the last six weeks, I'll probably throw in the injectable YK-11, three weeks, 30 milligrams, three weeks, 50 milligrams, and then call it quits. And I probably started like 250 tests, I'm on 200 now, 250, 375, 550, one gram, one and a half, two grams, maybe two and a half grams, insulin as needed, growth hormone, probably 20 I use. Yeah, it'd be like 280 pounds or something. A cloud, a walking cloud. Yeah, Steve, you look so much bigger in your life, so you watched the videos from six months ago, now I'm a freak. I don't think I could, I don't think I could commit to all the eating though, like 7000 calories, it's been a while since I ended up there, but I think with the knowledge I have, I could do it, as long as I stick to the foods that really digest well for me. It's probably easier for you with the higher fat and lower carbs, right? No, so I would do a high fat diet, oh, high carb diet, sorry, high carb diet. It's just easier to get 7000 calories. Yeah, so last offseason I did, or when I wanted to gain like size and gain some fat to do the liposuction on my lower chest, so I just wanted to get fat as far as possible, so I could get the most out of the liposuction, but surely did, I mean my lower chest looks crazy right now, separated. It's just the fat that, you know, never went away during the cut, so it's like, okay, I'm gonna do the easy way around, I did 20 diets, and it never went away, without sacrificing my legs. So anyway, so the last offseason I did, like a ketogenic diet with 400 protein and 400 fats, something like that, and yeah, it's not the most productive offseason that I've done from a staying lean perspective. I think it's better just to do a lower protein, higher carbs, like 1200, and then keeping the fats maybe 70 to 80 grams, maybe 100 grams on some days, on quote unquote low days where you do 600 carbs, and then bring the fats up a little bit, because I do like high fats just for lipids and then skin quality and overall mental health, basically, you need a little bit higher fats, and to feel satiated, because on 1200 carbs I don't feel satiated, you're slamming rice the whole day with a little bit of vegetables on top, and you know, a little bit of easy digest, facial chicken or egg whites, to keep the fats low, and it passes through really easily, if you do it like that, maybe a little bit of chia seeds for fiber, and then some omega 3, some ALA, and that always suggests it very well for me, and I can eat that for hours, especially with a little bit of ketchup, I mean, oh my, goes down so easily, but yeah, I need a little bit of fats in the low days to kind of feel full, as word is that sounds, because I could just, if I don't take a red diet, I could just eat for days, yeah, I think we're eating, like you said, now I, people are going to think it's blasphemy, but some days I eat two meals, some days eat three, I don't think I could go back to six to seven, or even eight meals, like I could, I could, it's okay, if you've got, if you've got, if you can sit at your desk eating while working, and whatever, you know, you've got no stress on top of getting your food in whilst working at a laptop or a screen, but if you've got a busy demanding job, where you're eating on the go, and then that impacts your digestion, and you're, you're worried if I, if I miss a meal, I think that's one of the, the beauties of now that if I don't eat, you know, for a few hours upon wake, like normal fasting, and then I don't eat until evening time, I'm not worried about all my gains are going unless I end up like the position I am now post to do bodywear, I'm unintentionally dieted off quite a lot of fat from not eating, but you know, the eating aspect when offseason, you really have to be committed just like the gym to getting your meals in because it does matter. Yeah, no, the, and that's the biggest culprit of a lot of guys through the offseason, just skipping meals or not having the digestion to really match what they, what they need to consume. They don't digest the food that they're eating or they eating the wrong kind of stuff. And just because Kurt can eat, you know, a good amount of ice cream and cookies, just to maintain doesn't mean I can, like I would have to do the entire offseason clean, otherwise it just gets morbidly obese. It's just everybody's different. Guys like flip flop with their goals, right? They'll start growing for a little bit and then they don't like it. So then they'll diet for a little bit and then they never net anywhere. They kind of stay the same. Yeah. Oh, shit. I went from a six pack to a four pack. Oh, no, I got to do a mini cut. No, no, no, just got to keep going. Shut the fuck up. You know, like this, or is in his offseason end of offseason starting prep today, basically, he was not lean. He was not shredded at all. You know, was he morbidly obese fats like some of us at the end of the offseason? No, but he had a good amount of lower back fat and no separation in his quads and arms. It's just good offseason progress was made. But I mean, he jumped away to class, you know, and he wants to make an impact and open. And for that you need, you can't be afraid to get fat. The most progress I ever made was not worrying about putting on a little bit of body fat. Now, you don't have to get sloppy to 25% body fat, obviously, but 12% 15% at the end of the offseason is I think it's okay. You got so much metabolic fire that it's reasonably easy to go from 15 to eight. And then the rest is still a drag. But yeah, the main gaining. Fuck off. Yeah, for most people unless you're genetically lean, like Alex, he's stayed in pretty good shape, right? But are you genetically lean or are you fluffy? Yeah. So so for you, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, it runs in the family. My brother's very lean. Parents are lean. What would it take for you to get fat? I'd have to ever be fat. I've been fluffy. I've never been fat. And fuck you, man. Like I'd have to stop. I'd have to stop training. The biggest thing is like I would have to solve my but I started to stop training. And I'd probably have to crash myself down to like a meal a day for a little bit. And then just rev up the junk food. And then I'd get fat. A lot of pizza, a lot of pizza, a lot of ice cream. I can get fat and clean food. It's amazing. No, I did get fat one time. Sorry, my first bodybuilding bulk, first bulk ever. I went from lean and they're like, you're in a good place to grow, just eat. So I was probably 24 years old. And I ate everything. Every I was going to McDonald's every morning, McDonald's every night. I'd get pizza. I get everything. I was like, this is bodybuilding, man. I got fat. I got fat. Got a little milk a day. Yeah, you know, yeah, that was part of it. I'm not kidding. Yeah, I had like a bunch of whole milk in the fridge. I was eating like honeydine Cheerios for like a carb source with like putting dextrose and shakes and drinking those in the middle of the night and throughout the day. And just doing like eating as much as I could. And yeah, I don't even think I put on much muscle just a tough fat. Yeah, and especially when you're dieting it off, you realize that you didn't put any muscle on or you lost all the muscle that you gained because you need to diet so hard and so long. Yeah, yeah. But getting a little bit fluffy. Yeah, I think a little bit fluffy is okay. You don't have to stay super shredded. And then, you know, if you stay naturally lean, okay, good. Don't have to get fluffy on purpose. But for the guys, I think a lot of guys are holding their themselves back during the offseason because they're afraid to gain a little bit of body fat, which is just part of the process. Like if you're super strong and you're eating good, you get a little bit fluffy. And again, some of the offseason drugs like Desk, Deca and GH, they thicken your skin. You retain a lot of water, which you might mistake it as body fat. And your crews, like happened to me, I was on the offseason cycle while cutting. And then I got lean and you're still a bit watery, but you still look lean. So you're like, I'm in a good spot. And then it took the drugs out. I'm like, Oh, I didn't realize how lean I actually was. You know, I'm like, fuck, that's a big difference. You know, you start getting separated everywhere for free because you were on GH and Deca in the beginning. So high test. Yeah, and high test. So this is why I like in the offseason or even during a cutting phase, just to use the offseason compounds, because when you're lean, you're actually lean. And it's not the primo and the masteron the trend making you look leaner. And it always fucked with my head, because I would, I would do these preps on, you know, all the DHC is in trend. And then you look better than you actually look, because they have some sort of skin manipulating effect and they drive the water off. So you take the drugs out and you look smooth. And I'm like, fuck, all this, all this prepping for nothing, you know, because you can't stand the drugs forever. But now this time I did the offseason drugs and it took the drugs out and I look leaner. I'm like, yes. Finally, now this, this cruise on tour test, I looked be tready, you know, a little low back fat, but that's okay. I can get that off. So this is like the first time we're actually look better coming off cycle. First before you would just, you know, leverage the drugs. So next next cut, I'm going to do the exact same thing. But offseason would be test CH and insulin and YK-11 at the end. Good stuff. Like, yeah. So we basically came to the same conclusion in biomethical hormones with a cherry on top at the end and a lot of food. No, I don't know why people want to complicate their offseason. They caught this prep. Okay, I get it. There's a lot going on. But like an offseason, so easy, it's just boring. Because they don't want to put the work into stuff. So they think they're missing some magic. Yeah. But the magic in the offseason is the consistency. Am I right? Yeah. Okay, never done. Never done anything for health management. We're still the anabolic round table. So we can put some health management on top. During the offseason, the most common things we kind of addressed it is high blood pressure already. We did an entire podcast on that. We just discussed sleep quality again, which is, you know, common occurrence, especially when you're full CPAP machine helps with that digestion we addressed. Like what are the other issues that you usually face in the offseason? I think you've some cardio in. I wouldn't drop it. No, yeah, I agree. Helps with nutrient partitioning metabolism, insulin sensitivity, lipids, heart health. Matt, comes up if it's cardio, vascular fitness is done. Your basics, your supplements, vitamins, minerals, essential fatty acids, all the things that you need just to function. It shouldn't change your round. No, I do feel that if people mess up their blood work in the offseason, they're doing it wrong. Like you should reserve that for prep. So if you're like at the end of the offseason and everything's fucked up, yeah, not time to go into prep. No, exactly. And of course, you lose some size that you need to have a mass phase leading into prep, and that makes the prep longer and then you're on the drugs longer. Yeah. And how many times can you do that before you burn out? Not many. I think at the end of like the last four to six weeks of your offseason, you should be in a reasonably good state of health, just big, maybe a little bit fluffy, strong as fuck. And then, okay, if you want to run some anatrol or something else, fine. It's just four weeks. It's fine. You close your offseason off with a bang, PR is left and right. But I'm a little bit of an extort issue and then you throw in the towel, you cruise out, clean out for a bit. I think that's totally fine. But I see a lot of guys that don't address their health in the offseason and they are water attentive, bloated, high blood pressure, cardiovascular failure. I mean, all the bodybuilders that passed recently, was it your offseason or am I incorrect? I believe so. All right. I think there's just a lot of confounding things that occur with the offseason now. On one side, people think it's a healthier phase to a prep. But within a prep, being honest in a prep, probably the most detrimental thing that's going in is Tren and Anivar and the impact to HDL and the impact to sleep and everything else and neurological health to speak. Yeah, digestion, you know, in an offseason, you think, okay, well, I'm not taking potentially these toxic substances within reason. Obviously, we've talked about Tren and an offseason setting, but a lot of oxidative stress, like looking at loads, a lot of markers that might be suboptimal are ignored. You know, we start to see LDL go up a touch from eating a high fat diet or triglycerides start going up. Or you start to see issues with like hate, BnC, like Kurt said, you start to accept that it's still in the green and it's still normal, but it's not really normal. You're heading towards the outer end of the reference range and you've lost that suboptimal blood work that you're losing health to speak during your offseason, that you can get blindsided by your offseason supposed to be probably your healthiest position before you start pushing things with a prep, that things like even blood viscosity and hematocritic like we brought up. Yes, you can, and Terry, probably push hematocritic up to a certain higher point where you might see some physiological benefits, your training, your oxygenation and everything else. But beyond that, then you're heading into more viscous blood, you're heading into blood pressure issues, you're heading into potential clotting risks and microvascular traumas that you then end up with like a heart attack or an embolism or a stroke and you're supposed to be in a healthier phase of your bodybuilding career. Yeah, usually you see that the blood work is not as bad during contest prep compared to the offseason. So the offseason is a little bit better blood work, but then the blood pressure in the water retention is problematic because you're eating so much food and you're taking these conical wet compounds that just promote water retention. So I think that needs to be addressed mostly in the offseason. Like if you start getting pitting a DEMA and moon phase and blood pressure goes up and you start getting nosebleeds during your leg days, it's time to reel it back in. But again, a lot of these guys they eat for size, they want to get the 300 pounds, but their heart can't keep up. And again, it takes a little while and cardio, daily fastened cardio can only protect you that much. So yeah, there's a lot of things that people need to address during the offseason as well. So the blood work might be better, but the other stuff might be worse. And it's really how you manage your diet and the potassium and all the things we discussed during the blood pressure episode. Because blood pressure water retention, that seems to go hand in hand. So if you address the water retention, your blood pressure is probably also going to be a lot better. And then there's difference between water retention and fluffiness and you could see that in your ankles when you wear those high socks. But then you don't look as impressive if you're not carrying an extra 10 to 12 pounds of fluids. Hi, man. If you take your socks off and your socks are still there, it might be, is it a generic G.H. or is that heart failure? I'm not sure, you know, or some sort of inflammatory response. But yeah, if you have pitting edema, okay, a little bit, sure, but a lot. Not good. Yeah. I'm out of breath walking up the stairs. Your heart ejection fractions probably. Yeah. Not at the best spot. So again, guys, do your ultrasounds and your EKGs. You know, it can set you up for preventative measures early on. Okay, I think we can leave it there. It's been two hours. I think we address most of it offseason is simple, guys. You just got to be consistent. And it's not about a magical drug cocktail. Even though training the offseason is helpful for a lot of guys. Yeah, especially if you want to make games fast. Right, Alex? That's right. Alex, thanks for coming on and sharing your story, man. Your coach as well, where can people find you? Yeah, yeah. So you can find me at amarley27 on Instagram. And I have my website on there too. It's physiquephysiq-pro.com. Okay, cool. So amarley27. Yeah, amarley27 at proton.me. Okay, cool. You have a YouTube channel or not yet? Not yet, but you should. Something started. Yeah, you should. And I know these two guys got a YouTube channel as well, but they make a monthly appearance in the Anabolic Grown Table. It seems to be enough for your YouTube presence. Yeah. Hey, who knows, maybe we might have you on Malthy as well. Let's see what the comment section says. Yeah, let's see what the comment section says. And once again, man, I just want to say thank you so much for having me on. Such a pleasure. Good to meet you and Dean and get to be here. I watched your channel for a long time. And so, like I said before, I never wanted to pass the first. Just make sure you wanted to pass the first because just because it's on my YouTube channel doesn't mean you need to do it. It's just for wiser decisions if you do decide to do it. And then the dosing protocols are right there and all the potential health ramifications. I have one question for you, Alex. Did you ever go to Thailand and get that tattoo because it looks like it's where I got it. Thailand. My wife and I traveled through. Yeah, we were there for about a month and then we went to Vietnam. We went to Myanmar. We went all through there. We ended up getting married in Bali, actually. So a lot of our relationship formed out in Southeast Asia during that time. So you're well traveled. Why don't you come here? Which year? 2016. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Great, man. That was a good time. Yeah. Before everything went to social media route, you basically do whatever and not get caught. It's before everybody starts putting phones in your face and you got to be mindful. Well, we know where to find Kurt and Dean. Those details are always below. Alex, I'll put your details down below as well in the description section in the pinned comment. So people can find you. And thanks so much for sharing all of your information and knowledge. It's always how we appreciate it. We'll do this again in the end of February. Hopefully we don't get busy or shit happens. And then we'll do episode number 19. In the last words, we're good. Have a great week. Yeah. All right. Have a great week, everyone. Thanks, guys. I'll see you next month. Peace out.

=== FILE: Muscle Nomads Life Updates! Aaron Moved To Las Vegas & Steve Had 4 Surgeries! [gO1k2zuQU9s].txt ===

 muscle nomads, first time we've done this from afar, since a very long time, since you moved out of China, because normally you sit here, I even bought an extra chair for you, so you can sit next to me, what do you do? You moved to Vegas. What the f***, bro? I don't do a chair. Yeah, we've done it since 2019. Yeah. Well, in 2021, I guess, until I moved, but... Yeah. So you went from the Communist land to the Freedom land in the meantime? Communism to ultra-freedom, to America-freedom. America-freedom, yeah. Yeah, and... It's just like a bigger and better form of freedom, but with some restrictions. But that's okay. It's livable. It's... I guess freedom, how to describe freedom here, it's different. Like, it feels different for, especially from a foreigner's perspective, I don't feel like a foreigner. I don't feel like a tourist, you know? So, freedom in Asia is like, okay, yeah, there's not too many rules as long as you're not an asshole, and if you get in trouble, you pay the right person, you should be all right. Exactly. Freedom here is just like, it feels like a land... Like, people talk about America like a land of opportunity. Coming from all corners of the world to start their new lives, get after it, you know, build better lives for their future and their kids and their family. It feels very much like that. It's such a diverse, cultural diversity is nuts. And it's usually like... Especially Vegas. Yeah, Vegas, especially Vegas. It's really cool when everyone has this very... Everyone seems to be on very much the same page, same understanding that we're in this little hub, middle of the desert, it's different than everywhere else. So, that's all just get along, have a good time, keep the place clean, tidy, and come fuck up. And it seems to be kind of on that page. And I was like, well, what do we compare that to? And then we just did a road trip down to LA for two days. So, I can go downtown LA and I'm like... I don't know what's coming. Let's go back to Vegas. So, how was LA compared to? Like, I've been to LA twice in Vegas, two times, three times? So, I have a couple of experiences. So, back in, when was it? 2018, I think I came here on a memory trip. And we went straight into Santa Monica area under the Vegas trip. So, we did Vegas for a week and then we did a few days down in Santa Monica. And that was beautiful, gorgeous place, really nice, sea front, all that great. But I never did downtown LA. Downtown LA is a dive. Sorry LA, but you're a shit hole. It's like Mumbai. It's rough, man. Like, there's a few cool little things. Like, when we walked down the street, we found this little area called Little Tokyo. And they have like this little, these little back streets, when it kind of looks a little bit like Tokyo, I guess. It's a good restaurant. So, you have these little spots hidden around. It was this really cool restaurant called... The Biker Cafe or something. And it was like this old classic bike showroom, but it was a restaurant and a bar and a barbershop and a tattoo shop all in one. Really good vibes, really nice vibes, good food. And that was it. The rest of LA was just dirty, loud, super busy, sirens all day long, gunshots and fireworks throughout the night. Just got crackheads riding around on bicycles every rest of the show and at each other. My wife didn't like it at all. It wasn't nice. And you live in like one nice area, you walk outside and you're like, okay, doesn't seem too bad here. And then you walk one block over and it's just like a whole street for tents and homeless people and so on. So yeah, LA, definitely not my favourite, it's funny. I ran into Branch Warren at the... Oh yeah? And he was like, oh, you're back. And I was like, I told you, I'll move here. Man in my word, I told you I'd make it happen. He was like, man, man, man. He's like, so you didn't move to here, right? LA. No, no, we moved to Vegas and we're also coming to visit you guys in it. He's in Texas and he's like, oh right, man. Yeah, this ain't America. This place ain't America. And it's just, when Branch says something, it's just like, just listen to that guy. Chances are... He's funny as well. He's so funny. But he's like... We're going to bring him some cigars when I come back. Yeah, I'll go and sell him the cup, I'll see. We're flying out there on the 7th, just for a few days. I think Jared's got some podcast stuff to do with Tony. Okay. So he said, come along, do a little mingling and networking. So I'll go with Andy and the crew, train at his gym. Then we'll do a session at Absolute Recomp, big giant gym out there in Fort Worth. And then we'll go and visit Destination Dallas, so I can link up with the Gas Better Bodies team and hang out with Branch and Aaron and all of those guys. So that'll be fun. Just to go over and have my first ever Texas experience. Tony's going to rent a big truck for a couple of days. You should. You should. No barbecue. No barbecue as though. No barbecue, man. No just truck, boots. Going to get me a hat. Yeah, he can smoke some cigars, that's about it. Pretty much. The Vegas is great for food. I don't think... Yeah. Like, yeah, I'm sure Texas barbecue is incredible. But you can get everything in Vegas. And it's fine. I know, I know, I love it there. It's a good thing. Vegas, dude, you would love the sushi buffets. Yeah, I know. Then next level gear. But yeah, there's like a big Hawaiian culture here as well. All right, yeah. So they have their own style of barbecue too, which looks amazing. Compiling a list of places I need to go and eat as soon as this prep is done. So does that Hawaiian barbecue have pineapple on it? Just like a Hawaiian? Yes, it does. I feel like it does. It will be... I'll just ask you. You're a fish and pineapple and rice and coconuts. I don't know what grows in Hawaii, stuff like that, right? Tropical, nice stuff. I know, little skimpy things around the world. Hopefully you get served like that. Yeah, that would be great. It's kind of like a Hawaiian Hooters theme. I'd definitely eat there. Hawaii Hooters, yeah, I'll eat there. Don't get Andrea dropped there. She's got some Hooters. That's a work. Where are you from? Hawaii? So you're not Hawaiian. So some of them have a bit of an Asian vibe too. Yeah, they have a little bit of an Asian vibe. Or an Asian kind of halfway thing. But yeah, it's a really cool, diverse culture here. I love it. It's just a really good vibe. It's probably the perfect fit coming from somewhere like Thailand to America, because Thailand is so culturally diverse, right? There's people from all over the world. So having that similarity is probably pretty cool. But yeah, you've been to Dubai, right? Dubai is pretty similar. Have you been to Hong Kong a couple of times? Tokyo, right? It's all these big cities with a big tourism industry, but also a good amount of entertainment. I mean, it just feels like everything that the world has to offer is in a single place. And then you decide to live there. That's why I decided to live in Bangkok, because you have everything that the world has to offer right here. Yeah, it's freaking... You know, and it's very convenient, exactly. Yeah, it's basically all of the pros from somewhere like Bangkok, plus you're in the desert surrounded by these mountains. It's really nice. There's a lot more space. So Bangkok's amazing, but it still can be a bit of a prostrate for a bit. Perhaps it is what it is. It's going to be like that. So many people. Whereas here, we've just got this giant open space in the desert. And there's no shortage of space. So nothing feels like it's on top of anything. It's all with everything's very open and spacious. That's why I probably why I didn't like LA as well for the same reasons, right? But yeah, the roads are smaller. There's way more traffic like coming from the airport to something like where Disneyland is. It took like over an hour with a taxi. And they're just across the city. You know, it should be like a 20 minute trip, but there's just terrible traffic. So it sucks. Yeah, Vegas is barely any traffic. Bangkok is always traffic. That's why we drive motorbikes, you know? Vegas is great. It's just straight roads. It's all like grid road systems here, right? I think there's I've seen one round about one random little roundabout of tiny side streets on there. And everything else is just straight roads, two or three lanes, never enough traffic to get you in a mood. So yeah, it's nice. Very convenient, easy to get around. I can drive to the gym all the way down south in Henderson. In like 20 minutes, less than that probably. And it's a nice drive. I can put my podcast on and just cruise on down, drink a coffee. And then I'm there. That same distance in LA would probably take me like three hours. Yeah. Yeah. It's just crazy. Yeah, I was staying at the Marriott, which is not too far from zoo culture, the bigger one, the newer one. And I think that's like a 10 minute walk. And that road was just fucking cramped the whole time. Yeah, that's crap. We went to the zoo culture. All those roads around there are just tiny, just traffic everywhere. Yeah, two ways both sides. And it's a lot of traffic. You would have went down there to see Niall, right? Yeah, because Niall lives close. Let's just say close. That's what we were there because Jared had a podcast with him as well. So we went to Niall. Oh, right. I was like, hi. And I was like, hi, my mate. He's like, oh, yeah, you're the guy. You're Steve's buddy. I was just like, yeah. Yeah, part of the wallpaper here now. Cool one. So yeah, Niall's a great guy though. He's a really cool dude. I like him. Niall's a good interviewer. Good show. But there's loads of really cool people. The people in the industry here have all been extremely welcoming. Everyone's really nice. It's just everyone's busy getting after it. No one's got time to be an asshole. No one's, it seems like no one's got time to be an asshole. No one's got time to cause drama. Everyone's too busy doing stuff. Yeah. Having a good time. So that's quite nice. It's a good motivational, like get shit done vibe. Right. And yeah, it's awesome. And then with the gym down the Koch Fitness down in the south, it's like a week after I got here, we went to one of Sandy's IFBB seminars where she talks about what we're looking for from each category, posing stuff, upcoming shows, blah, blah, blah. It's just like a bit of a intro to the year for athletes. And I met quite a few of the promoters and stuff there that are hosting all these different shows. All really nice people. And then we were sat next to this guy called Mike. And he leaned over. I saw a few people wearing like gym shirts. I've never heard of that gym. He leaned over. He's like, all right, guys. He's like, you living here? He's like, I've just opened up Koch Fitness down in Henderson. He said, swing through. I'll show you around. You know, we want to take care of all the local athletes and stuff. And I'm like, yeah, absolutely. We'll swing through because it's Vegas. You know, we're just jumping from gym to gym to gym on different things. Yeah, right. But because there's no really, there is like probably strength culture. I would say is the one is one of that and strength culture and Koch Fitness are the ones where you can get everything done. You wouldn't need to go to any other gyms apart from those two. My favorite as far as equipment and vibe. Dragons is great. Good vibe in there at the right times. It's a good vibe because there's a bunch of bodybuilders in there but at the right times. And then the rest of the gyms are just like, okay. And but some have like a few key pieces of equipment. So someone you might be doing your plan for the week and it's like, okay, on Monday we go to this gym, Tuesday this gym. Wednesday that gym. Right. Yeah. You just get a membership everywhere. And if everything is driving distance and there's no traffic then it doesn't matter. It's doable to do it that way. And it's fun doing it that way like when we visit. But after a couple of weeks, you're like, just pick a gym. Pick a gym, call it a home base. Right at that time is when Mike found us at that seminar and he's like come through the gym. So I went there the next day, met him there. And he's got this big blue, like neon, blue, purple, Cobb fitness kind of logo. And I was like, oh, don't cut it. That's my color. That's cool. I like the lighting. He's got this. He's got his Lamborghini painted to match the brand colors as well. Which looks epic parked outside. There you know, you've made it. You just put it in the outside, same color as your logo. It's dope. It's a nice logo. And so I walk in this and you would think, oh, this guy's just going to be like, check out my car money guys, you know, top of the opposite. It's family guy, humble as they come. Like, he's our kind of really nice. Got money doesn't flaunt it, but he's a car guy. He likes his cars, but he's not walking around splashing cash like an asshole. He's invested it into people and things. So he walks into this place and I'm like, holy shit, this is a big gym. I was expecting like a little small, like a torture gym kind of thing. Because they're all small little gyms, right? Way bigger. Really good selection of different equipment, different brands which I like. So you have that selection. I don't know. Yeah, a little bit of variety. Yeah, all uniform one brand is annoying. And he was just kind of explaining the plans basically for the year, what's moving forward, how they're going to eventually expand, blah, blah, blah. And he's just made this place happen fast. Like the whole decoration, the real, he didn't hang around. It's been pretty refreshing to see someone be so aggressive with getting a business up and running marketed with a team on board like no time. Yeah, if you want to go for it, you got to go for it. You know, not this hangout. Go home, go home, right? Yeah, that's usually with the gym, Joe, with the gym business that people think, I put a gym here and then it's going to sort itself out. That's not the case, man. You got to aggressively market it because there's so much competition on the gym space. Absolutely. I think if I think that's where a lot of gyms fall down everywhere in the world is that get a little bit lazy and complacent. They're like, well, we've got enough members, we'll chill now and the members will just keep coming. And whereas Mike's like, I'm not, I didn't open this gym to make money. Like it's not a consistent money thing for me. This is a passion project. He's like, I need people on board that equipment. I need people on board that athletes. I need people that know the industry. I'm building a team, blah, blah, blah. So I want you on the team. Okay, cool. And we just clicked. We just hit it off very much on the same page. And I was like, this is strange timing. I just moved here and then you just opened the gym and then we just happened to meet at the same random little seminar and then all these little things falling into place. Just clicks, clicks and then they make it happen, man. It's, it's sometimes things just, you know, meant to be you're in the right place at the right time and got to grab those opportunities by the balls. So that's exactly what I've done with pretty much every opportunity so far. I'm just like, yep, yep, I'll do that. Yep, yep, yeah. Put me in. I'm good. So we're doing video. Actually, correct. Away. I mean, it's just the backbone of it is me and Jared. We're both on there. We're like good trainer partners. You know, when you find the right trainer partner, okay, finally, someone who can hang, someone who can like, there's been no one since you really, we had a good, I had a good little stretch with Chris. But that's it. Like in the whole time I've been bodybuilding like two guys that can actually hang and have a good workout. Yeah, it doesn't help that you're fucking strong and big. And it's difficult to. I'm not even listening to that much more. Man, you'd laugh at the weights. So if it stimulates the muscle, like in beginning we get, we got our, you know, during gates and dark rap and stuff out of the way. And after all, you're going to slow down a little bit. Like I'm, I'm beating up. Also, you know, got to take it easy now. We got all the benefits out of those years of training and now we can be a little bit fine. But it was, it's been great training with Jared. We just click on the same page, easy work and it's moving really well. So having that sort of foundation of routine in prep, locked in a couple good people in my circle. And it's just, yeah, it's nice to smooth sailing. And yeah, we'll just keep it rocking and rolling and moving forward. Got the Arnold coming up in four weeks, which I'm excited about. Preps going great. Probably the leanest I've been looked pretty good on low food, low gear, but loads of new tropics, all the added little peptide extra stuff that are keeping things moving along nicely. The Retter is definitely helping out there as well with the food. Yeah. And is it easier to get those peptides over there compared to Thailand? Because in Thailand, we always struggled a little bit getting the stuff. I had Brandon stay in my spare room last week. He's like, I'm coming to the baby and I'm out to stay here, dude. How's it going? He's like, are you sure? I'm like, yeah, just bring me a handful of stuff. So he brought in a bunch of like new pets and five Amino, one MQ and stuff. But I mean, you know, we're sponsored by them anyway. So I just put him in my orders and he sent stuff out. It just shows up a few days later. Sure. So that's no problems. But yeah, I'll be doing a lot more work with them behind in the background stuff, educational stuff, tube series, like athletes perspective of these peptides. Jectical pre-workouts and all these other things. You have a lot of experience with that stuff. So it might as well contribute, you know, and it's good to get it from the guy that actually lives it, you know, the bodybuilding stuff. Yeah, I think it's just another good perspective. You know, we got a couple more people on the team here now as well. One person to really get priority to do the female perspective of things. Okay. You know, me doing as the athlete perspective side of things, Brendan, just the overall kind of educational stuff with his guy. So it should have quite a good little sort of back end educational portal being built onto the back of all of this. So that's always fun because it just keeps me, gives me a good excuse to actually sit down and do some reading and learn some stuff. I was keep expanding your arising, man. Just the more you get into it, the more you realize that you got to learn a lot more. And it's, you go down the rabbit hole and you're four days ahead. Then there's something else and then there's a combination with this one and that one and how that one is good though, it's fun. And, you know, it stops me from being complacent when it comes to the education side of stuff, especially when I'm very, very busy. I have a few hours at the end of every day to kind of get all of my work done and extra tasks and stuff. So I must have been pretty hard right now, but it's all paying off. It's good and I'm having a lot of fun and I definitely feel at home here. So it's nice to finally feel like at home settled somewhere, which is good. Yeah. So I just, okay, it's right out peeled. Get on stage at the Arnold. We get to go on the main stage as well this year or the main stage, which is pick. I will be on stage the same stage as Mr. Olympia, many others. It's going to be exciting. Yeah. So sorry I can't be there this year. I just got so busy. We're going to zoom call yet so we can hear that. A chicken from. Do you know what he's like? Yeah. So much stuff to do. I'm going to be visiting somewhere. Absolutely. But yeah, now it's the booth crew will all be there. I think most people are flying in a day early. So they can watch, which is nice. I've had a lot of messages from like just YouTube followers and Instagram people like, are you in the States? You're doing the Arnold. We're coming in a day early so we can watch your show. Yeah. You'll be surprised how many people will join in and that are happy to be there with the show. The support has been incredible. It's really, really nice. So yeah, I'm going to show up looking absolutely insane and give everyone a good show. Good. They might get a little warm up show here in Vegas in a couple of weeks as well. Just beforehand, which I'm thinking doing just to support the local Vegas sort of body building scene as it's the first one of the year. And also to get in front of a couple of the judges that would also be at the Arnold. Yeah, I might as well. All right. So I can have a look at you and then it's not a new look. So they already know what to look for and they can get some feedback. See what you can improve. What you got one or two weeks before the Arnold Classic to make the improvement. Yeah, two weeks in between. Two, yeah. Enough time to dial a few things in if necessary. And it also gives the guys Kurt and Jared a little bit of a chance to maybe tweak the peak and see how that goes because I will be a lot leaner than before. So again, the landscape changes straight away, right? Yeah, you don't have to deal with that tie humidity where you just slightly watery all the time. Yeah, the Vegas dry is good. Vegas dry look. I know, but we just arrived there. I'm like, fuck man, within three days you're fucking peeled. I didn't realize I was shredded, this shredded, but it's cold over there now, right? Yeah, it's a chilly. This is the first of all, like jogging pants and hoodies most of the time. In the midday, it warms up really nice. But yeah, in the morning up until about sort of 10, it's pretty chilly. And then from around sort of 6pm onwards, it's pretty chilly. So, but it is slowly warming up. I can feel it warming up like today I woke up. I would usually throw a hoodie on straight away as the heat comes on. But I'm good today. So I think it's heating up now. Yeah, cool. Yeah, the first time I was there was in December and then it was like freezing. My wife's like, what the fuck is this? We're supposed to be in the desert. So, well, it does have seasons like everywhere else. Yeah, there's snow. There's people skiing in the mountains. Like that's a half an hour drive away up into the mountains. There's, you know, a few little white tips up there. And I think there's some areas where they spray on a bit of the artificial snow on top just to make it good for the snowboard. Right. Do you think you can come out and ski in the desert? It's pretty cool. Come on, man. I just had lit surgery. I'm my leg is still hurting. I'm gonna have to text us next week. I think there's still a bit of snow there. So, I'll probably be there. Snowman. Make a little snowman, maybe ride a horse in the snow. That'll be cool. Yeah. Yeah, that would be cool. Especially the big horses over there. Yeah, branches like that. I got some horses. I'm like, is there any like, do the horses struggle when you pick? He's like, that's a myth. He's like, you know how strong a horse is? He's like, a horse will pull down that house there right now. That was a bad branch impression. I don't call it horsepower for no reason. I mean, I roll horse quite a bit. I think it's our real powerhouses. Like we were sitting there, right, with Bradsham Regan talking about like, you know, real horses. And so he's like, yeah, just come out, you know, spend some time on the ranch, ride some horses and stuff like that. And I'm like, hell yeah, that sounds like a good idea. Just don't fall off. Don't fall off. It's fucking high. I fell up a horse like twice in my life and it's not fun, dude. I'll wait until I've got a bit of cushion in the offseason, see what I have to do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that was not the time. So we're just going to go out for like three days, I think, hit the gyms, do a bunch of networking, podcasting and then head on back because the week after that will be the warm-up show then to reach the next. All right. So there's a lot of traveling going on, but I don't want to get out of a routine more than a couple of days at a time. No. No, but flying within the US is pretty straightforward, you know? I mean, the airport is closed and of course, like you have to really have to pick your airlines because half of them are kind of shit. Yeah. I think usually a fly Southwest seems to be pretty good and they have luggage included and stuff. I think the other one is United. I know everybody has their opinion. Like I said, I flew with Delta, Delta shit. I flew with all of them. Southwest Spirit, United Delta. I flew with all of them and every time I mentioned the airline people were complaining. So I'm like, well, it's probably all shit then. Everyone has their favorites. Everyone's got that. Like, I'm a United Platinum member or I've got Southwest Platinum cards. But here, if you are a bodybuilder or you travel a lot, it's worth getting one of those cards because a lot of these guys just fly free everywhere now. Or they have, they like Jared, if you fly with Jared, I think he's got like a thing where he's done so much traveling, he can take a passenger with him on a domestic flight anywhere for free. As long as they're on the same plane. So there's loads of rewards for everything actually. Flying over there is like taking the bus or taking the SkyTrain in other countries. You know, it's like taking a metro in Tokyo. Just fly over there. I'm going to Florida today, like four hours. Easy. Yeah, it's easy. You can get the cheap. I mean, for me, I don't really care if it's a shit cheap flight. It's like three hours or less. Yeah, it doesn't matter. And honestly, like the business class, like I flew a business class from Sydney to New Zealand, Wellington, and that was supposedly business. So you sit two chairs instead of three. So it's not that much more comfortable. And you can't even go all the way flat. So economy plus or. Yeah, the premium economy, right? That's just a lot of room. My flight from Thailand to here, there was an option to upgrade to premium economy with Japan Airlines, but it was only like extra 300 bucks. Most of the other places were airlines were like extra thousand, two thousand dollars. But this was like 300 bucks more. And I'm like, why not? It's a long flight. Why not? That was totally worth it. Japan Airlines. That's very good. Yeah, it's very good. Really, really nice. Yeah. Originally had a business class ticket with Korean Air, like the one that we flew with. And that was, yeah, that's the only one that does one stop to Vegas. You know, that's a decent business class because the other business classes are even 25% more expensive, but already canceled my ticket because, you know, if I got over two weeks, then I need two weeks to recover with the time zone difference. And after the Arnold Classic, you probably get sick. You know, you know, it goes and then I can't miss another month again. You know, I've been traveling so much last year. So I decided to know what just recovered from all of it. I just feel recovered. Yeah, I just feel like and now I had the surgery. So I'm still recovering from that. So I don't think I could fly like originally my flight would be like three weeks from now. Like a couple days before the classic within six within a few months. Like that's the most traveling you've done within six months ever. Right. Yeah. This is Mr. Olympia. Mr. Olympia, right? So we went to Vegas and then you and me and then two months later, I went to the UK and Holland. And then a week later, I went to New Zealand. And then six weeks later, I would go to Ohio. Fuck. I'm dead. You're a true little cook. You are a true little cook. You are a true little cook. Fucking cook. Where's Steve? He's on the road in some corner of the world somewhere doing a podcast with some Sheik or a guru on a mountainside. No, no, no. So now I was like, you know, where's Steve at the moment? I'm like, actually, legit in Mountain. Yeah. So Jared, your story, then like, how fucking cool is that picture with you and Nancy there? New Zealand is something else, man. It's beautiful over there. You need to read the car because everything is kind of far apart, but it's a beautiful country, man. Great food, a lot of great steak, a lot of great lamb, a lot of great wine. I was fucking drunk for a week straight, but all that good wine is too good to not drink. That's a whiskey also. Great food. Of course, you go to the local grocery store and then have like a muffin this size. Should I have it? Still had it though. Yep. You know, I'm a 40.  amens, the same issues that I had in the holiday mod, you just eat whatever. Yeah, and so that was good. Yeah, the holiday was good. And then after that, after two weeks, it's like, fuck, I'm still not recovered. I better stay home for a couple months. It's the kind of prepare. Yeah. Well, I mean, the time between that and all of the surgeries was pretty close as well. So, I mean, three weeks. Yeah. So I did it. I started mid-January. I had the gyno surgery and the liposuction at the same time. And then a couple of days later, I went for lacy eye surgery. Fuck, man, it was brutal. And then a couple of days later, I went in for leg surgery. So you're basically, what are they calling, what's the six billion dollar man? Yeah. Yeah, one million dollar baby. Yeah. Just fucking rebuild from it. I just, when I was watching you talk, I think of one of the messages we had in you, a list and all of the stuff that you just had done. Yeah. And I was like, fucking hell. And I just had this image in my head, you know, the new Robocop movie? Yeah. It's just there. It's just flying over you. There's nothing left. It's just lungs in the head. Yeah, yeah, I remember. Just like that. It's just about just completely rebuilt, biotic. Yeah. At least you got it all done. This stuff has been on your list for a long time. I've been procrastinating about all this stuff. Like the laser eye surgery I've been wanting to get done for five years. And then of course the kind of surgery I wanted to get done for a long time. But then I chickened out like two years ago because of all the clotting issues in the world. And then the leg surgery, I was a little earlier for laser eye surgery and I see, oh, orthopedics might as well go have a look. So go talk with the doctor. He's like, yeah, easy surgery, one hour. So, okay, sign me up. I booked it in. And then, but the legs are used the worst one, honestly, because there's so much inflammation in my ankle that it's like a little stuck in one position. So yeah, I keep it elevated most of the time. So I'm walking on the toes like I'm a velociraptor. Sorry. They twirl the bolts out so there is literally holes, right? Yeah. Oh, awesome. Nice. You need to get them on like a chain or something. Yeah, that's what I'm going to do. Yeah. I don't know if she can find me a jewelry because like this, this piece of surgical metal, I mean, I think if you add some silver to it, it should be a nice bracelet. It can make an ankle bracelet out of it. You can probably get that gold player easy. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, could be. Let's see. Let's see. I'll go talk to a jewelry. Yeah, let's make something with. We knew that that's your legs for a long time. So now there's all of those legs. And what was the recovery time on actual like holds in bones? Three months. But if you think about it, legit holds, which would look like if you were to shoot someone in the leg with a gun, a point blank, it's going to be a good dented hole in there. And I mean, all of that actual dense bone to regrow. Well, to me, that's pretty freaking quick for that kind of. Yeah, promise you still can train hard on it. It's not crack or a fracture, is it? So the whole that has to be reused. Yeah. So I need to do a few more x-rays. And the reason why procrastinated about getting it done is because you just have months out of the gym from proper training. So now walking is a little bit difficult, like it's been about 10 days or something. So there's some swelling in the ankle and around the incision site. It's annoying. And then hopefully next week or the week after, I can go back to the gym again. Sometimes still 110 kilos. I keep everything, man. It's I don't get it. You went here and you still look bigger than everyone. Yeah. I think I was like 92 almost lost the friendship. Almost. 2 kilos away from the total. Yeah. But it's good though. It's good that you've got it all done and a few months will fly by when you're as busy as you are a few months flies by, right? And then when that few months does fly by, you're fully recovered, you can move around, walk around and all of that. It's better to have it done now. So because you're going to be probably here there and everywhere once baby shows up, right? Yeah. So that's why I wanted to get it done now because I could do it now and fully recover by the time I was his birth or procrastinate and we're 18 years because I can't do this while the baby is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 years old because I need to be mobile, man. I can't. I can't have this down period again. It's definitely the perfect time to do it because you're not doing anything else. You're chilling, working and that's it. So you've got to go to the gym. I bet. So what are you taking? What's the recovery? The ultra Wolverine times 10. It's all the stuff. TRT to, well, let's say 300 tests, you know, those Bayer ampoules are overfilled. So let's say 310 tests per week, 20 milligrams anivar to a used growth hormone. I started with five, but because I can't do any cardio right now, I got so watery. Holy moly, dude. So I dropped it to two, two and a half and then TB-500, BPC-157, GHK copper, micronose progesterone, that's all of it. I just recorded the video about it will be on on Monday. I think Brendan will send you some, they just put all of that in one, the new product called Grail. Yeah, he told me about it, but I already have everything that he sent the last time. So everything, but at the time it arrives because I have to use that shipping for the right. So it takes four weeks and by the time, like, dude, there's gyno surgery is fully healed two weeks, fully. Yeah, kind of is a quick one. Over the morning healed, but pretty good. I think they left a little bit of scar tissue in this one. Yeah, scar tissue here on the lower chest. So this area is still a little bit numb, but yeah, just need to do some decline. Yeah. And last bit, so what about the eye surgery then? So that was like unpicturing like minority report surgery. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like minority report or a clockwork orange. So your like, your eyes are open like this, but they're numb from the anesthetic cream. And then they shine a laser in your eye. You don't see anything. Just see white. And then they cut the cornea open to make a corneal flop. And then they shine a laser in there. 11 seconds, you smell burned flesh. And then they put it back and while the corneal flop is open, it's just haze. It's haze. It's like, I immediately had an LSD flashback like where you took a little bit too much. And they're like, you know, you have that moment where you took a little bit too much and you're like, is this the rest of my life now? Right. Everything is like six hours in, you're like, this is going to be the rest of my life. I guess it's been going over so long in your perception of type side that the flap went off and like, I'm going to look like this the rest of my life. And you have the laser shining in the corneal flap, not in your eye, but in the flap. And then you smell burned flesh. They put it back and they see sharp. Do you have to be awake? Is it a bunch of us? No, I was awake for all of it. For the gynecology, for the lasex surgery and licks surgery. I was awake for all of it. Horrible. Yeah. And I can't even smoke a cigar now because it's oxidative stress. I can't even have a glass of whiskey or a smoke of cigar because it's oxidative stress. It cuts the wounds. So it prevents wound healing. So I'll be traumatized. So the flap that they cut the cornea, they open it up, they laser it, put the flap back over. Yeah. And that kind of heals together. Yeah. So they kind of press it close and align it. And they say, is everything good? And I said, yeah, I can see very sharp. And you see all this medical equipment, you know, like Captain Picard gets the Borga probe in his eye in first contact. So that's what you see. And then they move you, move the other eyes. You get the same treatment like where you don't see fuck all. And then the laser smells like burned flesh. And then they put these little goggles on you where you can't really see through. So you don't rub in your eye or touch your eye to the point the corneal flap comes off again. And then they send you home with Valium. So you take this Valium where you're home. So why? Yeah, you can sleep. I'm like, fuck this. I don't need to sleep. I'm going to get to work, man. It's only two o'clock or four o'clock in the afternoon. I got shit to do. And then the anesthetic eye drop wears off. Dude, it feels like you got punched in the face. Really? What? Like the pain for like inflammation pain or just like painful eyes? No, no, no. It's like this whole area is throbbing. So I took a Valium and then I slept seven hours and or I had a meal. Took a Valium slept seven hours and then I was awake for like two hours at a little meal. Slept for nine hours on the second Valium. And then the next day I looked and I'm like, oh, it's pretty good. And then you go in for the checkup. They remove the, you know, the goggles. And then you could see fucking clear. And now two weeks later, I see. I see perfect, man. It's everything. Yeah, I see everything. Yeah. It's crazy. It's child's horror glasses. At least the result is good. It's the worst and the best surgery I've ever done. Because I was thinking when you were first talking about it, I'm like, is he seeing LASER or laser? Because laser surgery is a quick like buzz in a laser and you're in and you're out and you're done. But yeah, I don't think that involves actually kind of open the cornea. So you see if the one where they shine the laser, when they remove the corneal flap and then PRK where you just remove the outer layer. But I wasn't good candidate based on my vision. So we went with FENTAL LASIK eye surgery where they use a laser to remove the cornea. They still have to use an incision manually to cut that open. So literally could see the the knife. And then make an incision. Oh, fuck. Fucked up. You say to the surgeon, you're like, you're not taking any. Good, I hope my fucking breath. I'm like, don't move your eyes. Don't move your eyes. Don't move your eyes. Yeah, yeah. It's like a better decision, but it'll be a little bit real. You're in like a head brace or something. The whole thing, dude, I was completely like a then, you know, you hold your hands like super tight against the table. It was fucked up, dude. Like the motorcycle accident that I've had was less traumatizing than this. I just keep picturing so many means that we can bring up on screen right now. You've got Wolverine in the surgery tank coming out of the tank. Like, yeah, I know. You were. Robo guy. And when I went to bed, I had like the first night or after the fentanyl is a guy surgery, I had the gyno brace on. And then, of course, I bought a CPAP and then I had these goggles on. So it literally looked like I was going to sleep in the back of the tank. And then posted a picture. What Steve, are you wearing, you know, a sports bra? Guys are not up to speed at all. So I try to sleep. Grab a sports bra. Yeah, she's got to she's got to break our orientation done, right? I'll go check up on her soon. She's been talking about it for a long time. And I'm like, well, you can't come out here right now. So you don't get yourself some new boobs. Hopefully that keeps her happy for a while. So it's just healing up now. Sweaters going down. I think she gets stitched. She's out in a couple of days. Now everything's all healed. She's the same. She's just want to go back to the gym. Now, I'm obviously going to do after my first breast augmentation, she was in the gym the second day. She went to the same surgeon. Yeah, she went to the best. At least we know they'll look. Only the best. Yeah, you'll have a lot of fun motorboating when she comes over. So I get all the shit done. I'm a little bit miserable, but I'm holding size and yeah, good excuse not to do any cardio. Yeah, well, at least you got it all done, you know, and these things, like I said, been on your list for a while. It's going to be now or not for a long time. It's been here for a long time. Yeah, you might as well get it all done in out of the way. It's probably a good move, you know, although it would be pretty cool to have you out here. But yeah, the reality of it is probably. Yeah, that's probably a little bit too much travel and fluctuations in blood pressure and food and all of that while you're still dealing. I wouldn't have done the surgeries if it decided to come over to the US because then I thought about doing the surgeries afterwards. And then I looked at the recovery process and then I'd be barely recovered by the time I was with his birth. So it just didn't make sense, you know, too much. Too much. Yeah. So what about the how I was going to say? Mr. Olympia. Olympia, you'll be out here for sure. Yeah, I will be there for a week or something. I shouldn't be in a shoot. No, it's only only Vegas so that then I don't have to do an onwards flight to Ohio. That's in the four hours, man, from Vegas to Ohio. It's like four and a half hours. Everyone keeps telling me, oh, you'll fit right in in Ohio. It's just like England, cold and miserable. I'm like, all right, sounds wonderful. It's really cold over there. Yeah, that's also one of the reasons like when I went through all the reasons of why not to come freezing in Ohio, I'm like, fuck no. I just went to the UK and it was freezing. Shit. Yeah, this is a cold time of year to visit as well. It's probably not ideal. But yeah, I mean, you'll manage. No, man, you got everybody else there. Everyone else is there. Everyone flies in the day early. We got a nice air B and B sorted out. I'm just excited, just excited to bring a good package and get on big stage with some serious super heavy's and see how I stand up against them. Then right after that is the Desert Classic, the J. Cutler show, which is hard to see. It's there. But that's is there broke or just local? No, just a national qualifier. So if I don't get the card at the Arnold, then I'm just going to keep competing as long as I feel good and there's no red flags and my body feels pretty solid. I feel better and better as this prep continues. Like usually is that first couple of weeks after traveling where you like your body's kind of go through shock and I'll get the pains and flare ups and things like that. And I'm like, just like, fuck T. And then you just get into a routine. Everything balances out and I feel awesome. So it's all good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it takes about two weeks, three weeks to really that. That flight is brutal, man, 24 hours. You can get right. So really don't really think about actually what kind of impact that does have on you if you're somewhat like we're not just coming here, sitting around on holiday by this room of all day. You know, it's in the gym six days a week. Yeah, two times a day. This meeting that we in grocery shopping, driving, banking, car in. Now, when we went to the when you went to the Miss Olympia together, we had three activities per day for two weeks straight. I was I was fried. Yeah, that's right. After that. There was no way I was getting through that week without like some cheese cake. That's for sure. Yeah. And then I've never drank so many. What is it? Energy drinks? Yeah, that's that's like something I've noticed here is energy drinks. And it's gone. All these different varieties of coffee and because you can get all of these zero calories, syrups and things. I have to. I'm like, well, that sounds interesting. This sounds good. And I'm like, no. You know, don't get carried away with all these little things they add up. You gotta be careful. Yeah. But there is a coffee that we bought, the coffee that we bought at Walmart or Max Oh, whoever is called death. Yeah, that's death. Death wish coffee, the strongest coffee. I wish I bought more of that. That was really good. And send some to you if you want. Yeah, well, yeah, maybe I have to send it to the shipping fore. You're not so easy. If I use USPS, it will show up easy, easy for a problem. USPS is how they sent stuff to me in Thailand. It was way quicker, way easier. So if you need stuff from, you know, who I don't know if we can say their name on YouTube, yeah, things like that abbreviations M.A. and A.A. That's yeah, just let me know. And I'll get a package out to you. USPS. Yeah, I already got something coming in through the shipping forwarder, so I'm good for a while. Yeah, yeah, this is another character. They got some Hanoi merch for you, so it's here. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's good. Did you ever get your clothes back from your left behind? Got it all day. Yeah, thank you. I don't know if that Jared's place. That's actually a driver. What a guy. That reminds me actually, I need to link up with him and give him a free transfer. Such a funny guy, right? So wherever this is a funny story. So me and Erie were checking out from our Airbnb in Vegas and we're driving back and the guy's drinking a grill of mind energy drink. And I say, do you like that energy drink? He said, yeah, man, I used to watch Derek all the time, but now he's, you know, he's kind of retired. I said, look back. Looked. So it's Steve from the Supervisualogical Man podcast. He never watched that. At least he was happy to hear that I was on board with grill of mind and you were at the time. And then you forgot your clothes at one, one or two shirts at the Airbnb and they were outside. Well, on the way to the airport, you were like, well, you like the gorilla mind products. Yeah. And he's like, yeah, I love buying all the time. And I'm like, go back to the apartment. You just picked this up from here's the door code. We left loads of shit behind. Free workout, EAAs, the whole works. I said, just go and pick it all up. Take it. Yeah. We couldn't bring it back. We were like fully, fully booked. 40 kilos per person. I said, this is also a bunch of half files of tests and master. And he's like, oh, all right, I'll go and pick up that as well. And graph the brief. Yeah. He was pretty happy. He was pretty happy. And then I get, and then it was a couple of days later, I realized, oh, shit, I left a bunch of clothes on the balcony and the owner of the landlord put them in the water. So how am I going to get them? Didn't want to bother Jared too much because I think he was traveling at the time. Yeah, he was also not there. And so I said, oh, that driver, maybe. Oh, he knows where it is. Yeah. So he got it picked up. No, I'll go back and pick him up for sure. And he went back two or three times trying to link up with the cleaner lady at the right time to pick it up. Yeah. And he came through, dude. He came through and I'm like, what a fucking legend. So I actually sent him some free diet plan stuff and all of that. And I said, oh, cool. Give you a session in the gym for free when you got some time. He said, yeah. Get this guy, like because the Uber drivers, they have to pay a certain percentage for every trip, right? So if you've got a long trip, but you don't want to drive your own car, just link up with him, you know, pay him cash. Yeah, I think that was his car as well. So he probably does a bit of private work. Yeah, it was a nice car, too. Big spacious. Yeah, one of those. What is it? Catalac or something? And one of those big giant actually. Yeah, I felt I felt the trip back to the airport. I felt very well taken care of. Let's put it that way. I felt very comfortable. Yeah, it's not true. Yeah, very premium. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'd have been on title. He is such a good representation of people here in general. I thought maybe we just got lucky with a few really nice polite people. Not most of them are super nice, man. Everyone here is so nice. So everyone's willing to help. I was set the story on one of my last drive and talk videos, but went to go buy coffee. Couldn't figure out the my Bank of America app. I hadn't figured it out yet. My wallet was in the car. I was like, shit, I can't pay. I'm going to run back to the car or grab my wallet. And the girl behind the counter at Starbucks was like, don't worry about it. I've got you. And I thought she just meant, OK, you know, I'll put your coffee to one side while you grab your wallet. And I ran on some guys laughing at me as I was running away. And like, what did I miss something now? I'm not sure. And then I came back with my wallet, like, OK, I'm going to pay for my coffee now. And she was like, I got you. I'm not really sure what that means. Like, what's the context here? She was like, I've paid for your coffee. Oh, and I'm like, what? She was like, yeah, I see you miss her. You get her number at least. I think she's probably a little too old. Did you ever tell that story of all the girls that were ogling all over you when we came out of the casino? What was it, the resort world? Well, we came out of the resort right before we met Norman, a friend of mine and what's his name? Flex Lewis's coach. I would came to back up her bags there. It was like a whole group of girls. Any buffers or the college kids? Yeah, and they're all like. I would do like what the fuck? I felt I felt so ugly in this moment. Like what the fuck? I was hoping that DC 10. So what about this? You were holding a pretty good blow. Of Joe. Yeah, yeah, that's true. Yeah, I was. Yeah, I wasn't objectifiable, unfortunately. You know, it's a better way than I did. At least three times a day. Yeah, John Cena. So I think people just think I'm John Cena. Just tell them so you didn't see me. Yeah, I was like, no, what do you know? Yeah, which. But it's all of that was. But it's all straight. All these interactions here with people are so good. And people will just do that. They'll be like, yeah, no worries. I'll see you again at some point. And I'm like, there's no way I'm letting you pay for my coffee. Like that's too. It's too nice. That's too kind. So I appreciate the offer. She's like, I've done it now. Yeah. Now you've got to come back there every time to buy coffees. Why? I just gave her like a twenty dollar tip. She's just like, no, no, no, no, you don't have to do that. And I was like, he deserved it. Like, that was a really nice thing to say. Let her motor about you. Say come pray it in. Yeah. Every time. Bring it in. Someone let me. Yeah. I just shaved. Take it. Take it. Take it. It's not spiky. Yeah, it's so fresh. I shaved my entire chest for the gyno surgery. I felt very sexy. He was great. They're cool. Every time I go to that Starbucks is the one right next to the gym. So there's like a little couple of old Spanish ladies that work there. They were all there as this interaction happened. So now every time I go there, there's always a little laugh and a bit of banter. Like, oh, you pay for your own coffee today. And I'm like, all right, all right, I've got my one. So you can get free coffees there for life. They probably think all these bodybuilders are such retards. Spent so much on coffee because they keep forgetting their money. Yeah. So I got my fanny pack with me, but there's no wallet in there. It's full of GH and 9GF. Yeah, three. Yeah. Hey, I didn't see a picture of your obnoxious car on your Instagram yet. What happened? You didn't see it or you did. No, I didn't. I'm wondering why. Like, I know what your car looks like. You've seen it though, right? Yeah, you sent me a picture. Yeah, I'm not proud of it. I'm not posting that all over the internet. It looks like a gay zebra driving around everywhere. It's a test of the zebra print. Yeah, like people look just there. I'm glad it's got tinted windows so they can't see me inside. It's pretty gay. But they didn't have anything else there. Well, they had other Teslas available, like regular plain colors and trucks. They sold Torah. There's like a car sharing that. I was looking through. There's loads of great options. In Texas, I'm going to rent out a giant Ford truck thing. Yeah. And it's pretty cheap. But if you book something for a month, you get big discounts. You get like, you book for two weeks, you get a bit of a discount. If you book for a month, you get a massive discount. This one just happened to have a huge discount. And it was probably an extra three or $400 more discounted than the other ones. Oh, okay. Oh, I know why. Because of the paint job, no one wants it. But for me, I'm like, hey, I don't care about no paint job. If I can save myself a few hundred bucks. So the actual total discount for a month was $1,000. So I saved a grand. So I'm like, I'll happily save a grand driver for a complete paint job. The car is lovely to drive. Inside is the Model 3 Tesla. So it's one of the newer ones. It's great. I love it. Just to find the parking lot. You're just like, there's the most ugly car in the parking lot. It's mine and nobody would ever steal it. No one will ever steal it. No, he's trolling though. The guy who owns it. There's a sound when you walk away from the car because it's all connected to your phone. So when you walk away from the car, automatically locks and usually would go to say it's locked. But he's changed that sound to like a squeaky dog toy. So it goes. This really gay little squeaky toy sound. So every time I get six feet away from the car, this noise happens from behind me and everyone looks like, what was that noise? And I'm just like, you got to get some matching flippers, man, or slippers. Like you're just coming here for two. Yeah, a zebra print onesie or a suit with a big pin pad. Yeah, you know, go with it. Hey, I'll save some money where I can. But next month when I rent a car, I'm going to pay a lecture and just get a regular car. It was good for the first month. But if I book in advance, like there's always good deals on there. And I think once my LLC is all finished up, I can just buy myself a company car. Right. Yeah. How much did it ended up costing for the people who are interested in moving? Like how much did it end up spending to move? So for a full month on the Model 3 Tesla, including insurance was $1300. No, not just the car, like the whole move. Like to get started again in the U.S., like 10K, 15K. If you're talking about, it depends what visa options you go for. I'm still going through that process now. Because it's not a quick process. It's going to take months and it's going to take thousands of dollars. So for instance, one of the quotes I got, if I was to do an investment visa, you'd need a hundred and a hundred or $150,000 investment money. Probably 20 grand in lawyer fees, another few grand in paperwork fees and stuff like that. So that option, you're going to blow a couple of hundred grand. Yeah. Basically. I'm not sure on the capital investment, whether that needs to be upfront available as investment, probably does. And there's athlete visas if you are a pro athlete. There's a couple of different options for those. They're probably going to be after all of the processing fees and all of that, probably somewhere around 10 grand lawyer fees, application, paperwork, things like that. If it's a setting up an LLC, you do it properly through the correct companies and stuff like that. Probably going to be a couple of grand there just for that thing. You can buy a nice second hand, use Tesla for probably 15 grand, something like that. And if you get that on a lease or a payment plan or something, you probably five or 600 bucks a month maybe. So renting, like I have now. Rent first, all the other expenses are high. You can always buy later. Yeah. Like it's something I'll do that when I can, when I have the correct documents, LLC documents, and then I'll do it. That's not a problem because that will help me build up a credit record as well. Because here you need a credit score for most things. So buying a car. Oh yeah. In the Western world, you need credit score. Yeah. So I'll do like a business bank account, hire someone, pay them a salary, buy a car, monthly payments on a car, utility bills. All of this kind of builds up a good credit score. And after about four, maybe three to six months, I'll have probably the minimum qualifying credit score to then apply for a mortgage or something. If I wanted to go down that road.  but yeah, all of the fees as far as like moving here, depending on what visa you get, can obviously really change the price, but let's just say you're, you're, let's just say you're gonna come here and just do six months, and then disappear again, and you don't have to apply for a visa, but you wanna live here, look at all, you know, you wanna get a lease on a house for six months, you wanna rent a car for six months, blah, blah, blah, then yeah, you're probably looking at, you know, you're gonna need to, 20 grand is gonna disappear real quick, and then after that, it's just general maintenance of living costs, which to be honest, is pretty much the same as Bangkok, believe it or not, like, yeah, the 20-found also, yeah, the bottom of the lifestyle is not expensive, and the phone, it's pretty affordable, it's just like the big things, you know, the deposit for the house, or getting a car, or doing the visa, that, you know, you had the clothes, and buying a new air fryer, and a rice cooker, that's not the expense, you know, that's a couple hundred bucks. That stuff is cheaper, if anything, like there's so many options, there's so much variety, the competition and prices, it's crazy, you know, you go to somewhere like Walmart, where you can just get everything all in one place, make a deals, great, you know, I built out this whole complete big L-shaped desk here, speakers, monitor, lights, microphones, cameras and stuff like that, did it all for, like, maybe 300-400 bucks, you know, Walmart is great, and my grocery shop in, as a bodybuilder in prep, I just did a big video on it, but I got a pretty big pool of groceries, that will last me easily a week, most of those things will last like a month, you know, like a big giant jar of kimchi or something, and I have a few couple of portions a day, you know, things like that, so yeah, if you're smart about your shopping, and you live like a bit of a bodybuilder, you're not blowing money on big restaurants, and you're not, if you go into the strip every day, or every week, Ah, you're broke, you're broke. Yeah, you're gonna spend some money, but if you're not, and you're living a regular lifestyle, that's totally fine, I think I spent like 150 bucks on grocery shopping, and got loads of stuff, and extra, and in with that bill, was the air fryer, $20 air fryer, or something like that, a little mini one just to keep me going, because when I move into a house, once this lease runs out, I'll move into a bigger house, so I don't want to buy anything that I can't just get rid of, because when I move into the house, I don't want to get the big double-sided air fryer, you know, and let's be honest, like these air fryer, they break down the $20 air fryer, breaks down as fast as a $100 air fryer, so like I got one on spare, at all times, I got one spare, one spare rice cooker, one spare air fryer, just in case they break down, I don't even need to go out to just grab it out of the closet, I'm like, okay, you can still make a meal, yeah, because it sucks, you know, if you're constantly cooking all the time, you know, that's what we do. Yeah, and the same as Thailand, you want to order out Uber Eats, there's loads of good prep-friendly options and stuff, I've done, I'm used to just doing my own meal prep, like we both do, right, we just cook all of our own stuff, but if you do like to order out and all of that, there's thousands and thousands of options. Yeah, you can easily get chunky over there if you want to. You can get pretty chunky, offseason's going to be filthy, it's going to be good, so I'm looking forward to that. But yeah, in the meantime, Vegas is this perfect little random, it's like its own thing, it seems to be very different from the way people describe it, it's this own little very different place, what, in the middle of a desert, surrounded by mountains, you seem very disconnected from the other woes of the world, everyone seems to be, no one really seems to be distracted by the non-suitable environment. It seems like very carefree, everybody's just doing their thing and the politics of the rest of the America doesn't really seem to affect. People are aware of it, but there's no one outside, there's no one getting emotional when protesting about it, you know, they're just like, I got busy, I've got things to do, you know, they'll just let things happen, whereas I think if you go to some of these more liberal cities, and there'll be a college, a whole college campus, you know, protesting, arguing with Charlie Kurt on a very regular basis, whereas here as you try, you want to go to the gym, do some cool stuff. Like Florida was pretty okay, I like Florida. Texas, Florida and Vegas, these are the three big goals you make, but everyone is just bust an ass, bustling and having a great time. Yeah, LA, Sacramento, Detroit, all right, it was okay, a bit boring, Columbus is okay, but yeah, most of the places that I've been to felt a bit dodged, to be honest. I think just the most like it in the most places in the world, right downtown cities, gonna have their rough parts, because I mean, even like Chase lives in Chicago, right? But the area he lives in, he really likes, it's really nice. Yeah. Then he goes downtown Chicago and everyone's never going to downtown. I think I've been to, well, I was only there for one day, so I saw his gym, and then we went out to dinner, and that was good. So you shielded me from all the, the downstown stuff. It's possible, yeah. And it went to go. I was in Sacramento for like one or two days to have the Mark Bell podcast, and where I stayed, it was also a little bit like, meh, and LA is just, I know, it's rowdy. It's very rowdy. Do you have any problems with the fires there, or that was non-existent? Just about dying down by the time we drove in. So just regular LA traffic. Apparently it was a little more chaotic than normal due to the fires, but I don't know that I can compare, so I can say. How is the LA Fit Expo compared to the Mr Olympia, because I do feel that it's like a different kind of crowd? About the same size, but the booths were not quite as extravagant and big. Everyone goes all in on the Olympia Expo, right? Because it's prestigious. The LA Fit Expo, apparently this is the best one few years, the last few years apparently crap since the flu. But this one apparently was much better. I thought it was all right, you know, walking around. It was okay to mingle, did a lot of sort of networking bumps into a good few people. The muscle contest show at the back of the area was pretty good. Not as big of an expo stage as the Olympia. But they had all that night fighting and stuff, you know, when they were dressed up in armor. Yeah, they had that there. They had boxing, Muay Thai, Jujitsu, Manchester. It had everything that the Olympia had. I think the Olympia actually, if I think about it, because there was two floors, Olympia was bigger and better and more extravagant. The LA Fit Expo was okay for an expo. It was okay. It's a little convention. Yeah, well. That was a little bit tight. You know, usually you walk around the expo and you can get a massive bag full of free energy drinks and protein bars and tested this. Only Olympia. Yeah, Olympia and the Arnold apparently are the only ones which really do that. Like these, they were given out like little shot glass tasters of stuff. And then it was like you and then like, okay, so you got to buy a case of 12 and I'm like, I just want a free drink. Like it's an expo. Like I'm not going to buy a whole bunch of this stuff and everyone here is affiliated with companies and stuff anyway. So the 90% like meeting Greek stuff, meeting, you know, things like that. Luckily we bought a lot of people on the way in. So we didn't understand that using their lines, bumps into Jay and Guy and Martin and they had a good chat with Hunter and the gas crew. So yeah, it was good. It was fun, but one day was enough. After one day we were like, do we really need to stay around for two days? Let's just drive back. Yeah. So we got some food, woke up early, drove back the next morning, skips out on a Sunday. Yeah. That was it? No, that's what I've heard. Yeah, I wouldn't fly from Thailand to go to the LA FedEx. Just the Mr. Olympia. Maybe someday the Arnold, but Olympia is easy, man. It's just the... Have you done the Arnold before? No, never been. I've been to Columbus when I was there with the Swiss Symposium. When I went there with Chicago and Alley, it was only a three-hour drive, I think, from Detroit. And then I went to Chicago to meet Chase and then I flew... Where the fuck did I go? Then I went to Vegas to pick up my wife and then I went to Florida and then we went to LA. It's all over the country. Yeah, I was at LA and then Sacramento and then we went home. Yeah. It was craziness. Big trip. But yeah, I think the Arnold, what I hear is the big, the big one. Right? As far as I suppose are concerned, it's like, they're like, it's going to be chaos. Be ready. It's going to be... That's like three days also. Yeah, I think it actually starts officially on the 27th, the same day as the amateur show. And it runs all the way through to, yeah, 27th, 28th, February's the 28th, right? And then the first, second. So yeah, four days total. Yeah. Yeah, I fly back on the second. But got a funny feeling. I might need to extend it by a day. I can see. You can see what the other boys are doing or go to a city close by that you want to see? Yeah, I think there's something going on the second. So I don't want to fly out too early and miss anything, but of course I might be exhausted by then after all the competing. And then the expo... You will be, man. It was two days at the Mr. Olympia. At the next day, we didn't do anything after the expo. I was like... We're linking up and doing dinners and stuff with the booth crew and then all the RP crew. And just being a fanboy at the expo, watching the main show, that's a big lineup. Who have you got? I think Samson's just going to walk in there with me. Samson, Samson, Samson, Robin. Yeah, Samson. Tough to be. Tough to be, but it's an impressive physique. Yeah, I wonder if Derek switched to Chris Ossito, but he doesn't look as crispy as he did before. His legs are bigger, but it looks not four weeks out based on pictures that I saw. But it's Chris. Yeah. A lot can happen in a week, right? He just knows how to do it. This is the matter of dioretics. He's going to, he'll get it right. So I'm sure that everyone will look awesome and it'll be an epic show. That's a good lineup. It's going to be good. Yeah, you got my ticket for Jared, right? Yeah, he was happy. So, yeah, now I still got Andrea's ticket. I don't know if she's going to make it over in time. Got her interviewers on tomorrow. So fingers crossed, she doesn't get the idea. If she does, she does, we'll deal with it. It sucks, but it's what it is. Me time, I'm in prep anyway, so she's not missing much apart from my ticket. Yeah, you'll find a way. Otherwise, you just wait until you got all your paperwork sorted for the business and then register your marriage and get her on that way, you know? Yeah, it'll be right. There's a couple of ground to get her over on that kind of visa side of things, but we'll see how it goes. In the meantime, stay focused, stay locked in, get peeled, get on stage as many times as I can before it's time to go hard and warm up. Get massive donuts. It's so easy to get fat in America, my God. It is, but it's also easy to stay fit and healthy. Yeah, because you have a lot of ground to get options. There's so many. There are so many good healthy alternatives, so there's no excuse. All those spices that I bought, they all were like riddled with sugar. I should have read the labels. Are they? So yeah, I had to throw them away, man. It's they were like five grams of sugar per seven grams. I'm like, what the hell? That probably didn't help you and got issues at the time. No, no, so I did a food allergy test and it turns out I'm allergic for a few foods, including egg whites. So I took those out. Like the best food in the planet, you know, egg whites. And every time I have breakfast anywhere in the world, it's eggs. So of course I've digested the issues the rest of the day. Doesn't matter what comes after that. It's fucked. So I took the egg whites and the whole eggs out and now it's perfect. I can pull vacuums at the end of the day again. Yeah, that's good. At least you got that one solved as well. You completely rebuilt yourself from the ground up in like four weeks. Well, yeah, that's what happens when I leave. Yeah, I leave and then I get out of here. And then I got a fresh start. No, I just needed to get it all done. It's like usually around the end of the year I do like full checkups. And yeah, so now I'm still waiting for my stool examination. Should come in soon also. Did a food allergy test, like stool examination, right? From the poop. So that was a lot of fun scoping your own shit in a container. And then I did all these surgeries. Yeah, I'm done with hospitals for a while, man. So I got it. Two weeks like every other day. When I was sick, I go out and celebrate and over here. I'll video call you. Sure. Join in online for the ceremonies. Mr. Cigar dates. And the wife always laughs. What are you doing? So I'm calling my friends and smoking cigar on the porch. The good stuff. Yeah, man. Keep me posted on your prep. Good luck. I will. Yeah. Enjoy holding down the fort for me when I'm not there. And then I'll join in soon. Soon enough. I'm wrapping the muscle nomads hard out here. They get one more. We will give them more. Now that I've got an actual place to sit down and record and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. We can get back into a bit more of a routine. There you go. Cool, man. I'll keep you. Maybe we'll do another one like a week out. So you can have a good luck. Yeah, sounds good. Don't forget. For Z Cup Day, a little prep update. And then again, after the show, hopefully, celebrating some decent placings. I hope so too, man. Keep me posted. We'll do. All right. Cool. I'll talk to you soon, yeah? Take it easy. We'll see you next time. Keep it fast. Yeah, I will. Take it easy. Ciao.

=== FILE: Never Out Of Breath Bodybuilding Stamina Protocols (Endless Endurance) Methylene Blue, PeakO2 & ITPP [WiHQTINQ3Bs].txt ===

 so you like that massive masculine skin-splitting, make-up-up-superstack video I dropped a while back, but now you're so small and hypotensive that it's starting to affect your stamina and endurance during your strenuous high-volume sets to failure and beyond. Don't worry, vigorously, if your online stare daddy has a solution for that, welcome to the endless endurance, quick silver flash, Usain Bolt, Cheetah, Colibri, Kit, Attack Mode, Turbo Stack, Deep Dive Video, where I'll teach you exactly how to breathe through your workouts without gasping for air, not even once, right after the disclaimer. Vigor Steve here, you guys remember all of the Optimize and George Deep Dive videos I dropped a while back, right? Or the Ultimate Mixed Martial Arts Drugstack video, or the Cartering Deep Dive, or the Methylene Blue Deep Dive, or the Terinnable Deep Dive, or the Boldenone Versus Your Kidneys Deep Dives, or the Unconventional Pre-Workout Video. Yeah, I got a lot more where those came from, baby. In this video, I'll pre-select compounds which are known to increase endurance and stamina in strength athletes, whether you're a bodybuilder, a powerlifter, or a strongman, or a CrossFit athlete, you know, scrap that, CrossFit. If you're a beast and you want to breathe through your workouts, especially during high-volume strenuous hypertrophy sets, then this is the video you need to watch. First things first, nasal strips. You're welcome. And this could be a whole separate video just by itself, so here's a tool I didn't read. Nasal strips helps you open up the nasal passages, which increases the perception of oxygenation. You reduce the air resistance and allow for more airflow through the nostrils and through the lungs, and this allows for more oxygen delivery into the lungs, which could potentially enhance your athletic performance during strenuous exercise. You can give it a try right now. You open up your nostrils, you breathe in deeply, do it with me now. I mean, you see how nice that feels? Imagine if you have a nasal strip on top of your nose 24-7 along for this increased sense of oxygenation and potentially enhancing your stamina and endurance. During the workout, I can highly recommend it. I do it most of the day already. Like I mentioned in the Pumpage Protocols video, a carbohydrate-rich off-season diet is infinitely better for your pump as well as for endurance and stamina compared to a carbohydrate-restricted cutting-phase diet or a carbohydrate-excluded diet like a carnivore diet or ketogenic diet, even though a carnivore diet and a ketogenic diet might still enhance your endurance if you leverage the performance in anti-drugs and into workout nutrition intelligently. Now, if you're solely after methods to boost your endurance and stamina that a massive masculine super pump might be somewhat counterproductive as it prevents metabolite clearance to a certain extent, locking everything into the muscle, preventing the free flow from and to the bloodstream of oxygen-rich and nutrient-rich blood as well as the removal of stamina-blunting metabolites. So you might want to lower the pump to the minimum pleasurable amount for the maximum amount of endurance or vice versa, right? You can't have both. You're going to have to choose either or. I did you guys a solid and creative endurance stack for diets based around carbohydrates and diets based around fats as a primary energy source and these protocols can vary quite a bit between carbohydrate intake and fat intake. So make sure you use the timestamps to skip ahead to your favorite diet section and whip out your notepad and start doodling away as a spoon feeds you the details. Again, you'll have to design your endless endurance, insert your favorite speed runner here, turbo stack to your dietary needs and restrictions. There isn't a cookie cut away to optimize your endurance. Enjoy some oxygenating self experimentation in the process. As always, you need to know which compounds, drugs, medications and supplements you need to avoid as they might diminish your endurance quite dramatically, making everybody wonder if you're on trim-blown gasping for air as you're loading plates on a machine you haven't even done a working set on yet snoring while awake. No thanks. So these compounds you should avoid angiotensically reverting enzyme inhibitors, most notably anapryl as it lowers hematocrit and red blood cell count observed at dose just between 2.5 milligrams to 10 milligrams daily. So if you suffer from high hematocrit and red blood cell count, anapryl might be able to keep that in range, but they're fear after endurance, especially if you start stacking other erythropoietic compounds in this endurance enhancing super stack, then anapryl is an angiotensically reverting enzyme you should avoid. And the angiotensin receptor blocker, telmasarcten modulates hematocrit and red blood cell count. It might raise it at a low and effective dose of let's say 20 milligrams per day, but it might prevent it from getting too high at 80 milligrams daily. And again, if you're after endurance and you want to bring your hematocrit up to a little bit outside of the reference range, then a higher dose of telmasarcten is not recommended. And beta blockers I would avoid because it reduces maximal heart rate, cardiac output and impair VO2 max to a certain extent in usually a dose dependent fashion. Now besides the Nibivol, which selectively blocks the beta one, adrenergic receptors, but stimulates the beta three adrenergic receptors, resulting in some sort of potential performance enhancing benefit. We'll address that a little bit later on. Nibivol might be okay. The low and effective dose of let's say 2.5 milligrams to five milligrams daily should not impair your endurance in any way shape or form, but the other beta blockers I would generally avoid if you're after maximum endurance. Same goes for statins, right? They might cause muscle pain and weakness, aka myopathy and reduce mitochondrial function even impairing overall energy production within skeletal muscle. And then it includes red yeast rice, which is a naturally occurring statin found in mold fermented rice. I would avoid these two type two diabetic medications, including glucophage and PI glitazone, which reduce glucose production in the liver, impair glucose uptake within skeletal muscle, even though it is known to improve insulin sensitivity, right? You want the maximum amount of carbohydrates to end up in skeletal muscle. If you follow a carbohydrate rich diet, a metformin or PI glitazone might actually impair that process and have negative effect on the mitochondria as well. Obviously, I would avoid alcohol as it dehydrates the body, impairs glycogen storage, reduces motor coordination, chronic use even decreases testosterone levels, even though most of us will have a way around that testosterone impairing side effects of alcohol, especially the ones that contain a boatload of phytoestrogens, right? Beer included, unfortunately. So it impairs muscle recovery and growth. Alcohol is a no goal if you're after the maximum endurance in stamina, including the pump. Alcohol just avoided altogether unless it's your birthday. Smoking, cigarettes, cigars, pipe, vaking, marjuana, etc. Any kind of smoking, anything that you inhale in the lungs, whether that is a very high temperature from smoking, marjuana, cigars, etc. Or you're vaping or using a vaporizer, right? You're still getting all these particles in your lungs that might cause a vasoconstriction and then over time might impair your athletic performance quite dramatically. Depressed of recreational drugs like marjuana, again, creatam, opioids, painkillers, psychedelics, etc. Most of these acts as a sedative and impair alertness, reaction time and motor coordination. So if you're after endurance and you want to have good hand-eye coordination, especially if you do a lot of free weights or in the case of strong men, you have to throw all kinds of heavy objects all over the place. And obviously, depressive recreational drugs, not a good idea. Now caffeine, there's something to say for its vasodilating properties and a low and effective dose, let's say between 100 milligrams and 250 milligrams pre-workout taken occasionally for an acute effect. And the vasoconstrictive effects are usually observed beyond 400 milligrams in a single serving taken before a workout, but you build up a little bit of a tolerance over time. So maybe in the beginning, you can get away with 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams caffeine pre-workout. And then if you start to take that more often, then you might need to bump it up to 400 milligrams, 500 milligrams to get the same vasodilating effects, because you build up a tolerance, you don't get any kind of vasoconstriction. And vasoconstriction is not something that you're after if you want to optimize your endurance. And like I mentioned in the methylene blue deep dive, methylene blue induces vasoconstriction at dosages beyond one milligram per one kilogram of body weight when taken subcutaneously or intravenously, daily or beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight orally or sublingually, daily. So these are the dosages you don't have to worry about. People usually restrict themselves to five milligrams, 10 milligrams, 25 milligrams, methylene blue at maximum, in which case you should not get any vasoconstrictive effects. Methylene blue is known to increase erythropoiesis at dosages between 0.1 to one milligram per one kilogram of body weight taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily or 0.5 milligrams to two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when taken orally or sublingually. Now most of us take methylene blue orally, right, whether that's in a pill form or in a liquid form, reconstitute it to a certain extent. I'm drinking that beautiful blue liquid with a straw obviously, so it passes your teeth and your cheeks and your tongue, so you don't have a BJ joke for any kind of blue character in the sci-fi space. So at low and effective dosages, it might actually increase erythropoiesis and it inhibits erythropoiesis at, again, the dosages which are on the screen, so those dosage ranges you need to avoid. So again, a low and effective dose of let's say five milligrams, 10 milligrams, even 25 milligrams, methylene blue should not cause any vasoconstriction and might actually improve erythropoiesis, especially when you combine that with other erythropoietic compounds like anabolic energenic steroids or erythropoietin, EPO, for example, right, drug interactions do take place, make sure you do your research. So if you keep those moderates, I think you'll get a performance enhancing benefit, but if you start megadosing the methylene blue, which is something I don't recommend that you shouldn't be doing definitely, then your endurance and stamina will definitely be impaired and you'll notice that effect quite rapidly as your hematica drops, your red blood cell count drops, and the vasoconstriction is so severe that you start getting nosebleeds, just thinking about doing heavy squats. And with that out of the way, there are a few compounds, drugs, medications, and supplements that you might already be taking that offer a synergistic effect with the entire endurance stack that we're going to discuss in this video. Keep in mind that many of these lower blood pressure to a certain extent, some of them actually blood pressure medications after all, and many of the endurance enhancing performance enhancing drugs also lower blood pressure quite substantially in a dose dependent fashion. So there might be some drug interactions here. Make sure you do additional research, use your Omron 7 to keep track of your blood pressure frequently when you start stacking all these compounds together and then include alpha adrenergic antagonists, also known as alpha blockers. Many of these are actually benyprocid hyperplasia medications needed to improve urine flow. But you see here Robocene and Jo-Himbine are also alpha blockers and at higher doses, like I mentioned in the Pumpage Protocols videos, at doses beyond the nine milligrams in single serving might actually have vasoconstrictive effects. So if you want to use these or you're using these to stimulate fat loss, you might get vasodilation at three milligrams per serving. But if you start wrapping up the dose and you start stacking it with other compounds that we're going to discuss, you might actually get vasoconstrictive effects. And like I mentioned before, an abivalol, a beta blocker might actually enhance your endurance and stamina by acting as a selective beta adrenergic receptor modulator. It blocks the beta one adrenergic receptors, but it activates the beta three adrenergic receptors. This increases nitric oxide levels in the bloodstream, causing vasodilation. And this enhances nutrient and oxygen delivery to skeletal muscle, obviously, especially when you start stacking that with other compounds that have vasodilating effects. And by keeping your heart rate in an effective range, it prevents excessive blood flow and prevents your heart rate from reaching critically high heart rates. And this might have some potential performance enhancing benefit. Now personally, I only use an abivalol during the offseason, but my body weight reaches over 110 kilograms, 142 pounds, give or take. When I start to notice that my endurance and performance and stamina in the gym is somewhat reduced, also because the working weights and the volume is increased. So I need to use an abivalol to reduce the cardiac strain and conserve energy during the offseason, but my body weight generally is a little bit higher. And this way my performance is sustained or actually enhanced. You can have a synergistic effect with these angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. The details are on the screen, excluding a nalapril. You can have a synergistic effect with angiotensin receptor blockers, including telbasarctum. But again, at higher dosages, it modulates your hematocritin and ribosocount, preventing it from getting any higher. If that's something you're after, you can have a synergistic effect with these calcium channel blockers, modulating your blood pressure. You can have a synergistic effect with dipeptidylpeptidys4 inhibitors, preventing the breakdown of growth factors, neurotopic factors, especially erythropoietin. So if you're taking erythropoietin compounds or erythropoietin itself, which might have a little bit of a negative drug interaction, and now your hematocritin ribosocount is really, really too high, and now you need to donate every couple of days because it's running rampant, right? So practice some caution when combining dipeptidylpeptidys4 inhibitors with actual recombinant erythropoietin or a variant thereof. But dipeptidylpeptidys4 inhibitors, even though the medical inserts of these compounds don't specifically mention that an increased hematocrit or increased ribosocount is a side effect of these medications, they are known, they do prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and other growth factors, which should improve your endurance and stamina, especially in a cocktail like this. And then everybody's engorging favorites, the phosphatidys3 type 5 inhibitors, including veyagor, seales, and levitra, just avoid higher dosages. If you're after the pump, you're probably taking 5 to 10 milligram seales upon waking or a good dose of veyagor or levitra pre-workout, but I would recommend a much lower dose of seales, which again is longer lasting, let's say 2.5 milligrams, 5 milligrams per day at maximum, because otherwise the pump is so severe that it might actually have an hindering effect on your overall endurance by locking all of these stamina-impairing metabolites within skeletal muscle, and now your endurance is basically in the gutter. So a low and effective dose of seales, I would say is acceptable in this endless endurance stack, but I would avoid daily higher dose or more frequent administrations of these phosphatidys3 type 5 inhibitors, otherwise you might have diminishing effects on your endurance. And then you might get a synergistic effect with cardotone, hardthorn berry extract, garlic extract, or beetroot extract, or beetroot juice, which all are taken for cardiovascular health and have vasodilating properties contributing to blood pressure management by increasing mostly nitric oxide levels in the bloodstream. I don't take these to improve your endurance and stamina, but if you're already taking these, then these might offer synergistic effect with the entire endless endurance stack that we're going to discuss shortly. First, let's start optimizing rib blood cell production and increasing the oxygen-caron capacity of the hemoglobin contained within the red blood cells, increasing a matricrate to let's say the top of the reference range at around 54%, or maybe slightly over that up to 56%, depending on your individual risk tolerance, assuming your platelets stay within normal parameters and you're fully hydrated at all times. This should boost your endurance and stamina quite dramatically and substantially already. So here are the erythropoiesis stimulating and oxygen-caron capacity enhancing compounds. You could start using altitude masks, living at a high altitude, that's a little bit more difficult obviously, or using a hyperbaric altitude chamber to increase your rib blood cell count and raise your hematocrit over time. Vitamin A, whether that's beta-carotene or retinol, enhances iron mobilization in the corporation in the hemoglobin. Vitamin B9 is necessary for the production and maturation of red blood cells. Vitamin B12, like vitamin B9, is essential and necessary for the production and maturation of red blood cells. Vitamin C enhances the absorption of non-hemoiron found in plant sources. I would still stick with hemoiron coming from animal meat sources, particularly beef or beef liver, very rich in highly bioavailable iron, which is needed for the hemoglobin that carries the oxygen around. And vitamin C is a very potent antioxidant and should take care of the free radicals when you're boosting your endurance and stamina to the next level. Copper is an essential trace mineral that plays a vital role in the synthesis of hemoglobin and iron is a main active component of hemoglobin, allowing for oxygen to bind to hemoglobin to be transported through the bloodstream within the red blood cells. Grylamide, elite model of vitamin, contains most of these micronutrients and efficacious dosages, besides retinol, vitamin A and iron, which you can then get from Grylamide to beef liver capsules. But again, these kinds of supplements, whether that's a multivitamin or desiccated beef liver capsules, are not a replacement for a nutritious diet containing both a lot of micronutrients that help with erythropoiesis and bring a red blood cell count up to the maximum efficacious range as well as your hematocytes. You need to eat healthy first and then supplement a multivitamin and beef liver or eat actual liver on top of your diet to make sure that the synthesis of hemoglobin red blood cells, etc., is completely optimized. Don't rely on supplements. They're a supplement. That's why they're called a supplement. Get your diet sorted first and then enjoy the fruits of your labor by having a limited endurance and stamina in the gym. Look into Pico II as part of your pre-workout ritual, especially in combination with nasal strips and methylene blue, those three together. Nasal strips, Pico II, methylene blue, oxygenation, galore. You didn't even increase your hematocytes yet. Pico II is a proprietary blend of cordyceps, reishi, king trumpets, shiitake, limescane, and turkey tail. Mushroom extracts and it provides a unique oxygenating effect that might help with breathing and improve endurance and stamina to a certain extent, especially when you start stacking that with pre-workout or inter-workout formulations or nasal strips or methylene blue for that matter. Just keep in mind that most vanilla over-the-counter pre-workout formulations don't contain Pico II because apparently it ruins the flavor. That's not something I've noticed. While taking 4,000 milligrams Pico II alongside my Grylamote Nitric or another pre-workout that I like to take, some people find the taste to be appalling. There might be some tablets available of Pico II that you can dose that up to 2,000 milligrams or 4,000 milligrams pre-workout. I just mix it and do my shake and be about my business. Just keep in mind that when you start reading the ingredients of over-the-counter pre-workout formulations that it's very rare to see Pico II contained within, so you need to supplement that in yourself. I talk about methylene blue, right? The dosage range of the efficacious effects regarding erythropoiesis are on the screen. 5 milligrams, 10 milligrams, 25 milligrams even might increase erythropoiesis-raising red blood cell count in a matter cut to a certain extent when you start stacking methylene blue with the other compounds that are part of this segment of this video. Myoenosteal tri-pyrphosphate enhances the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin found within red blood cells. It offers some neutropic and endurance benefits. You might need to start with a loading phase of 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams daily for two to three weeks, and then you can drop it down to a maintenance phase because all of the hemoglobin within red blood cells are now saturated with myoenosteal tri-pyrphosphate. The oxygen-carrying capacity is enhanced, and thus you can drop down to a maintenance dose of let's say 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams three times weekly. This has very pronounced effects on your oxygenation. It doesn't increase red blood cell count or hematocytes, but the overall oxygen-carrying capacity, again, ITTP with Pico-2 nasal strips and methylene blue, it's amazing. This stack for endurance is already amazing, and we're not even halfway into this video. And then you have these erythropoietic anabolic anagenic steroids to choose from, which all increase erythropoietin production through the anagen receptor. And whether you go with the bouldinone and desanate aka aquepoise or methanol anethate aka primobolon or rheumabolon or oral methanol acetate, primobolon S or rheumabolon S, or oral or injectable oxymethylone aka anadrol, at least with primobolon S and anadrol, those are used medically at the efficacy dosages which are on the screen. These dosage ranges are used medically in the context of anemia where either primobolon S or anadrol are prescribed to increase red blood cell count by stimulating erythroporesis through the anagen receptor. And otherwise, the efficacy dosages for the injectables, including aquepoise and primobolon, are on the screen where you generally see that beyond, let's say, 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams weekly, especially at higher dosages, red blood cell count in the market, start to increase. Just keep in mind that when you start escalating the dose of anabolic anagenic steroids upwards to a pumpage dosage, just that the pump obviously can be diminishing on your overall endurance, the removal of metabolic waste products might be impaired. And like I mentioned in the Optimize Endurance Deep Dive videos and the Ultimate Mixed Martial Arts Drugstack video, more is not better when it comes to anabolic anagenic steroids. And whether that's aquepoise, primobolon, primobolon, and s-oranadrol, less is more if you're solely after endurance benefits in combination with a testosterone-based, obviously. But if you're really after endurance, I would just forgo these anabolic anagenic steroids and look for other methods to optimize erythroporesis like erythropoietin. For example, and personally, I don't really have any experience with the various versions of recombinant erythropoietin or methoxypolyethylene glycol, epoietin beta, better known as Mercera, or darbapoietin alpha, better known as RNS. The medical dosages are on the screen. Please do additional research if you use erythropoietic compounds, which are peptide-based derivatives of erythropoietin being produced indulgenously. If you can't get the job done regarding your hematocrit and robots account with the aforementioned compounds, and these are always alternatives. Personally, I don't have any experience. These are the medical dosages, and a medical dosages might be too high regarding what you're after because you get a synergistic effect with the other compounds you might be taking, and you're not sick. You don't suffer from chemotherapy or chronic kidney disease or anemia from surgery. Please make sure you do additional research if you're interested in using these compounds if you're a strength athlete, because there's not so many strength athletes who have actually got some experience with erythropoietin or variants. All I know is that you should avoid combining these kinds of compounds with dipeptidopeptides for inhibitors, because they actually prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and its variants. And thus, you might get a more heightened response regarding your hematocrit and robots account. Now, again, you're donating basically every couple of days because your hematocrit is like 62%, and that's not what you're after, trust me. And these two might offer a synergistic effect with the other compounds that we're discussing, because they might either increase erythropoiesis or enhance the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin. I don't have any personal experience with these two compounds, so the medical dosages are on the screen and some warnings are put in place wherever applicable. Metapivot is an allosteric activator of the peruvate kinase, an enzyme crucial for energy metabolism within red blood cells, by enhancing peruvate kinase activity and improves ATP production and red blood cell energy homeostasis, leading to an increased red blood cell lifespan and reduced hemolysis. So instead of having an average lifespan of, let's say, 80 to 100 days of red blood cells, it might be enhanced to 120 days, and then the erythropoietic effect of all the other compounds that you're taking is compounding, because the turnover of red blood cells is reduced. And since metapivot activates the peruvate kinase enzymes, it's probably best not to combine it with isopropamine dichloroacetate, abbreviated to DATA, more on that a little bit later on. It's one of my favorite injectable pre-workouts regarding endurance and stamina, because you might have a synergistic overlap, and then the ATP synthesis within red blood cells or systemically in the body might be heightened to an extent that you get tremendous side effects. I can't find much scientific evidence regarding this particular drug interaction of metapivot and DATA, so please proceed with caution, choose either or. And then there's Filgastrim, a synthetic analog of granulocyte colony stimulating factor, which stimulates the production of neutrophils primarily, but indirectly contributes to red blood cell production, as Filgastrim enhances bone marrow activity and improves overall hematopoiesis. Again, I have no experience with either of these compounds, so please do additional research in case this sparks your interest. Okay, great, we got the oxygen into the muscle. Now let's get the lactate out of the muscle, which would otherwise cause tremendous acidity within skeletal muscle and impair your endurance and stamina, making you tap out or gas out well within the first round. You have the following lactate removing compounds, including elcitriline, that also boosts nitric oxide production, helps with vasodilation, and allows for lactate to exit skeletal muscle and be excreted from the body. Curl them out to the OG pre-workout, and nitric and base and lightening all contain elcitriline at the efficacy dosages of 4,000 milligrams to 5,000 milligrams per one single scoop. Personally, if I were to go with endurance, I would rather go with grill mode base and then spike that with 4,000 milligrams peak O2, and then considering beta-alanine on top of all of that, which increases muscle carnesine stores. Carnesine acts as a lactate buffer and reduces the acidity of skeletal muscle. The problem with beta-alanine is it causes butthole itches and peristhesia to the point you literally want to tear all of your skin off because it's so itchy. Still, none of the grill mode pre-workouts contain beta-alanine, so you need to supplement that in accordingly. If you do so desire, whether you go with one single scoop or two scoops, a dose of 2,000 milligrams to 5,000 milligrams beta-alanine in a single serving or splitting that up, let's say 500 milligrams to 1,000 milligrams with meals daily, it doesn't really matter when you take your beta-alanine, but even at a low dose of 500 milligrams with every meal, you get peristhesia, butthole itches, and a full flush, nice in effect every single time. So I'd rather have it once per day, pre-workout or intra-workout, then multiple times per day in an attempt to increase muscle carnesine stores, or you can inject your carnesine instead and bypass the butthole itches altogether. Injectable carnesine is found in AA ultrar instinct at 200 milligrams per 1 milliliter, and MA focus also contains L-carnesine at 100 milligrams per 1 milliliter. Now regarding the other ingredients, AA ultrar instinct would probably give a lot of vasodilation because it contains adenosine triphosphate and adenosine monophosphate, whereas MA focus mostly contains carnitine and astheal L-carnitine, both contain choline, but I would say that MA focus is a little bit better for endurance if you follow a ketogenic diet, because carnitine and astheal L-carnitine obviously help with fatty acid mobilization and absorption into the mitochondria, and AA ultrar instinct would mostly help with vasodilation to the point you get a significant massive masculine super pump, which might actually hinder your endurance. So you can experiment with both and see which one you like the most. You can look into toriin, either split up at a thousand milligrams with meals, let's say four to five times daily, or a single serving of toriin pre-workout. Three thousand to five thousand milligrams toriin is known to diminish the pump as toriin regulates osmotic pressure between intercellar and exocellar space, so this allows for a lot of excretion diffusion of metabolic waste products that would otherwise impair your stamina, improves the regulation of electrolytes within the intercellar and exocellar space as well as the delivery of oxygen-rich and nutrient-rich blood into the cells itself. But again, if you overdo the toriin pre-workout, it diminishes the pump, but then as a result of that, it enhances the stamina quite substantially. So it really depends on what you're after. Personally, I take a thousand milligrams toriin with every single meal up to five thousand milligrams toriin over the day, because I found that it diminishes the pump too much if I take it all pre-workout. But if that's what you're after to boost your endurance, then go right ahead, five thousand milligrams toriin pre-workout, and you'll notice that the lactate removal, especially in combination with elcitrulline and beta-alanine, is significantly enhanced, but the pump might be diminished unless that's exactly what you're after. Antaurine stacks very well together with magnesium, which helps with lactate removal from skeletal muscle and other hydrogen ions out of skeletal muscle, so those two go hand in hand. Basically, if you're after endurance, the dosage range are on the screen. You can look at two branched chain amino acids or essential amino acids, which could potentially aid in lactate removal from skeletal muscle. A grilomote essential amino acid has about 12,000 milligrams of amino per one single scoop, with a general two-to-one-to-one branched chain amino acid formula of leucine, isoleucine, and valine, and half a scoop pre-workout or intra-workout should give you more than enough lactate removing benefits. They have sodium bicarbonate, the OG pre-workout well before any kind of vanilla over-the-counter pre-workout formula came to the market. Athletes were using sodium bicarbonate, aka big  acetic acid, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, pre-workout for this acid buffer in the bloodstream to go down for free-flowing lactate from skeletal muscle into the bloodstream, optimizing endurance overall. Timing is everything when it comes to baking soda and this is something you can't really do if you take intra-workout, whether that's carbohydrate-based or fatty acid-based. If you reduce the acidity of your stomach to the point you prevent the breakdown and the digestion of your intra-workout, then you end up vomiting everything out during the first set of anything that's considered high-volume or strenuous because it's literally sitting there in your stomach, irritating your stomach lining in your stomach wall and then it comes out through the esophagus, straight out projectiles, and it's completely undigested and it might be bubbling with CO2 from the sodium bicarbonate interaction with your stomach acidity. So, do some experimentation and if you do intra-workout and sodium bicarbonate, that's basically a recipe for projectile vomiting, don't do it, I've been there. I've learned the hard way so you don't have to. And if you absolutely must improve lactate removal from skeletal muscle but you don't want to sacrifice your intra-workout or you don't like the butthole itches from beta-alene and you don't want to inject carnicine, then well, you can always look into tromethamine but that's administered through intravenous administration, not for the faint of heart. Tromethamine is a buffering agent used to treat metabolic acidosis. It works by accepting excess hydrogen atoms and reducing the acidity of the bloodstream allowing for lactate to freely clear from skeletal muscle and thus improve endurance in stamina quite substantially through those pathways. But again, it's not commonly used in the bodybuilding space, it's usually reserved for endurance athletes like cyclists for example during the Tour de France but it's also something worth looking into. Again, if you absolutely must have the absolute maximum lactate clearance from skeletal muscle, you don't like beta-alene, injectable carnicine or taking baking soda because well, you prefer intra-workout. Instead, during your strenuous, endless endurance stamina workouts, you can either keep energy production going by taking carbohydrates or fatty acids pre-workout or intra-workout, skip to the section you're most interested in by using the time stamps down below. If you're interested in carbohydrates and metabolism-optimizing compounds, then obviously you can go with intra-workout carbohydrates either that's waxi-mase, cluxer dextrin, also known as high-branch cyclic dextrin, dextrose, fructrose or deribos. Grilla mode contains most of these besides waxi-mase. Again, waxi-mase always gives me some indigestion so I would avoid that. But a grill-of-mind intra contains cluxer dextrin, dextrose, fructose and deribos and then you can take that pre-workout or intra-workout. In case you didn't know, all of these carbohydrates forms contribute to ATP synthesis and make sure that your energy during the workout is longer lasting. Then you can combine that with glycerol, whether that's hydroprime or monosterite powder or liquid glycerol. Grilla-mind has liquid glycerol and grilla-mind hydroprime. I also found the grill-of-mind nitric but if you went with base or lightening or the OGP that doesn't contain glycerol powder, then you would obviously need to supplement glycerol in, whether that's liquid or powder, up to your preference. I would highly recommend you combine your carbohydrates or your glycerol with the hydration formula in the form of electrolytes to make sure that the blood volume and the delivery of nutrients to skeletal muscle that's highly metabolically active is just continuous. Then in combination with toriene, obviously, these electrolytes and the nutrients can all freeze and the nutrients can all freely diffuse into skeletal muscle and the metabolic waste products can freely be removed, especially if you reduce the acid buffer in the bloodstream with the aforementioned compound. Electrolyte is a no-brainer. Grilla-mold hydration contains everything at efficacious dosage ranges in the correct ratios. Whether you take one-sided pre-workout or one-sided pre-workout or one-sided inter-workout or maybe even two, depending on how much endurance you need and how much you sweat, you can decide that for yourself. I take one pre- and usually one intra, especially if I start sweating buckets with longer-lasting workouts in a gym without air conditioning. You can look into a Maldronate, assuming you have a carbohydrate-rich diet, you don't care about fat loss or fatty acid oxidation, and you don't really eat so much dietary fat because Maldronate modulates cellular energy metabolism by inhibiting carnitine-pulmitol-transferase-and-gamma-butyrobotane-dioxinase enzymes, which are responsible for carnitine synthesis. So by taking Maldronate, carnitine synthesis really goes down. That's why you shouldn't really combine Maldronate with supplemental carnitine. I mean, what is the body to do? You inhibit the synthesis of carnitine with Maldronate and these are supplementing with oral or injectable carnitine. I mean, it's mixed signals, right? Don't do that. You shouldn't really combine Maldronate with fat burners like carderine or Jo-him-bind or obiuterol, clonbuterol, or murebrychron because Maldronate shifts energy production to carbohydrates exclusively and then fatty acid oxidation is basically completely impaired because carnitine stores are non-existent. That's why it's advised to limit Maldronate cycles to up to 21 days and then you take some time off. Then you can start supplementing carnitine in to really restore your carnitine stores and shift carbohydrate metabolism to fatty acid oxidation for adequate ATP synthesis, obviously, but then the fatty acids don't accumulate within skeletal muscle and then you might have mitochondrial impairment for longer periods because it's really full with fatty acids. So limit your Maldronate exposure to a maximum of 21 days with the dosage protocols that are on the screen and then don't combine that with carnitine, carderine, Jo-him-bind, rossin, obiuterol, clonbuterol, murebrychron, or any kind of fat burner or any kind of light-politic agent because, again, fatty acid oxidation is completely non-existent during the time you take Maldronate. Then, well, if you follow a carbohydrate-rich diet, you could consider insulin or IGF-1 for that matter, but I leave that protocol entirely up to you because insulin and IGF-1 might enhance the pump and then you get diminishing returns on your endurance and stamina. Still, something like a long-acting insulin with a carbohydrate-rich diet is just to open up skeletal muscle and allow for continuous uptake of nutrients including glucose, especially in combination with Maldronate, which makes you burn through all of the glucose quite readily because, well, you shift energy production primarily to glucose. That's a very nice potent stack, but you might need to do additional research. It's not something I can cookie-cut for you because I don't know your diet. The insulin intake or IGF-1 intake is very diet-dependent. It brings us to optimizing fatty acid metabolism to improve your endurance and stamina, which obviously works better if you follow a ketogenic diet or carnivore diet, even if that's during the offseason in a steep caloric sharp loss and fat intake is somewhat elevated beyond baseline in order to make a good amount of progress. Or any kind of fat loss diet where carbohydrate intake is somewhat restricted and you're relying on these fatty acids coming from adipose tissue. And to bring it back a little bit, the aforementioned carbohydrate metabolism-optimizing compounds are obviously more practical during the offseason when you're literally inhaling carbs all day long. Duh! So let's discuss the fatty acid metabolism optimizing compounds going forward. You can go with medium-chain glygris slides, either oil or powdered MCT, either pre-workout or intra-workout, depending on what you prefer and how you digest that. Or you can look into beta-hydroxybutyrate salts, whether that's BHB sodium or BHB potassium, BHB magnesium, and calcium. It entirely depends on you. You have several formulations. We just use one of these BHB salts or a combination thereof. You can buy both powdered MCT or powdered beta-hydroxybutyrate salts on iHerb. I've linked a couple recommendations down below in case you want to give those a try. I would say that MCT, whether that's oil or powder, is a little bit better for energy levels. And beta-hydroxybutyrate is mostly for focus because these are ketone salts and they mostly go to the brain where they help with cognitive benefits, obviously, and it keeps you dialed in, laser-focused, even during strenuous sets when you're fully fat-adapted. So go with either or. I would not combine both, but if you want to do a combination of both, that's entirely up to you. Let us know down below how you feel regarding the benefits of your endurance and stamina. And whether you go with median-chain-track glycerides or beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts, you can mix both either or with glycerol, whether that's powdered glycerol coming from hydroprime or monostereate, glycerol powder or liquid glycerol. That's entirely up to you. Again, you can decide to go with pre-workout glycerol or intra-workout glycerol. And gorilla-mint has hydroprime, powdered glycerol, as well as liquid glycerol. The details are on the screen. Then you can go with one scoop pre- and one scoop intra if you do so. Prefer it. A combination of MCT and glycerol or beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts with glycerol should supply a good amount of energy because glycerol is a little bit of a metabolic intermediate between glucose and fatty acids. So you can take glycerol, whether you follow a carbohydrate, optimizing diet or a fatty acid optimizing diet with all of the compounds we're discussing. Now if you go with beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts, then you obviously need to adapt and modify your electrolyte formula, intra-workout or pre-workout a little bit because beta-hydroxybutyrate salts obviously contain, again, sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium either separately or a combination thereof. So make sure you stand on top of your electrolytes. You can do what I did. In the past, you take one sachet of gorilla-mint hydration pre-workout, which contains a good amount of electrolytes in the correct ratios, and then you take a beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts, a blend of the four different salts, intra-workout, because that helps with energy levels, mostly from a cognition perspective. So try a little bit of both. I feel that electrolyte formulas are very beneficial, whether that's a carbohydrate metabolism optimizing diet or a fatty acid optimizing metabolizing diet with all of the compounds that we're discussing. So I would always add those in, especially if you sweat buckets, because if you sweat buckets in a gym without air conditioning or your workouts are longer lasting, then while you obviously lose a boatload of electrolytes, you can look into supplemental carnitine, whether that's oral-alkarnitine L-tartrates or oral-acetyl-alkarnitine or my favorite, ejectable-alkarnitine, whether that's in combination with an injectable methionine-enosteal-choline blend to help with fatty acid mobilization from adipose tissue. I'll leave that entirely up to you. Carnitine helps with the absorption of medium-chain and long-chain chain L-strites into the mitochondria, and when you're fully fat-adapted, your requirement for carnitine, because your fatty acid intake is so high and you might also be losing a good amount of fatty acids from adipose tissue, so the turnover of fatty acids is increased and thus your carnitine requirement increases as well, especially when you throw, well, the kitchen sink of the fatty acid metabolism optimizing compounds at it. So I prefer a combination of injectable-carnitine with injectable-mik-blend, which I combined in several injectable pre-workout formulations. The details are on the screen. You can look at the carderine, aka GW-501516, also known as Enduro Bowl. Carderine is a PPR delta agonist, which helps with fatty acid metabolism and fatty acid oxidation within the mitochondria and skeletal muscle that's metabolically active very, very dramatically. Now there's a lot of scientific evidence that shows that carderine might cause cancer, and then there's also scientific evidence that shows that carderine prevents cancer. So please watch the deep dive if you're interested in carderine to optimize fatty acid metabolism, because a little bit of a warning is in place, obviously, so watch the deep dive first and then decide if you want to run carderine or not. You can look at the SLU-PP332, which helps with fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake quite tremendously, so it actually helps with insulin sensitivity to a certain extent. I have a deep dive on that. Give it a watch. You can look at the iCar, which isn't really commonly used in the bodybuilding or fitness community. I've induced it myself, and I don't really know anybody in the bodybuilding or fitness community who uses iCar frequently. It's heavily used in the endurance sports, like cycling, for example, where it's very, very popular, so it's something worth looking into, because it certainly works to boost your overall endurance and stamina, but I'm not entirely sure how much of an effect it might have on your strength performance. iCar is an analog intermediate in the generation of adenosine monophosphate, which stimulates adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase activity, which is an enzyme that regulates cellular energy metabolism, and this leads to several effects, including increased glucose uptake, so iCar is known to improve insulin sensitivity. A little bit of caution is advised when you combine iCar with insulin and perhaps mild drone it. Obviously, that's why you include it in this section, but it mostly enhances fatty acid metabolism and stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis. As a side effect or beneficial side effect, iCar stimulates angiogenesis and a combination potentially of iCar with TB-500 or BBC157 or growth hormone to a certain extent or cerebrolysin, even, which increases vascular and ultralight growth factor concentrations, all contributing to angiogenesis through different pathways. If you want to improve your endurance by increasing blood flow to very highly metabolically active tissues, if you take iCar frequently, you create new blood flow with oxygen-rich and nutrient-rich blood, also allowing for more CO2 removal through the lungs eventually, consider combining that with carnaesine or sodium bicarbonate, a.k.a. baking soda, and we're getting to the optimizations already. iCar has benefits through multiple different pathways, but it also means that iCar has a good amount of potential drug interactions. Personally, I would not combine iCar with diisopropamine, dichloroacetate, abbreviated data, or injectable adenosine triphosphate or adenosine monophosphate, for example, because if you start manipulating all of these ATP synthesis and AMP generation, then you might go high-potentative downstream, and then the drug interaction makes you hyperventilate on the floor, and that's not what we're after here. We're trying to improve our endurance and stamina, right? So a little bit of caution is advised. I don't have any personal experience with iCar, so please do additional research if you're thinking about adding iCar to your fatty acid metabolism-optimizing compound stack. And these following lipolytic compounds I would only consider during a cutting phase when caloric intake is restricted, and you want to get lean by promoting the release of fatty acids from adipose tissue, and it includes growth hormone anti-obesity drug 9604, which is a modified version of human growth hormone fragment 176 to 191. And you can go with either or. Both are basically small segments of bioidentical growth hormone, albeit that AOD-9604 is somewhat modified, that acts on the growth hormone receptor and initiates lab policies and no other side effects regarding insulin sensitivity through that particular pathway. Either go with growth hormone or AOD-9604 or HHFrag, whatever you prefer. And then you can look at the solbutamol and mirabicron, which I discussed at length in the mirabicron deep dive. If you haven't given that a watch, give it a watch now or when you're done with this video. I prefer not to use cling-material anymore during a cutting phase because it stimulates my heart rate way too much to the point it starts to affect my endurance and stamina, even though the central nervous system stimulation might enhance my strength overall. I prefer a low dose combination of solbutamol with mirabicron. Solbutamol works on the beta 2 receptors and mirabicron works on the beta 3 receptors. So there's no overlap here assuming that you give the dose low and moderate for its beneficial effects. Solbutamol is available as an inhalable oral and injectable, which you can find in various injectable pre-workout formulations. And mirabicron is only found as an oral medication for bladder incontinence. By activating the beta 3 adrenergic receptors, not only do you relax the bladder, but you also stimulate a good amount of lipolysis from adipose tissue. And then the solbutamol stimulates lipolysis to the beta 2 adrenergic receptors and has a beneficial effect regarding bronchodilation in the lungs. Solbutamol is an asthma medication after all. By allowing you to inhale more oxygen, especially if you combine that with nasal strips or methylene blue or some of the other things that we're discussing here, the oxygenation of tissue is so enhanced that you can literally take a couple breaths, hold your breaths and then breathe through your sets. It's very dramatic. Honestly, those particular drug combinations, very dramatic regarding oxygenation, because all of the oxygen can go through your open nose using nasal strips into your lungs, which are also opened from solbutamol. And then the oxygen delivery to tissues is completely optimized because your hematocritin and red blood cell count is basically borderline high. Yeah, stamina galore. I will tell you that. All right, we got the carbohydrates and fatty acids into skeletal muscle. Now let's look into ways to optimize mitochondrial function and efficiency and maximize ATP production and ATP recycling for the least amount of inter-workout or pre-workout nutrition as we can get away with. Because otherwise it turns into a pre-workout or inter-workout shake buffet. And that's the last thing you want because you might end up projectile vomiting all over the squad track after a high volume widowmaker set. And we're going to go through these a little bit faster than usual because I already have a good amount of mitochondrial function and biogenesis videos on this YouTube channel. And I have the updated version of the mitochondrial support stack in the pipeline. So subscribe now so you don't miss that video, which will drop a couple weeks from now and that will go a lot more in depth. Trust me, you can look at two vitamin B complex, whether that's a B50 or B100 complex daily vitamin C, astaxanthin, carnitine again, whether it's oral, carnitine or injectable, carnitine, good old creatine monohydrate helps with mitochondrial function and as does to ring supplementation. You can look to glutathione, whether that's coming from NSDL-16 in combination or solo S-adenosyl methionine abbreviated to SAME, which helps with glutathione production systemically and the SAME predominantly produces glutathione within the liver. You can look at the reduced glutathione or S-acetyl glutathione, but my favorite obviously is injectable glutathione. You get net glutathione injected directly intramuscularly or intravenously if you do so prefer, which all helps with mitochondrial function by increasing antioxidant status in the body. Because when you up-regulate mitochondrial function and biogenesis, you produce a lot more ATP, but also additional reactive oxygen species. So by increasing ATP synthesis and mitochondrial function, you also need to increase your antioxidant status and that's what the glutathione or the vitamin C or the torene is there for. And then as an additional electron donor, which also helps with mitochondrial function, you can look into nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, whether that's coming from supplemental oral nicotinamide mononucleotide NMN or nicotinamide riboside, NR, there's something to say for both of these. Experiment a little bit which one you prefer. I prefer NMN over NR. I tried both and NMN gave me better energy levels, but if you prefer NR, then by all means go with NR or do direct injectable nicotinamide and anantinucleotide NAD plus injections, intravenously or subcutaneously, which is also found in various injectable pre-workout formulations. There's a lot of ways to increase NAD plus levels, including taking B vitamins, which is a building block for NAD plus downstream. Ubiqunol, very well documented regarding its beneficial effects for endurance and stamina in endurance athletes, also has its place for strength athletes to support heart function. You could take oral ubiqunol, which I've done for many years and now injectable coenzyme Q10 is also available through MA. That's something else. The energy level and the cardiac support that I get out of injectable coenzyme Q10, it's amazing. Honestly, the problem is that it's incredibly red, so if you don't like injecting red compounds, whether that's vitamin B12 or injectable coenzyme Q10, they might be a little bit turned off, but it disperses quite rapidly. You don't have any red injection sites or lumps or bumps from injectable coenzyme Q10. So give it a look into it and see if you want to enhance your coenzyme Q10 levels in the body besides oral ubiqunol supplementation. Ubiqunol starts very well together for mitochondrial function with parallel, quinoline, quinone, PQQ. Quercetin helps with mitochondrial function as does curcumin C3 complex or berberine or megathree fatty acids coming from fish oil. Methylene blue is obviously amazing for mitochondrial function and overall energy levels improving your stamina and endurance. This is well reported, albeit not scientifically. This is anecdotal reports. Methylene blue acts as an electron donor and increases antioxidant status in the body, especially when you start stacking methylene blue with glutathione, vitamin C, and torene, which I all do. That's why my antioxidant status is absolutely maximized and my mitochondrial function is also maximized. Hence, I'm talking so freakishly fast. If you want to know more about methylene blue, give the deep dive a watch. And I also have a deep dive on SLUPP332, so let's not waste too much time on that. This is also very good for mitochondrial biogenesis and overall fatty acid oxidation, especially if you start stacking that with methylene blue and motC, the good old Dr. Dean, super stack, works very well for fat loss and to increase your energy levels. So motC is actually a peptide that's being produced by the mitochondria that's slowly being released, but by supplementing motC, you get this additional nutrient signaling that the mitochondria would otherwise ask of you. So by taking motC, you provide more building blocks, more energy for the mitochondria to function, and then ATP synthesis. Next level. It might also cause a little bit of irritation at the injection site, so a little bit of caution is advised. Start low, build your way up, see if you need to switch between subcure intramuscular injections, but I'll make a separate deep dive about motC where everything will be explained. So again, subscribe now so you don't miss it. Look into 5-amino 1MQ, which indirectly helps with mitochondrial function by preventing the breakdown of nicotinoid adenine dinucleotide in adipose tissue. 5-amino 1MQ tremendously helps with fat metabolism in adipose tissue, especially when you've been dieting for longer periods of time, so this is not really an off-season compound or a compound that you should use. Over 6-8% body fat. If you've been dieting for longer periods of time, 5-amino 1MQ can help you improve fat metabolism and keep fat loss going, and thus improve mitochondrial function indirectly. It works by inhibiting the nicotinamide N-methyltransferase enzymes predominantly found in adipose tissue. Thus, adipose tissue NAD plus content goes up, and fat metabolism is sustained. In order to improve mitochondrial function, you can look into Tomasartan or Carderine, but we discussed that a little bit earlier on. But it would really improve mitochondrial function and overall energy levels. I mean, this is a complete hack when you start stacking diisopropamine dichloroacetate with motC. It's the next level energy. It's freaking insane. Unlimited stamina. You should give it a try, albeit you should also proceed with caution and do your blood work frequently, obviously. Diisopropamine dichloroacetate is a peruvate dehydrogenous kinase IV inhibitor, which allows the body to convert peruvate into acetylcoenzyme A at a higher rate. Peruvate dehydrogenous kinase is a mitochondrial enzyme that plays a key role in glucose metabolism and ATP production in cells. Data works a little bit better on a carbohydrate-rich diet compared to the fatty acids. But if you have elevated protein intake, you get a lot of gluconeuginases of this protein in the glucose, then data actually prevents glucose from being depleted too much as you get a recycling of ATP continuously. And now you get a bottle out of ATP out of this single glucose molecule, where cellar energy levels tremendously increase. Keep in mind that data does help with insulin sensitivity, so you shouldn't go completely carnivore and exclude all of your carbohydrates unless, again, your protein intake is high enough for a sufficient amount of gluconeuginases to occur. As an added benefit, data sits in a paddock detoxification of heavy metals, nitrites and organophosphates through the formation of chelate-like compounds, which are then excreted through the kidneys. So data has detoxifying effects as well as performance enhancing benefits regarding your endurance and stamina. And it's taxed very well with MOTC and some of the other compounds we're discussing. Just keep in mind by increasing your ATP synthesis, data acts as a very potent vasodilator. So a little bit of caution is advised when you start stacking data with some of the other vasodilating compounds, whether those are direct blood pressure medications or not, because in the production of ATP, A&P goes up, A&P causes vasodilation. And before you know it, you're hypotensive on the floor, gasping for air. So start a little bit of your way up and introduce one compound at a time. Please guys, can't emphasize this enough. Hypoxion is something you can link into another compound coming from Mother Russia. Enhances the production of adenosine triphosphates. Again, it helps with energy levels and as an added benefit. Hypoxion also improves tissue respiration and mitochondrial aerobic respiration. So this negates symptoms of hypoxia. So if you hold your breath, you're doing high volume widowmaker sets of squats underwater without a breather or rebreather. Then hypoxion is the compound for you or you train at high altitude. Again, hypoxion is very potent. But if you train at sea level and you don't want to hold your breath, then there's not so much practical application for hypoxion, when compared to the other mitochondrial support stack compounds. And the following, I will say for the mitochondrial support stack updated video, Part 2, basically, or a redo dropping in the near future. There's LIMIPRTide, also known as Bindava or SS-31. There's mitochondrial targeted peptide SBT-20, abbreviated to SS-20, mitochondrial targeted antioxidant SQ-1, mitochondrial targeted antioxidant Mytoquinone, abbreviated to MytoQ, which all improve mitochondrial function by reducing the production of reactive oxygen species, offering beneficial antioxidant effects. And the following two compounds I'm not very familiar with, but in my research, I always feel to be all-inclusive. So here they are. Anyway, there's Ticaglor, also known as Bralynta, which primarily an anti-platelet agent. But Ticaglor also preserves ATP synthesis by improving mitochondrial membrane potential and reducing the production of reactive oxygen species and enhancing overall cellular energy metabolism. And there's BezaVibrate, also known as BezaLyp, which activates the peroxazone proliferator, activated receptor gamma co-activator 1-alpha pathway to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative phosphorylation. It's actually used medically or exponentially for mitochondrial disorders. So if you have healthy mitochondria, this is probably not a compound you should look into. But if you have a mitochondrial disorder, just like Methylene Blue, has been shown to help with mitochondrial disorders, then this might be worth exploring. It might have performance enhancing benefits. And they were left with the left-over, the performance enhancing drugs that didn't get any love or respect or appreciation, yet what Terenobol gets, their honorable mention, right here. Many a drug-tested athlete have failed for the following, endurance-enhancing enhancements. There's Terenobol Chloro-Hydro-Methyl testosterone, which was actually developed for athletes back in the East German doping scandals where athletes were administered to Terenobol without their knowledge. This is something worth looking into. Many people swear that Terenobol is the only oral steroid that actually enhances and improves their endurance, whether they follow any kind of strength sports that requires some level of endurance. People swear by Terenobol, they really love Terenobol. Just keep in mind that Terenobol is a potent testosterone synthesis inhibitor and might cause severe cramping. So make sure you stand top of your electrolytes, particularly sodium, when you start stacking Terenobol with the other compounds we're discussing. You can look into Bematil, which is a synthetic adaptogen along your body to adapt to stressors like physical exertion, whether that's for endurance or strength performance, but also to a hypoxic state. So if you're unsure which one to go with, should I go with Bematil or Hypoxin? Hypoxin mostly helps with mitochondrial function and increases energy levels, improving endurance and stamina through that pathway. But Bematil also has some Neutropic and Centrum Nervous System Stimulating effect. So Bematil, I feel you can't take too often, especially when you start stacking them with other Neutropics that are stimulatory. Bematil is like a couple times a week, but Hypoxin you can use a little bit more frequently. Still a little bit of caution is advised, I wouldn't stack these together, you choose either Bematil or Hypoxin. Personally, I prefer Hypoxin over Bematil, because Bematil makes me train so hard that I'm on the floor brain fogged for days. You can look into Amoxapine, another compound from Mother Russia. Amoxapine is mostly an antioxidant, reducing the production of reactive oxygen species and improving antioxidant status. I would consider Amoxapine to be like a supercharged injectable Consecute 10, albeit that you take it orally. It has a little bit of a Neutropic effects, enhances your cognition and it most...  linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, lifting or lift weights over your head for a strongman for example, then amoxapine is one of those compounds that really might offer a beneficial effect improving your endurance and stamina during these kinds of events. Look at the Tramentasidine, it's also a little bit more of a hardcore medication, it's been shown to improve cell energy metabolism particularly in the heart. So again, Tramentasidine is mostly used in the endurance sports like cycling by improving cardiac function, I would stick to a Bicunol and just use that for what it is maybe in combination with Namibolol. Tramentasidine improves the oxidation of glucose caused by inhibiting fatty acid metabolism so you can't stack that with the fatty acid metabolism optimizing compounds obviously, it works well in the offseason in combination with carbohydrates, miljonate and insulin allegedly and you should not combine Tramentasidine with other potent vasodilators like oral injectable ATP, AMP, iCar and even caution is advised when combining it with miljonate, bimetal, hypoxia, namoxapine and Namibolol because they all work on the heart and have some sort of vasodilating effects to a certain extent. Do additional research, I've never used it which I know is being used heavily in the long distance endurance sports. You can look into the following endurance enhancing over the counter adoptogens, again adoptogens allow your body to adapt to stressors and whether that's by reducing cortisol levels or by even increasing testosterone levels preventing hypoxic states similar to bimetal for example, these are all over the counter and have various effects on improving your overall stamina and endurance mostly by causing vasodilating effects by increasing nitric oxide levels in the body and reducing cortisol to a certain extent. The ones that increase testosterone are not in the list, that's as we're going to root extract but that has not really been shown to have very noticeable performance enhancing benefits besides increasing your testosterone levels which you're probably supplementing with. So you can look at the cordyceps that's what I take alongside my Pico2 before leg days, it's a key ingredient of Pico2 albeit that Pico2 is a proprietary blend so you don't know how much cordyceps you actually get within Pico2 so I supplement on top, I get the best effects of cordyceps out of all the adoptogens, I take that twice per week as part of my pre-workout leg day stack. You can look into rhodiola rosea or pycnogenal extract or panachynsin or quercetin or cystant extract or epigenin, I discuss all of these in part one and part two of the Optimized Injurance Deep Dive video where I discuss over-the-counter supplements so if you want to know more just give those two videos a watch everything is explained within and it brings us to Steve's personal endless endurance speedster turbo stack, this is just what I do, don't do what I do, this is not a recommendation just this is an insight of how you stack all these compounds together if you follow a diet that's completely optimized for fatty acid metabolism not a diet when you eat a bottle of carbohydrates and obviously you're completely dependent on a copious amount of glucose coming into the bloodstream and facilitating ATP synthesis in the mitochondria so again this is what I do, don't do what I do but if you take some information from this or your stack is similar let us know down below in the comment section I would love to hear about it, Daily Fasted Cardio, I know you guys hate it but I still do it to improve my endurance and stamina during those strenuous leg days because I increase my heart rate stably for 20 to 30 minutes, six times a week at least but preferably daily and let's say 135 beats per minute and thus those strenuous leg workouts with 12 to 15 reps, high volume, high intensity, if I don't do Daily Fasted Cardio I would not be able to do that so it makes a world of difference for me if you don't like Daily Fasted Cardio then shame on you, I think everybody should be doing it and I'm sure you guys are going to debate me in the comment section feel free to post it, everything helps with the algorithm, this is what I do if you don't want to do it, shame on you. Nasal strips all day every day except for when I'm recording because it looks kind of silly and then sitting here blasting in the air conditioning so I get plenty of oxygenation while I'm recording videos for you guys, nasal strips make a world of difference especially when you train in a gym without air conditioning and allow you all of this oxygenation into your nostrils for enhanced effect regarding your endurance and stamina. Then I take vitamin A whether that's a beta carotene or retinol, vitamin B9, vitamin B12, vitamin C, copper and iron this is all coming from my diet in combination with the gorilla mind elite multivitamin so this is just an approximation because my diet changes a little bit changing food sources around so this is pretty much an average of this contributes to rib blood cell production and increase in my amaticus to let's say 50 to 56 percent usually 54 percent where I keep it but 56 percent is not unheard of with me depending on my hydration levels and which other performance enhancing drugs that are erythropoietic that I'm taking and if it goes any higher than that then well I have methods to keep that under control obviously so I feel that this stack of micronutrients daily facet cardio and nasal strips already improves my endurance and stamina substantially and we didn't even discuss the performance enhancing drugs yet my total electrolyte intake is on the screen of course a supplement with torene I keep my blood pressure arranged with tomasartan depending on what other peds I'm taking that might be a low dose or a moderate dose upon waking journey offseason when I'm over 110 kilograms and I feel that the strain on my heart is a little bit higher because I'm lifting so much heavier weights and my body is also heavier I take the bevelol to block the beta adrenergic receptors and keep my heart rate modulated under control this improves my endurance and stamina during those strenuous crazy leg workouts at 120 kilograms body weight I take oral ubicunol a couple types of week and then injectable coins of Q10 maybe twice per week before leg days or when I really want to go ham probably a quinoline quinone obviously I take in combination with ubicunol then occasionally I take grill mode nitric and even though I just recommend you guys to take grill mode base I still prefer grill mode nitric because I follow ketogenic diet even though my electrolyte intake is reasonably high it kind of diminishes the pump so I need to take nitric to compensate for lack of pump that I get by restricting carbohydrates so I feel I found the middle ground but if you take a bottle of carbohydrates or you're in an offseason state where you're eating a both lot of fat and your pumps are enhanced if this might diminish your endurance and stamina then switch to grill mode base which it doesn't seem to give you a terrible pumps but it just improves your endurance and stamina and personally I don't like better adrenine because it gives me the butthole itches that I can't walk away from it doesn't matter how many laps I do in the gym walking in between sets those butthole itches follow me everywhere so no beta adrenine for me I do a supplement in a little bit of creatine essential amino acids a gorilla hydration or the beta hydroxybutyrate salts I take a glycerol here and there I always take pico two that's a staple of my pre-workout shake and then I take quarter steps let's say twice a week on leg day then I might take MA carved containing carnitine and methionine and nostril and choline the mick blend to help with fatty acid mobilization and absorption into the mitochondria and this one also contains nicotinamide mononucleotide nAD plus energy galore so that's if I take two milliliters of that that's 500 milligrams of carnitine 220 milligrams mick blend and 40 milligrams nAD plus pre-workout yes please I take my own nostril trap aerophosphate I had a loading phase in the past and so I just on a maintenance phase to keep the oxygen carrying capacity of a mehema globe and elevated to the point I'm never out of breath it's absolutely fantastic then of course the good old metronome blue SLU PP332 and motC stack we discussed this a thousand times on this youtube channel already so I'm sure you guys are well aware and probably are taking that yourself and noticing an improvement regarding your endurance and stamina and exercise performance occasionally I take diastropropamine that chloracetate pre-workout especially in strenuous days or when I'm on a set some PRs and it's super hot in the gym because again it promotes ATP recycling and then you literally have energy for days in combination with motC total hack but hey that's what vigor steve does pre-workout and then only during a cutting phase I might consider adding in these lip-letic agents to help it fat loss and keep my energy levels sustained even though my caloric intake is so freakishly low right in order to get shredded so butamol before fasted cardio mirabee grown a couple times per day carderine before fasted cardio in pre-workout and then pre-workout I would take a super shredder containing carnitine the mick blend adenosine triphosphate which increases the pump quite dramatically but not to the point that it starts to inhibit my endurance and stamina even when I combine that with grill mode nitric and albuterol so I take oral solbutamol aka albuterol in the morning before cardio and ejectable albuterol pre-workout so this is basically what I do albeit not all at the same time as phase compounds in and out depending on what I'm after regarding my endurance and stamina and sometimes I go ham and I'm really after the pump I include some compounds discussed in the skin plitting pumpage protocol video which you should have watched a couple days ago and if you didn't watch it well it's linked at the end of this one don't you worry so I might rotate some compounds in and out because I'm very well aware of how my body reacts and the potential drug interactions I'm not stupid I don't start stacking compounds together that might have a potential negative drug interactions only positive ones and then I keep the dosages moderate because a positive drug interaction might turn into a negative drug interaction depending on how much you're taking if you do a lot of self experimentation you guys know what to do do your blood work it doesn't matter where you do it just make sure you do your blood work if you live in the united states make sure you do your blood work over at Merck Health they have excellent healthcare providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results and give you solid advice regarding your own health parameters to make sure that you stay as healthy as possible whether you're on TRT or there above and if you still can't figure it out and well I have consultations always you can do a consultation call or personalized advice by email send me your protocol pay the fee and I'll gladly help you on your way to make sure that everything is completely optimized all of the pre workouts and grow my products which we just discussed they're linked down below for easy access all of my fillets and sponsors are there and if you can't figure something out from this video go to vigorsteve.com where everything is discussed into great detail all right no question is left unanswered when you go to vigorsteve.com you should bookmark that site and use it for future reference vigor's crew you guys know what to do a endless endurance front double biker for you guys imagine how much stamina and endurance you can find in these cannons even though most of my endurance and stamina is actually coming from my hips just ask your girl with that we're out thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video

=== FILE: Operation Gyno ｜ 2 Week Post-Operations Results & Recovery Healing Peptide Stack ｜ BPC-157 & TB-500 [q6ekk1BQQSQ].txt ===

 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl from the gynecomastia surgery in the liposuction that I did at the exact same time removing some stubborn adibals tissue on the lower chest so Phil it's time for an update and give you guys some insights and how my recovery is going be forewarned this video will contain graphic content from the surgery so I wouldn't watch this video if you just finished a meal or you're right before a meal we are in a hefty dose of a GLP-1 receptor agonist I had some caution is advised now I've explained my reasoning for growing my gynecomastia tissue to the nth degree in the previous operation gynecomastia videos which I've also linked down below this is part 4 and there might even be a part 5 when I give you guys a full update a couple months down the line when everything is nicely healed and we can do a proper before and after as a quick reminder I developed gynecomastia shortly after my motorcycle accident when I was up and running and going back to the gym again at that time I didn't take any performance enhancing drugs I didn't smoke any weed I abstained from alcohol so that can be the underlying cause for developing gynecomastia and again I wasn't taking kinds of medications like SSRIs or beta blockers that are also known to grow gynecomastia so I suspect that I was undergoing some sort of hormonal roller coaster going from peak 90 shape to bedridden to slowly making my way back up to the gym again and then at one point a couple months into going back to the gym I touched my right nipple because it was a little bit sore and a little bit tender and I had developed full-blown gynecomastia which I actually got diagnosed at the hospital with an ultrasound where they asked me if I was taking steroids which again at the time I was not I developed gynecomastia when I was 24 years old and I first took steroids when I was 26 years old during my first cycle the gynecomastia actually got smaller because I was controlling my serum estradiol levels with anastrozole and then over the years when I started experimenting with other anabolic endogenic steroids and performance enhancing drugs nandrolone particularly the gyno on the right side got bigger and bigger and I even developed it on the left side until I learned how to control that a little bit more properly in the last couple of years I tried to shrink the gynecomastia with rooxifene taking dosages up to 120 milligrams daily I even made a video about that it's linked down below in case you're interested but the rooxifene therapy only shrank the gynecomastia by about 50 percent and that effect went away meaning that the gynecomastia came back to its original size a couple months after I discontinued the rooxifene so that was only a temporary effect and I got the similar effect from taking mastrone or primobolin at reasonably higher dosages beyond 300 milligrams weekly which would also shrink the gynecomastia tissue by approximately 50 percent so I would always take that on cycle when I was trying to get lean and get this entire the pectoral area looking nice and juicy and details without gyno or minimal gyno and minimal body fat levels now in my case my gynecomastia tissue was never visible not in pictures not through a shirt during your offseason or cutting phases it didn't really protrude luckily but that's also because I always had a little bit of adipose tissue in the lower chest that never ever ever went away no matter how much selective estrogen receptor modulators I took no much no matter how low I crushed my serum estradiol levels or how many DHT derivatives I took right at one point it would get a little bit less and a little bit flabby and watery but still blurry hiding the definition underneath of the chest muscle still hiding the gynecomastia tissue which was present and noticeable by the touch but not clearly visible and then up until one point when I got below six percent body fat all my body parts started to disappear and the fat didn't really go away so yeah I took the easy way out and decided for liposuction after dieting multiple times between the age of 15 and 41 years old now for the gynecomastia surgery in the liposuction there's an expected two-week recovery process where you can go back to the gym I mean I'm now two weeks post operation and I feel large in charge ready to go back to the gym but since I knew I was going to be incapacitated for a couple weeks and not training at the highest training capacity I mean still feels a little bit tender I wouldn't be able to do PRs on chest or shoulder day or tricep day for that matter I figured I might as well do LASIK eye surgery at the same time because I was getting really tired of wearing glasses and I wanted to get the plate in my leg removed which has been there since May 2007 since the motorcycle accident that's close to 18 years and the added downtime wouldn't be that much longer also because I'm about to be a father in the middle of this year and I wouldn't be able to have this level of downtime during the time when my wife is taking care of me and my child that it wouldn't be responsible as a parent so I'm just getting it done now and then by the time my kid is born I'm fully operational so after doing a lot of research speaking to my friends in the bodybuilding community here in Thailand who have also done gynecomastia surgery and some recommendations of my wife's personal training clients I decided to do the gynecomastia surgery at Rutinan Medical Center with Dr. Aniwat Nilakarn the femtolasic eye surgery at Parham 9 Hospital with Dr. Chayata Liam-Sierajarun and the tibia orthopedic plate and screw removal surgery also at Parham 9 Hospital with Dr. Nathavut Paisinzong Boon you can find the links down below my sincere apologies if I butchered your names I've been in Thailand for a very long time but pronouncing the names here in Thailand still a little bit tricky anyway the links for all of these doctors and hospitals are down below I'm very happy with the services and aftercare so far so if you're thinking about medical tourism to Thailand or you live in Thailand thinking about similar surgeries operations or medical procedures my recommendations are down below so I ended up doing four medical procedures in ten days with additional hospital visits for checkups so I've been in and out of the hospital for the last two weeks doing liposuction and gynecomastia surgery and femtolasic eye surgery and orthopedic leg surgery with a total of seven incisions one two three four five six seven the one on my leg with a combined length of about 19 centimeters or seven and a half inches and those are not the inches that you're looking for so it's been one hell of a roller coaster and I'm happy to say that I probably don't have to go to the hospital anytime soon unless I decide to go with veneers so here's the steroid cycle that I ended up with while eating around 4600 to 5,000 calories daily in an attempt to grow the gynecomastia tissue and add additional body fat in the adipose tissue on my lower chest for the maximum amount of liposuction and make it all look tidy post up so I was taking a testosterone anidrate 500 milligrams weekly nandrol and the canoate 500 milligrams weekly tristalone acetate 150 milligrams weekly then I took 200 milligrams anadrol 50 milligrams pre-workout combined with YK-11 let's say 30 milligrams daily so that's 210 milligrams weekly and I would take the anadrol and YK-11 sublingually only spitting out the remainder to initiate the minimal amount of liver stress now YK-11 might have acted as an aromatized inhibitor no scientific evidence to back that up but anecdotally based on my blood work and what I read on the steroid cycle reports that serum esterial dial levels are a little bit lower while using YK-11 so my total weekly steroid intake was 15 or 16 milligrams per week and then I would take DHEA and HCG which could have also contributed to the gynecomastia formation but during this entire cycle my serum esterial dial levels was only 100 to 110 micrograms per milliliter and at that time was also using 10 IUs to 20 IUs growth hormone the generic growth hormone being a few times per week and even a thousand micrograms pharmaceutical IGF-1 branded as Incrolex pre-workout and it might have also contributed to the growth of the gynecomastia tissue now keep in mind that growth hormone is a similar amino acid structure as prolactin albeit with a very low relative binding affinity compared to prolactin for the prolactin receptor but when growth hormone intake is 10 to 20 IUs per day combined with IGF-1 not using an aromatized inhibitor serum esterial dial levels being run allowed to run rampant and then a good amount of progestogenic 19 or testosterone derivatives ideal scenario for gynecomastia tissue growth especially considering I was also in a steep caloric surplus so needless to say on that protocol my nipples ended up being pretty sensitive and then around one month before the scheduled surgeries I switched to the following protocol testosterone NF-A 300 milligrams per week and testosterone propion A 200 milligrams per week so I dropped the nandrol and the trislo and the YK-11 and the anagrol not using an aromatized inhibitor still and the weekly steroid intake ended up being 500 milligrams per week also taking DHEA but I didn't take Ovitreal HCG I didn't take generic GH or Incrlex IGF-1 and without the YK-11 in that context this cycle of only 500 milligrams a test plus DHEA on top of that without the aromatized inhibitor serum esterial was 135 grams per milliliter but I did not notice that my gynecomastia tissue grew much more beyond the operation gyno cycle that I was on for let's say two to three months so as soon as I finished the gyno surgery in preparation for the femtolasic eye surgery and the orthopedic leg surgery I dropped down to a generous TRT plus dose for bodybuilders with anavir on top obviously for collagen synthesis so my operation gyno recovery protocol was as follows Bayard test of iron I had one ampoule per week so that's a total of let's say 312.5 milligrams per week because the Bayard test of iron ampoules are generally overfilled at a concentration of 250 milligrams per one milliliter so that's let's say 0.6 milliliters intermuscularly Monday Friday and body research Bonivar good old Oxandrolone close to pharmaceutical grades and that's probably the last body research Bonivar that's in existence because when it was close to selling out I bought the remainder of the stock don't ask me that's all mine my sincere apologies not okay taking 10 milligrams sublingually upon morning and evening and it's a total of 20 milligrams daily or 140 milligrams weekly for total weekly steroid intake of 452.5 milligrams quite a lot for somebody who's not actually going to the gym and probably won't go to the gym for a while because the leg surgery is still a bit wishy-washy a lot of inflammation and I don't feel comfortable to walk we'll get into that a little bit later on but yeah it's tremendously helping with recovery I will tell you that and besides that is the same DHA intake that I always take 37.5 milligrams daily bringing me to the top of the reference range now during this time of recovery since estradiol contributes to wound healing and collagen synthesis I'm still not taking an aromatized inhibitor so based on this cycle I would say that my serum estradiol levels are about 75 to 80 pikograms per milliliter let's say close than half compared to the previous blood work results but I'll confirm that let's say at the end of March when I expect to conclude this entire recovery protocol and maybe proceed and do some YK-11 experiments or at least folistatin experiments I'll do blood work before and after don't worry but right now I suspect that my serum estradiol is still let's say 50 percent over the reference range besides that I'm also taking micronized progesterone 100 milligrams before bed three times weekly and I might increase that to 100 milligrams every single day but for now 300 milligrams weekly based on the last two weeks that my wounds are recovering and healing I would say this is enough I couldn't find any conclusive evidence for the ideal dose of microdosporgesterone which helps to regulate inflammation enhances fibroblast activity and promotes the deposition of collagen which are all essential for wound healing after all so again I started with 100 milligrams micronized progesterone three times weekly to see how wound healing would progress which again I'm happy with so I didn't see a reason to increase to 100 milligrams daily oral micronized progesterone is commonly prescribed at 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams per day usually before bed because at these doses it can make you a little bit sleepy and lethargic and even drowsy close to a GHB like effect right my sleep quality right now is absolutely superb I will tell you but at these doses of 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams daily that's prescribed for hormonal therapy or postmenopausal women or pregnancy protocols which again I have a pending video about stay tuned for the peptides that I was using for the operation gyne recovery protocol I switched from generic GH to pharmaceutical GH I got a little bit excited and started with five IU sub-Q before bed which after four days as you will see from the day-by-day update videos following the gynecomastia surgery I got increasingly bloated and my ankles were covered in edema so I dropped down to two and a half I use sub-Q before bed and I've remained at the dosage ever since using pharmaceutical Merck-Sorano Cisen recombinant growth hormone besides that MA abbreviations galore because well YouTube is not too keen on peptide websites but you guys can figure it out I'm sure about it let's see 500 micrograms TB-500 morning and evening subcutaneous for total of a thousand micrograms daily the files are 10 milligrams so I reconstitute two milliliters of bacterial static water in there so the injection volume is the same across all healing peptides MA BPC-157 again 500 micrograms sub-Q in the morning and evening and I'm zippering all of those injections around the nipple site which recovered incredibly fast I'm just doing the injections around this TB-500 here in the morning and then in the evening on the other side and a BPC-157 in the morning and then the evening on the other side right just zippering all in down and just spacing the injections out for the maximum coverage of these healing peptides besides that I take MA GHK copper for a synthetic or systemic collagen synthesis five milligrams sub-q morning and evening for a total of 10 milligrams daily I'm switching that all around my body because every time I inject GHK copper I get a little bit of adhesion and the post-injection pain is absolutely horrendous but it's well worth it right even my skin texture has improved a little bit I feel that my hair quality has improved so I'm getting systemic collagen synthesis including at the incision sites where all the procedures took place and I feel that the collagen the GHK copper has really promoted the wound healing through collagen synthesis increase and then I take MSD Genuvia 50 milligrams Cetagliptin morning and evening to prevent the breakdown of TB-500 and BPC-157 Cetagliptin aka Genuvia is a dipeptanol peptidase 4 inhibitor these enzymes the DPP 4 enzymes breakdown growth factors like insulin erythropoietin erythropoietin IGF-1 insulin like growth factor growth hormone releasing hormone but not the actual growth hormone and other growth factors including TB-500 and BPC-157 when I was researching TB-500 times and beta 4 and BBC 157 I realized they were being broken down by the DPP 4 enzymes so technically based on basic human biology by combining a dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitor with these healing peptides you should be able to extend their half-life and their active life now the half-life and the active life hasn't really been established in humans at least not for TB-500 and BPC-157 even though the times and beta 4 literature is very extensive but we're not entirely sure how much of that translates into the active life and half-life of TB-500 because there's only five studies whereas there's about 190 studies on the BPC-157 so I'm combining these healing peptides with the DPP 4 enzyme inhibitor and I would say that the recovery process so far right with the micronized progesterone the anivar and the GHK copper absolutely stellar for collagen synthesis I'm taking the following supplements grillamide collagen peptides right the details on the screen I take one scoop with meals four times daily so there's a total of 360 milligrams vitamin c 480 milligrams heralic acid almost 50 grams of collagen type 1 and 2 and 320 milligrams collagen type 2 daily right for collagen synthesis performance enhancing drugs to work you need the building blocks and even though the large majority of this breaks down the intestinal tract you'll still have adequate amounts of glycine at the same time coming in compared to all of the amino acids and maybe to try peptides that are not being broken down fully for collagen synthesis to be completely optimized especially when you combine that with vitamin c which helps with collagen deposition so besides the 360 milligrams of vitamin c that I get from the grillamide collagen peptides supplement spaced out over four servings of the day I take an additional 1,000 milligrams vitamin c five times per day for total of 5,000 milligrams vitamin c from supplements so there's a total of 5,360 milligrams vitamin c over the day excluding dietary vitamin c intake should be more than enough and again antioxidants help with wound healing tremendously and I choose American Health vitamin c esterose because it also contains calcium and the calcium helps with bone mineralization for the leg surgery we'll get into that a little bit later on so while we're at it I also added these supplements to help with the recovery from the lasik eye surgery and the orthopedic leg surgery for the lasik eye surgery I added in california gold nutrition lutein and xiancetin one capsule in the morning or with breakfast and dinner for a total of 40 milligrams lutein and 2 milligrams xiancetin daily so I'll keep that in for the next couple months let's see if that improves my eyesight even further and for the orthopedic leg surgery I doubled my gyroformulus k right which contains 2,000 ios vitamin d3 500 micrograms vitamin k1 1500 micrograms vitamin k2 mk4 and 180 micrograms vitamin k mk7 so I take one capsule with breakfast and now also with dinner for total of 4,000 ios vitamin d3 and 4,360 micrograms vitamin k daily on top of that I also doubled my vitamin d3 intake from 5,000 ios to 10,000 ios daily so I get a total of 14,000 ios vitamin d3 daily and I will continue that until I'm fully recovered from the leg surgery so this is basically just a doubling of my regular supplementation that I was already on to help with mineral deposition in bones I already get more than enough calcium and magnesium and phosphorus from my diet to help with bone mineralization and I get more than enough antioxidants and omega-3s for wound healing in case you're wondering this is my entire supplementation stack let's take a few moments to let that scroll right gorilla mind elite multivitamin now foods b50 complex american health vitamin c which I already mentioned earlier California gold nutrition vitamin d3 life extension vitamin e gyro's formulas k right which also mentioned California gold nutrition magnesium glycinate um up to a thousand milligrams daily California gold nutrition zinc l-carnisine complex to help with digestion because I'm still dealing with some digestive issues now foods taurine double strength with every single meal garylamine calcium beta hydroxy beta methyl butyrate which also contains calcium so that's additional calcium intake alongside the vitamin c ester c and whatever I get from my diet and that really helped to prevent muscle loss while I'm not going to the gym alongside the well the steroids that I'm taking obviously uh taking nicotinamide mononucleotide and acetyl cysteine I occasionally take injectable glutathione but I haven't been really on top of that because I wanted to see how the wound healing would progress without the injectable glutathione because well the post injection pain is kind of brutal uh gorilla mine like omega-3 elixir fish oil right serving with every meal again the lutein and zeathin from California gold nutrition I take citrus bergamot from gorilla mine to keep my lipids in range I take berberine once weekly on Sundays to help with the cheat meals that I'm having which are now severely limited because I did a food allergy test and basically all the good stuff I can't eat um so I might skip the berberine on Sunday because I'm eating a little bit more cleanly uh the curcumin c3 complex I will reintroduce soon uh because again curcumin c3 complex is known to lower IGF-1 levels and since I'm not supplementing with that I decided to bring IGF-1 levels as high as possible by taking the curcumin c3 complex out and taking a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor which prevents the breakdown of IGF-1 so once I'm off that healing stack I'll reintroduce the curcumin c3 complex grelamide estrogalus root extract for kidney health blackcurrant oil double strength morning and evening for overall um skin texture and hair growth and youthful appearance so to say ubiquinol uh let's see praliquanil quanylene pqq tatka oregano oil to help with digestion and let's see gorilla mode dream or now foods melatonin as needed which I haven't really needed since I started the oral micronized progesterone I mean you sleep like a baby and you're drooling a little bit so cute all right after leg surgery I also added in more healing peptides to heal or help heal this gigantic let's say 15 centimeter six inch incision that I have on my right shin so I doubled the TB-500 and the BPC-157 I'm injecting there locally as well to help with wound healing I only had a little bit leakage for one day and now it seems that it's completely closed but I have a follow-up appointment another week from now when they're going to remove all the bandages and clean it up so we can see what the incision actually looks like it's now completely covered with a surgical uh bandage basically so I went from uh after the leg surgery I went from a thousand micrograms TB-500 daily to 2,000 micrograms and the same for BBC157 administering it here around the gynecomastia site as well as on my leg site okay enough about the protocols in the overall drug talk let's move over to how things were looking before and after the surgery because I took videos day by day discussing the preparation of the surgery the actual gynecomastia surgery in the liposuction which took place at the exact same time and how the recovery was going day by day give or take right I also took a good amount of progress pictures so you could see how the bruising and the inflammation is slowly getting worse and then going away right it's going to be a fun segment just keep in mind that I didn't use these high quality sure mic because it's getting away of these juicy pecs so instead I used the directional road video NTG microphone which I used in the past so the audio quality might be a little bit off you're just going to have to deal with it while all this graphic imagery is being served to you on a silver platter all right so this is a quick before the gynecomastia surgery gyno chick my sincere apologies for the dead bod I've been going on a holiday eating whenever I want and haven't really been training since then because I wanted to save recovery capability for the surgery that's taking place a couple hours from now so this on the left side I have a good amount of body fat same as on the right side good amount of body fat I never got that really away while I was dieting unless I really wanted to sacrifice my quad and my back size so I never really got to a point where I was shredded completely top to bottom I always had a little bit of stubborn body fat here and on the other side as well now this is the actual gynecomastia tissue I would say that the growing of the gynecomastia tissue on both sides albeit more on the right side and then on the left side was a success letting my estrogen levels run rampant with testosterone and trastalone etc etc etc without the use of an aromatized inhibitor so it's I would say about 50 percent bigger than it was before so I would say mission accomplished this is what we have now they're going to go in through the armpits here to do some liposuction on this area and as well in this area obviously to make it nice and symmetrical so hopefully they can get it to about a thickness as this I mean this is the normal body fat on my chest you still can see some striations but obviously here on the bottom as well as here on the bottom there's a good amount of fat that I want to remove with liposuction so I'll do the liposuction first going through the armpits remove this entire area and then go underneath the nipple to remove the breast tissue right both sides and get that removed then I'll wear a gigantic corset for the next couple of days to kind of get the inflammation down and make sure that all the skin retracts so this is what my chest looks like before the gynecomastia surgery let's do a quick last front double bicep for you guys you can see what it looks like before the surgery with the gynecomastia tissue and with all of the fat mass at my lower chest and then hopefully fingers crossed or double fingers crossed it's going to look nice and aesthetic after surgery let's check in in a couple days and then in a couple weeks to see how the recovery process is going so I wanted to record this video yesterday right after surgery but it turns out they gave me a systemic painkiller in the form of fentanyl so I was a little bit out of it I didn't have any pain obviously but I was not really in the right moods and the right mindset the right capacity to record a youtube video right after surgery so here we are about 20 hours after surgery took place we finished about 6 p.m yesterday and now I'm going to kind of guide you through the process of what happened with my gynecomastia tissue surgery even though it looks like I got a breast augmentation so maybe this was not the gynecomastia surgery I was looking for all in all everything was great it was a great success I would say when I arrived at the clinic we first discussed with the doctor what the strategy was going to be while doing a little bit of additional ultrasound to see if the gynecomastia tissue or the fat tissue had any changes between the intake conversation we had a couple weeks ago and yesterday where the surgery took place so we did an ultrasound to kind of see how the tissue the gynecomastia tissue and the adipose tissue looked to make a strategy they highlighted everything with a marker just to make sure that that was going to be the area where they performed liposuction on and then additional marker where the incision for the actual gynecomastia tissue surgery was going to be when I arrived in the surgery room I had to lay down with my arms white which I can't do right now because I have stitches on the side of my chest so arms went out white like a t-shape I had a localized um port for the anesthesia placed in and then basically everything was taped off with medical sheets so I couldn't really see what was going on the only thing that was really exposed was my chest so they could perform surgery there so I couldn't see what was going on so based on what I could hear and what I could feel um first I got the the systemic anesthesia again fentanyl and I told them don't give me too much I'd rather take a lower dose than a higher dose best of my body weight I'd rather feel the pain than go away sleeping I wanted to be present for the surgery then they applied localized anesthesia with I suspect insulin syringes zippering up and down basically where the liposuction was going to take place then they made an incision here right at my armpit on both sides and then they went in with another needle which was significantly longer again I'm suspecting this based on what I could feel and hear translating the thai into english with my limited understanding of thai language very scary it sounds right now but I felt I was in good hands so they went in with another needle to kind of put localized anesthesia at the fat tissue and surrounding the gynecomastia tissue again on both sides they let that sit for about five to ten minutes then that area was completely numb very numb right you can still feel pressure to the touch but pain nothing whatsoever right I felt zero pain the entire way through then later they went in through the armpit with the liposuction machine which well basically sounded like a jackhammer that was quite intense I'm gonna I'm not going to lie I'm like what the hell are you doing inside so um yeah it makes a quite a substantial noise I would say I'm not entirely sure how this machine works but I'll see if I can overlay some medical equipment assuming this is the exact same medical equipment that they used for the liposuction so they did that twice that went in the first time to kind of clean it up from a bulk perspective and then later on I'm not sure again if this is the same tool or a different tool even though it sounded exactly the same to kind of make sure that everything was uniform they really put extra special time to kind of make sure that all of the the adipose tissue and the fat and the the skin was all the same  aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin aromasin, aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromas the right tissue first because it was bigger. So it took them a little bit extra time, and then they went in to remove potential gynecomastia gland tissue to make sure that there was no possibility of the gynecomastia returning in the future. They did that on the left side as well. Then they stitched all of that up, and I got this beautiful garment with a lot of gauze and padding just to make sure that the inflammation wasn't unexisted. Now, you see here that, of course, this is where the incisions are. These are not underneath the garment. So there's a little bit of inflammation and water tension there on both sides. Obviously, wearing something like this when you had surgery in this entire chest area makes it impossible to sleep. So it took me quite a long time to fall asleep last night, but I was able to get about six, seven hours in over the night, which I think is enough. And then today, actually about an hour from now, I'm going to go to the clinic again to have this removed, see what the damage is or how good it looks after removing all of that fat and gynecomastia tissue, and then see what the next step is going to be. So I'll probably get a replacement garment of this, which is super tight and very uncomfortable. But, well, that's what it's going to be to get everything retracted nice and tight once I'm fully recovered from the surgery. So we're going to clean that up today, see if there's any mishaps, see if everything is going well, just a routine checkup. So for now, because I've got incisions on both sides of my chest, I can't really raise my arms more than this, just to make sure that the stitches are not coming loose and that the wound is opening up again, right? I need about a week or two weeks, maybe a little bit faster because I'm on the full stack of peptides, obviously. I need at least a couple days for all of this to heal up and kind of tighten back and grow back together. All right, so this is day number two after the gynecomastia surgery. Yesterday, I went back to the clinic to remove all of the gauze and the bandages and clean up all the incisions in the armpits and below the nipples and make sure that the inflammation and the bruising wasn't too severe. Everything is going according to plan as of now. So they removed the crazy packaging that I had yesterday to apply extra compression going from a D-cup to a C-cup now. So instead of bandages, I have a little bit of sponge tissue, which is a little bit easier to maneuver. So that applies extra pressure underneath this compression garment to make sure that the inflammation and the swelling stays minimal and that all of the skin can reattach. Because again, I did quite extensive liposuction all around the lower breast area. So this is what it looks like now. This is a lot more comfortable and a little bit less intrusive than what it looked like yesterday. Still, it looks a little bit weird. Like from the side, you can see that there's a significant amount of chest tissue in the arm of this chair. You see, the chest is like twice the size. And if I wear a T-shirt over this, it's very clear that I'm wearing something underneath because it's sticking out, let's say, half an inch close. Well, a little bit over a centimeter. And this is what it looks like without decompression garment. You can see here on my lower chest, I have a little bit of black and blue, some hematomas. I mean, it's meant to be expected after major surgery. The incisions underneath both nipples are about close to an inch, let's say two centimeters on both sides. So they did a great job keeping the incision size very small for the amount of gynecomastia tissue that they removed. Again, on the right side, it was a lot bigger than on the left side. And the incisions in my armpits, I would say, are half an inch, let's say close to one half centimeters on both sides. Again, from the point where they did liposuction. So I would say that the incisions, again, very, very small. I expect minimal scarring once everything is healed up nice and dandy with my extensive healing protocol that I'm on, obviously. I just took a shower. I was able to cut my own hair, shave a little bit, so I don't feel too immobile. I can completely shower my entire body using these waterproof bandages. I removed the waterproof bandages after the shower to make them a little bit easier to be removed because, again, the adhesive is quite strong, I would say. So a little bit of water allows you to pull these waterproof bandages off a little bit easier on both sides. And then I washed that area with normal Ceylon solution, applied a little bit of Benadine, and then now there are new bandages, which, again, I will remove tomorrow, and then clean up again. I believe that the stitches are going to be removed at the seventh day after the surgery. So that's, let's say, five days from now. And then I can show you what it looks like, hopefully, by the time all of this inflammation and swelling will be significantly less. By the time I can show you what the incisions look like and give you guys a little bit of a close-up in case you're interested, right? Close-up of the nipples. Might as well go for that in this video series as well. So for now, the swelling is a lot less than yesterday, I would say, but it's still quite present. So if I flex my chest lightly, you see that there's no separation in the bottom chest. Fingers crossed. They'll slowly return over the next couple of weeks. I remember from my wife's breast augmentations that it took her, let's say, three to four weeks before all of the swelling and the water retention dissipated. And then you can see a clear, nice outline of the chest muscle and the silicone, which was placed within. So I didn't get any silicone, obviously, but the swelling is pretty brutal, just the same. Some hematomas underneath. Hopefully, over the next couple of weeks, it goes away. But for now, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to do daily update videos for you guys. So you can see how the swelling kind of shrinks. Again, fingers crossed over the next couple of days. And then once the stitches are removed, we'll go a little bit more in depth. And this is day 13 after the operation. As you can see, I have full mobility and most of the bruising and the hematomas and all that black and blue and purple and whatever color comes after the surgery. That's mostly gone. I still have a little bit here on my upper abs, lower chest, and in my armpits. It's, well, mostly gone, luckily. The waterproof bandages were giving me a little bit of issue, not here around the nipple area, but definitely in the armpits. So here it's a little bit red and tender and that kind of stuff. So that was a little bit annoying, something you have to deal with, obviously, after surgery, using waterproof bandages to prevent a tap water to get into the surgery site and potentially cause an infection. So, so far, so good. No infections took place. Everything is healing nice and properly. I don't have any mobility issues. I should be able to go back to the gym, but I want to just give you guys a little bit of an update before I start training again. So you see how much this chest muscle deflated over the last two weeks that I didn't train. Actually, I haven't trained for six weeks now. So that's why the dad bod is still going strong, but we're working on that. Don't worry. We're going to look progressively better going forward. So there's a little bit of scar tissue on this lower area. There were some adhesions on this side. Maybe you can see here, there's an adhesion here that is scar tissue. So I'm not entirely sure if that's a keloid or that's just something that's going to dissolve over time. I'll give that a week or two. And otherwise, I'll do some microneedling and grafton technique on that area. I'll give this a week or two as well. And then I might do some grafton technique to remove the scar tissue on my lower chest. Again, it has nothing to do with the gynecomastial surgery, but that's mostly from the liposuction. So right now, when I flex my chest, you still don't see so much definition on my lower chest, unfortunately. I got a little bit more definition here on this side, but here on the lower chest and definitely here on this side, again, where most of the liposuction took place, I still can't see the definition because there's scar tissue. That injury side is still healing. So I'm going to give that some time. The nipples are all going well. This right nipple turned a little bit black the first couple of days, but then that progressively started to get better. I read on Reddit many other gynecomastial surgery reports that initially one of the nipples or maybe even two nipples might turn black from a little bit of the fluid from the surgery and a little bit of blood from the surgery is just leaking through the nipples, turning it black, and had a little bit of discharge the first couple of days. Now that's resolved. So all these funny things you don't really think about until they happen to you after the surgery. And I was in full contact with my clinic just every single day to give them a little bit of an update. And then every couple of days, I would go in there to kind of see if everything is going according to plan. And right now, it looks absolutely good. So this nipple was a little bit black for the first couple of days. And now at day 13, it's finally turning a normal color again, even though I have a little bit of scabbing and stuff. But that could also be from the discharge coming from the fluids underneath the nipples, right? Making their way out somehow, some way. So I'm cleaning everything every single day, right? My wife is helping me a lot with that, applying a normal saline solution to clean the area on both nipples and the incision sites here. And then we take the pictures, which you just saw the progress pictures from day 5 to 13. And then we apply a little bit of editing on the incision sites and put waterproof bandages on it for the next 24 hours. During the time that I was going in for LASIK eye surgery and the leg surgery, removing the orthopedic plate, obviously, I couldn't remove the bandages and clean the incision sites of the gynecomastia and the liposuction every single day. But at least every 36 hours, I cleaned the area and applied to new bandages. So it's nice and fresh and there's no fluid building up within the bandages that are contained within these waterproof bandages, basically. So I kept everything super, super sterile. No infections, no problems, no complications, etc. And then I hope that this scar tissue, this little bit denser tissue underneath where the liposuction took place, will slowly be removed over the next couple of months. Again, that's from liposuction that takes a little bit longer than the gynecomastia surgery that took place. But I think this is pretty much healed and I feel that I'm ready to go to the gym. Unfortunately, my leg is still a bit swollen after the removal of the orthopedic plate. So I'm not really 100% comfortable walking around, especially lifting heavy dumbbells and barbells and that kind of stuff. So I'm just going to take it day by day for now. And then when I feel ready to go to the gym, I'll start with training chest, obviously. And this is what it looks like without the bandages exactly two weeks after the operation. You can see here my armpits that the incision site is almost unnoticeable. I would say it's maybe three to five millimeters across. It's already fully healed. I can see more of the irritation from the waterproof bandages than I can see the incision. So I'm just going to leave it as is at both sides. Here on the left side, that's also fully healed. Very small incision site that's fully healed. So no need for metadine or additional waterproof bandages. I think I can shower without them. But here in the nipple tissue, since I have a little bit of discharge still on the right side, I'm going to bandage that up as soon as we're done here. And then continue that for as long as I need until the discharge on this right side is resolved. And it feels a little bit safer wearing these protective waterproof bandages so I don't risk getting an infection later down the line. You'll see here that the incision underneath the nipple is very small, also fully healed. I might apply a little bit additional betadine here just to keep it sterile, especially now after touching it with my fingers, obviously, right? I've been washing my hands thoroughly, don't worry. And you'll see here on my lower chest that all the inflammation and the water tension in the scar tissue is just getting less by the day. You can probably see that also from the day-by-day progress pictures following the gynecomastia surgery and the liposuction that took place. So hopefully with time, this will just slowly get better. So you can compare what it looks like right before the surgery and two weeks after the surgery. I don't think this is bad at all. I mean, considering I haven't gone to the gym for six weeks, not bad at all. Let's overlay this with the before front double bicep taken here on YouTube. And then I guess I'll figure out in the post-editing process if there's any clear difference at all. For now, I'm pretty happy with the result. Again, the detail on my lower chest is still not where I want it to be. But hopefully over time, the scar tissue and the inflammation and the adhesions and all the kind of stuff with some active massage therapy and grass stone technique will slowly be resolved. So there will be a follow-up video a couple months down the line when everything is nice and healed and my body fat levels are a little bit lower. And then we can clearly see what the major differences is between previous diets where I got down to, let's say, 6-8% body fat and then the follow-up diet a couple months from now where I'm similar body fat levels. And we can do some actual comparison. Okay, I'm going to put these waterproof bandages on because it feels a little bit safer. And then I'm going to record the rest of this video. So I ended up wearing this compression garment full-time for five whole days, 24 hours per day. They initially recommended me to wear it just for three full days and then wear it only at night, let's say, 12 hours out of the day. But I felt a little bit more comfortable keeping those sponges, which are already in the trash because I couldn't really wash those. So they were getting a little bit smelly. So I wore this for five days with the sponges 24-7, basically, when I was going out and driving around on my motorcycle getting shit done. And I even wear it during the LASIK eye surgery as well as the orthopedic leg surgery. And then I switched to wearing this at night. And now I think two weeks post-op, I don't need to wear it again. So this one is basically ready for donation. I'll give it a good rinse and a wash. I have a spare one in case you're coming to Thailand or you live in Thailand and you're large and in charge around 100 to 110 kilos. Again, this is the biggest size and the other one is the biggest size that they have here in Asia. It's very tight, but that's what's required. It's very hard after gynecomastical surgery combined with liposuction. It needs to be tight for everything to kind of heal up. So if you're undergoing surgery in the near future, first come, first served, just shoot me a message on Instagram. And I'm glad to send you over my compression garments because I don't think I'm going to need it in the near foreseeable future, basically, ever. So today I'm exactly two weeks post-operation from the gynecomastical surgery and the liposuction. From a chest perspective, I'm eager and so ready to start training again. I have full range of motion. Here I feel a little bit stretching in the lower chest, right, where the liposuction took place, which again isn't a bad thing because I don't think I'm going to be doing dumbbell pullovers anytime soon because, well, look at these freaking lats. No need to do dumbbell pullovers. I should be able to do chest flies with the dumbbells, some sort of stretching movement, right, full range of motion. I don't feel the incisions pulling on both sides. So it's not really an issue. I should be able to go back to the gym and start training upper body again. But regarding the leg surgery, there's a little bit of inflammation and tightness and immobility that is currently taking place. So I'm just going to keep it, take it day by day and see how the leg is recovering, right? I can walk on it, no problem. They just removed the screws and the plates, but the bone is still fully healed. So I should be able to put some pressure on it while walking. I'm not allowed to train lower body for a month, and then I should take it really, really easy for the next two months. So it's about a three-month recovery process. Again, by the time my daughter is born, the middle of this year, I should be fully healed from the leg surgery. But until that time, I just need to take it easy. And even while wearing a compression sock, the water that accumulates the inflammation is a little bit too much sometimes when I keep my leg vertical. So most of the day, I keep my leg elevated unless I do a consultation or a recording video for you guys. When I sleep at night, I keep my leg elevated on an extra pillow, so all the water tension is slowly going away. And I remember from my motorcycle accident a long, long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, that the edema and the water tension in the inflammation was absolutely terrible. I mean, my leg really looked like an elephant's foot, and it was elevated in one of those slings. So at this time, it's not that severe. The surgery wasn't as lengthy as that leg surgery following the motorcycle accident. But still, there's a good amount of edema, even when I wear a compression sock, which I have to put on very, very, very carefully to make sure that I don't rip open the incision site. So I think it's just an overworking of the lymphatic system. Again, I'm not being as mobile as before, right? I got a little bit bad reaction to high-dose growth hormone because I wasn't really able to do cardio on the elliptical because of the surgery from the liposuction and the gyno surgery. And then, well, by the time I could do the elliptical, again, basically the next day it was leg surgery, and then I couldn't do anything. So now I'm a complete dad bod being mobile, not doing much, keeping my legs elevated, playing video games when I have some time. So I decided to reduce the growth hormone and just keep the water tension to a minimal so I can deal with the edema and then do some mobility work of my ankle just moving it around while I'm watching TV or when it's elevated. So here are the before and after x-rays for my leg surgery. On the left side of the screen, showing my right leg, on January 17th, you see the surgical plate and seven screws, and my bone looks completely mangled because I had a compound fracture, so they did the best they could. If you look at the top of the surgical plate, you see slightly that a little bit of bone is growing over that, so they needed to remove the bone from the surgical plate and then make that, grind that down, basically, to make it look cosmetically appealing again. And then on the right side, again, of this picture, showing my right leg on January the 23rd, so that's five days after the previous x-ray, the surgical plate and the screws are removed, leaving behind a little bit of an indentation and obviously seven holes. So with those seven holes, I shouldn't really be training. Fingers crossed, that will kind of heal and the bone will come back together, strengthening the entire bone over the next month. And then as I start training again, obviously, the bone mineralization and the density and the strength of the bone should progressively improve. Here's another angle where you can see how mangled everything is, right? You can clearly see the holes on the right side of my right leg and seven holes drilled to my bone. And that's what I'm going to have to work with for the next, well, for the rest of my life. So fingers crossed, this is all going to heal very, very nice. As you can see, the orthopedic plate is still in prime condition. Let me give you guys a close-up. So this has been with me for 18 years. It's got a couple scratches from removing the, I probably can't see that, from removing the screws. I have seven screws. This is high-quality steel, well, high-quality surgical steel. So I think I'm going to make some jewelry out of that, maybe a bracelet or something like that, because, well, it's been with me for 18 years, which is longer than most things in my life. So I might as well continue to wear it, right? I'll give you guys updated what I do with this, because I think it was about $200 in total at the time, back in 2007. And if I drop another couple hundred dollars, I'm sure I can turn this into something nice worth wearing. Regarding the LASIK eye surgery, that was reasonably straightforward. First, I applied several eye drops to my eyes to measure the structure of the cornea and the eye and the tissue underneath to see if I was a candidate for LASIK eye surgery, or if FENTOLASIK eye surgery was a better idea, or compare that to PRK surgery. We decided on FENTOLASIK eye surgery. Then they applied several anesthetic eye drops to kind of help numb the eyes and prepare me for surgery. The actual surgery was pretty brutal. I'm not going to lie, slightly mildly traumatic. First, they shined the FENTOLASIK laser in your eye to separate the cornea from the eye, following an incision around the cornea to kind of make a corneal flap. But when that happens, all you see is a hazy white. And then when they make the incision around the cornea and flap that over, all you see is blurriness. It's basically like an in real life 100% blurriness filter. And then for a couple seconds, you're wondering, is this going to be the rest of my life where I don't see anything? And then the XMR laser removes a microscopic layer from the corneal flap to help correct your vision and make it the best it can be. During that procedure, 11 seconds in my case, it literally smelled like burnt flesh, which is way worse than smelling burnt hair. After that procedure, lasting only 11 seconds, they placed the corneal flap back on my eye. No need for stitches because apparently that heals and settles right away. You just need to position it in the correct posture. And then in that split microsecond before they switch over to the other eye, you can see 100% clear. But all you see is medical equipment. So I didn't really get a chance to enjoy it. All in all, the entire procedure took maybe 15 to 20 minutes for both eyes. But I was at the hospital the entire day to do the eye examination and provide aftercare after the surgery, which included some transparent shell-like protective shields, which I placed on my eye like this for an entire 24 hours. So you couldn't rub in your eyes. This is very annoying. So I saw very clear for a brief microsecond after the surgery. And then they put these protective shields on, and then you can't see anything again. Yeah, for 24 hours, luckily. Now, they put this on your eyes so you don't rub your eyes while you're sleeping. They gave me some diazepam, aka Valium, to take home, 5-milligram tablets. And they told me, just take this when you're home and then go to sleep. Now, I'm a little bit stubborn. Since the femtolasic eye surgery didn't really hurt at all because of the anesthetic eye drops, I was like, you know what? I'm just going to chill for the rest of the day, wear these goggles, and maybe do a little bit of work while looking. To the corners because, well, work is always a plenty. And then once the anesthetic eye drops started to wear off, my eyes started to hurt really, really badly. Yeah. Yeah, you really feel like you got punched in the eye just continuously, basically. So I took 5-milligrams diazepam and went to sleep for about 7 hours. Then I woke up to get another meal in. And then I took another 5-milligrams diazepam to sleep for another 9 hours. And then the pain was gone. But while I was waking up, going to the bathroom, yeah, the pain was pretty bad. Yeah. So the surgery is slightly traumatic, getting laser shined in your eyes and then having the surgical knife basically cut the cornea for the corneal flap. And then the pain that followed for 24 hours, nasty. But once I came back to the clinic and they removed this, you see like a hawk. It's honestly amazing. And what you hear worldwide for the large majority of people who do LASIK surgery, whether that's femtolasic surgery, regular LASIK surgery, or PRK, for the large majority of the people that don't have any complications afterwards, which again does happen. So please do your research. For people who don't experience complication, they say it's the best decision they ever made. And I can highly agree with that statement. So the next day after the procedure, I could basically see sharper than I could ever do with glasses. And then six days after the procedure, which was the day after the orthopedic leg surgery, I went for another checkup, which is basically a day earlier, but I was in the hospital anyway, because I both did these procedures at Param9 Hospital. Six days afterwards, she said, you don't need these protective goggles anymore, these protective shields, because the cornea is completely closed and healed. And you don't have to use the antibiotic eye drops anymore, but feel free to use the artificial tears, regular eye drops, just to help lubricate everything, which again, I don't really do because I don't have any dry eyes currently. So sometimes you read online that people have long-term dry eyes. That's not the case for me. Maybe the lutein and the zeathin or zeaxanthin is helping with that as well, or I'm just a greasy bastard and my eyes are always moist. Okay. So right now it's 12 days after the LASIK eye surgery. Everything is healed. I can see like a hawk. I can highly recommend it. It's probably the best surgery I've ever done, even though also the worst surgery at the same time. So to close off the gynecomastia segment of this video, I'll make a follow-up video at part five in the Operation Guide-out video series to keep you guys updated on how the surgery went and once all the scar tissue and the inflammation and the adhesions and the bruising and everything is nice and healed and dandy. And my body fat levels are nice and low again so we can see a difference. And then do some comparison pictures between previous good shapes where my body fat levels were low. And you could see a tad hint, a slight indication of gynecomastia, but mostly having significant anabose tissue on my lower chest, blurring the definition and the separation and stuff compared to now. Well, in the future now, basically. So stay tuned for that. Subscribe now if you haven't already so you don't have to miss that video. All of the supplements I discussed, whether those are from Gorillamide or you can buy them over at iHerb. I have direct links for all of them down below so you can save yourself 10% over at Gorillamide or 5% over at iHerb. Before I did all of these medical procedures, obviously I did extensive blood work, including checking my clotting factors just to make sure that I wouldn't have any abnormal clotting or bleeding following the surgery. Especially the leg surgery, it's a little bit more extensive than the gyne surgery, but the liposuction surgery, I mean, it's a pretty big area as well. So I did extensive blood work before the surgery, as you should you, where you do any kinds of surgery. If you live in the United States, you can check all of your blood work parameters over at Merrick Health. And if you don't know how to interpret your blood work results, you can either schedule a consultation with me or use one of their healthcare providers, patient care coordinators, to help you stay healthy and get ready for these kinds of surgical procedures. Gyne surgery and liposuction, I did that Rotenon Medical Center in the Fento-Lessic Eye Surgery and Orthopedic Leg Surgery, removing the plates and the screws. I did the Param9 Hospital. You can find their links down below. I'm very happy with the service so far. I can highly recommend it if you have similar surgeries. And again, look for the same doctors, which is the doctors that I got the pleasure to work with. I'll keep you guys updated during the vigorous Q&A. Fingers crossed, do a little prayer for me that everything is going to turn out fine. And for now, for the vigorous crew, a no gyno from the West for you guys, much love, much appreciation, much thanks to your support. Over the last couple of weeks, I was going in and out of the hospitals. Some of you guys were pretty worried because you weren't aware that I was going in for all these medical procedures willingly. So I highly appreciate all of your get well soon and best wishes messages. You guys are freaking awesome. And with that, I'm going to leave it here. Again, hit that like button if you have it already. And we'll see you guys in the next video dropping soon. Peace out.

=== FILE: PEPTIDES RANKED! Growth Hormone, IGF-1, Insulin, BPC-157, TB-500, Mots-C, MK-677, Follistatin, Etc [e9OAzmNJFaM].txt ===

 well, if you want to spew a hate, what about my kind of growth factor? I mean, if you think IGF on LR3 is kind of meh. Yeah, MGF is pretty junky. I've never heard anybody get out of anything out of it besides a lighter wallet, you know, even when they use a credit card, their wallet is lighter. I've never heard anybody place another order for MGF. The only thing that made me go was Hypo one time, and then that just, that completely then put into question what was actually inside of my... Is that even ever true? Welcome to the Anabolic Groundtable with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Martz. This is episode seven. We're recording this a little bit earlier than expected, but we're still going to drop it mid-December or early December, because the holiday season is coming up. And so we try to squeeze in as many anabolic ground tables as we can. This podcast, we're going to discuss the tier list for the anabolic peptides. We're going to classify the growth hormones and the insulins and the IGF ones and et cetera to the S tier to the F tier. Then we have one more special request from the audience, classifying all the ancillaries or basically the fat burners. Oh. Yeah. So I think we'll do that in two months from now in February. What I think is a better idea next month, so not this podcast, but the next one is where we design cycles, training, nutrition, supplementation from starts to the Olympia stage. So maybe we break that down in a couple of phases. We have the beginner phase and how to start training, how to start dieting, how to start supplementing. Then first cycle advice, first couple of cycles and a second phase or a third phase in your cycle design, evolving peptides, how to turn pro on those cycles. Then we should have a guest appearance from an IFB pro who's very knowledgeable and open about their stereotypes, actively educating, named to be disclosed at a later date to kind of help us with the last part about what it actually takes on the pro circuit cycle-wise and training-wise and supplementation-wise. I'm really looking forward to that. So we got three podcast plans well ahead. So up until February, you guys are entertained and they were open for suggestions down below. First we got to start with a little bit of a public service announcement. There are some rumors in the grapevine that there might be a supply coming or a shortage in supply of steroids. So for the guys looking to treat themselves for an early Christmas present, now is the time to do so without going into the details. Do you guys want to contribute anything to that or should we leave it there? I mean starting in December it looks like it might start to slow down. So why is it to stock up if you need stuff? Yeah, if you need stuff for Christmas and New Year's and running until next year summer, your summer cycle should be ready in stock. That's our public service announcement. I think a caveat there is heading into the new year, blood work is going to be imperative to ensure what you're taking is actually what is present. Just put it that way. So if you know your batches and you know the quality of the batches then go right ahead. But yeah, there might be a shortage of supply for a while. And that also happened with Bayer, Test of Irons. They were out of stock for like one and a half years. Not my fault. Not my fault. Or Bayer Reba Ballot, they were gone for like one year straight. It was also not my fault. And then we kind of knew also that that was coming. So I stocked up and many people stocked up. But so guys, this is your first, last and only warning. If you care about performance and nothing drugs then now is a good time to treat yourself to an early Christmas present. Now, Dean, I'm going to meet you in London for the Enhanced Games seminar. We are invited to be speakers in this very small seminar. And we're going to meet other doctors. I think I'm the only non-doctor there. So you have a doctorate, but I don't. So it's kind of interesting. We can give you an honorary one for the weekend. Can I call like some Indian university to give me an honorary doctorate? Just a borrow one. But I guess the caveat there is the invitation was to the top 40 in the world, which was quite a statement to be in their invitation and to be recognized amongst, you know, there's some people there in the list that I see and that would be well known in terms like harm reduction. So it's a very interesting seminar, I guess. I'm on a panel. You're on a panel. I think I'm talking about what do we consider sort of natural enhancement versus exogenous somewhat sort of a peak of natural enhancement and where do we draw the lion. So it's going to be an interesting talk. I think we're all keen to see can we get the Enhanced Games going and what records can be beaten. Yeah. Yeah. So it's going to be going to be called here. Kurt. Yeah, I'll meet you guys at the next one. I couldn't make this. Yeah, I'll let you know it goes. I'm not sure if we can record anything or turn it into a vlog, but I'll write they got their own camera crew and that kind of stuff. So at least we'll keep you guys entertained and posted on how it's going, what the results are of the meeting, depending if unless we have to sign some sort of NDA, which I didn't see come by yet, but you never know. So I'm excited for that. So then me and Dean, I guess we're going to do another workout somewhere in Birmingham. Yeah, we'll catch somewhere on the way back. I know a couple of the gyms around and the guys who run them. So we were spoiled for choice out there and where we decided to go. All right. You find me a nice place where we can both eat and then we use the anabolic round table at sense fund to a paper that bill. Okay. So guys, super thanks down below so we can get ourselves some desserts. So this week we have on the menu the anabolic growth hormone or the anabolic peptides that we should list. So let's just get right into it. I started with growth hormone on a scale from S tier to F tier, how anabolic is growth hormone and we have to differentiate a little bit between growth hormone by itself and growth hormone in combination with other performance and that's a good because there's a bit of a difference there. Kurt take it away. You're you're a high-gold serocin. I'll give it a yes for both for both solo. Yeah, super for both solo use and combined with steroids. I think the biggest difference that we're aware of is when it's used on its own, it looks like six milligrams is required for any sort of permanent tissue growth when it was used in smaller amounts. The growth wasn't permanent, right? But in combination with steroids, we don't really know what the actual doses to cause hyperplasia. I will be looking into that. So I started a medical journal with another doctor that we're going to start publishing steroid studies that would not be normally funded by pharmaceutical companies because they don't care. And we'll start looking into some of these things to see what amounts and what drugs interact appropriately with growth hormone and what causes some level hyperplasia. I would guess based on my own experiences, again, N equals one that seems like nine units or three milligrams seems to be about appropriate when combined with an adequate amount of steroids. But growth hormone to me is after testosterone on par with testosterone, probably the best thing out there. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Okay, so we're starting off right with Esther growth hormone way overpowered. Dean, what do you think? Yeah, like Kurt said, we have that study obviously where they done, I think it was 250 milligrams a test and then they added tria use a growth hormone with the 250 tests. And then obviously, there was a control with nothing. And like Kurt said, when the growth hormone was added alongside the testosterone, there was a massive increase in terms of like recovery, which then played into lean mass gain. So yeah, I'd be in agreement with Esther, I guess, one of the caveats is in recent years, we have these influencers advocating, you know, one unit of growth hormone or two units of growth hormone as being solo, which I have a benefit for some level of like policies, but as a PD for muscle enhancement solo, I don't think you're going to get anything out of two units of growth hormone for muscle build. No, no, I think I think it's good as a sleep aid and maybe as a cosmetic appearance, eight if you're a woman, you run to I use growth hormone, maybe three. I mean, something that my wife would run right before bed. Before bed. Yeah, exactly. So you sleep better, look better, look younger, fill in those wrinkles, grow the nails a little bit faster, more excuses to go for pedicures and manicures. So good with me. So I would say that like cosmetic anti aging not true anti aging for that you need to wrap a mice and then you know, topical flaws and then back to flaws and that kind of stuff. But I think for bodybuilding, if you have to go through all the compounds that we have, we have 500 to choose from growth hormone will be second after testosterone. It's that simple. And I always tell people growth hormone is part of the tri force of anabolism, testosterone growth hormone insulin, which we'll get to Kurt's, don't worry. They will revisit the insulin again. But I think testosterone growth hormone insulin is kind of the tri force of anabolism. And I would put it in S tier also. What I would recommend people now that I've experienced with higher dosages is to slowly ramp up your dosages over time, make sure that you manage your electrolyte intake, the magnesium potassium to prevent corpotonous syndrome, right? The pressure on the nerves in the arms that's now resolved for me. And make sure that you're on top of your touring because it seems to like with two or three I you jumps, you seem to be able to kind of tolerate that, right? But if you go straight from two, I use the 18 I use besides the financial drain, your body might not be able to handle it. So yeah, if you want to go if you're financially capable to ramp it up that high. And again, in the offseason, you can say if you run generics, even though the efficacy might not be on par, which yeah, well, we should get into also. Because I don't think that that generic sure is there. No, no, I want it's all over the place could be F depends on what it could be F right? Yeah. So let's let's say good generics, where will we rank that instead of the tier then or say about the average amount in the middle somewhere. See, right? So they're about 50 because the binders and fillers about 50% absorbed compared to a pharmaceutical. So you know, you could you could double the dose in theory. But again, that's not been studied. So it's hard to say. I've not personally gotten a whole ton out of generics. And it's weird because like we discussed this offer with generics, like I've run two decently dose generics up until now, right? Testing about 32 to 36 and under grass for middle later on the serum test, both give me good results. It's not quite the same as a pharmaceutical like a neurodietropin or genotropin. And every time I use a high dose generic, I get some irritation at the injection sites. And I don't know what that is. Boloxone 188. So it's a polymer that's used as a stabilizer. And that generally cause that lumping that stays there for a while. The other thing that's interesting to do is the mannitol that's used as well. So I think that was misunderstood for a while. The mannitol that's placed in the generics and not used in the pharmaceutical is not to control water. It is to speed up the freeze drying process. So in growth, after growth, when it's produced, it needs to be freeze dried, and then packaged and shipped. The underground labs, I like to use the term underground, but not generic because the medical term for generic means it's made to the same standard as a pharmaceutical just off label, which as we know, the underground lab GH is not made to the same standard. So they add mannitol to it, just speed up the drying process so they can make large batches of it and get it out really fast. And then a lot of guys will get, you know, they'll almost get some muscle pain from it. Like it's almost too drying versus the pharmaceutical stuff you look much fuller and bigger. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Because the mannitol, of course, acts as a diuretic to a certain extent. So when it's not in there on purpose as a diuretic for you and I, it's in there as diuretic to speed up the process of manufacturing. Okay. So the other, I was just going to give some general tips because I get hundreds of DMs about usage and growth hormone. And again, people could do whatever they want, it's their body, their drugs, their wallet. Really the proper way to use this stuff and no pro in Gold's Gym is going to outsmart Pfizer or, you know, Merck, AG. Really the dose should be taken at night in one bolus regardless of dose. It does not need to be split up because you're not really timing it for anything. It takes four hours to absorb. So you take it in the morning, you're not even seeing it for four hours. You're going to mess up your glucose metabolism by doing that. Right. You run the risk of becoming diabetic. It and really most of the effects are through IGF. You're looking for that gigantic bolus response. IGF has fat loss effects as well. So it's not like, you know, I know years ago Derek made that video about, you know, the 1.7 cut off for fat burning. But as you ramp the doses up, you still see increased fat loss. It's not just their GH. True. And then based on nutrient timing and what kind of other metabolic age you have in place, you know, it's the food also doesn't really matter. So if you take it at night, it doesn't matter if you eat it or not because one, it doesn't matter because IGF is going to modulate most of the response anyway. And with the four hour window, even if you've eaten human transutant in the gut, it's like three hours. So the food is not really there anymore. So it's not like, it's not like you need to fast to this. When we get into the secretogogs, that's some of the problems with those is you have to time the food around them, right? Because if you have insulin present, because you're trying to just make your pituitary work better, right? With growth hormone, you're forcing a situation doesn't matter if it's food or not. So the guys who are obsessing about fasting before the growth, that stuff doesn't matter. If you get a box of pharmaceutical growth hormone, you read the instructions, it literally says subq, aped, whole dose, you know what I mean? And the only other way to bypass the side effects is every other day, it doesn't have you reduce things. And the other one that, you know, controversial again, but from a medical point of view, you want to inject it subcutaneously. IM is not causing any sort of localized growth, it's just enter circulation, and you lose almost 20% of the growth hormone by injecting IM. So it's because it metabolizes faster and it doesn't bind to the trunk erect growth hormone receptor. Okay. So it's and this has been studied because again, when they design, like when Sarastom was designed, they spent billions of dollars looking into how to make this the most efficient way. It wasn't like, if there was a better way to take it, like the way bodybuilders tend to use it, that's how they would administer it. It's not like they're doing it for convenience, right? Someone's diabetic, they're using insulin all the time. So it's not like the pharmaceutical companies are concerned with putting you in an inconvenient place with dosing, they don't really give a shit. It's more maybe maybe the case for Nabilo, I won't shot every 12 weeks, but yeah, most of it, most of it again, that's when we get into that, that's a whole different drug. That's another, you know, the old defounder relief remaking. Yeah. So I mean, I would use a subq, I'd use it at bed, regardless of the dose, you know, I wouldn't be concerned with food right before it. And I would just move on with that. That way, if you're doing fast, according to the morning, it's still in your system, right? And the pituitary doesn't experience any sort of long term shutdown. So if you inject it at night, by the next afternoon, your pituitary is back online producing GH again. So it's not like, you know, the antidem receptor that's going to cause HBTA shutdown for months, years. Yeah, I think it's so much the statin levels were increased for about 24 to 36 hours. And IGF levels are elevated for about 36 hours. So within one and a half days, there's zero negative feedback. And that's why maybe sometimes it's good to like during your offseason, when you're running higher dosages of 12, 18, I use to only use it on workout days like what Dean was doing during his last cutting cycle. Because that's what I started doing myself. And now most of my carpal tunnel syndrome and water retention is actually significantly less, even though the weekly intake is still pretty much the same. So so, you know, I would still not recommend growth hormone on the night you had a cheat meal. But during the week when you're eating healthily, you know, that I'm okay. So if you're eating a pizza, which has been shown to increase your insulin secretion for like 12 hours after then I've probably skipped the growth hormone. But if you want to take some Incolex after your pizza, that might be a better option because that actually helps with nutrient partitioning. So yeah, I agree that pharmaceutical growth hormone is certified as tier generics, I'm willing to place in the seat here and that's good generics. I will say that the quality of generics have increased tremendously and the prices come down tremendously over the last couple of years. And I would only consider now, even with you know, one of the better hookups for generics that I would only consider them during the offseason. Because the water retention is a little bit more severe, the fullness is a little bit less comparatively dose wise. But you can compensate for that with a little bit more food, a little bit more electrolytes. And since you're going to be a little bit fluffy anyway, that will be the perfect time to run it because right now I don't care about my cosmetic appearance that much. I'm stocking up my pharmaceuticals for pharmaceutical GH for the next time I do a cutting cycle and to save a little bit of money because the price is so good on these generics, I'd rather run them. But then we're talking not in IE, we're talking in vials. Yep. And the only other thing I was going to address because I get DMs about this too is how to dilute it properly with one solution. So if you're not using a whole bottle, you want to use bacteria static water, you do not want to use saline and you do not want to use sterile water. Sterile water is like what comes in serastim or when you buy in a bottle is only if you're using it at one dose, the whole bottle. Because bacteria will grow and you'll get sick. Bacteria saline will screw up the absorption of it as well. So you don't want to mix, grow up one more saline per se. So just to, you know, so you don't unfortunately have the time to answer all those DMs. So hopefully that solves some confusion. Don't worry, those questions will still come. All right, so let's move on from growth hormone being A tier and generics and C tier. Next one on the list is, well, the close cousin of the growth hormone, the growth hormone secretion dogs. And there's many of them. I've experienced all of them at the CGC with the Without DAC, the G-JRP2, G-JRP6, hypermeramid, thermorelum, etc, etc, etc. And they're all pretty much the same. Now, if you go into the scientific evidence, there might be some unique studies where hypermeramid was shown to have reduction in visceral fat or non-alcoholic fat delivery disease because they set up a study like that. So you could say that based on the single study, this one has more benefits over the other ones, but the other ones have not been studied in the similar context. So does that make a different comparison? I'm not entirely sure. I think it's mostly dosing related and age related. So if you're young, you don't have so much money, and you don't have so much accessibility to pharmaceutical growth hormone, you go to the peptide website, you can use your parent's credit card to source this kind of stuff. Then you might get something out of it, two, three, four, I use comparatively to pharmaceutical growth hormone, and you get the different molecular weights, right? You get the 22 kilodaltons, 23, 24, the several isoforms of growth hormone. So that might be a benefit, especially in the context of healing injuries. I think that's better than just megadosone kilodalton isoform of growth hormone. But besides that, I'm going to have to put it alongside generics and maybe even lower because you can't escalate those upwards. And like you said earlier, the timing of foods to keep your stethoscope levels low and your ghrelin levels high is very nuanced because you have this negative feedback with insulin present. And the rate limit on all of these is your pituitary, right? Just like a testosterone booster. Sure, testosterone booster will boost your natural production testosterone, but the rate limit is your testicles, right? Versus when you inject testosterone, you bypass the whole loop, right? When you inject growth hormone, the rate limit is your wallet. When you inject CJC, the rate limit is how well your pituitary works. MK-677 is interesting because it's actually on its way to becoming a pharmaceutical drug in the United States. So it's in stage three of FDA approval. There's a company, a company, a smaller pharmaceutical company, purchased the right suit. So it's not going to be sold soon on the black market or be illegal. It'd be like generic growth hormone. And the use seems to be just like you said in young children who are growth hormone efficient or in the elderly. So my father's been using MK-677 for almost two years now. And it fixes arthritis in his knuckles. He produces body fat to some degree, but he's in his 70s. So you're going to get some benefit there, right? Because his pituitary has just decreased its output. For guys in our age group that want to be bigger, MK-677 is probably a waste unless your appetite is the rate limit in your, you know, at least in my case, it did nothing for me except make me hungry and have weird dreams. Yeah. So that's most of the common side effects. Of course, it might be beneficial in offseason scenario where you can't eat enough, but then you usually eat yourself into an insulin resistant state. Yeah. And we could, we should do a whole video on that too, as food is a rate limit of growth. Yeah. So that's misunderstood as well. Hold that thought. Not this podcast. Dean, what do you think? I'm sure you've experimented with some of these growth hormones secretogogs. I haven't done the ariduous calculations from the literature on exactly how much growth hormone you actually get out of, let's say 125 micrograms of hypermerellin. And it was quite, I wouldn't say shocking, but for 125 micrograms of hypermerellin on average, it's between 0.5 to 0.7 I use of growth hormone secreted. Holy moly. Side me up. And I took that. That took a good amount of trying to do the accurate calculations from the studies to get an exact amount of what was being produced. So what the growth hormone response was and then work your way back to what would that be equivalent in terms of like milligrams of growth hormone produced from the pituitary and then working it back into IU. So it's 0.5 to 0.7 for 125 micrograms of hypermerellin. Because someone thought it'd be a clever question on SN education's forum of how much growth hormones you get out of a secretogog. Well, that's a good question. That's working out. Yeah, lock yourself up for a week and find the dance, right? So, but that's only hypermerellin that they said compared to amongst the other growth hormone secretogogs. I didn't do the calculations on the others, but assuming they all work off the same sort of ghrelin mechanism of, you know, that feedback loop to get the pituitary to secrete, you know, I can't see it being any more than one IU of growth hormone really. Like, I mean, hypermerellin tends to be the one that we all favor because it doesn't have any of the prolactin effects that the others have. And we know roughly the saturation dose, like what we talked about there, peptides tends to be somewhere around 125 to 150 micrograms taken, taking any more, doesn't really give you any more benefit because it's not like taking more growth hormone is the active, you're giving the body a stimulus to output from the pituitary. So you can circumnavigate it a little bit if you have it in a facet state, obviously, when insulin levels are low, you time that with low IGF on levels, which is a negative feedback and so much the starting levels. So that basically means that you're limited to one or two injections per day, not three injections like some people recommend. And then combining that with a growth hormone receptor, or growth hormone releasing hormone receptor agonist, to get an additional pulse, and then maybe you can increase the dose of the ghrelin receptor agonist also. So you see it anecdotally, the dosage range between 150, 200, sometimes 300 micrograms, depending on the compounds and purity has to do with that, right? I noticed a better effect of 300 micrograms, but in reality is actually 150 because it's falsely labeled 10 milligrams when it's reality five, right? I mean, that happens in the gray area peptide market. So I made a video about the growth hormone secreticog cheat sheet, but all these methods to optimize your growth hormone levels, you know, it's funny. The highest growth hormone levels I ever got in the morning were from melatonin and megadositis way higher than any growth hormone secreticog. We're talking about 10 nanogasperometer liter upon waking from melatonin in combination with 30. So that's that's the dose where you get depressed, you feel old and tired because it doesn't metabolize the next day. So I can't recommend it. You know, some guys that don't have a problem with the melatonin metabolism. So they feel energetic the next day, but it seems that the higher you go in melatonin, the more growth hormone secretion you get overnight and you don't even need to use growth hormone secreticogs because again, when you do the calculation, let's say you run 300 micrograms hypermurellin and you compare the price of hypermurellin to an expected growth hormone pulse of let's say one to two I use, you're paying three times the price by taking a growth hormone secreticog for the same amount of growth hormone that you're getting. So I would rank the growth hormone secreticogs actually quite low besides MK-677 which is affordable and does work and is passing through clinical trials, we might have some practical applications. So I would rank MK-677 as the growth hormone secreticog as the best option, even though it comes with a little bit of a manual as a C tier and the other ones that E. They're not completely useless. They're not completely useless, but let's say you have five dollars to spend per day, you can get one I use a growth hormone pharmaceutical to I use generics or maybe 30 milligrams MK-677 and that's all pretty much comparable. But for that five dollars you might not get a whole unit of growth hormone production in the pituitary from the other growth hormone secreticog and money still wins in this equation because if you're combining a GHRH receptor agonist and a ghrelin receptor agonist that you're spending 10-12 dollars per day on these secreticogs but you're not getting any growth hormone out of it or not much, what's the fucking point? The way I view these is as an additive like what I do with my prep where you have growth hormone before bed so you're going to get potential growth hormone in deep sleep then to treat the four-hour peak like Kurt said where the growth hormone you've injected peaks and you wake up the next morning before you go do fast to cardio if you're going to stay fast like what I do on prep, taking your secreticog upon wake and then do you know, Ipum, ghrelin, CJC and growth hormone fragment before your fast to cardio knowing that all you're getting out of it is 0.5 an IU so you're not expecting much out of it but in the bigger picture we're every little bit as up towards that fat loss in theory but as something as a standalone when you're weighing up everything of where am I going to place my money I guess it's one of those ones that we have to view like you said where's your budget going to stand what's sort of the most economic but I will caveat that there are a lot of anti-aging doctors who go more for peptides over growth hormone isn't it a prescription limitation yeah I mean the US it is that's why they were pitching it they just can't write for gh anymore yeah so it's not even the doctor it's the the pharmacist will flag it here but if that's not a problem because you're in the bodybuilding circle then gh yeah so that's what I think yeah I mean and it depends in America at least it depends on the state so that's governed by the state laws so in where I live the only use is for delayed growth in children hiv wasting or chronic kidney disease anything outside of that is considered not legal to write for right California and Florida I believe can still be used for anti-aging to some degree yeah it's that remains to be debated because I think it's cosmic topical cosmetic anti-aging not actually true anti-aging which is okay that's what most people are after when they say anti-aging they just want to look and feel better you're not actually age backwards so that brings us kind of to the growth hormone fragments which are are known not to have any antibiotic properties but I do feel that they have some merit recording fat loss the anti-obesity drug 9604 and HH frag 1762191 there's several other growth hormone fragments but they they were shown not to be really effective I would rather use those in a context of fat loss and maybe we can revisit that when we get to the fat burning aids at tier list but I would rather spend the money on those compared to the growth hormone serrativogs because I think they still have a lot of it yeah but  they still aren't ranked with the GH. No, we're not going to classify them here, but purely from a money perspective, I would rather run AOD, HHFRAG, over growth hormone screening drugs, because I know they create a little bit of light policies, and it would be a nice addition to already using growth hormone to stimulate a little bit more fat loss around activity. So maybe take growth hormone before bed, and then some AOD before facet cardio, before the workout, to stimulate some fat loss through hormone-sensitive light base. I know that's what you were doing, right, Dean, in your last prep. I was. So I was using both AOD and GHFRAG. So normally what I was doing in terms of morning set up, HHFRAG before 20 minutes facet cardio, waiting an hour and a half, and then I'd walk the two boys to school, which is a 20-minute walk up and back. So I'd take oral AOD before doing that walk. So again, the oral AOD is then in your system, stimulating light policies while you're out on that walk. Like the thing where? Orally bioavailable, because it is the reason we want peptide chain. Yeah, well, apparently there is studies for oral AOD or Lycopotropin. So they were 100 microgram caps. So again, with these, I guess, growth hormone fragments, you have to do, as soon as you're sort of in your system, and you're sort of stimulating light policies, doing activities where you're going to continue releasing these free fatty acids from your tissues and utilizing them for energy. So yeah, I think out of them all, I'd lean into those as fat loss agents, as opposed to muscle building. So classify them in the next video. If you were to pick between like Eipan, Rellin, CJC, growth hormone frag, I'd be going more towards growth hormone frag because that might be like, like, like, like, like, like, yeah, I agree. The funny thing, one thing that I want to mention, when you look at the molecular weight of AOD and HHFrag, and compare that to the molecular weight of growth hormone, I think it's, what was it, 12%? So 1 seventh. And then when you convert that, this off the top of my head, I recently did it in another video, or I think I overlaid it in one of the videos here. When you convert that, the same amount of growth hormone receptor binding that you get out of 250 micrograms of AOD or HHFrag equals like 12 or 18 I use growth hormone. But you don't get the same amount of fat loss. So there must be a rate limiting factor there also. Well, conversion IGF. Yeah, of course. Right. Yeah, but you don't get any IGF. Yeah, it doesn't increase IGF levels. Yeah, so IGF is more indirect fat loss, but it has a strong effect on it. Yeah, yeah, through nutrient partitioning and just when binding to the receptor. Yeah, putting the calories in the right places. All right, so let's revisit those, but I just wanted to highlight them here. And that brings it to one of my favorite, insulin. Now, there's a million different insulin formulas. So let's just keep it broad. From an antibiotic perspective, I think it's in the triforce. But, but, but, but I might have to revisit that, because now that I have experience with Inkrelex, which is next recombinant IGF one, I have not used insulin since I found Inkrelex, because the water retention is less and the fullness is 10 times better. The burden on your health is less. Agreed, yeah. But again, you can only use what you have access to. So, so I do think that insulin is a good way to kind of support your pancreas when you're going in higher calories. Of course, Kurt, you have a little bit of a different idea, but I would say that this is like end stage, glucose management, obviously. All right, and most guys don't need it. But if you want to push 250, 260 pounds to 180 pounds, then yeah, I think there's a place for it. Kurt, let's, let's revisit this a little bit. Have you, have you changed your stance on insulin since we last talked? This is an antibiotic roundtable episode one. I mean, I still think if you need it, then fine. But I don't think most guys that are using it probably need it, right? When you get, when you get guys, even the big guys, when you get them lean enough to get on stage, they generally don't need it. Yeah. It tends to be a body fat issue. And then the guys that are newer at this sport probably don't eat enough to justify it. So, I mean, I think when it's needed, sure. When it's not needed, no. And it's not so wild beyond a ball of connet zone that it's going to take this guy, you got to the next level, right? Like you said, it works synergistically with other things. Yeah. insulin kind of comes when you reach that point where you can't possibly eat. And you need to get bigger and there's already a good amount of tests and growth hormone or whatever else in place. And maybe you even need to throw the thyroid medication at it to kind of help with the nutrient partitioning because it seems that testosterone or any kind of antibiotic stock growth hormone, a little bit of thyroid, whether that's T4 or T3, it'll all replacement dose, split that over the day. And then insulin, I mean, it works very well, I must say. And it also allows you to keep the steroid dosages reasonably low, which is, you know, for your health parameters, of course, your insulin, like we're not talking about 50 IU's, 80 IU's of life. That was not my style, right? That's other educators and other bottom-end coaches that recommend that I never went that high. But I have recommended 25 to 50 IU's, but careful tracking of the health parameters, lipase, amylase, pancreatic markers, that kind of stuff. And it seems that even with careful use, health parameters stay sustained for one to two years with the occasional mini diet to kind of restore insulin sensitivity. But of course, this is the highest of the highest level of guys that live this lifestyle 24 seven. And I don't think that insulin is for anybody unless you live this 24 seven. I think you gotta be a full-time meathead. You know, I was three risks, right? I mean, you guys go like, but we've all seen it in gyms. So just you gotta be careful with it. Yeah. Now that is a very high list of disclaimers. When I wrote my insulin ebook, it was 70 pages of disclaimers and how to use and what to pay attention to. And then, you know, 30 more pages of what to do when you use it. Yeah. Of course, everybody skipped over the first 70 pages. That's how it is. Dean, what do you think insulin? Where would you rank it? What's your opinion? I would, I'm gonna be controversial maybe and say like low C high D in terms of like the overall benefit from a muscle building perspective that you get from it. Like you said, there is some merits when we're trying to perhaps force appetite or force nutrient partitioning. But then again, like rapid acting insulin or mealtime insulins, you've probably only got about three opportunities during the day to utilize it. Cause you're more like, I don't wanna mean is from, let's say 9 a.m. up until, let's say bed times 10 p.m. Up until about 5 p.m. That's your window of using this because once you go beyond that, if you get caught out with that secondary peak later in the night and you've gone to sleep, well, it's gonna disturb your sleep or you're gonna wake up hypo. And you're gonna be having to rush to try and correct the hypoglycemic second peak from the insulin you shot with your last meal. So yeah, I don't see it being hugely anabolic as a peptide by itself versus Crotormone, but it does have some additive benefit. Like you said, I'm on the same sort of side of if you need to help support pancreatic beta cell health using a basal insulin in the backgrounds, replacement dose, like what you do at maybe tired medication. I mean, on average, we make about 20, I use a basal insulin from morning to night. Other than that, meal time insulins, again, we definitely don't wanna be doing what we joked about where you shoot like 50 and 20, I use a meal time insulin just eat. And eat to try and keep the hype away. Oh man. You know, it's strategic. And even then, like I said, you'd be pretty stupid to do rapid actin insulin before like a heavy leg or heavy deadlift session. So again, that decreases the number of days when you can actually use them body parts. Yeah, you always use a post-workout, obviously. So I do think there's something to say for a long acting basal insulin upon waking, maybe a second dose later in the evening if you can feel comfortable pushing past 25 I use. So you maybe do 25 I use upon waking, 10 I use before bed to kind of have a more consistent level over the day. And then five I use post workouts of human lung. And that seems to be pretty reasonable. But now we're talking about a 260 pound guy, 275 pound guy. I'm still not against recommending insulin to guys that really wanna live their lifestyle and they prove themselves. So you stick to test CH in insulin and just leverage that to the maximum degree. But you really have to earn it. You really need to do that under guidance. So I would say for most guys, it's F tier. But if you need it and you know how to use it, I would say it's B tier. Okay, I agree. Dean, what do you think? Yeah, I'd be pretty much in agreement there if we're looking at someone in the top end it'll probably fall into B. But for the majority, soap 190 pounds, there's much better things to be doing as opposed to worrying about timings and amounts of insulin. Yeah, so what I'm gonna do is not to give everybody the wrong idea, even though I just said it's B tier. I'm gonna put it in D tier right in between, between A and F, so people don't get the wrong idea. So I'm putting insulin below generic growth hormone in MK-677. But if you're highly advanced, you can read in between the lines. And you're like, you know what? If I can put insulin S tier, but then that's up to you. Still, if you have access to IncralX, you probably don't need insulin. It's that simple. So that brings us to IncralX. Who has experience with IncralX? Not firsthand. Me, me, me. No, but pretty amazing stuff. Yeah, it is very amazing stuff. So, Garth, have you coached a few people that use IncralX? Yeah, and we see it in hospitals, which is very rarely, if there's liver issues or something and child isn't producing IGF from growth hormone. But it's just, I've not even seen it on the black market here. I know in Europe, it makes its way. Yeah. Yeah, seems like really great stuff. But again, for an advanced user, I don't know if it has much of a place. Like I would leverage growth hormone for a while before you even got into that stuff. Yeah, since the availability is so low and it's difficult to source, and even when you source it, it's kind of expensive. Now you can somewhat justify that by taking, let's say you spent the full price, right? Let's say you spent $700 for the 40 milligrams IncralX, and you use 500 micrograms per day, which seems to be a pretty effective dose. So you have 80 servings for a $700 bottle, right? 80 servings up until 500 micrograms is 40 milligrams. So you do 700 divided by 80 is $8.75. That's two A, use growth hormone. So instead of running 18 I use pharma, you run 16, you break even, you shuttle at $9 to the IncralX, and I think you get better results. So financially you are breaking even, but from a muscle enhancement, muscle fullness, nutrient partitioning hyperplasia perspective, it makes the world of difference. Really, it makes the world of difference. Now sourcing is always an issue, pricing is always an issue. You can get a cheaper than $700 per box, if you know a guy, right? So in the cyro-stim you can get it way cheaper than most people do. So in that context I think it's S tier, but most people just will never have access to it. And I got guys begging me in my inbox. Oh come on. Oh come on. Oh come on. Oh come on. Oh come on. Tina, can I fly you with IncralX to the UK? Yeah, you should be okay. Well, hypothetically, hypothetically, hypothetically. Yeah, it's not like Kurt said, it's not something I've really seen prescribed. I've wanted to British national form the trees, I don't even think it's in that book, I'd have to go and check as a licensed medication. Okay. So I mean, Ipsen produces it in France. And it's one of those compounds that you hear through the grapevine is shit. And it, I think it's really magic, honestly, but you have to ramp up the dose just pretty high. So before we would talk about 25 micrograms to 100 micrograms. I'm talking about 500 micrograms to one milligram per day is where it really starts to shine in combination with the other drugs. And this is a similar protocol to what I heard people talk about at the Mr. Olympia, who also ran in Krolaks, and it was both in open and in classic physique. And they say that at those dosages, it's almost like magic. Yeah. So I'm solo from my own personal experience and anecdotal reports, I'm going to put it in S tier. I mean, you guys are just going to have to believe me. I've heard, I've heard all the same stuff you've said. Yeah. Incrolex, IGF one, and it brings us to the next best thing. Those are the IGF one alert three and this, if you use plenty of IGF one alert three, got some decent results out of it. Seems to go well and less well from brand to brand batch to batch. I don't know if that's a shipping thing. I don't know if that's a production thing. I don't know if that's a sourcing thing. But I still got more old things considering of the like the 12 different brands of IGF one alert three that I've tried. I always got some sort of results compared to IGF one desk, which every time I tried that, I got nothing. Yep. And I but I do know people that swear by it. What is your experience been? Yep. That's same thing. Right. But even LR three is not, I don't know, it's hit or miss. Yeah. Most guys don't really, they get a bottle and then they don't ever buy another bottle of it. Yeah. It's because in the US, it's doctors can loosely prescribe it kind of that might have changed with the recent peptide laws. But again, it was doctors could prescribe it for wellness where they could not prescribe in collux. So it was one of those ways to work around the GH IGF thing. Have you ever heard a bodybuilder say in the through the grapevine like, you know what really made a difference to my physique? No. Or MK-677 for that matter. I never heard it. No, but like I've heard plenty of bodybuilders say like, dude, when I ramped up the growth from one from six, I used to 12. I use holy fucking dog shit. I will mutate. Yeah. That's that to me was the most dramatic thing ever was just ramping up the growth one and using it. Exactly. So Dean, did you have some experience without your own or three or desk or clients that use it? Okay. Clients have used LR three and like Kurt said, you know, really depends on the source. Now, the source that I'd be associated or affiliated with, I've seen it produce some good results. So I guess, you know, it's one of those ones like why it was created was because of that long release. So you only take a small dose. You got that extended IGF one and obviously then that's reliant on well, how high is IGF one binding protein going to go for because this thing is hanging around your system for quite a period of time. So it's not something like in correct IGF one days or LR three have not used them myself. So I can't say this is how I've experienced what I've seen, you know, 50 micrograms of LR three bilaterally used and cut guys have coached to have seen, you know, marginal results in terms of like localized growth to biceps or quads where it's been been placed. But again, it comes down to the source, I guess, and the cost. So I'm on blood work. I've tested IGF one LR three days in Rolex all the one milligram servings two and a half hours before testing only in Rolex increases serums levels of IGF one and binding protein. So you run it for a week, right? One milligram per day for a week and see what happens only in Rolex really raises serums levels and exogenous growth from one and exogenous melatonin. But IGF one LR three or death, it doesn't make a difference on your blood work. And when you look at the medical insert of in Rolex, like the recommendations for kids are in the milligram servings. That's why the micrograms two and 250 micrograms twice a kilogram per kilogram body weight. So if you're 40 kilos, this brings it to milligram dosages. And in order to raise serum levels significantly, you need to use milligrams of the shit. And anybody that has access to in Rolex contested his home, you do, you know, you take a decent dose of growth hormone where I just want levels to go up, then take one milligram in collection, test it two and a half hours later, it goes up with a couple points. But it's not that much substantially. It's maybe a hundred to 200 points. Well, we found an HIV that when compared head to head in Colox versus GH Sarstin, the Sarstin was more effective at raising IGF and systemic growth than, you know, than IGF was. So again, I would just go back to the growth hormone. Yeah. And what I honestly think with the peptide websites is that most of the IGF one LR three and deaths labeled as one milligram is actually a hundred micrograms. That's why when I say I got good results, that's a valid day. And he said a hundred micrograms or one milligram. I'm not entirely sure, but if it doesn't really raise levels on blood work, because I just want to know or three or this can be detected, we should get some sort of receptor, you know, interaction. You know, I ran, I recently got a batch of one hour three through one of my sources, one milligram per day. So I'm like, you know what, I'll take this on rest days. That's, I took it a day after leg day, Wednesday, Saturday, one milligram subq in the morning. And you do feel fuller at the end of the day. Now, would I spend $70 per day to feel fuller? No, no. So I think your mileage might vary a lot. But I have no problem putting both of these in F tier. Yep. I'm with you. I hate to say but you know, if you have access to other stuff, I think you get better results from high dose growth hormone. Yeah, I mean, test, if you can't grow on test and growth, real growth hormone, ain't the sport for you. Yeah. LR3, G1, desks. I'm biting myself in your foot here because many of my affiliates have had G1, LR3 and desks, but no Increlix. So I'm cutting into my own sales. Shit. Yeah, well, it is what it is. That's the cost of honesty. Exactly. Yeah. Could IGF-1, LR3 be better than injectable secretion gox though? Probably not. Not if the secretion gox used correctly. Because the secretion gox raise IGF-1 levels more than I see anecdotally on IGF-1, LR3 or desks. I would go with the secretion gox in my case. And it's also significantly cheaper. I think MK-677 beats out LR3 and desks. Which is sad, right? Yeah, it's sad. Yeah. All the kids are rejoicing. All the storm problems are rejoicing. I've said this about other things and I guess you can apply it here. If a lot of these things were effective or efficient to use, there'd be pharmaceutical drugs like Trome. The big pharmaceutical giants are very aware of everything that's on the market that bodybuilders use. If they found that one of these random Psalms or something actually was worth using, they would have bought the rights to it already. They wouldn't be selling it at a supplement store. They'd be keeping the shit out of it. Yeah. So it's, you know, similar to Govormon. If there was an effective, cheaper way to make it, you could throw all these other fillers in it and that was effective, they would do that too, because it's cheaper to manufacture. You think, you know, you think Sarastrum wants to spend that much money manufacturing it? They don't have a choice. It's the only way to make it effective. Right. Yeah, there's a certain finesse in the delivery mechanism, which can be replicated by generics. And again, I see, you know, saving yourself some money on pharma in the offseason by using generics and then going by vows and not by IUs. Okay, it's fine. We're talking about big boy cycles here. We're all into big boy cycles. Well, maybe not Dean. Dean is still a little bit risk averse, but you're a big boy nonetheless. So, so I'm running a vial of generics on chest day and two vials on leg day, and it seems to be working. But yeah, I'd probably get away with five IUs pharma and 10 IUs pharma on leg day, you know. Yeah, I get more online. I use Sarastrum than I ever done. I have 18 units of known generics. I should make that switch soon. Going from 20 IUs generic to like 18 IUs Sarastrum. See what happens. Big difference. And like every day, you look different every day. That was, I mean, that was the thing that Chase was totally right about when he first did this stuff. Yeah. You wake up in the morning, look different every day, look different. What are many vials of generics you would need to get that effect? I don't know. It's probably because absorption is the rate limit. So, this probably where it's just not getting absorbed, right? So, you're just wasting it at that point. And how many lumps do you want on your stomach? Exactly. I mean, how many, like how many, how many lumps you want to love your body? Yeah. Did you get a lot of shit for that, Kurt? About the sip you know, it's not even. I didn't publish it yet. So, it just, but I mean, that's the original data that we're, we have so far shows that the peaks are an antihist material. People get upset, man. I, the idea of motion science, it is what it is. I know, I know. Do you see people get upset for classifying a iGivon LR3 and F tier? People get upset about what I said about halo testing. I'm sure there's all sorts of hateful videos about me now. I just don't like it. Oh yeah. Yeah. Well, if you want to spew hate, what about my kind of growth factor? Whether that's bi-gelated. Okay. I mean, if you think iGivon LR3 is kind of meh. Yeah. MGF is pretty junky. I mean, not the stuff that your body produces, right? So you have some places, right? If you have A, E, A, blast and cruise, the one, you know, the MGF your body produces is needed for muscle growth, but the injectable stuff is. The protocol is basically you do it directly post-workout, right? Because it disperses and immatables so rapidly. I've never heard anybody get out of anything out of it besides a lighter wallet. No. You know, even when they use a credit card, their wallet is lighter. That's it. I've never heard anybody place another order for MGF. Again. So certified F tier? Yep. The only thing that made me go was hypo one time. And then that just that completely then put into question what was actually inside. Even MGF. I took one milligram of it by mistake. Accidentally, the whole vowel. And within about 20 minutes, my blood sugar was 2.9. So there was something in there. Just not MGF. What's not MGF? Put it that way. We are because like high dosages of foliastatin can make you go hypoglycemic as well. I will get to the foliastatin. I might be running a foliastatin experiment now that this is I'm running this YK-11, which I'm still not convinced is doing anything. Supplingly orally. And I don't want to take the injectable form because it's all improperly glycol. I had a lot of guys contributed about YK-11 on the last podcast. I just don't want to take the injectable form. And I asked somebody to private brew it for me. He's like, I can do it in MGT, man. She just crashes. So I think YK-11 is off the menu. But foliastatin might be an option. Actually, that's right on the list. So have you guys done any research on foliastatin 288 315 344? Some of these different isoforms? Yeah, but it does it actually work in humans? Yeah. I mean, some of the scientific evidence looks compelling, but it's all in the elderly and in mobile. It's similar to this stuff with we were talking about before with IGF-des, right? Like if you look at the research, it's like, wow, it's 10 times stronger than IncoLux. It's not. So it just sometimes the research doesn't line up with what's actually happening. And again, if it were a good drug, it wouldn't be something we'd be buying on the black market. True. True. Yeah, foliastatin is not FDA approved. Yeah, it's not. We're not even sure if myostatin is really the whole story, right? You don't know. And it's active in and then, you know, there's some stuff. There's a whole cascaded things that go on to stop your body from growing. Yeah. Yeah, I got a protocol from one of my clients who has a stem cell and peptide company in the United States. So he sent me a protocol, foliastatin in combination with quercetin and some dosing protocol. So I might run that after I'm done with the YK-11 to kind of see how it compares. And then again, we're talking about like a milligram of starts and then 200 micrograms to keep it elevated for a maximum of five weeks, all administered locally in the area where you would want myostatin inhibition. So that will be my legs in my case, which have come up quite a bit. I can tell from my pants not being able to fit. Sucks. So it's going well. Deanna Joe is helping a lot. So let's see, let's see how that compares if it can push past this plateau because I seem to be topping out at 115 kilos. So yeah, I'm excited for that. But again, scientific evidence looks compelling, but I've never heard anybody really get any kind of result out of any kind of foliastatin unless they were also selling it. Correct. Follow me. Not something I've ever couched or told someone, you know, any sort of science behind. So I guess, you know, like you said, the theory is great, but we all know that whatever you want to call it, rumors that myostatin inhibitors were what sort of top to runny out the difference between the Olympia is that it was the secret university study and myostatin inhibition. Have we seen anything come about, you know, order bodybuilders that have become guinea pigs at order universities? So I take that rumor with a pinch of salt. Yeah, I agree. I think they tested what was his name? Flexiuler. Yeah, the only one to be having some sort of deficiency in myostatin. That wasn't even a legitimate study. Didn't Balco fake that to justify something? I don't know. I thought the outcome was not. It turns out that they were making that up. That could be wrong. You're saying that they're making up results in some ways? No, definitely not. Not what not. While legitimate organization like Balco. Smooth the numbers around to fit the narrative. Yeah. Yeah. Funded by Syntex. All right. So we're going to put a follow satin in F tier up until further notice. I made a deep dive about a 031 and a 083. Again, it looks very promising on paper. A 08, a 031 works systemically. Subcontinent  ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, based on the research that I've done, A083 is more compelling because it gets rapidly deactivated in the bloodstream. It's a follow-start in 288 variant, to put it simple, bound to immunoglobulin IgG2, I believe. Very rapid muscle gain in the muscle that it was injected into by blocking myostatin or was an activating receptor blocker. It's a decoy receptor basically. So all the myostatin goes and then doesn't activate the myostatin pathway. So you basically remove the rate limiting factor of muscle growth and then with resistance training the muscle growth was quite substantial. Now the effective dose is 240 milligrams, which brings you to a market price of several thousand dollars. So nobody will ever be able to run this experiment because all the files of A083 that I see online are either 1, 2, or 5 milligrams and then it's already like a hundred bucks. So you're spending thousands on an injection. If you have thousands to spend, I mean you might as well inject stem cells into your quads. You know, that's point. Well that's and with your point that's the rate limit on muscle growth. It's not myostatin, it's how many stem cells you have, how many nuclei can you add to a muscle cell. That's what growth hormone works. I'm surprised it hasn't been investigated to use stem cells to increase muscle size. I think it's probably ethical things at least here. Yeah, it's probably very expensive and the guys that can afford it would probably not be interested in muscle mass. They're probably more interested in looking young. Yeah, or healing models. Thousands and thousands of dollars. Yeah, you know and doctors can't mark up at least the United States doctors cannot mark up a drug that's against the law but they can they can charge for the procedure which the procedure in that case involves them sticking a needle in you. So then you get a couple grand to stick a needle in you. You're looking at eight thousand dollars for a shot. Yeah, who's doing that? I was doing that right. Even if you could get the bottle of it. I mean you're probably four or five grand. I would have to guess for a bottle. Yeah. No, it's even then you've got cross activity and immunological responses that come from it. I'm not sure about you guys but I've read quite a few horror case studies of guys getting stem cell therapy and there's been mass rejection because of the alignment of their body to the stem cell donor. Again, unless you are getting stem cells from your direct sort of genetic lineage, you're taking a big risk taking stem cells that have come from another genetic source to put it easy. Yeah, I think there's some procedures with anti-rejection drugs that are being put in place until the stem cells kind of solidify. But yeah, I haven't really looked much into it. But again, for most of us, it's one heck of a procedure to grow muscle. Yeah, exactly. But it would be cheaper than A0A3. It would be, but it would be even cheaper to use serastim. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah. So all roads lead back to STR pharmaceutical serastim. And we'll put those two in FTR also simply because it's just unaffordable for everybody. Orthroporheter, EPO. Now, this is even more of a nuanced use compared to insulin. I've talked to cyclists who've used it. I've heard bodybuilders use it. Alas, one of the coaches that has now been retired was recommending EPO, again, allegedly. But I haven't really talked about it, but there's, you know, that really talked about dosages and protocols and that kind of stuff. Even though on paper, it doesn't make sense to run a little bit of EPO for blood building effect to supply oxygen and remove the metabolic waste products, carbon dioxide. Now, Kurt, I believe one of your family members was very knowledgeable about EPO. Yes, my father was one of the developers of something called bloodless medicine. So it eliminates the need for blood transfusions. So he invented the machine that basically cleans your blood and gives it back to you. So it was not, so it can't be used in an emergency surgery, but it can be used for plan surgery. So instead of taking, you know, a bag of blood from donor that matches, you would take your own blood, they would use EPO first. He would administer EPO first and then build your blood supply. Then they would take your own blood, spin it in this machine that looks similar to like a bone marrow machine and administer it back. But yeah, but outside of that kind of stuff, I don't have any first hand experience of that as a performance drug. I do know endurance athletes use it. You know, you could just use, you could use EQ would probably accomplish something similar. Yeah, but of course, the blood building effect of EPO would go up or of EQ and it usually brings you to 56. And the most bodybuilders kind of panic, right? They see 54, 56, like I got to donate. Whereas the cyclists, they feel perfectly comfortable having a hematocrit of 58 to 60. What the proper way to look at it, at least to how I was taught, was you look at your platelet count. So platelet count is normal, regardless of the hemoglobin and hematocrit. You don't need to be as concerned again. I'm not giving random medical advice to people, I don't know. But if it doesn't mean just because you're setting over the range with those numbers that you need to all of a sudden get blood, it's the platelet count that matters. If your platelet count goes up, that's a big deal. Obviously, your platelet count is low. That's indicative of other diseases. But that's really the metric. I think most doctors, again, in the United States, when they see that, it's just an immediate reaction because they're protecting their own ass. So they just want you to draw blood, but you're kind of losing the performance and enhancing benefits of the cell. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, nowadays with the use of like an anapyloid, thomasarctin, grapefruit extract, methylene blue, most bodybuilders keep their hematocrit in range, maybe more so than is required. Since we're using lower dosages nowadays because we're switching to the peptides, we're missing out on this blood building effect. I do think that there's a place for EPO in bodybuilding. But how and if and the nuances, I'm not really sure. Again, based on anecdotal reports of bodybuilders that have used EPO, they say it's a game changer. Stamina-wise, like high-replica dates, and that really allowed them for more strain use activity and then just really putting a next level of hypertrophy response. So if that's the needle mover between having small legs and bigger legs, and you've seen that, right, in the offseason, some guys, some pro goes to work with a coach, and then the next offseason, their body part just mutated. Is that a drug thing, a training thing, an EPO thing? I guess you never really know. Probably not a training thing. No. Yeah, time under tension. Yeah, probably a drug thing. Yeah, probably a drug thing. So I'm gonna put EPO and to be determined. It's risky. Yeah, it's very risky. Do you have anything to contribute? Like what Kurt said when we're looking at hematocritz, we always sort of pay attention to the platelet count for clotting risk. And then obviously there's a whole other bunch of other markers we should be looking for clotting assessment. But I guess the higher hematocritz goes, the higher the potential for blood pressure to increase. And then obviously vascular resistance and sharing of the endothelium and the endothelial wall. I mean, yeah, I can see the benefits of rich opresis, but most guys will experience some level of rich opresis from anabolic steroids anyway. And then like you said, most people are always very cautious on looking at that number. I mean, 54, 55 isn't very uncommon. And if someone's platelet count is 180, 200, and their blood pressure is, you know, 150 and over 80. And the big scheme of things, what is that hematocritz saying, just develop more cells. And then you go one step further and look at the hemoglobin. And then the next level down from that then is the serum iron and transferrin and ferritin lever. And then you're sort of looking at, okay, well, is there issues here with iron dumping? Is the iron actually going into hemoglobin to give you that performance enhancing benefit? So I have a few guys asked my opinion on it, you know, I'm going to run EPO, I'm sort of like, well, I can't see why not, but I can see it being a huge game changer than what you said there. You have more oxygen carrying capabilities. So if you're somebody who has issues with, you know, having to use high rep sort of working sets in order to stimulate muscle fibers, and you're getting gassed very easily, where your respiratory system is what is letting you down as opposed to muscular strength. Yeah, my might have some benefit there. But like you said, I think to be determined, I've never personally utilized it. No, I've never used it. I would like to give it a try. But this late in my career, I'm like, always like, ah, this other stuff, saver stuff to experiment with, that is a little bit more accessible. Because I've talked to several endurance guys, right? And they the difference between endurance runners, obviously the time during the race is different, right? We train one and a half hours on the bike for eight hours of time. But our blood pressure, the blood pressure that increases during strenuous sets, I'm putting all that pressure on the heart is vastly different compared to what you would expect during a short spout of, you know, sprinting during an endurance race is vastly different. So these guys can get away with blood thinners, fish oil, vitamin E, maybe baby aspirin, you know, making sure to stay hydrated, have a completely different metabolic pathway because they mostly work on carbs, right? Or they use some sort of lipoletic age. So I feel that it's very risky in bodybuilding to use EPO simply because we utilize the metabolic pathways a little bit differently and the blood pressure like like Dean alluded to. So if there's a lot of shearing, again, on the arterial walls, then how much damage are you creating, you know, with this high blood pressure and blood full with red blood cells? I would rather look into myosatol tripyrophosphate, which increases the oxygen carrying capacity of the hemoglobin. It's quite a popular new tropic increases endurance quite a bit. So without increasing your hematocrit, you just allow your hemoglobin to carry a little bit more oxygen. And you should get a performance enhancing benefit out of that as well, without actually increasing your risk. So that's something I'll experiment with shortly that becomes available through one of my affiliates ITPP. And it seems to be a basically no brainer. And if I notice a tremendous boost out of that, then I might drink an X-Cruise or something experiment with some EPO. But it's again, it's very low on the priority list. Just all the guys that I talked about it, or I heard talk about EPO said that there was a game changer for them. And these were all pretty big guys. So look at what we've all done our research and reading into how it was utilized with cyclists and a team who are basically at different points throughout even the night taking blood samples to see where the RBC count is and whether it's a go or no go for the next day's event to utilize it. So it's all these teams got their own private doctor, man. We might be able to meet some of them at the seminar. And no respectful sort of amateur bodybuilders can have a medical team coming in and doing a blood draw every few hours. Maybe one nurse one nurse on standby at one of the shows. That's about it with some paramedics with oxygen. That's about it. I remember like if you want to use EPO, you need to do a CT scan. It's if you have a coronary artery disease or black belt up, you need to do an MRI to make sure that the blood flow through your arteries is normal, preferably both with contrast. And then you need to make sure that you check your hemoglobin and the matriculate every two weeks. You have one of those at home hemoglobin meters. Stay hydrated all the time. There's so much nuance that goes into it and how many guys are willing to do that. So let's put it into be determined. TB to be determined. TBD, EPO. All right. Then the next one is GHK copper and GHK is a little bit of an anti-aging drug. Might help with hair growth. Might help with gray hairs. I found that it works for spiking weaker body parts regarding site enhancement, but the post injection pain. My fucking God. Like I was able to grow my tricep. I got like a severe sweep. This used to be flat. Then I started micro dosing GHK copper in there for localized collagen synthesis. I had to do a boatload of deep tissue massage therapy and I actually got a sweep. I tried to do the same on my tear drop on my legs, but that wasn't really effective. So was it worth the pain? In hindsight, probably not. But that's the only real practical application I see for it for localized collagen synthesis at the site of administration, which does work. Which does work. Is it worth the pain? Probably not. What is your experience, guys, GHK copper? I used to topically for hair. Didn't do anything for me. I can tell. My drug use outdid the GHK copper. I mean, when it's a work through the thalamus, right? It's just supporting that organ that just ages. No, that's TB-500. I thought the GHK did as well. Really? Okay. Yeah, that's right. I could be wrong. Okay. That was my understanding. That's the only way I've ever used it as a topical thing from a compound pharmacy. Did you notice a skin-thinning effect or skin-thickening effect? There's nothing except a thinning of my wallet. Yeah, okay. So that's after your certified. If it lowers your wallet without any results, it's after you. I mean, that was for me. Perhaps. I mean, you got right. You grew two inches on your triceps from using it. Yeah. Well, two inches is a little bit generous. But I would say I got more. It's sweeping. Yeah, it's sweeping. But I grew the sweep of mine from growth hormone. So you can just go back to growth hormone. Exactly. Which also stimulates collagen. Exactly. It's a drug. Obviously. It's kind of amazing all the things that growth hormone does on its own. It is. All roads lead back to growth hormone. And it's that simple. Yeah. Dean. I've never used it from a muscle-baling perspective. Like I do say as a good source of copper for a... And most bodybuilders are copper deficient when we sort of look at the balance of their minerals versus iron and zinc. So yeah, it can be a useful way of getting in. Bioactive copper. Is that from too much zinc intake in bodybuilders? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So there's a nice... I guess there's when you look at the metalloproteins that carry the metals, zinc, iron and copper all sort of work off the same sort of toyo protein that carries them through the body to quite similar sort of molecular shape. GHK-2. Topically I found it's very useful for skin health. Like topical collagen synthesis where you apply it on your forehead or wherever. I did put it into... I had a callus on my knee for years that wouldn't go away. And I started to put GHK-2 with an insulin pin into the callus. And I started to dissolve the callus from the inside out. Now, it was like you said with your choice up. Quite painful when you put it into like the cap of your knee into the skin there. But it must have... The callus skin must have regenerated obviously the lower dermal layers to push the callus out because it was able to basically pump us away. The sort of hardened skin off the knee. So that's something I found very useful at the GHK-2. So it seems like you can find some sort of obscure use for it. And that's the only use for it. So we can do site enhancement and removing calluses. Yeah. Equally as painful, you can use like an angle grinder on your callus. It will probably take it off too. Yeah. You've got to weaken it up first. Use some DMSO. Well, anyone who has calluses, another good thing. And I tried it, but it helped. But what sort of push the callus over the edge was the GHK-2. Well, glycolic acid and urea cream basically dissolve your skin. So you just peed on it. All right. Yeah. Well, I'm not going to suggest this. But when I don't kick box and grown up, that was one of the things that's tough for the skin on your feet. Yeah. Well, thank God we have pharmacology for that. All right. OK, so GHK copper, I'm going to put it to eat here. It's not entirely useless. I think for site enhancement in the arms, maybe shoulders, it works. I tried it on the quads. You would have to inject copious amounts. But the pain that you're undergoing almost makes it not worth it. Yeah, I'm still happy with my sweep. That's great. Yeah. That's a big absolute. You know, I'm pretty happy with this. This is where is it? Like this used to be not there. This thing. So I shaped that. Yes, like a BBL for your tricep. Brazilian butt lift with GHK copper. You could just put soap on in there. You have a filler in there. Yeah, I do the PPM a thing. That's permanent. You know, it was worse like because the GHK copper from the collagen synthesis, it's quite potent, but it creates all these filaments. So it's kind of bound up and then you have to use grassland technique. A deep tissue massage therapy to break it up. I don't know what's worse, the injections or the grassland technique. And then my massage therapist is like, what are you putting in there? So I put a GHK copperies like this is like the roughest tissue to work through. And then over the course of a year, I would get these shots like after arm day and the day after because it's one. Most of the, you know, a virtual response in the protein synthesis occurs, right? So you kind of boost that. And then the third day I would do deep tissue massage therapy. And after a year of doing that, I gained quite a bit of size and I still got separation and stuff. But yeah, it was a very painful process. I'm happy I did it, but I wouldn't do it again. It's that same. Yeah, it's that simple. OK, so I'm going to put an ETER not completely useless. But not as good as insulin or generic GH. That's definitely for sure. So just as good as growth hormone secretion. Brings us to the healing peptides, BPC-157 and TB-500. I think both are eight here. I think they're good. Of the peptides, they're probably the two that actually do something. I agree. Yeah. Of the peptides and you could consider them anabolic because they tremendously heal. I hope in the healing process. Now, I've heard guys run this year round. I don't know if you guys know anybody that run TB-500 or BPC-157 year round to help with angiogenesis, reduce inflammation, maybe promote a little bit of recovery and at least tendon and connective tissue health. And guys, if you have experience with running TB-500 or BPC-157 year round, let us know down below. I'd love to hear about it. On paper, it does make sense. And I reviewed all of the studies for BPC-157 or 190 studies. And all five for TB-500. Yeah, because it's extracted from thymus and beta-4. And on thymus and beta-4, there's thousands. So that will be a whole job in itself. But yeah, basically the results of those five studies of TB-500 concluded that they had the same healing capacity as thymus and beta-4. That's why a lot of these compounding pharmacies that are hosts thymus and beta-4 instead of the fragment. But apparently milligram for milligram is exactly the same, even though it's a fragment. So I think they're very promising in the context of healing injuries. What was your experience? I've taken, I'll have it there in the shelf. I've taken oral BPC-157 over the last 15 months straight. Holy moly. So I'll probably see that's with celiac and... So your intestinal tract is a little bit front double bicep when you give it some food. Hell yeah. In combination with lorazotide, and I've done a GI 360 stool analysis there last month, three weeks after the show. And my GI 360 was spotless. So no inflammation. Do anything that I flagged on my GI 360 was a slightly raised beta-glucoronidase, which... Okay. For the most part, can be a good and a bad thing. So I just started to address how obviously feeding my gut more prebiotics, more calcium declucrate to try and overcome that. Were you at the Roman levels elevated? No. No, no. And then I mean even a nuance thing that I started to trial was L-aspatic acid was what I found in the literature to be a beta-glucoronidase inhibitor. Okay. So you can get L-aspatic acid as a dietary supplement. As inhibiting properties on beta-glucoronidase activity in the gut. So we'll see what results come from that. But I've taken oral BPC-157, between 400 to 800 micrograms now since last July. Wow. Without the... Completely reverse aceliacs and all the issues that you had. Yeah, well my gut, the inflammation of my gut. Anytime I've had trace gluten exposure, I've had swelling of my abdomen, but I've had no pain. I had it the two times I've had exposure since last year. Like the one I have on my Instagram, I think it was from January this year. It was just a trace. We got a takeaway from an Indian restaurant. And within a couple of hours, my belly was like, I was nine months pregnant. But I had no pain. And I mean, when I put that down to us, the integrity of the gut was sort of kept intact from taking the peptide. My immune system responded, but I didn't have the same excruciating pain as what I had with other exposures prior to that. So oral BPC-157, very good for intestinal health. I'm running it down myself because I have some intestinal issues of my own. So I will continue that then, because it's good to hear that it just has a building up effect. I'm running 500 micrograms per day with about 500 micrograms of KPV. And it also helps with intestinal health. So I'll continue to run that for a little bit longer because I didn't really notice much of an effect, but I guess it's a slow, right, transitory effect over time. It's one of those ones, I think, like that gluten challenge where you can sort of see whether it's doing the job or not. But I guess maybe at some point, I should do a stop and give myself six or eight weeks break. And if there was ever an exposure during that time, what would be the difference? And touch what I don't get an exposure. But I mean, I've seen nothing but positive benefit from running it last year. Yeah, of course, we've all done the injectable stack of the two of them together for tendonitis or very minor muscle tears. But I guess the caveat here is we're gonna, all roads lead back to growth hormone, BPC-157's main mechanism is up-regulation of growth hormone receptor density. Yeah, true. And you take, when you do injectable BPC-157, part of your protocol should be with growth hormone. Especially if you've got a tendon injury or tendon repair that you're trying to facilitate. Again, putting these things locally, you get some marginal effect locally, but it goes systemic because it's an aqueous based solution that diffuses into your bloodstream. So you don't necessarily have to put it locally. Putting it locally will allow some of it to act there first before diffusing, but the very first protocols of, oh, you have to inject as close to the tendon as possible. You know, not necessarily. Now, the fusion. Do you know useful thing, I guess, from reading into the mechanism of both of them is they both up-regulate and down-regulate angiogenesis. So they're able to put the halt on angiogenesis to certain parts of the body and up-regulate angiogenesis to orders. So when we're looking at, you know, people caveatting potential cancer risk from this angiogenesis, BPC-157 tends to know where to up-regulate blood flow delivery to and where to direct it away from. Ah, hmm. So maybe it has some anti-cancer properties. I remember reading something about this, but it was not very well researched. I made that deep dive. No, it's not. Well, obviously we're looking at animal-based study and the facilities to... There's one retrospective human study on BPC. That's it. But I think eventually we're going to have enough anecdotal and hopefully someone will do a case report, like publish a case report on these peptides when it comes to, you know, we've probably all recommended deutilization of these two peptides alongside growth hormone for post-surgery, post-muscle tear, tendon rupture, et cetera, alongside some other useful things. And we've seen pretty dramatic recovery times where I've had people from consoles come back to me and say, oh, well, the orthopedic surgeon was quite baffled that I was able to move my elbow six months after the surgery, let alone six weeks after the surgery. Yeah, and we hear these stories over and over again. Yeah, we heard it over and over again. Yeah, so I would say that BPC and TB-500 both are A-tier. And again, not as good as growth hormone, but stacked very well together with growth hormone. I still think that they're used as contextual to kind of heal injuries or you have some tendonitis or some inflammation or some gut problems, which is the case that BPC-157 can actually heal that over time. So I can't put it in S-tier, but definitely A-tier. And I know that if I put it any lower than that, we'll get a huge rejection and unfollows. Because like with G-scarper, I think everybody can agree. And growth hormone screed-a-gargles, everybody can agree for us to put it in E-tier. But BPC-157 and TB-500, it healed millions of injuries worldwide. And I think the anecdotal evidence is vast, because when they put that on the article 303A and B, where they limited the compounding pharmacies from prescribing TB-500 to BPC-157, that's what everybody pointed the finger to, like, what the fuck? We need this. It was even on Joe Rogan. And he's been a very big advocate of these kinds of peptides. So what do you guys think? A-tier, higher, lower? A. No, A. I mean, even like you said, the fact that water have now started to place as a banned substance, they know how useful these two compounds are. So again, yeah, I'd agree A. Which is a shame, because it has no shown performance enhancing benefits, but it shortens the time between getting an injury and being back on the field. So if anything, you're handicapping the athletes, not to play more. So you're literally taking good athletes off the competition. Which is, well, that's why the stupid decisions. Don't worry, I made a water prohibit list or a water-approved doping stack as well.  one hour and 40 minutes long, because I put MOTC in the prohibit list, so it got upset, so now I showed them one hour and 40 minutes of options that are not included. Fucking assholes. I think those are all the peptides. I know that Dean had a couple other ones, and we have some time left, but I don't have any experience or real experience with these. So we have epithelon, Fox04, MOTC, I have experience with that, SS31, the bioregulators, Ogens, Allens, Immunoregulators, so maybe we can do the top four at epithelon, Fox04, MOTC and SS31, and then the bioregulators, I think that's more of a discussion point rather than a classification. Yeah. Dean, what's your opinion on epithelon? To be honest, it's one of those ones that it's a bit of a leap of fate when we use it. I'm taking this out, I feel good about my NTAG. I mean, I've personally so far done five courses of the Ukrainian protocol, which is 50 milligrams every six months, and someone said to me, well, is it work? I'm like, I won't know until, you know, 15, 20 years time, and maybe if you do like a telomerase check because you can do one of those where you can see obviously how much telomerase you're expressing and in theory, you can look at the glycolated age of your genetics, which gives you an insight into potential biological age. It's one of those ones that from the research in terms like how it improves circadian rhythm, how it improves pituitary health, improves telomerase, a lot of it is theoretical. It's been utilized by the Russians for at least 30 years now from Cavinson's research, so there must be something thereof. I mean, we only have to look at how old Cavinson was when he died as well. So there's some level of evidence anecdotally towards it being anti-age. But is there a direct study comparing the effects of epithalon versus alcohol poisoning? Because it seems that vodka is like the favorite pastime of people in Russia, which I get. It's cold. There's that's what you do when there's a lot of snow. So I wonder if some of the benefits of epithalon is the kind of offsetting like a terrible lifestyle because it does seem that Russians do enjoy their alcohol. That's why a lot of these new tropics like Srebrolycin, Mildrone, Type-Oxin, Bematel, they've all been studied for alcohol withdrawal and they all have been shown to be effective for alcohol withdrawal. So I'm wondering if there's some overlap with the apithalon studies. I would dive into it myself, but did you notice something like that, Dean, by any chance? I didn't personally look at that sort of level of what you're saying, but I will now and I will have a check. I mean, you know, is it something that you're going to recommend to everyone? Probably not. But I guess for those who are looking at anti-age and how we understand the cell division and you know, your hay flick limit of when you run out of cell divisions, epithalon slowing that down by improving your telomeres. You know, like what we always talk about, the monetary costs to do like either the Ukrainian protocol, which is 50 milligrams or the Russian, which is 100. You're looking at like 280 to maybe $400 every six to eight months. You're banking that investment that in 50 and you know, when you're in your like late 50s, 60s, 65 that all this anti-age and protocol that you've done in your, you know, 30s, 40s, 50s has paid off. It's kind of like a government, government regulated pension. Yeah, you know, it's got to put all my money in a fingers crossed fingers crossed actually payouts by the time I turned 75. You know, it's one of those ones that you can't tell if it's going to work or not. It's just, this is what the research shows. Check your telomeres if you want to sort of a sanity check, maybe after do a baseline 10 more is now and then five years do it again and see what the difference is. And what you're sort of hoping for is to hold maybe your telomeres level as it was five years ago without it sort of declining. It does make sense to do it on paper because we use compounds that induce hyperplasia, right? So division and in the process of hyperplasia, your telomere, telomere shorten. So it does make sense to have some sort of telomeres activity up regulation in place. Whether that's from epithelon or astrochondorut extract or not astragalus extract. Yeah. Astragalus has been shown to upregulate telomeres. I think either or, but then astragalus has the added benefits of helping you with your kidneys. And if you use maybe two, three grams per day, you don't have to make a dose it. But that's also an insurance policy because I still see people have elevated gratin levels, albeit that Cisthenes is in range, although they take astragalus root extract. Now I haven't seen a direct comparison, but from a cost to benefit perspective, I think $800 on epithelon versus maybe $200 on astragalus root extract over the years. Is it the same? Would it be advisable to do both? What do you think? So the part of astragalus that they sort of see the telomere come from is the straggly side four or IV, which from my understanding is in a very, very small amount. Like when we use the actual whole root extract, astragalus I had four, you can obtain by itself, but it is like epithelon. It's very expensive. So yeah, it's I like personally on paper. And like I said, it's not something I say to someone, Oh yeah, you need to do this for anti-age. And because as it stands, like you said, I'm not going to know for 10 years whether what I've done now or not has paid off. If you do have to budget and like an anti-age and stack to do it, then yeah, great. On paper looks great. You're not potentially going to regret spending that money running your Ukraine and our Russian protocol. But if, you know, budget is tight and money is something has to be considered. There's other things on top of it. And growth wrong probably. Yeah. Yeah. And I don't think that has any antibiotic potential that epithelon is purely anti-aging, kind of like taking a rep amycin occasionally. Yeah. When it increases, glue the ion to which you could just take glue the ion. Oh, glue the found. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, so I don't think we can classify epithelon because it's so obscure. Yeah. It's very new. But it is, it is promising to look into if you're financially secure and you're trying to save, get a couple extra life points. Let's see what's next. Fox zero four. I never heard about that until you brought it up. So, Dean, take it away. Fox zero four. You know, it's another one of these anti-age and peptides. But it's more down to cells in essence. So it's one of the mechanisms I'm sure you read is it's able to basically hunt out senescent cells and I never heard about it until you said me. Yes. And your name with so you're sort of going around and killing off the zombie cells, which, you know, from an anti-age and perspective can be useful because what we sort of understand from even the oxidative stress models is once a cell becomes senescent. So basically senescence is where you reach the end of cellular division for a particular cell. So it's basically it's not either it is alive, but it's not technically alive and it's not technically dead. So the best example would be a gray hair. You've lost the melanin producing cells of the hair, but the hair still able to grow. So what we find then is the senescent cells can produce sasps, which are like these signaling molecules that trigger off senescence in neighboring cells. And that's sort of why when you have one gray hair in your beard, you end up with a patch because tuner cells around a start to age as a consequence of the sasps being produced. So when we look at, you know, how can we reverse potential age in other cell, we can allow the body to determine that that cell has senesced and to remove or eliminate it from the body and encourage a new cell to grow in its place. So it's some sort of apoptotic instructor? That would be pretty much a basic way of explaining it. So Foxo is one of those ones that can instruct senescent cells to undergo apoptosis and die basically. Well, the PEPTA we're talking about it's not actually Foxo 4, it's an antagonist of Foxo 4, correct? Correct. Is the fork head box, which is the group of those genes, do what he's saying they basically kill cells, you see them in HIV, they get elevated and they cause cell mass loss. So this is a drug that basically stops Foxo 4 from working because you see it, at least I know with testosterone. So it's basically you find Foxo 4 present in the nucleus of cells in the testicles of men who are hyperglomadal, right? And it's in the cytoplasm of men who are not hyperglomadal. So you're preventing it from translocating to the nucleus, basically killing it off. But you're not actually injecting Foxo 4, your injection then stops it. Is it then some sort of decoy receptor where it binds up all the Foxo 4 rendering it inactive? I don't know the chemistry, James, you know anything more about it. I'm just guessing because you wouldn't want fork head box genes expressed per se. No. So as far as I know, Foxo 4, the actual peptide that is used is a modified version of Foxo 4. And then it's basically going in and doing that. It's a serum basically, but for fork head box. Yeah. For my understanding, it's still in early preclinical stage research. So again, it's one of these really gray area peptides. But from a on paper mechanistic perspective, like epitalon improving your telomeres, you now have a potential peptide that can instruct senescent cells to undergo apoptosis when really, you know, they're one of the key drivers of oxidative stress in our body. All right. Looks promising. Yeah. Let's keep our eye on it. I'll put it on my to-do list. We just very long. So right now we can classify that as an anabolic. MOTC though, I think we can classify as an anabolic because it upregulates ATP synthesis by kind of, you know, providing nutrients for the mitochondria. Of course, MOTC is made a comeback thanks to your stack, Dean, the SLU and the MOTC and the methylene blue stack, which is now being run by many a bodybuilder to a great dismay and pleasure. So MOTC, I can classify this A tier also because it's been added to the water prohibited list so I know that it was. Let's do something. Yeah. And I found that so recently I got a 10 milligram vial and I started micro dosing it per day instead of doing one shot where you might get an allergic reaction. Some people get terrible anaphylactic shock even from it. They reconstituted and injected too fast. So some people get really get an adverse reaction, but I've been doing one milligram on workout days with a stack of methylene blue and SLU. And my God, it's great. Energy wise. Now, how much that translates into anabolism? I'm not entirely sure. But since the mitochondrial efficiency is so improved, do you expect some sort of anabolism out of it? Dean, maybe? I mean, do you decide to it without getting too, like, I guess, nerdy is if your mitochondria are more efficient and you're turning over ATP at a higher rate in terms of them and you carry over to your training performance and your ability to produce potential force over a period of time. So obviously, you're going to run into a case where when you're training, your ATP pool diminishes and then your, you know, your phosphocreaty insistent or the phosphogen system kicks in. In theory, you might get an extra rep or two before the phosphogen system has to take over. So again, it's not maybe directly anabolic, but it's improving the efficiency of the energy powerhouse is better fuel in your training. So, you know, as a direct cascade, yeah, there is some level of anabolism coming from them without them being directly anabolic. So it's basically like creatine. Kind of. We take over after creatine ran out. Yeah. And isn't there a decrease in mitochondrial density in bodybuilders versus in aerobic athletes you'd see an increase? Yeah. So it wouldn't be directly anabolic, right? Because it kind of do the opposite thing, but if it gets you, it allows you to increase your work capacity, then it could somehow contribute to that. That's what I noticed from this, from the stack of. Probably just your condom. Yeah. So you started running. You started running this stack also? Me? No, no, I never used it. I don't, I've honestly never used any of these obscure things. I've never even used BPC. Really? I have a bottle in my fridge. I gave my wife the option when I, her knees, the cartilage in her knees was not great. And I gave her the option of growth hormone for BPC and I left it up to her and she had me list the benefits above and she said, well, let's do the G H and so she's been on the G H fixed the knees. So the bottle of BPC is unopened. Oh, road. I've never, not the one I've never been injured in training for 37 years. I've never hurt myself. Oh my God. Amazing. So she trained with me one time. I'll get you injured. You hurt me. So I don't, I've never had a use for it. Okay. And what about this, this mitochondrial stuff like we never used anything about it? Never used anything. Did we spark your interest through your like? Yeah, it's interesting. I just, I just never had much to be used for any of it. It's good, man. So who knows? I'm not against it. I really like MOTC and SLU and methylene blue. I think that's a life changing stack. Yeah. I think that's a, that was like the missing ingredients or to my steroid cycle. Yeah. I think what, like why we keep coming back to like with my preptisher just showed me the next level of being able to get down to that low body fat. But once you're mitochondria, just running so efficiently, nothing suffers about mentally and physically. And, you know, even now currently my body fat, even on what seven KG up on my stageway, I'm pretty much near contest conditions still. Like I haven't gotten fat and I'm eating 4,800 calories on training days now and rest. Yeah, that's what we're eating also. Rest days I'm at 3,700. So, I mean, even from a body fat perspective with the mitochondria being more efficient, I just haven't gotten fat post show with all the food I've been eating. Yeah. So that's what I noticed also. So after that initial fat gain from the United States, eating cheesecakes or whatever, that's why I gained most of my fat and now I'm eating like twice as much literally. I'm eating about 4,500, 4,800, depending on the day. And I'm getting leaner. I'm recomping. It's, you know, so weird. Okay. My PD intake increased a little bit. Maybe the growth hormone high dose helps with that. And being more regimented obviously than walking around the United States and free-styling the meals. But yeah, I feel that I've never recompped on close to 5,000 calories. It's pretty insane. And that's what most people tell that SLU and the mitochondrial upregulation really prevents fat gain during the offseason. Yeah. And that's of course a game changer because the leaner you could start prepping, the shorter prep is and the more muscle mass you can retain because you're less tired at the end. Yeah. You know, that's the hard part. Like most guys just fade away at the end because they've been dieting for 20 weeks. We never adjusted my calories once during the whole prep. Fannyton had more refeeds, like I kept saying. So the actual efficiency of the system improved as prepped went on as opposed to, for most, it's actually you're pulling calories away because of, again, we're coming probably back to mitochondrial efficiency drops. So their ability to burn fat or do you just don't have enough mitochondria to support all these processes? So I think the more we start educating on this now, the condition we're going to see what bigger guys might improve again. Well, I mean, it was kind of apparent that this year's Olympia. So if you can lead the way, then hopefully, you know, the Miss Olympia quality and all the classic quality can improve. We'll never get credit for it, but that's all right. That's all right. I don't listen to the Anabolic Ground Table at all. Sure you don't. Okay. So we'll revisit MOTC a little bit more when we discuss the fat burners, but I'm just going to put an eight here because it does provide some sort of performance enhancing benefits, which is more than you would be able to say from MK-677 or insulin or growth from unscreted drugs, just based on my personal experience. I think it's close to pharma GH and Incolex. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, it really keeps the day going. SS3-1, now I did some research on that, also helps with mitochondrial efficiency and biogenesis, but it's significantly more expensive and you need to run a reasonably high dose. So I ran five milligrams SS3-1 for about a week or two, and then my wallet was literally crying. And then I didn't really notice much of a difference on top of the mitochondrial stuff that I was running. Now this is a year ago before the SLUPP332 and the methylene blow in the MOTC. At that time I was running MOTC at the same time, so maybe that negated the effect. Dean, do you have any experience with SS3-1? I do. Like you have done five milligrams, five days per week for three weeks in a row. But that's with everything else in play like MOTC, SLU, methylene. Did I notice a massive benefit? I can't really say. No, no. Without sort of maybe if you tracked some blood work markers to sort of look at rates of oxidative stress, would you see something reduced or even increase with the SS3-1? Because obviously we've discussed that SS3-1 being something that directly plays into mitochondrial biogenesis, so you actually improved the density of the mitochondria, would actually increase your oxidative stress risk by having more mitochondria. So did I notice anything massive from it? I can't really say. It's like an astray face overnight, which indicates like oxidative stress. I almost got me a dose in the master's drone that looked like astrays. But of course if you're running like injectable glutathione and methylene blue that you kind of mitigate the oxidative stress. For me, when I tried it on top of everything else, because obviously we have this tried and tested protocol that you're like, I'm a screen is so I'm going to keep this in play. Did it do anything beyond what the others were doing? I couldn't say that I had a huge increase in energy or a huge increase in training and performance. So research looks promising for if you have massive amounts of oxidative stress with like organ issues, but as a sort of day to day runner or something that you'd consider, you know, performance and answering, I think there's other options. I think it's good pre-surgery. I talked to several surgeons that use a pre-surgery to upregulate mitochondrial function and density. So in clients with low mitochondria, this seems to be the one that raises the mitochondrial function quite dramatically over the course of a week. Then they do surgery and then with all this ATP production, the outcome of the surgery is better than without it. And that's extensive surgery with stem cells and transfusions and bone marrow and all that shit. So I think it has some practical applications there, but what you see with methylene blue, you act that in and you notice an immediate effect. Same with SLU, it takes a couple days, but after a week of continuous use, you notice like, oh, my energy levels are better and my fat loss is improving and my performance is improving. And same with MOTC, it's almost immediate. But with the SS31, I didn't notice any dramatic effect, not on day one, not on day 14. I wanted to try it as an IV, like what the research says, and do 25 milligrams as an IV, but I've yet to get Morgan to do it. It's a great area. You know, it's the purity. You know, am I going to see anything from it? And it's interesting, like we've discussed, but I think we've sort of nailed the tree that I tried and tested that. I'm not going to move away from it. Not based on anyway, because obviously we see in my bloods, I don't my blood work whenever it was six weeks, Paul Shown was pretty much as good as would be expected. And noting on the blood work showed anything towards running SLU since January as SLU causing any problems. It seems to have no effect on blood work. No effect. So that's good to know for the effect that you get out of it. It's rare. Most of the stuff that really works also has an effect near blood work. You've got a moral decision. Yeah. Okay, so let's go over the tier list to kind of confirm and see if we want to make some changes in S tier. The absolute overpowered drugs are pharma growth hormone and Incral X, which is pharmaceutical age of one in a tier. We got BPC-157 TB-500 and Mod C in B tier. We have nothing, but in C tier, we have generic GH on par with MK-677 D tier insulin. Again, it could be could be a or B tier, but it that's only for the highest of the highest levels. And again, if you've accessed Incral X, no need. Ejectable screening growth hormone screening, GXK copper, I got an E tier. And then the heartbreaker F tier, which is going to lead to all of the negative comments and the drama and the unsubscribes. IGF on alert three, IGF on desk, mechanical growth factor, any kind of follow statin, a zero, 31 a zero, a three. And then to be determined, EPO, because it does look intriguing. The anecdotal reports are astounding, but I'm a little bit hesitant to experiment on it myself. Anything would like to change anything that we forgot any anabolic peptide that we overlooked. Not that I'm aware of. No, right? Not that I could think of. Okay. Well, that brings us on about a ground table to close next time. We'll design some cycles from start to finish. And then the month after that, we'll start classifying the fat burners, which 100% will give us 100,000 views. Yeah, because every time I make a video about fat burners. Oh, man, views fly. Nobody cares about being big anymore. I want to be shredded. Shredded. Shredded. All right, guys, anything you want to contribute for this episode, anything that we should discuss? No, I think we... Kurt, do you want to do a quick tangent about the growth and the calories? Just, yeah, I mean, we could touch on it. It probably warrants a whole video. The food, right? Energy is not the driving force in muscle growth. There is an energy requirement during protein translation, but it's not, you know, eating more does not yield more muscle. Right? And we see that with IGF and GH bypass that whole MTOR pathway by activating and showing the body that there's energy. Anyway, so in theory, if you're using Ankerlux or good growth hormone, you could technically grow in a deficit because your body is just an energy. Yeah, and recomp. Yeah, because you take the fatty acids from the adipose tissue and really translate that into new cell membranes. Yeah, so, you know, and of course you use that for fatty acid oxidation. I think where this growth in a caloric surplus comes from is in a natural state. And then of course, you know, the enhanced body butters would kind of adopt this. But I've proven to everybody that I gained what, 30 kilos, 20 kilos of muscle in a deficit. Yeah, that's a lot of muscle memory, but it's still real fucking muscle, you know. I gained all my size, some stronger pounds with never going above single to the body fat. So, yeah, it probably not needed to overeat. No. Now, do you feel that you grow better if you're in a select caloric surplus because it allows you to train harder? No, use more drugs. Curds. No, I mean, I think two goals. I'm not in a deficit per se, but I don't think that. I mean, do you really feel like you can train harder when you're fat? I'm not talking about fat, but being in a caloric surplus. So I came from like 2800 calories and I ramped it up to 4.5. And did your training improve? Yeah, I got significantly stronger. Okay. I mean, my workout is surrounded by most of my carbs are very heavy before, during and after. Yeah. So I'm still getting the benefit from that. I just don't do as much later. Yeah, so you have to interrupt pre-imposed, right? Yeah. And how many carbs are we talking about? It depends. When I was growing, there was a lot of carbs, 600 to, at a very short period of time, I did up to 2000 grams of carbs. Wow. Usually about 1000 grams of carbs a day. And the majority of it pre-post and... If you want to get leaner, you dial back the carbohydrates. That's all I do. It's the only variable I play with. My fat stays low all the time. My proteins is about the same. Yeah. So your calories do fluctuate a little bit? Yeah, now I'm closer to maintenance. We're not interested in growing. Yeah. And we're talking about what, 500 to 300 calorie fluctuation? At the most, yeah. So my maintenance is, last time I checked, it was closer to 5500. So I still feed like an asshole to maintain. Oh, wow. You saw me eat at a restaurant. Yeah. Yeah. Good. I love it. Yeah, so I don't generally post my food because I think it makes people upset that I can eat like that. Yeah. Yeah, but you've got to live it to understand it. The funny thing is, metabolism seems to be quite adaptive. So if you slow your ramp of your calories and training intensity and drugs alongside of it, then at one point you just hit this point where you recomb, even if you eat a boatload of food because the metabolism has increased so much. I just think that a lot of people misunderstand this caloric adjustment by making 500 to 1000. Yeah, it's too big of a jump. It's too much of a jump, but that's how you get fat or that's how you get flat. You're like, I'm going to go from 5,000 to 2,500 and start cutting. No. The small increments. Yeah, small. And usually 10% works, right? Yeah. 5,000 to 4,500 or maybe even 4,000.  1,700 small adjustments to keep the metabolism going and keep your body burning as it should be, whereas these crazy adjustments up and down, that's where the problems start. And it's not maintainable. The guys that I know that bring their calories way low to try to lose fat, how long do they maintain that diet for? Then they're cheating on it all the time anyway, and then what's the good? So I did it for three years, low calories, but then I would have a refeed in the weekend, then I realized after the United States that metabolism for my size is not where it should be, so I decided to do a hard reset. And now I'm in a good position again when I'm recovering, or I'm training licks twice a week, chest twice a week, I have a boatload of energy, and so it's all new founded for me because I was calorically restricting for such a long time, trying to stay lean for social media. And now I'm staying just as lean on double the calories. Yeah, it'll backfire eventually right if you died too long. Yeah. You see that when I was, I don't generally coach women, but I was, I'm helping a client coach a bikini athlete and the same thing she's been dieting since last January. So she's on a thousand calories now going into show way too low because her metabolism tanked. And the funny thing is, so I gained all this size right from 92 kilos to let's say 110 I'm 2,800, 2,500 calories. And now I almost doubled my calories and I gained five extra kilos. So, but the recovery is 10 times better. All right, so now I'm pushing against my limit of 120 kilos where I'd really have to ramp up the calories. So I think that growth in calories are not linear. No, the original relationship, I just meant it's not this vast like the more you eat the bigger you're going to grow. Yeah, you'll scale more, but that's not what you're looking for. Yeah, and it's like the at one point you need to eat so much food just to sustain your size. And that's where a lot of guys hit that wall because you're eating so much food that physically you can't eat anymore. And then you really have to leverage the pharmacology or sleep 16 hours per day or use a better blocker to reduce your heart rate, something like that. Yes, I think a lot of people really misunderstood the calories that it's some sort of linear progression. But in the end, it's not really the case. And I think the small adjustments, that's where the secret is to kind of assess how the progress is going energy wise, training wise, body composition wise, and then make a small change of 200 calories or 10% based on your total and then take it from there, which is hard. But that's why we have coaches. I guess where it gets blurred in terms of like what curts I would body, weight, we're looking to put on lean tissue as opposed to body mass. So obviously, the more you eat, the further you get, the heavier you get, but not necessarily how much more muscle tissue put on. So and then at the end of the day is body billers, the more fat that goes on the more you have to diet off and the more you have to potentially suffer or die longer or, you know, there's so many variables that play into that. That. Yeah, I agree that there is a ceiling towards food. Similar to like when you're dieting, someone like for me, whenever I coached, you know, people to the stage, I'd never let calories go below like 12 calories per pound. You know, we've seen people go as low as nine, eight or nine calories per pound. 12 to 13. Knowing that 15 calories per pound is roughly maintenance. 12, like Kurt said, you just got a small little deficit and then play off the anchor of activity if you need to create a deficit. But then you decide with them. I've come to, you know, coming back to the mitochondria, you get them to operate better. You've got a better playing field towards how much food, your recovery activity, etc. So I think even when you're pushing someone in like a growing phase, like 15 being maintenance, 18 being your surplus, 20 if you're really pushing it. And, you know, at the end of the day, what is the rate limiting factor to putting on your tissue? If your protein intake is staying the same, your consistently recovering McLeod, it's either the training stimulus or the recovery, which you circumvent with what Kurt said, with more drugs. Yep. What? And the actual rate limit, right? It's like I said before, is how many stem cells you have. That's why it also goes down to age. True. It's, you know, there are many, many stops before that point that could be rate limit someone's genetics, where you have 300 some on genes that control this stuff. 88, 70, 77 genes directly controlled by steroids. You have so many things that could go wrong before you even get to the stem cell thing. But if everything is right, if the stem cells are the ultimate rate limit, not the energy source. Yeah. Micro-intrudes preventing you from training at your highest capacity. Yeah. Yeah. I'm saying in a vacuum, it would be the stem cells. I don't think most people get there, to be honest. They're not in a vacuum. They're not in a vacuum, exactly. All right, let's leave it there. Next week or next month, we'll do a cycle, start to finish. We'll get a good IVP pro on the panel. To finish cross, he's going to agree, but I'm sure he will. And then we'll guide everybody through the ideal scenario of picking your drugs and ending up on the Olympia stage. And of course, adjusting training, nutrition, supplementation along the way with some blood work advice. Might be a three hour podcast, but let's put our heads together and make it happen. Because that will be, I think, the biggest groundbreaking podcast for the next generation of thinking about becoming IVP pros. So they can do it right from the start, without making all the mistakes that us four have made along the way. Yeah, so let's leave it there. Guys, this was great. Dean, I hope to see you very, very soon. And I'll see you in a couple of months at the R&B classic. That's for sure. That's for sure. Any parting words for this podcast? No, it's a pleasure as always. Yeah, thank you for. Thanks for having us. As much as much controversy as we strive up with our tier lists, they're always quite fun. Yeah, you see it in the comments on Instagram, but we do it to entertain. Are you guys not entertained? Guys, you can find all the social media links of Kurt and Dean down below. Give them a follow, give them a subscribe, and we'll be back next month with a vengeance. And then if you're upset now, you can be a whole lot more upset next month. Peace out, guys.

=== FILE: Safest & Best Mots-C Dosing Protocols (Mitochondrial Performance Enhancing Drug) Unlimited Energy [5NP1sxkFIg8].txt ===

 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl Welcome to the Mod C Deep Dive where ATP production will become infinite. Vigorous thief here. Okay, let's dive into Mod C, a 16 amino acid mitochondrial derived polypeptide, which full name is mitochondrial open reading frame of the 12SR RNA type C, which honestly is a mouthful. So let's stick with Mod C going forward. Mod C is primarily produced in the mitochondria where it remains under resting conditions. It's released into the human body under metabolic stress and oxidative stress, vigorous strenuous exercise for example, where it then signals the cells of the human body to produce nutrients the mitochondria can utilize for cellular energy metabolism. Mod C is primarily involved in glucose metabolism, but it also regulates fatty acid metabolism. Since cellular mitochondrial concentrations and mitochondrial function generally declines with age, so does Mod C secretion, which reduces overall energy levels. And while Mod C has been investigated in various medical conditions, mostly revolving around obesity or type 2 diabetes, all of this data is coming from animal models. Mod C has yet to reach clinical trials. It's never been investigated in human subjects. And when you go through other clinical trials, you see that they measure Mod C and the changes Mod C concentrations, whether that's in plasma or within cells, but that's also in the context of type 2 diabetes. So for this deep dive, very little to go with. Only animal models, unfortunately, but we'll dive into the production of healthy humans regarding their Mod C concentrations in cells and in plasma a little bit when we get to the evidence-based unique characteristics. So you know how much Mod C you could potentially produce by yourself. Unfortunately, this year Mod C was added to the World Anti-Doping Agency prohibited list of 2025, obviously. Now, that means that it works in human subjects, otherwise they wouldn't prohibit it in particular sports. And it also means that I got to work and made a waterproof doping stack for you guys, offering you like 400 alternatives, which are not included in the prohibited list of 2025. If you haven't watched that video, you should give it a watch. And not only that, the prescription of Mod C through USA-based compounding pharmacies was restricted on September 29th, 2023 as part of Section 503A of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, citing that compounded drugs containing Mod C may pose a significant risk for immunogenity for certain routes of administration and may have complexities with regards to peptide-related impurities and active pharmaceutical ingredient characterization. The Food and Drug Administration has not identified any human exposure data on drug products containing Mod C administered via any route of administration. The Food and Drug Administration lacks important information regarding any safety issues raised with Mod C, including whether it could cause harm if administered to humans. And this is all true. So, we have to agree with this statement. The scientific evidence regarding endogenous Mod C is already reasonably thin and regarding exogenous Mod C administrations in human subjects non-existent. So, we have to go with the anecdotal experience of people using Mod C in various scenarios. And yes, reaction, negative reactions, post-injection pain or irritation or that kind of stuff at the site of administration at various dosage protocols is very, very common. An anaphylactic shock is even reported in various case reports. So, keep this in mind, right? Generally, Mod C should not be able to be prescribed because it's not an FDA-approved medication and it will probably never become an FDA-approved medication because Mod C might be so effective regarding energy levels, glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, and fatty acid metabolism that a lot of other medications might become obsolete. So, let's dive into it, shall we? And to drive that point homewards a little bit, this study performed by Zing et al, published on January 25, 2023, titled Mod C, a Promising Mitochondrial-Derived Peptide for Therapeutic Exploration, describes just that. Mod C might offer benefits from mitochondrial-impaired diseases like diabetes, obesity, or general aging. And it could also have applications for kidney disease, cardiovascular disease, insulin resistance, and inflammation. For all of these diseases, there's a boatload of alternative medications already available, and it might mean that Mod C is superior to a certain extent and replaces all of these medications entirely, right? So, clinical trials, it's probably not in the best interest of the FDA or the medical field as a whole because, oh, Mod C produced that endocrinously, and why should we give you an endocrinous hormone like growth hormone, testosterone, etc., when we can give you medications instead? Bodybuilders in the fitness community generally use Mod C during a cutting phase to improve fat loss and keep energy levels sustained. When caloric intake is significantly restricted towards the end, many bodybuilders report that Mod C, especially in combination with methylene blue, SLU-PP332, and other mitochondrial function support aids, really keeps their energy levels going, sustains their cognition, and allows them to work at a normal capacity without feeling brain fog, especially towards the tail end of a cutting phase or bodybuilding contest. And the longevity community generally uses Mod C for anti-aging and longevity benefits, obviously, keeping mitochondrial function upregulated for sufficient ATP synthesis and overall health purposes, even though the scientific evidence is not really for Mod C as a longevity aid, because, again, it's all stemming from animal models, and how much can you extrapolate from animal models regarding longevity when these animals generally don't live very long? Before we really get into it, there's one clinical trial I want to highlight performed with CB4211, which is an analog of Mod C, where they investigated the effects on healthy, non-obese subjects and subjects with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease at unknown dosages by subcutaneous injections for up to 28 days. Unfortunately, even though this clinical trial is marked as completed, I can't find the results posted anywhere, but that's okay. CB4211 isn't available anywhere either, and all of the gray area peptide websites that carry Mod C are a plenty. So even though there might be a medication in the future dropping the markets with Mod C-like effects, that remains to be seen. It's not available anywhere. So I'll keep you guys updated. If CB4211 becomes available and we can give it a test run comparing CB4211 to Mod C and see which one is more efficacious and which one is more cost effective. But let's focus on Mod C going forward because that's the mitochondrial peptide that we can actually get and use. So let's skip over the clinical trials in the FDA-approved medical applications because there are none and proceed right into the evidence-based unique characteristics of Mod C, which again, no human subjects, no studies, no human clinical trials anywhere to be found. So that means we have to dubiously extrapolate from the animal models to see what kind of benefits we could potentially expect by various dosages of Mod C administrations. Serum concentrations in children and adults are between 150 picograms to 580 nanograms per milliliter. And in adults, that's between, let's say, 46 to 220 nanograms per milliliter. But on average, humans have a serum concentration of approximately 200 nanograms per milliliter. Mod C has a concentration-dependent correlation up to 1,200 milligrams per milliliter with maximum force and average power output during interval counter-movement, jump tests, stemming from human subjects. And this same study showed that there's a concentration-dependent correlation up to 1,100 milligrams per milliliter with total muscle mass, again, stemming from human subjects. Now, I'm well aware that I just mentioned that in adult humans, a normal concentration, an average concentration of Mod C in the bloodstream is 200 nanograms per milliliter. And here they mention up to 1,200 milligrams per milliliter. And I have no explanation for that. Is that a difference in testing parameters between the various studies using a liquid chromatography, time-to-mass spectrometry, or some other testing parameter like Elysia or Eclia? I'm not entirely sure. I really don't know, right? I don't have an explanation. It's indeed a 2.5 to 6 times million-fold difference. And besides the testing parameters, I really don't have an explanation for it. This is what's reported in scientific evidence. There might be some discrepancy there. And even if both of them were, let's say, nanograms per milliliter or milligrams per milliliter, then I would expect a 5, 6 times fold increase compared to baseline Mod C levels when comparing that to, well, the concentration-dependent correlation with muscle mass and this particular interval countermovement jump test, which would make more sense, not a 5 million times increase or 6 million times increase. But, hey, this is scientific evidence. This is what we have to work with. All citations, as usual, are posted down below in case you want to do your own comparison and Mod C analysis. And then let me know what you think of these particular results. I found it very confusing, to be honest. But this is what we have to work with. And the results of this study look a little bit more reasonable. Mod C increased by 150 to 160% approximately in serum during high-intensity interval cycling exercise and by almost 1,200% within skeletal muscle for over 4 hours following exercise, again, in human subjects. So this is all related to endogenous Mod C production. Again, Mod C is being stored in the mitochondria and then being released under metabolic stress or oxidative stress. So if you want your Mod C levels to increase, you don't want to spend money on gray area peptide websites and start injecting Mod C, then all you need to do is wind sprints or heavy squats or vigorous strenuous exercise, and you might get up to 1,200% increase of Mod C levels within skeletal muscle for 4 hours post-workout. But if you're now so big that you suffer from sleep apnea, then it's good to know that Mod C decreases by 66.9% to 79.7% through insulin resistance in cases of mild to severe obstructive sleep apnea observed in humans. So if you feel that you don't have energy levels and you have sleep apnea, which you can self-diagnose with a video I made about self-diagnosis at home, if you suspect that you have sleep apnea and you don't have a partner to kick you basically in the back all night long because you're snoring so loud, so you can self-diagnose with that video using a laptop and just filming yourself over the night and looking for the peaks in the audio track regarding breathing problems like where you're snoring very loud or you're gasping for air. You can do it all by yourself at home and then find a way to purchase a CPAP machine because a, let's say, 67% to 80% decrease in Mod C levels when you suffer from sleep apnea are obviously going to make you very tired during the day and not improve your sleep quality at night. Mod C decreases in patients with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, sarcopenia in peritonal dialysis patients, vascular endothelial dysfunction by 6.5% to 20.3% in obesity, so don't get fat, by 11% to 21% in the elderly, don't get old, easier said than done. I'm fighting it every single day. By 31% in coronary artery disease and by 15.7% to 57.5% in chronic kidney disease. Bottom line is here, take care of yourself. Don't get fat. Don't get type 2 diabetes. Don't get cardiovascular disease or chronic kidney disease and your mitochondria should function as they should. Later on, you can decide to upregulate mitochondrial function and biogenesis with the exogenous Mod C administration and take your energy levels to the next level. But again, if you don't treat yourself well, it doesn't matter how much Mod C you use, energy will never be as good as you would otherwise observe when you're healthy. Mod C decreases by approximately 55% in the bloodstream and approximately 10% in the brain, 5% in the heart, 70% in skeletal muscle, yeah, that much, and 40% in the testes during fasting stemming from an animal model using mice of an unknown time frame. So I'm not entirely sure if that's one day fasting or one week fasting. I couldn't piece that together in the scientific evidence. Unfortunately, still, fasting is not good for Mod C production, even though Mod C production after fasting generally goes up because, well, obviously, you're consuming food again. And in that sense, the nutrients that the mitochondria require for cellular energy metabolism comes up again. Mod C signaling is restored to baseline parameters. Mod C improves physical capacity, motor coordination, but not grip strength. And again, grip strength is a sign of longevity shown in human subjects and various animal models. So if grip strength doesn't improve, then longevity outcome might not improve either. That's performed in an animal model using mice observed at 5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for two weeks consecutively, which translates to 0.41 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily. For humans, I feel that intraperitonal administration into the abdomen and intramuscular injections anywhere in the skeletal muscle all over the body is reasonably comparable regarding the release of the injection depot. But that would mean 41 milligrams daily for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder. That dose would put you on the floor with anaphylactic shock if you inject 41 milligrams Mod C intramuscularly. Mod C improves insulin sensitivity and physical capacity, stemming from an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet. And this effect was observed at 5 milligrams to 50 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for seven to 10 days. And again, that translates to 41 milligrams to 122 milligrams for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder. That dose, honestly, dude, that dose will make you go nuclear like a kira. Mod C upregulates peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha expression in skeletal muscle stemming from an in vitro study using contractile myotube C2, C12 mouse myoblast cells, which basically means improved mitochondrial biogenesis. But this also means that Mod C has potential synergistic effects with cardirin, telmosartan, glucophage, Icar, resveratrol, omega-3 fatty acids, caffeine, epicateogen, and nitric oxide boosting supplements, which all have various effects on peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha expression themselves. And in this study, we're going to compare exogenous Mod C administrations to actual treadmill exercise, where Mod C secretion goes up due to metabolic stress and oxidative stress. It was shown that with treadmill exercise, there was comparable peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha expression, comparable glucose transporter 4 expression, comparable serum Mod C concentrations, and comparable skeletal muscle Mod C concentrations, comparing treadmill exercise versus 0.5 milligrams Mod C per 1 kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for 8 weeks consecutively. So a treadmill exercise gives you the exact same amount of interstellar Mod C secretion, as well, you can extrapolate that to the human equivalent dose, at 0.04 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans, which translates to 4 milligrams Mod C intramuscularly daily for 100 kilogram bodybuilder, which are dosages that are not unheard of. This means comparing treadmill exercise to Mod C at this particular dosage range means that Mod C is basically an exercise memetic. If you extrapolate that in the other direction, right, comparing treadmill exercise to exogenous Mod C administration, if we flip that around, you administer Mod C and you get an exercise-like effect, which would otherwise increase your Mod C levels. Again, it's way cheaper just to do some treadmill exercise to increase your Mod C levels. But this does confirm that Mod C is an exercise memetic, similar to how SLU PP332 was proven in animal models to be an exercise memetic. So imagine if you combine vigorous exercise with SLU PP332 and Mod C. Mod C increases ICAR concentrations by approximately 2,000%. Yes, I had to do a double check on that. It's confirmed. I read this study three times just to make sure. Mod C increases ICAR concentrations by approximately 2,000% and promotes fatty acid oxidation and carnitine shuttling into the mitochondria. And it increases glucose uptake in the mitochondria as well. This is stemming from an in vitro study using human embryonic kidney, HEC239 cells. And Mod C increases whole body insulin sensitivity by approximately 30% and increases glucose uptake again, stemming from an animal model using mice. But this was observed at 5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitone injection daily for seven days, which is 0.41 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, aka 41 milligrams, 400 kilogram. Bodybuilder, way too high. Another study shows that Mod C lowers serum glucose, insulin, and leptin levels, improves insulin sensitivity, and improves fatty acid metabolism. In an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet, this was observed at 2.5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitone injection twice daily for two days. So that translates to 0.2 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, intramuscularly twice daily for humans, aka 40 milligrams daily. Also way too much. Mod C prevents high-fat diet, induced insulin resistance, and obesity, reduces fat gain by approximately 10%. Stemming from an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet, and this was observed at a little bit more moderate dose, 0.5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by IP injection daily for three weeks, which translates to 0.04 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight IM daily for humans, which translates to 4.1 milligrams per 100 kilogram of bodybuilder. Again, those dosages are not unheard of, even though personally I feel that that dosage is way too high if done daily. So if you want to prevent high-fat diet, induced insulin resistance, and obesity, and basically an off-season on the ketogenic diet where you're stuffing your fats with nuts, seeds, avocado, and animal fats, then 4 to 5 milligrams of Mod C daily might be able to prevent you from getting morbidly obese, or you can just eat less and spend less money on drugs, right? I'll leave that up to you. And this study is pretty promising. Mod C increases lifespan by 4.6% to 7%, reverts age-dependent physical decline, improves grip strength, unlike the other animal model, which showed no improvement in overall grip strength. This is an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet again, and this was observed at 15 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitone injection three times weekly for up to six months, basically the end of life of these mice. So first these mice were made obese on a high-fat diet, and then towards the tail end of their life, they received a whopping dose of 15 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, which translates to 1.22 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly three times weekly for humans, aka 122 milligrams Mod C three times weekly intramuscularly. Don't do it, especially if you're old. That's literally anaphylactic shock three times per week just to expand your life, a span by, what, 6.4% to 7%. I think it's going to be hell. But again, it's up to you if you have the money and you can ride through the anaphylactic shock and the side irritation. And in case you didn't get the memo yet, here's an animated GIF of Godzilla going nuclear on Geodora, and this scene is too good not to play all the way to the end. Take that, you alien hydro piece of shit. Nobody f***s with Godzilla and Mothra. Okay, back to the evidence-based unique characteristics of Mod C. Mod C improves fatty acid utilization during complete glucose restriction, stemming from an in vitro study using C2, C12 mouse myoblast cells, which prevents cell death. Mod C has comparable improvements in cardiac function, body weight, fasting blood glucose levels, fasting insulin levels, and HOMA-IR score as treadmill exercise, stemming from an animal model using diabetic rats on a high-fat and high-sugar diet, again, confirming further exercise memetic effects of Mod C, comparing that directly to treadmill exercise, albeit that in both animal models, the animals were fat and obese and had diabetes. I don't associate with that, but hey, this is the best that we can go with. And this was observed at 0.5 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for eight weeks, which translates to 0.08 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight intramuscular daily for humans, aka eight milligrams if you're a hundred kilogram. Bodybuilder and Mod C increases aerobic exercise capacity, improves cardiac function, but also induces cardiac hypertrophy when combined with treadmill exercise, stemming from an animal model using rats with the exact same dosage protocol. So again, that translates to 0.8 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans. This also confirms an exercise memetic effect. But if you combine Mod C with anabolic androgenic steroids, which are also associated with cardiac hypertrophy, that might be a double mammy for heart enlargement. So this is a fair warning for you guys, even though this is stemming from animal models and most of the cardiac hypertrophy, you also see in animal models being administered anabolic androgenic steroids, but this is also confirmed in human subjects. The combination of Mod C and anabolic androgenic steroids with vigorous, strenuous, intense, highly pleasurable, and enjoyable exercise might cause heart enlargement. So make sure you keep track of your heart by doing an echocardiogram at least once yearly to make sure that your heart doesn't get too big for your chest and now you can no longer breathe. And under conditions where there is no metabolic stress or oxidative stress, Mod C translates from the mitochondria to the cellular nucleus when stimulated by either glucophage, aka metformin, and ICAR. And this is mediated by adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase, AMPK, activity. So if you want to liberate or promote the secretion of Mod C, but you don't want to exercise, that's what the metformin is for. Yeah, that's also an exercise memandic through this pathway, or that's what the ICAR are for, which is something I would prefer because that actually improves fatty acid oxidation and glucophage just makes you flat and shit your brains out. And now all of this food that you spend money on is literally going down in the toilet. Why don't you eat something cheaper instead? So that all sounds promising and highly beneficial, right? Wrong. Mod C can cause tremendous irritation at the site of administration, ranging from a small itch at lower dosages to full-blown anaphylactic shock at higher dosages. This is something we definitely need to discuss as part of this video because the response and reaction to Mod C might vary tremendously between the injection depth, between subcutaneous injections to intramuscular injections, and between the various dosing protocols, ranging from 0.5 milligrams per injection up to 10 milligrams. So let's get into it. Between 0.5 to 1 milligrams subcutaneously, you'll notice a slight post-injection irritation, but no pain, perhaps some redness for about 24 hours following the injection. But if you switch from the same dose from subcutaneous to intramuscular injections, then you don't seem to get this side effect, and you might even go up to 2.5 milligrams intramuscularly, and the post-injection irritation shouldn't manifest. But between 0.5 milligrams to 2.5 milligrams, regardless of injection depth, you feel a wave of energy that might be overwhelming for 10 to 30 minutes, after which it kind of calms down, and your energy levels are a little bit more sustained. Afterwards, for approximately 24 hours to 48 hours, and then after that, it slowly starts to decline. Now, obviously, this happens in a dose-dependent fashion, so 0.5 milligrams might give you a wave of energy for 10 minutes that lasts for 24 hours, but 2.5 milligrams, mod C, intramuscularly or subcutaneously, will give you a wave of energy for about 30 minutes that lasts for several days, and then slowly tapers downwards. Between 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams subcutaneously, you'll definitely get a severe rash, making it look like you have a credit card-sized patch of cellulitis, about this big, maybe this big, again, it highly depends on the dose, but it will certainly be noticeable that you have a cellulite-like patch that is slightly red or completely red at the site of administration where you administered mod C between 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams subcutaneously. This generally goes away within one to two hours. If you took 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams intramuscularly, then you might also have post-injection irritation, but this red bump looking like cellulitis seems to be non-existent, but it could still occur if you don't get deep enough. So if you go with an 8-millimeter insulin syringe, you'll probably still get a cellulitis-like red patch on your skin, but if you use 13 millimeters or a 1-inch needle, then that's deep enough and prevents this injection site irritation from a skin perspective at least, but the wave of energy when you inject intramuscularly is significantly heightened, again, in a dose-dependent fashion. So between 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams intramuscularly, especially when that's an inch deep, the wave of energy is quite intense and might last over 30 minutes, but then it also stays sustained for several days afterwards, allowing for twice-weekly administration. And again, for some people, this wave of energy is too overwhelming, not enjoyable, and might actually make them feel very uncomfortable. So for those people, and for most people, I would suggest just to start low, start with subcutaneous administrations and build your ways up. If you go with 10 milligrams intramuscularly, it's probably not going to end well for you, right? So a little bit of caution is advised because beyond 5 milligrams subcutaneous or intramuscularly, you can expect an adverse reaction, whether it was sub-Q or intramuscularly, and at 10 milligrams intramuscularly, you might cause anaphylactic shock. If you hit a vein and you inject 10 milligrams Mod C directly into a vein and it goes systemic, systemic anaphylactic shock, you're on the couch, your tongue starts to swell, your face starts to swell, and if you don't have an EpiPen containing, what was it, 0.3 milligrams epinephrine on standby, then you need to ride out that anaphylactic shock for one to two hours. Yeah, it happened to me twice. It's not fun. It's not fun, right? So I circumvent that by doing daily microadministrations of Mod C subcutaneously. I don't see a reason to inject 5 milligrams to 10 milligrams intramuscularly of Mod C to bypass this potential cellulitis-like red pattern. It's not a patch that might manifest on the skin because the side effects comparing cellulitis to anaphylactic shock, I'd rather have the cellulitis patch for one to two hours compared to anaphylactic shock for one to two hours. And for your information, diluting Mod C with, let's say, five milliliters bacterial static water into a five milligram vial, giving you a one milligram per one milliliter concentration, it doesn't solve the problem. I've tried this already many different times. I've even went up to a concentration of 0.5 milligrams per one milliliter, and you still get the redness. You still get the cellulite-like patch. You still get post-injection irritation, itchiness if you keep the dose moderate, and you might still get anaphylactic shock. I didn't get it from diluting the Mod C to this low of a concentration, but it could still happen if you dump the entire 10 milligrams over 20 milliliters into skeletal muscle, and it hits the vein, or even worse, you inject this intravenously, certainly not recommended or required at all, you will still get anaphylactic shock. So keep the dose moderate and escalate the dose upwards as needed. It's probably best to combine Mod C in a stack of other mitochondrial support aids containing a methylene blue, SLU-PP332, and whatnot for you to get a synergistic effect, and thus you can keep the dose of Mod C moderate, and the side irritation, at an all-time minimum or not experience any side effects at all. Let's address this bro science rumor that you need to inject Mod C right after you reconstitute this. I felt for this issue myself as well, right? I was told through the grapevine through a compounding pharmacy that I work with is that you need to inject the 5 milligram or 10 milligram Mod C as soon as you reconstitute it. This is how you get anaphylactic shock. Really? This is how you get anaphylactic shock. You inject 5 milligrams in one go, subcutaneously, and you get the red patch, cellulitis like that goes away after two hours, and then you do 10 milligrams intramuscularly, and you're on the floor with a face bigger than, what was that movie? Total recall. Yeah, bigger than total recall at the end when they hit Mars' surface. So don't do it. I fell for this as well. After a while, I was so sick of these injection site irritation or getting anaphylactic shock. I mean, basically, once you get Trincoff once, then every single injection of Trimbalone afterwards, you're scared that you're going to get Trincoff. And with Mod C, it was the same. I was traumatized for those two anaphylactic shock reactions, and then afterwards, I was just too scared, and I just didn't want that to happen again. Imagine if you inject Trimbalone and Mod C at the same time at the very high dose, just giving you Trincoff and anaphylactic shock, it would not end well for you. I'm sure of it. So I went with one milligram sub-Q five times weekly on workout days, and that solved all of my issues. So this is why the dosing protocol, for me, might be a little bit different from what you read online. Online, they still say that you need to reconstitute and inject right away, forcing you to use a five milligram to ten milligram vial. Again, I fell for this as well in the past, and when I was experimenting with Mod C during the mitochondrial support stack, I believe I told you guys the exact same thing. Now through more self-experimentation and a little bit more.  aut autoprilaguagu dissipation of the dosing protocols. For men and women, it's pretty much the same, even though I would recommend women to start a little bit lower on their MOTC dosing protocols because, generally speaking, women are less body weight than men. For men and women, the sustainable and tolerable dose of MOTC is anywhere between 0.5 milligrams to 1 milligrams, either subcutaneously or intermuscularly, between three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, to five times weekly on workout days, the daily even, if you do so prefer, or 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams, subcutaneously or intermuscularly, one to two times weekly on, let's say, Monday and Friday. And the deleterious dose, I would say over 5 milligrams per injection, whether you do that every single day or once weekly, that's entirely up to you. It just happens that most of the side effects occurs beyond 5 milligrams per injection onwards, whether that's intermuscularly or subcutaneously. So again, start low, start with 0.25 milligrams, MOTC, sub-Q, or intermuscular, if you do so prefer, and then with consecutive administrations, depending on your individual response, you can increase the dose to the efficacious dose where the side effects are not observed, fingers crossed. And again, anecdotally, MOTC is being used at much higher doses compared to what I just recommended, between 5 milligrams to 20 milligrams MOTC per injection, let's say two to three times weekly, or at least once every five days to 20 days, even though there are reports out there of guys using 20 milligrams MOTC every single day, which is crazy to me. I doubt they had a good experience, but hey, everybody's different in that sense. And in these doses ranges, people report improved energy, improved metabolism, improved weight loss, enhanced exercise capacity, improved insulin sensitivity, a potential improvement in cardiovascular health and reduction of age-related diseases, albeit that's an extrapolation from the scientific evidence. And the scientific evidence is so thin that it doesn't really support that kind of conclusion. Like I mentioned before, the most commonly reported side effect of MOTC at this particular dosage range between 5 milligrams to 20 milligrams is injection site irritation, which gets progressively worse as the dose of MOTC escalates upwards. And again, even at 5 milligrams per injection, people notice an increased heart rate and heart palpitation. And some people experience insomnia if they administered 5 milligrams MOTC to close the bed. And even in the morning, their energy levels are way too high even later in the day. So at higher doses MOTC, you might experience a little bit of insomnia. I never experienced that. I never talked to anybody personally who experienced insomnia on MOTC, but apparently that can happen. And again, cases of fever of anaphylactic shock are also reported. So start low, build your way up and don't overdo it. It's too expensive as it is. And before we close things off, since the World Anti-Doping Agency added MOTC to their prohibited list of 2025, let's see if we can find the evidence-based detection times and throw a monkey wrench into their ever-increasing list of no-nos. And well, after a long time of digging, I couldn't find anything. I couldn't find a half-life. I couldn't find any evidence-based detection times, whether that's in the bloodstream or in urine. And I could say that the reported detection time is approximately 14 days based on the reported detection time and the evidence-based detection time of other bioidentical hormones like insulin, growth hormone, erythropoietin, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, right? It might be detectable for a little bit longer, maybe even 21 days or onwards, because while the excretion studies for MOTC have not been performed, regarding the metabolism in the bloodstream, that hasn't fully been documented. And even though there's one study that looks for methods to detect MOTC or some of its metabolites in human serum and make the detection more accurate, since MOTC is produced in the human body, all the time keeping levels somewhat elevated, this study does not really go in depth that much. And I couldn't extrapolate any detection time data from this scientific evidence. That being said, you guys know that the human body also produces nadrolone. And if you take exogenous nadrolone, which might then be detectable for up to 18 months, because there's a detection range of, what was it, five nanograms per milliliter in urine, I believe, or in serum. So if your body continuously produces nadrolone, then serum or urinary nadrolone excretion stays elevated from this single dose or multiple dosages of nadrolone that you took that should otherwise slowly be metabolized out of the body, because your body keeps topping this off. And the same can be said for MOTC, even though that's a peptide hormone coming from the mitochondria, not a steroidal compound that is being produced in the aromatization of testosterone, into estradiol, and then you supplement exogenous nadrolone, phenylpropionate, or decanoate on top. So again, if we go by exogenous growth hormone, exogenous insulin, exogenous erythropoietin, or TB-500 and BBC157, I feel that a period of a safe reported detection time of 14 days is something you can go with. But if you want to play it safe, I would recommend 21 days, or maybe even one month. Because again, mitochondrial peptides might metabolize differently and excrete differently compared to a bioidentical peptide hormones that are being produced in the pituitary or the pancreas or the thymus for that matter. All right, that's it. That's all we got to work with for this deep dive. Thank you guys so much for watching. You'll find all of my sponsors and affiliates down below in the YouTube description section. If you undergo a lot of self-experimentation and you use MOTC or other mitochondrial supports, AIDS, and other performance-enhancing drugs, or cookie cutter TRT, do your blood work. Please do your blood work frequently. MOTC did not alter my blood work parameters in any way, shape, or form because the potential benefits regarding fatty acid metabolism and improved insulin sensitivity I already take care of with injectable carnitine and daily fast cardio. So I did not see any improvement in my blood work parameters because there's nothing to improve. It's already great. I just noticed an improvement in energy levels, and I still do my blood work every single month. So if you live in the United States, do your blood work over at Merrick Health. They have excellent healthcare providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results. And if they don't know something about a particular drug combination that they're not specialized in because it's a male health optimization clinic that doesn't really specialize in these kinds of compounds, then well, send your blood work over to me. I'll gladly help you interpret your blood work results and adjust your protocols just to make sure you stay as healthy as possible. Consultations or personalized advice by email is always available. And if you want to stack MOTC with other mitochondrial supports aids, well, search the channel because this YouTube channel not only is about performance sensing drugs, but also about mitochondrial biogenesis and upregulation. Yes, I cover everything on this YouTube channel. So subscribe now if you haven't already. Vigorous Crew, you guys know what to do. I must see fully enhanced front of the bicep for you guys. Just one milligram per day, baby. That's it. That's it. And a little bit of TRT for three, right? TRT for three people, 625 milligrams, testosterone and intake weekly. But I also have the muscularity of three people so I can get away with a little bit more. Thank you guys so much for watching. I'll see you in the next deep dive.

=== FILE: Safest & Best YK-11 Protocols (Affordable Follistatin Gene Therapy) Unlimited Gains？ Evidence-Based! [xa2qCiK292g].txt ===

 If you can also age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age too. Vigorsteve here, let's talk about YK-11, the only selective endoterm receptor modulator worth running because it's a steroidal compound, which is unlike all of the other SARMs that the SARM goblins are gobbling up and overdosing on. And I'm a little bit late to the party, this compound has been around for over a decade, but since it's classified as a SARM, and SARMs are pretty beta and not what is being used at the higher levels of bodybuilding, I completely overlooked it. But if you look into this compound as a phallostatin secretagogue, then it becomes a little bit more interesting. Let's dive in. YK-11 is a dual action performance enhancing drug. Not only does it activate the androgen receptor with little to no affinity for the glucocorticoid receptor, the mineralocorticoid receptor, the estrogen receptors or other receptors that classical anabolic androgenic steroids interact with, which is stemming from a single study where they used YK-11 at reasonably low concentrations and compared it to DHT. So it doesn't really translate into the real world when you start ramping up the dose of YK-11 into bodybuilding dosages, where there might be some spillover effect into the other receptors, but we'll get into that a little bit later on. And YK-11 is set to increase phallostatin levels, which is shown in only two studies. Again, scientific evidence at this point is a little bit thin, but that's what we have to work with. Phallostatin inhibits or blocks myostatin present in skeletal muscle and thus limits or removes the cap of further muscle growth. Again, assuming that phallostatin levels are high enough. Now, if you're interested in manipulating your myostatin and phallostatin levels without the use of non-FTA approved experimental compounds, then I would suggest you watch these videos first and then come back later for the icing on the anabolic cheesecake by using a phallostatin secretagogue. YK-11 is the only steroidal selective endocrine receptor modulator being commonly used, even though there are several steroidal SARMs available, at least judging from the scientific literature, one of which actually underwent clinical trials where it was shown to be anabolic in humans. Now, I already did the research for you. I searched all of the sources, at least the ones that are reputable, far and wide, and it seems that none of these steroidal selective endocrine modulators are currently available. So, YK-11 is all we have to work with. There's CI4AS1, MK0773, again, this was undergoing clinical trials that was shown to be anabolic in humans, MK4541, TFM4AS1, and YK-11, which this deep dive is about. YK-11 was first described in the scientific literature back in 2011, and let's be honest, competitive bodybuilding has really made a giant leap since then. So, it's highly doubtful that YK-11 is as effective as the SARM-schillers make it out to be, otherwise everybody would be using it at their highest level, which they certainly don't. That being said, I had a great experience running YK-11 at 30 milligrams daily for seven weeks in duration, but that's alongside a hefty steroid cycle consisting of testosterone, nandrolone, tristalone, anadrol, drothramone, and IGF-1, pharmaceutical being in Corlex. So, how much difference this YK-11 made in the context of this entire steroid cycle using various peptides? I'm not entirely sure until I run YK-11, which I will do in the future alongside a testosterone-based solo. So, this video will already get an update in the next couple of months, but for now, I would say based on my extensive experience with oral anabolic anagenic steroids, I would say that YK-11 comes very close to Superdrol regarding strength gains, size, density, overall muscularity, and dryness, and that might make it a suitable replacement for Superdrol because, let's be honest, after two weeks, three weeks on Superdrol, it literally feels like your liver is melting out of your asshole, and you feel very, very toxic, and maybe a little bit central nervous system fatigue, which I certainly did experience, and I ran YK-11, again, alongside Anadrol for multiple weeks. In duration, my liver enzymes didn't really budge that much. So, stay tuned for a follow-up experiment using injectable YK-11. For now, I'm probably never going to touch Superdrol again because, again, YK-11 seems to be quite comparable. So, let's dive into it, starting with the scientific evidence, which is as paper-thin as single-ply toilet paper, meaning that if you're careful enough, you're not exactly going to touch shit. I mean, there's no human clinical data, no human clinical trials, no human case reports, rarely any animal models, and a few in vitro studies that we can pull some data from. Here are all the evidence-based unique characteristics of YK-11. It activates the anadron receptors but doesn't bind or activate or block the estrogen or glucocorticoid receptors stemming from in vitro studies. It increases bone mineralization and bone formation, also in vitro, which was compared directly to diaractestosterone. It increases intracellular folistatin levels, again, in vitro studies, between 550 to 800 percent, which is duration-dependent. We'll get into that. It increases folistatin levels in serum stemming from animal models between 10 to 13 percent, which is a dose-dependent effect. Again, we'll get into that a little bit later on. It reduces intramuscular fat mass in animal models. It doesn't increase liver enzymes, ALT and AST enzymes, but it does increase blood urea nitrogen levels slightly, and it prevents muscle wasting and reduces organ damage as well as mortality during sepsis. Now, during all of these animal models, the dosages of YK-11 administration were literally insane, between 350 to 700 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight daily. We'll get into this study a little bit later on. It's quite interesting, and we'll do some extrapolation from the animal dose to the human equivalent dose, making you understand that the dosages are completely out of the realm of possibility. YK-11 might inhibit the 5,5-reductase type 2 enzymes, which is generally expressed in the skin and scalp after puberty in humans, albeit that this scientific evidence is stemming from an in vitro study. Now, this doesn't mean that YK-11 is going to be hair-safe by blocking the conversion of testosterone into dyna testosterone. When you read all of the anecdotal reports, you see that in some individuals, YK-11 can cause hair loss, albeit that we don't really know if this is in the context of taking YK-11 solo without a testosterone base, in which case you'll be testosterone deficient, estrogen deficient, as well as dyna testosterone deficient, right? I couldn't really find any before and after blood work results of YK-11, and unfortunately, since I did the research after I discontinued the YK-11, I didn't do the before and after blood work regarding my dyna testosterone levels. And YK-11 potentiates similar neurotoxic effects in the hippocampus compared to other antibiotic androgenic steroids, albeit that I don't know which other steroids YK-11 was compared to in this animal model. And YK-11 increases oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction within the hippocampus, stemming from a different animal model, but the latter two animal models, the full publication is not available, but you can find the citations and all of the other citations down below. So make sure you stay on top of your antioxidants while using YK-11, which I certainly was. I take vitamin C, vitamin E, injectable glutathione, taurine, etc., etc., etc., right? At least take some vitamin C, vitamin E, and N-acetylcysteine while supplementing with YK-11. And even though the scientific evidence is reasonably thin and stemming from animal models, if it's shown to potentiate oxidative stress similar to steroids, which you also might be using at the same time, then it's a no-brainer to run some antioxidants while using this compound. Methylene blue, also a great way to minimize and negate oxidative stress. Like I mentioned earlier, there's a study which used insane dosages of YK-11 to assess if it could reduce or prevent mortality in cases of bacterial sepsis in mice, performed by Lee et al., published on March 5th, 2021, so that's reasonably recent, titled, Malsight and Inhibitor YK-11 as a Preventative Health Supplement for Bacterial Sepsis. In this study, eight-week-old mice received either 350 milligrams up to 700 milligrams of YK-11 per one kilogram of body weight for 10 consecutive days, after which they were injected with E. coli bacteria to induce sepsis. Now, since I don't wish sepsis on anybody, not even my worst enemies, we're going to forego and overlook the E. coli groups and simply focus on the control group, the 350 milligram YK-11 group, and the 700 milligram YK-11 group. You see here that after 10 days, body weight increased significantly in the 700 milligram YK-11 group, while skeletal muscle weight increased in both groups, and body fat weight also decreased in both groups, albeit more in the 700 milligram YK-11 group. These results are nothing like the transgenic mice, which express false satin like it's going off style, by the way. Of course, this picture is always used to show the magical effects of YK-11, which is coming from a study which was released a decade before YK-11 was discovered. And this is nothing like the myostatin null mice, which don't even produce myostatin at all due to a gene deficiency, similar to the also famous Belgian blue tremolone sandwich cows. In figure 3a, you see that 350 milligram YK-11 for 10 consecutive days increased folosatin levels from about 19 nanograms per milliliter to, let's say, 21 nanograms per milliliter. And in the 700 milligram YK-11 group increased to about 21.5 or maybe 22 nanograms per milliliter, an increase between 10 to 13% or maybe even 15%. Now that's all nice and dandy and super promising at all, gains a plenty and free fat loss, sign me up. But what about the human equivalent dose? I mean, 350 milligrams, 700 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight sounds pretty high, right? That's because it is. If you do the conversion to the human equivalent dose, that would range between 28.4 milligrams per kilogram of body weight up to 56.8 milligrams of body weight orally daily. And for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder, that will be 2,840 milligrams to 5,000, let's say 700 milligrams orally daily. Feel free to split that up over three servings like they did in the animal model. But yeah, that would be multiple bottles of YK-11 every single day. And I think that's really not a good idea. Were these doses just so high due to poor bioavailability of YK-11 because it's not 17 alpha alkylated or because when you have bacterial sepsis, there's no holds barred. It just go with the highest possible dose that you could stomach. Again, it seems that the most effective dose of YK-11 lies anywhere between 5 milligrams to 30 milligrams daily, which is what I took and I got great results. Unfortunately, when it comes to dosing protocols, that's literally all we have to work with from a scientific literature perspective. So let's see what the community has to say about YK-11 anecdotally. And unfortunately, there's, well, probably less information we can pull from because SARM goblins who gobble SARMs, including YK-11, are generally young, inexperienced, don't know how to source actual anabolic energetic steroids, don't do blood work before, during, after, and give us a full report of what it changed regarding their diet, their training, their overall health supplementation, and all the other adjustments that they make, like I usually do on this YouTube channel. So it's a little bit hard to piece together what the anecdotal reports are. I mean, generally speaking, people report that they get dry joints or joint complications the longer they use YK-11. Is that because they take YK-11 with RAT140 or Osterine alongside of it without the testosterone base? I mean, all SARMs, whether they're steroidal or not, shut down the HPTA the longer you take it. So when you take YK-11 or another SARM, testosterone production, estradiol levels, data testosterone levels, bottom out. So how much of this joint pain is actually coming from androgen and estrogen deficiency? I don't really know. When I took YK-11, I did experience some joint pain, some joint discomfort around week four, five, six, peaking around week seven when I discontinued it. Was it terrible? No. Was it like Winstrel, for example? Absolutely not. Was I taking nandrolone, testosterone, tristalone, and anadrol, which all lubricate the joints? And then you got to remember that I was trying to grow gynecomastia at that time. So I didn't take an aromatized inhibitor. So my estradiol levels were around 100, 110 picograms per milliliter. That can also have a joint lubricating and protective effect. It might be advised to limit YK-11 to the end of an off-season mass phase where you're a little bit more watery. Your estrogen levels might be a little bit higher. Your body fat levels might be a little bit higher. You're already reaching the end of this off-season mass phase, but you want to push through strength plateaus for, let's say, four to six weeks, maybe eight weeks, depending on the dosage of YK-11 and again, how your response, right? The longer you take it, liver enzymes and lipids are going to be skewed on top of what was already skewed of your off-season mass cycle. So keep this in mind, right? If you put all the health management in place, I don't see a reason why you can't run it for longer periods of time. I mean, that's what I did. My blood work was pretty acceptable. At the end of this off-season phase, it lasted about seven to eight weeks. But again, the joint problems might start to manifest. And if you take YK-11 at the end of a cutting phase, when you're dry, you're lean, your estrogen levels are low, and you might combine it with something like Winstroll, then, well, caution is advised. And then again, if you use Superdrol at the end of a cutting phase, where you want to be hard, dense, full, and get a little bit of better cosmetic appearance compared to Anadrol, which your appetite suppression would be a warm welcome. But with Superdrol, after two weeks, you feel toxic as fuck. And with YK-11, I don't really see any reports that people feel toxic. I didn't feel toxic. I've used a lot of Superdrol in the past. After two weeks, you want to throw it in the trash because you literally feel horrible, right? Your liver doesn't feel right. Your appetite is a little bit suppressed. Your sensory nervous system feels a little bit overused. And definitely fatigue, fatigue, fatigue, fatigue is very common with Superdrol, which is also contributing to this feeling of toxicity. Didn't have any of that while taking Superdrol sublingually. And it might be the key here, taking YK-11 sublingually or through an injectable route. Again, it's not 17-alpha alkylated. This leads people to believe that YK-11 has poor oral bioavailability, and that could very well be the case. But it has been studied in this context. Again, animal models show that liver enzymes barely increased, even at these insanely high dosages, up to 700 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight. But humans are not animals, and we probably take polypharmacy alongside the YK-11. So you have a little bit of liver stress more than an animal would be. Then again, we can also take liver support in the form of N-acetylcysteine or TATCA, which I would highly recommend while taking anything orally anyway. So the bioavailability in my case might have been high, and thus my liver enzymes might have been low, removing the possibility for a toxic feeling similar to Superdrol. So again, my administration routes, my polypharmacy, and my overall anecdotal experience with YK-11 doesn't really match what you can read online. I had a great result, minimal side effects, minimal increases in liver enzymes. My lipids didn't really skew more beyond what I would expect from the cycle of steroids. That was running. But again, I do everything right. I live the lifestyle. I take all of the health supplements that you need to take. I do my daily fasted cardio, and I eat healthy. And that's generally not what you see with the reports you read online, because, well, Sarm Goblins are going to do what Sarm Goblins do. They're oral-only fans, and they only take YK-11 orally without the testosterone base. So how much of this will translate into your own anecdotal experience with YK-11 if you're interested in using it? I'm not entirely sure. I will say that after the fourth week or so of being on YK-11 consistently, the muscle starts to develop some sort of unique feeling. And for the better lack of explanation, it just felt anabolic, like wants to go to the gym and train and lift heavy weights and utilize all the food that I was giving it and all of the drugs I was supplementing alongside the YK-11, it had a unique feeling where it felt it was radiating anabolism. I administered one milligram folistatin 344 bilaterally, intramuscularly into the upper quads at its 500 micrograms left and right. And that gave me the exact same unique feeling that I get from YK-11 after the fourth week mark, which seemed to steadily increase by week seven. I stopped YK-11 at week seven. A couple of days later, I administered folistatin 344, one milligram in total. And that gave me the exact same feeling, but to a much greater extent. Now, ever since then, I stopped the YK-11 and the folistatin 344, and that unique feeling that I got potentially from folistatin has completely gone away. I'm cruising on about 500 milligrams of testosterone per week now. And it also brings me to another point. Anecdotally, YK-11 might act as an aromatous inhibitor. Again, how much of this is coming from having bottomed out testosterone, preventing the conversion from testosterone into estradiol or simply being estrogen deficient because there's no testosterone base. Anecdotally, which I certainly have or had at that time, I would expect my serum estradiol levels to be higher when I was running testosterone, androl, and trastalone, and then androl, which doesn't convert, but might interact with the estrogen receptor from the stack of three compounds, which are known to aromatize. I would expect higher estrogen levels while I was using YK-11. And now that I stopped the YK-11, I was running 500 tests with 500 androl and 150 mint at that time. My serum estradiol levels ended up around 100, 110 picograms per milliliter. And now that I'm running 500 tests without the YK-11, serum estradiol is 130. It's higher, but I'm using less aromatizing compounds. So take from that what you will. Again, it's not really hard scientific evidence, anecdotal reports, and before and after blood work results with so many compounds in the picture. But it might mean that YK-11 does have some aromatize inhibiting effects, which we'll investigate the next time I use injectable YK-11. Now again, we already discussed the poor oral bioavailability because YK-11 is not 17 alpha occulated. How much of the poor oral availability is assessed from that? Or because SARM sources might go from very potent YK-11 dose at 10 milligrams per capsule as labeled at 10 milligrams per capsule to 5 milligrams, or switching that for windstrow or nothing entirely, right? That happens. The gray area websites itself SARMs are not very well regulated. So make sure you get your YK-11 from a reputable source and then take that sublingually like I did, or otherwise go with injectable YK-11, which from what I understand doesn't require propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol or another synthetic carrier oil that it's highly inflammatory for your body. If you don't know what I'm talking about, watch this video where I discuss carrier oils into great detail. Ejectable YK-11 can apparently be brewed in MCT oil with a little bit of benzoyl benzoate and benzoyl alcohol, unless you're allergic for benzoyl benzoate or benzoyl alcohol, obviously don't take that. So for now, I'm pretty bullish on this compound, but I would like to do a little bit more experimentation in comparing the different administration routes to come with a final conclusion. And that brings us to the dosing protocol. For men, I would say that the sustainable and tolerable dose is 5 mg to 50 mg orally, preferably taken sublingually morning and evening, or taking 5 mg to 50 mg bilaterally, intramuscularly, 30 minutes pre-workout, because again, the folostatin increase seems to be a localized effect, so might as well take that pre-workout. When I took YK-11 orally, sublingually, pre-workout, I didn't notice a dramatic difference. There seems to be no non-genomic effects like you get with anadryl, superdril, anavar. We get an immediate result during the workout. I did not notice that from YK-11, so I would recommend that if you take it orally or sublingually, to just split it morning and evening for total dose between 10 mg to 30 mg daily. And when it comes to the deleterious dose, I would say that that's over 30 mg orally or intramuscularly daily, simply because the anecdotal reports and my personal anecdotal experience didn't really go over. 30 mg daily. And if you want to go with the scientific evidence, that would be over, let's say, 57 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally, daily split out over three administrations. But that's highly dubiously extrapolated from animal models. So I would not put too much weight into that. And when it comes to women, I would say that, well, it's not recommended because it's an oral steroid. And I couldn't really find any anecdotal reports of women using YK-11 and walking away with a good experience without viralization. So I would limit it to anivar instead. And it brings us to the evidence-based detection time in human urine. Not much to work with. There's a single study that shows that YK-11 in a single 5 mg dose taken orally was detectable over 48 hours because the urine samples weren't taken after 48 hours. The half-life is unknown. It might be over 10 hours, which is a suspected half-life. And that's basically all we have to work with from a scientific perspective. There's a study that detected the presence of 11 YK-11 metabolites in horse urine after a single administration of 50 mg YK-11 orally. But the researchers didn't do an excretion study to see how long these 11 metabolites were detectable and how much that would translate from horse urine to human urine. I'm not entirely sure. And there's a few liquid chromatography studies to detect the presence of YK-11 in dietary supplements. And there you see that a lot of the supplements that market YK-11 as SARMs don't actually contain YK-11 at all. So caution is advised, make sure you stick to reputable sources. There might be a recent 2024 study that detected the presence of YK-11 or its metabolites in a human subject, but the full publication is behind the paywall. You can purchase it yourself with the citations down below in case you're interested. Performed by Sobolewski et al., which actually does a lot of excretion studies of anabolic androgenic steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs, published on June 2024, titled Detection of Selective Androgen Receptor Modulator YK-11 in a Doping Control Sample. Link down below in case you're interested. As far as I know, there's no reported detection time in human urine for YK-11. It's probably along the lines of three weeks, similar to traditional anabolic androgenic steroids that are not metabolism-resistant or not oral steroids that are otherwise injected. Like injectable winstrol is a very long detection time compared to oral winstrol. So it might be the same case here. If you inject YK-11, the detection time is much longer because injectable YK-11 remains in the injection depot, whereas oral or sublingual YK-11 is metabolized quite rapidly because it's not 17-alpha alkylated. I have no idea, so I wouldn't bet my house on this three-week potential reported detection time. If you're subject to drug testing, just stick to something that we know the detection time of from a scientific perspective and the reported detection time so you can pass the doping test or don't use anything at all. That's also a possibility. Maybe actually play by the rules for a change. Okay, so the follow-up experiment that I'm going to run, oral YK-11, taken sublingually at 30 milligrams daily alongside a testosterone base, blood work before, during, and after to see if YK-11 has an aromatized inhibiting effect. Run that for about three to four weeks. Do blood work before I switch to injectable YK-11 at the exact same dose, split into 50 milligrams injections bilaterally pre-workout. And otherwise, I take it subcutaneously on rest days to kind of extend the half-life because the half-life is currently unknown. And then finish that off after three or four weeks of that protocol with blood work, then switching to injectable folistatin 344 at one milligram daily. Yes, that will give me some serious gains and serious contractile capacity and hopefully mutate my physique to the next level. Anyway, stay tuned. That might be coming up in the next couple of months. In the meantime, I'm just going to cruise, relax, and kind of detoxify, take care of my gynecomastia surgery, which is coming up. And then once I'm ready to hit the ground running, we're going to do a little bit of a folistatin experiment. For now, I would like you to look into YK-11 and consider it a folistatin secretagogue. In the meantime, I would love to hear your personal anecdotal experience with YK-11. Did you use it with a testosterone base? What were your results before, during, and after? Did you do blood work? What dramatic changes did you see in your blood work? Did you notice any comparable effect to injectable folistatin if you've used that in the past? Let us know down below in the comment section. I would love to hear about it. And I'm sure everybody else in the Vigors Crew community would love to hear about it. Make sure you do your blood work over at Merrick Health if you live in the United States or another blood work place if you live somewhere else. Blood work is very important. I do it all the time. I report my blood work here on YouTube, even though I don't do it. In Merrick Health, I still have a discount code for a full male lab panel and a discounted, budgeted male lab panel with the links down below. If you want to take your workouts to the next level, look no further than Gorilla Mind Supplements or Intelligent Shop for all those cosmetic things that might be applicable for you if you're a male. I hope with the best over-the-counter supplements you can find on the planet besides Gorilla Mind for less of a discount, but a discount nonetheless. Those codes are all down below. And if you can't find anything specific, you might be able to find it on my website, vigorsteve.com. Consultations are always available. We can either schedule a call or handle it by email. Those rates you can find down below as well. And I even have a 10-hour consultation package if you want to walk in a fat discount to be in touch with me continuously. All right, I'll leave it here. Thank you guys so much for watching. Vigorous Crew, you guys know what to do. Anabolic, slightly enhanced YK-11 frontable bicep for you guys. I'm about 110 kilos now, but I ended up at 120 kilos on YK-11, which is, well, pretty dramatic. But again, I was running testosterone, nandrolone, tristelone, anadrol, grothermone, IGF-1, and, well, some injectable pre-workouts to take those workouts to the next level. So how much of that was from the YK-11 or the copies of amounts of food that I was eating? I'm not entirely sure. So it warrants another experiment, another frontable bicep for you guys, and I'll see you in the next video. Peace out.

=== FILE: Safest Dose Of Retatrutide (NEXT-LEVEL Appetite Suppression) Insulin Sensitivity, Fat Loss Deep-Dive [T313me9pKw4].txt ===

 aut autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilag here before we get into the retrograde deep dive please understand that all studies performed on retrograde sides were published from september 2022 onwards and it means none of them are available as full publications through science hub science hub goes back regarding their full publications up until 2021 give or take and i honestly felt a little bit handicapped preparing for this retrograde deep dive because normally i have access to all full publications through science hub so i can read everything i want to know on a particular compound that i make a deep dive on for this deep dive i didn't purchase a single study as the total value of studies locked behind the paywall was 1645 give or take luckily i was able to read a few of these publications for free through my friends who have the right credentials to access these studies you otherwise have to pay for now obviously i can't show those studies on screen i'm sure you guys understand and if you want me to do additional research since 1645 dollars and i'll gladly pay for all of those studies and review the entire deep dive all over again to see if there's any additional information that i left out because again otherwise i would have to spend a boatload of my own money and i feel that the time investment that took place regarding the review of the studies that are available for free was already extensive enough and most of the studies which are published for free contain all of the relevant information that you would like to know about the clinical trials which are otherwise locked behind the paywall or some of the other studies which are locked behind the paywall right a lot of the conclusions from those studies behind the paywall are copied into the studies that are available for free so i think i was thorough enough and it doesn't warrant throwing uh 645 dollars into this deep dive to purchase all the studies and then make a follow-up addendum video for you guys and unless you guys really want to see it then well start to cofundme then well i'll gladly do it all over again retrotutite also known as ly 3437942 which is the name it generally goes by in the clinical trials don't you worry i've linked all of them down below in the youtube description section and the comment section in case you want to give them a read for yourself retrotutite is a novel triple action glucagon like peptide one receptor agonist as well as glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor or also known as gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor agonist and glucagon receptor agonist peptide medication which is currently undergoing clinical trials for potential treatment in obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus it was originally developed by elli lily i'm sure their stock will get a nice boost in overall total valuation a couple years from now when retrotutite is finally introduced into the medical field as an fda approved medication but for now the only way to get retrotutite are through the chinese generic peptide resellers and that means you can try retrotutite well before it hits the market and you can probably get it a lot cheaper compared to lyroglutide duloglutide semaglutide terzepidite extenetite or some of the other glucagon like peptide one receptor agonist type medications and it seems that everybody in the fitness community already got the memo and made the pivot to retrotutite after a couple years of self-experimentation with either lyroglutide duloglutide semaglutide or terzepidite which became increasingly popular because it's a dual action GLP-1 and GIP receptor agonist so again whether you experiment with pharmaceutical lyroglutide duloglutide or terzepidite or chinese generic peptides nowadays everybody seems to make the pivot to retrotutite and they said they get a much more pronounced effect for the same amount of appetite suppression because you get additional fat loss through this glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor agonism and glucagon receptor agonism for now i'm going to have to conclude that retrotutite is the superior compound in this class of medications until that is until na93 hits the market which is a quadruple action GLP-1 GIP glucagon and IGF-1 receptor agonist it probably goes by the name by glutite as soon as na931 by glutite will hit the markets you know i will make a deep dive on it and then everybody can pivot from retrotutite to by glutite for all the right reasons uh fingers crossed potentially so let's start this deep dive off with a little bit of a visualization on how these peptide hormones look and how they interact with their relevant receptors this study was performed by lee et al published on july 2024 so it's less than a year old titled structural insights into the triple agonism of GLP-1 receptor GIP receptor and glucagon receptor manifested by retrotutite you see here the structural similarities between the various incretin medications and how retrotutite interacts with the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor glucose dependent insulinotropic receptor and glucagon receptors as you can see it can bind to all three of these receptors albeit with different affinities and strengths compared to endogenously produced GLP-1 GIP or glucagon from an endogenously produced hormone perspective GLP-1 enhances glucose dependent insulin secretion from the beta cells of the pancreas contributing to glucose homeostasis in the bloodstream GLP-1 also inhibits glucagon secretion reducing hepatic gluconeogenesis and keeping blood glucose levels in range through this pathway GLP-1 slows gastric emptying and inhibits gastric motility promoting satiation and reducing overall food intake and GLP-1 prevents betacel apoptosis promotes neurogenesis and replenishes insulin stores GIP also stimulates insulin secretion unlike GLP-1 GIP actually contributes to glucagon secretion GIP interacts with insulin to increase lipoprotein lipase activity contributing to the breakdown of triglycerides in the bloodstream and lipogenesis in adipose tissue meaning that if you stimulate the GIP receptor on adipose tissue and fat is going into adipose tissue that you're literally telling it to be stored now if serum insulin and serum glucagon are favorable and serum glucose levels and serum triglyceride levels are favorable you stimulate the adipose tissue with beta-2 adrenergic receptors or hormone sensitive lipase being increased by growth hormone or another lipolytic agent if the situation is favorable for lipolysis then activating the GIP one receptors on adipose tissue actually helps with the fatty acid removal out of adipose tissue stimulating overall fat loss GIP promotes growth and survival of beta cells in the pancreas and experimental studies suggest that GIP may have an effect on bone metabolism and when it comes to glucagon it mediates hepatic glucose production coming either from glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis with glycogenolysis glucagon helps with the breakdown of stored glycogen within the liver and thus keeping serum glucose levels in range throughout the night predominantly when the serum insulin levels are low and a dietary carbohydrate intake is basically non-existent because you're not eating while you're sleeping and with a gluconeogenesis that's the breakdown of amino acids or glycerol into glucose keeping serum glucose levels in range that way and whether the protein is coming from skeletal muscle leaking out of it during strenuous workouts especially when cortisol starts to go up then you get some gluconeogenesis or this dietary protein is being consumed obviously converting into glucose through gluconeogenesis or glycerol coming from adipose tissue which is stored as the backbone alongside three triglyceride molecules when glucagon stimulates the glucagon receptors in adipose tissue it causes lipolysis so these three triglyceride molecules and one backbone in the form of glycerol is being released into the bloodstream you can burn the triglycerides away in the mitochondria and this glycerol backbone gets converted into glucose through gluconeogenesis which glucagon stimulates in the liver so you get lipolysis glucose homeostasis and the preventing blood glucose levels from dropping too severely during fasting in between meals or fasting throughout the night so by activating all three of these receptors albeit with different levels of affinity retro to diet promotes satiation by reducing gastric emptying reducing your appetite overall and taking away the food noise so you can have a better control over your diet and overall caloric intake it promotes glucose homeostasis in the bloodstream regulating blood glucose levels by promoting the secretion of insulin and glucagon and in a caloric deficit which is very easy on retritutite as your core intake comes down you can control your diet a lot better on retritutite as the calories come down it actually promotes lipolysis through the glucagon and GIP receptor and thus your fat loss journey is significantly easier and this makes retritutite almost the ideal fat loss agent and compounds like clambutrol or subitramine or tesofensine or other stimulatory fat burning agents are probably not required now since retritutite is not fda approved yet it's not available as a pharmaceutical medication let's just stick with the clinical trials albeit that many of the clinical trials are either not completed yet or still recruiting and even for the completed clinical trials in many cases the results aren't posted so i had to extrapolate that information from the publications the studies which are available for free so there might be some gaps here i did my absolute best to summarize all of the clinical trials performed or being performed or going to be performed on retritutite for this segment of the video but again if there's some gaps here my sincere apology and we're literally in the middle of investigating this compound and even though it is available through the chinese peptide websites it doesn't mean that the information at this point in time is absolutely complete and very conclusive you can find the published results of four completed clinical trials down below in the youtube comment section unfortunately three of those studies are locked behind the paywall but the three other ones are actually available for free as a full publication one of which is actually a meta-analysis comparing retritutite to the other GLP-1 receptor agonist medications but we'll get into the study when we start comparing all of the glp1s and see which of the dosing protocols give you comparable results so you know how to transition from let's say terzepidite in a particular dose to retritutite at the new and improved dosing protocol now unfortunately the results of clinical trials performed unhealthy individuals are nowhere to be found so all we have to work with is basically unhealthy people the biggest clinical trial looking to investigate the effects of retritutite once weekly on cardiovascular outcomes and kidney outcomes in adults living with obesity calling the triumph outcomes as an enrollment estimate of about 10 000 people and should be completed in february 2029 so once that's completed then you need a couple more years for those results to be published and then perhaps a couple more years for retritutite actually becoming available as an fda approved medication so hold your horses it will be a while before this is fda approved and for now we have to rely on the chinese generic peptide websites to get our retritutite in through the mail so i was able to summarize all of the clinical trials whether those are completed or not here in this segment the investigated conditions regarding retritutite are for general safety tolerability and metabolism in healthy individuals those results are nowhere to be found in postmenopausal obesity or regular obesity in men obviously with a body mass index between 27 to 50 kilograms per square meter in the maintenance of weight loss in obesity type 2 diabetes mellitus cardiovascular disease impaired renal function or chronic kidney disease impaired liver function or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease knee osteoarthritis and a pharmacokinetic comparison between a testing device and a standard reference device seeing what administration route regarding pens for example is the most efficacious the investigated drug interactions between retritutite are occurring with midazolam warfarin caffeine ethinyl estradiol uh trospironone metoprolol a beta blocker glucophage aka metformin and various sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors the investigated drug comparisons are happening between retritutite and dulaglutite or retritutite and semaglutite or retritutite and terzepidite the investigated enrollment size overall between all clinical trials is 20 245 so by the time retritutite hits the market and then it is approved as a medication then the total sample size of people participating in clinical trials was over 20 000 people for retritutite the investigated treatment duration is anywhere between 30 days up to two years and 12 weeks where they basically see if a dose escalation upward of retritutite and then maintaining that dose for 48 weeks or longer and then tapering it down again promotes weight loss and that weight loss is then sustained because they learned from the other clinical trials when liraglutite or dulaglutite or semaglutite or terzepidite are discontinued then the weight loss comes right back with inventions and these people end up fatter than they ever were before because their appetite is now so uh ravenous that they can't control themselves and they went from 300 pounds to 200 pounds and then to 350 pounds for example that's kind of brutal that way so tapering upwards sustaining it for a year or longer and then tapering downwards based on the clinical trial information that seems to be the route going forward or at least for people suffering from type 2 diabetes or obesity the investigated doses are 0.5 milligrams 1 milligram 2 milligram 4 milligram 8 milligram and up to 12 milligrams subcutaneous once weekly and that's with or without weekly dose escalation so you might start at half a milligram once weekly and then escalate all the way up to 12 milligrams once weekly the administration route is always subcutaneous the reported half-life is six days with an active life of approximately 48 days based on the pharmacokinetics and dynamics of retrodutite published in scientific evidence and these are the reported beneficial effects of retrodutite whenever they are available retrodutite decreases appetite improves satiation promotes weight loss reduces waist circumference reduces liver fat improves the systolic and diastolic blood pressure improves lipid parameters improves fasting glucose levels fasting insulin levels and hemoglobin A1c levels it improves homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance that's the homa 2 ir score and might even cause full pre-diabetic reversion and the commonly reported side effects are as follows anemia clear cell renal cell carcinoma acute kidney injury acute cholecystitis acute pancreatitis increased resting heart rate and irregular heart beats mild to moderate gastrointestinal disorders which is actually temporary so as the dose of retrodutite is being escalated upwards gastrointestinal upset and problems like nausea diarrhea or vomiting are a little bit more common but then as you sustain a particular dose of retrodutite these gastrointestinal problems seem to go away with time as you get used to this particular medication and retrodutite is associated with fatigue dizziness headache skin disorders and might even increase your blood pressure albeit that it's more common that it actually controls blood pressure now keep in mind that all of these reported side effects are not among healthy individuals i couldn't find those results this is all stemming from people suffering from either obesity or type 2 diabetes or both so if you associate with or you can identify as being obese my body mass index is way too high but that's from freakishly amounts of muscle mass i don't associate as somebody with high body mass index due to obesity and i don't associate myself as having type 2 diabetes and personally from all the retrodutite experimentation that i've done none of these reported side effects seem to occur in healthy individuals who use retrodutite to control their appetite and improve their weight loss by improving their fat loss journey regarding the reported blood work parameter changes besides the one we already mentioned regarding an improvement of blood glucose levels fasting insulin levels and hemoglobin A1c levels retrodutite also increased creatine phosphokinase levels amylase lipase and anaponectin levels but decreased leptin levels and regarding the safety profile a rich that seems to be consistent and comparable with other incretin based medications whether those are solo GLP-1 receptor agonists or combination medications GLP-1 and GIP receptor agonists so in that sense um retrodutite is reasonably comparable with the other medications but we'll dive into that a little bit later on because i feel that those results are not um as clear as the other fta approved medications because those have a longer trajectory of being used by general population and when it's introduced in general population you see that the side effects and the problematic effects start to become more apparent so since retrodutite is not fta approved yet and the total sample size um when all the clinical trials are completed will be around 20 000 people excluding all the people in the fitness community who have access to retrodutite through the peptide websites the other incretin based medications have been used by millions so you're comparing millions to 20 000 people and i'm sure you can see the discrepancy regarding the side effects and the potential deleterious effects i'm sure those will become more apparent with retrodutite when it finally hits the market a couple years from now by the way none of these clinical trials actually investigate changes to body composition regarding a reduction of total fat mass in relation to a potential reduction in muscle mass it seems that they just list changes to total body weight without specifying where this weight loss is actually coming from is that a reduction in overall fat mass or also a reduction in total muscle mass a 25 to 30 percent body weight reduction after 48 weeks on 12 milligrams retrodutite subcutaneously once weekly sounds very promising i'll tell you that 25 to 30 percent body weight reduction very very promising but is this 25 to 30 percent reduction coming from actual fat mass or intestinal mass or muscle mass or the loss of bone mineral density that i don't know all i could find was a significant reduction in total liver fat content on various dosages of retrodutite albeit in a dose dependent fashion so the more retrodutite you take the more liver fat content you'll be able to reduce um and that was investigated in the treatment or potential treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld which is now being renamed to metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease ma sld because non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is probably too woke and triggering nowadays so maybe we can do some highly dubious extrapolation using a similar compound not rich or too tight but a similar compound developed by illy lily that works on the glucagon receptor so not on the GLP-1 GIP and glucagon receptor solely on the glucagon receptor do some highly dubious extrapolation converting the animal dose to the human equivalent dose to come up with some sort of dosing protocol because i was able to find one single animal study on this particular compound that investigated the changes in fat mass and in relation to lean mass this study performed by rule et al published in january 2025 so that's what three months old titled characterization of ly3324954 so this is a long-acting glucagon receptor agonist and this study shows a dose-dependent decrease in body weight fat mass and muscle mass in mice with diet induced obesity there was a dose-dependent increase in blood glucose levels until the highest dose of this glucagon receptor agonist was reached after which the blood glucose dropped down again probably from liver glycogen stores being finally depleted and then escalating the dose upwards does not initiate more glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis which would otherwise increase blood glucose levels and it was a dose-dependent decrease in blood urea nitrogen and creatinine indicating muscle loss total cholesterol went down in a dose-dependent fashion as did serum triglycerides and liver triglyceride levels liver enzymes changes were all over the place so it's very hard to draw conclusions from these results and many of these changes are also observed in humans during the clinical trials now i really wish i could do some highly dubious extrapolation converting the animal dose to the human equivalent dose for this ly3324954 glucocon receptor agonist from elli lily but they listed dosages between one nanomoles per kilogram of body weight up to 300 nanomoles per kilogram of body weight but the molecular weight of this ly3324954 is unknown now so let's dubiously dubiously extrapolate replacing this ly3324954 for retrotutite with a molecular weight that's anywhere between 4731.33 to 5083.47 but most of the sources say 4731.33 grams per mole that means that if we do some dubious calculation the effective animal dosage ranges of one nanomole to 300 nanomoles per one kilogram of body weight subcutaneous on day one and four would loosely very very very very very loosely this is totally incorrect but let's do it anyway loosely translate to a human equivalent dosage range of let's say 0.4 micrograms to 115 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight and then the number of the administered subcutaneously every four days and it means um a hundred kilogram bodybuilder would get up to 11.5 milligrams retrodutite subcutaneously every four days which roughly translates to the investigated clinical trial dosages going up to 12 milligrams weekly this is totally incorrect right we can't draw any conclusions from this regarding a loss of lean mass and muscle mass because um this ly variant is not the same as retrotutite solely works on the glucagon receptor not on the GLP-1 GIP and glucagon receptor we don't know the molecular weight so um i think it was interesting to give this segment a trial but don't draw any conclusions please so let's just move over to the actual evidence-based unique characteristics of retrotutite retrotutite agonizes the glucagon like peptide one stemming from an in vitro study the GLP-1 receptor activation supersedes glucagon receptor activation in relation to serum glucose levels retrotutite agonizes the glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide a.k.a. gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor with 8.9 fold greater so that's 8.9 times greater potency compared to endogenous GIP um again stemming from the same in vitro study and the GIP receptor activation supersedes glucagon receptor activation in relation to serum glucose levels so again a glucagon in this picture is the lowest as a retrotutite agonizes the glucagon receptor with 2.9 fold less so that's 0.3 times the potency compared to endogenously produced glucagon but when retrotutite is compared directly to endogenously produced glucagon it has a similar potency observed in liver hepatocytes and retrotutite increased overall energy expenditure might prevent metabolic adaptation during prolonged caloric restriction again all stemming from an in vitro study retrotutite is dipeptidyl peptidase 4 enzyme metabolism resistant meaning that you have reduced breakdown compared to endogenously produced incretins like GLP-1 and GIP and that means the combination of retrotutite with a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor is not required you don't need to combine a dpb4i with retrotutite to make it more effective on a milligram for milligram basis i know retrotutite is expensive but you don't get a synergistic effect with these kinds of inhibitors making retrotutite more potent and now you can reduce the dose for the same level of appetite suppression and overall fat loss retrotutite was shown to have a dose-dependent decrease of appetite and promotion in satiation stemming from human subjects and animal models retrotutite induces weight loss reduces gastric emptying and intestinal transit and reduces waist circumference and liver fat content retrotutite has insulinotropic effects improves glucose tolerance and lipid profile it lowers serum glucose triglycerides total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein amino acids and fasting insulin and fasting glucagon and hemoglobin A1c levels in the bloodstream albeit that retrotutite also agonizes the glucagon receptor so you get a little bit of a replacement effect retrotutite raises high density lipoprotein levels improves homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance it's the HOMA2 IR score and it actually raised fasting insulin levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus not in healthy individuals so in healthy individuals retrotutite will lower fasting insulin levels but people with type 2 diabetes see an increase in fasting insulin levels improving their overall glucose homeostasis and control their appetite giving them a beneficial outcome after all retrotutite was shown to have a dose-dependent increase of resting heart rates by 6.7 to 12 beats per minute and that's probably higher compared to all of the other incretin based medications retrotutite was shown to cause mild to moderate cardiac arrhythmias potentially through blood pressure modulation retrotutite improves systolic and diastolic blood pressure coming from human subjects and animal models it might be a potential treatment for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease or metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis so retrotutite might be a potential treatment for NAFLD aka MASLD or NASH retrotutite controls appetite association improves healthy diet adherence reduces caloric intake and improves body weight loss and overall body composition assuming that you also train and eat a good amount of protein retrotutite might be a potential treatment for lifestyle induced cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease a potential treatment for obesity induced obstructive sleep apnea and a potential treatment of binge eating disorder with similar reasoning as a potential treatment for NAFLD retrotutite might offer potential treatment of addiction by controlling dopaminergic urges albeit that the scientific evidence is reasonably thin there's more scientific evidence on the other incretin based medications regarding dopamine levels and neurotransmitter modulation in the brain but again retrotutite might be a treatment for addiction when it has to do with dopaminergic pathways retrotutite is a potential treatment for triple negative breast cancer in obesity it down regulates hexamine biosynthesis pathway decreased yes associated protein levels overcomes chemotherapy resistance and decreases tumor size and enhances chemotherapy efficacy and retrotutite offers comparable weight reduction is metabolic surgery aka bariatric surgery offering similar levels of satiation and reduced gastric emptying now apparently bariatric surgery costs anywhere between 17 000 to 26 000 in the united states not including insurance coverage retrotutite obviously isn't fda approved yet but based on the cost of the other incretin medications um an effective dose of retrotutite might be anywhere between let's say a thousand to 1150 dollars per month excluding um insurance meaning that you would get let's say between 17 to 26 months of solid appetite suppression reducing your overall food intake allowing your stomach to shrink albeit not to the same extent as bariatric surgery which literally basically cuts off a segment of your stomach allowing you to control your appetite that way but you still have appetite albeit that you feel satiated faster because your stomach is literally smaller so with a retrotutite for the same cost you might get up to well almost two and a half years of appetite suppression and a reduction in stomach size and the outcome of your diet might be  aut autoppoopeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropenerop a blue-collar, hardcore bodybuilder that can control their appetite and get satiation just by looking at the cooking channel. Once your cutting phase is over, the cravings are so bad, but your stomach is so small that you want to eat all of the cheesecakes or all of the ice creams or all of the donuts or whatever cookies you prefer. You want to eat all of that food. Your stomach is so small that you can't take that food volume, that food capacity in, but the appetite is ravenously high. And with retrotitite, you have none of that. You don't have the food cravings. You don't have this fantasization about donuts or ice cream or cookies or whatnot. Your stomach shrinks just the same. And then when you do eat, you feel satiated within a couple bites. So it's way better than bariatric surgery and probably way better than all of the appetite suppressants, which are stimulatory. They're available on the markets nowadays. Now, since there isn't much scientific evidence on retrotitite to go with yet, no direct hit-on-hit dosage comparisons between retrotitite and the other GLP-1 receptor agonists. Let's compare its efficacy to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, wherever the information is available, and come up with our own dosage ranges where the beneficial effects and potential side effects are observed. There are a few meta-analysis studies which compare the efficacy of retrotitite versus the efficacy of other GLP-1s, but they usually do that with the investigated clinical trial dosages at the maximum dose that they investigated regarding its efficacy on weight loss, not a particular dose of retrotitite versus the other GLPs, a certain amount of milligrams, for you to have an expected certain amount of weight loss. So I got to work and did it for you. Here are the effects of the various GLP-1s on body weight reduction and the various investigated dosages wherever I could find the results. Some of the studies didn't mention the baseline starting weight of the patients or participants. So instead of a percentage reduction, I listed the net kilograms or pounds lost. So this is just the raw data of GLP-1 receptor agonists regarding body weight reduction. The details are on the screen. Let that scroll a little bit. We'll use this for the calculations a little bit later on. Here's the raw data for the glucagon receptor agonists regarding body fat reduction. We're ever known, so that's already a lot less. Just for liraglutide, semaglutide, and terzepidide, these percentages were known. Here are the results for GLP-1 receptor agonists regarding waist circumference reduction, shown in centimeters or inches. A little bit more information was available there. Let that scroll a little bit so you have the details on the screen. Then regarding GLP-1 receptor agonists and liver fat reduction, whether that's relative liver fat reduction or absolute liver fat reduction, shown in a percentage. The details are on the screen. A lot of details. Let that scroll a little bit. Here are the GLP-1s regarding their total cholesterol reduction, usually in milligrams per deciliter or millimoles per liter, but sometimes shown as a percentage. And then lastly, the changes in hemoglobin A1c levels, usually in a percentage, because hemoglobin A1c is also a percentage. Let that scroll a little bit. This is probably the most information I could find, because most of these glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists have been investigated in the context of type 2 diabetes, in which case they always check hemoglobin A1c levels and see how much they reduce over time. So with all of this raw data, let's calculate, albeit highly dubiously, but this is what we get to expect from these deep dives, because nobody else did it, so I have to do it for you guys. Highly dubious calculation regarding the effects that you would be able to expect from 3 milligrams retritutite weekly, whether you take that once weekly or 3 shots, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 1 milligram subcutaneous each shot, that's entirely up to you, which again is the commonly used dosage amongst the bodybuilders and everybody else in the fitness community. Nowadays, 3 milligrams retritutite weekly, split up 1 milligram Monday, Wednesday, Friday. That seems to be the sweet spot for most people using this particular compound. This is a range based on the average of all of the results I just mentioned a little bit earlier, and the dosage range, which is closest to the results we're aiming for for each medication, without the range, we'd get some weird results. So there's a little bit of a range, but you should be able to get a similar effect as 3 milligrams retritutite. So regarding body weight reduction, 3 milligrams retritutite should give you a reduction of approximately 12.08%. And if you're after 12.08% body weight reduction, then you would need to get the following dosage ranges for the other GLP-1 receptor agonists. Regarding changes in body fat levels, that was unfortunately never assessed in humans. We can use that glucagon receptor agonist for dubious extrapolation, but I think we do enough of that here already. We only know a body weight changes, not body fat changes for retritutite. So we'll have to skip over this segment. So let's move over to the waist circumference reduction. If you go with 3 milligrams retritutite weekly, you should expect a waist circumference reduction of approximately 10 centimeters or 4 inches. And you would need to take these particular dosages of the other GLP-1 receptor agonists to get a comparable waist circumference reduction of approximately 10 centimeters or 4 inches. Next is a comparison of 3 milligrams retritutite weekly regarding relative liver fat reduction, since the absolute liver fat reduction values aren't commonly reported. 3 milligrams retritutite should give you a relative liver fat reduction of 59.1%. And if you're after 59.1% with the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, then the dosages are on the screen. For total cholesterol reduction, 3 milligrams retritutite weekly should give you a total cholesterol reduction of about 5.2%. And the dosages for the other GLP-1 receptor agonists for similar total cholesterol reduction of about 5.2% are on the screen. Regarding hemoglobin A1c reduction, 3 milligrams retritutite should give you a 0.88% reduction in hemoglobin A1c. And again, the dosages are on the screen if you're after a similar reduction. Now, if we want to compare all these beneficial effects of 3 milligrams retritutite versus the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, 3 milligrams retritutite equals, again, this is a very good approximation, 3 milligrams retritutite weekly subcutaneously approximates about 4.2 micrograms exenatite orally daily or 6.4 milligrams exenatite orally weekly. So that's a micrograms versus milligrams, a big discrepancy in dosing protocol. You have a short-acting and long-acting exenatite, 0.8 milligrams to 5.2 milligrams liraglutite subcutaneously daily with a mean administration dose of 2.7 milligrams subcutaneously daily, 1.4 milligrams to 18.8 milligrams liraglutite subcutaneously weekly with a mean administration dose of 6.4 milligrams subcutaneous weekly, 1.7 milligrams to 3.1 milligrams semiglutite subcutaneous weekly with a mean administration dose of 2.3 milligrams subcutaneous weekly or 14.2 milligrams semiglutite orally daily. Orally, it's also bioavailable apparently. 47.6 milligrams abluglutite subcutaneous weekly, 42.3 micrograms liraglutite subcutaneous weekly, 3.2 to 18.8 terzepidite subcutaneous weekly with a mean administration dose of 7.5 milligrams subcutaneous weekly. So, 3 milligrams liraglutite versus 7.5 milligrams terzepidite on a weekly basis, that's about two and a half times. So, if you're coming from terzepidite and you're moving over to liraglutite, you can actually lower the dose quite significantly, saving you a boatload of cash in the process. 1 to 4.1 milligrams servodutite with a mean administration dose of 2.4 milligrams subcutaneous weekly, 2.3 milligrams to 8.6 milligrams mastutite with a mean administration dose of 5.3 milligrams subcutaneous weekly and 7.3 milligrams to 14.2 milligrams efenopegdutite subcutaneous weekly with a mean administration dose of 8.9 milligrams subcutaneous weekly. And, well, bioglutite would be 158.4 milligrams orally daily, all to get comparable effect as 3 milligrams retro dutite subcutaneous weekly, preferably split up into 1 milligram shots. Monday, Wednesday, Friday. These calculations took a boatload of time. I'm sure I made a mistake here and there. So, my sincere apologies if I messed up. But this is the best we can do. The scientific evidence doesn't go this in-depth. So, again, I did it for you. And if you have some anecdotal experience and blood work results before and after, switching from exonetite to retrotitite or liraglutite to retrotitite, doula to retta, sematoretra to zepidite to retrotitite, please let us know down below in the comment section where your blood work results similar for particular dosage ranges. And how was the switch going from one compound to retrotitite regarding dosage and overall satiation, fat loss, and beneficial effects? Or did you get full-blown cardiac arrhythmias and your resting heart rate went up with 12 points as was shown in the clinical trials, right? Let us know your experience down below because not many people made the switch and really documented it. I mean, I've never done that myself either. I either used liraglutite for a couple months, then came off and got fat again, or used terzepidite for a couple months, came off and got fat again. And now, nowadays, I use retrotitite, but I never switch from liraglutite to retrotitite. So, if you have some experience on that front, let us know down below in the comment section. We would all love to hear about it. And since we're directly comparing retrotitite to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, I feel it's only fair to address the potential serious and severe side effects that might occur with these kinds of medications. Here, you see that liraglutite, semaglutite, and retrotitite are all associated with potential kidney function impairment. And while most GLP-1 receptor agonists might be beneficial for kidney function by improving glomerular filtration rates, which is proven in obesity and chronic kidney disease, with liraglutite and semaglutite, there are case reports of acute kidney injury, and they can increase serum creatinine levels, particularly due to the dehydration caused by gastrointestinal upset. And like I mentioned before, with retrotitite in the clinical trials, also shows rare instances of acute kidney damage. Exenatite, liraglutite, and again, the retrotitite are associated with potential liver function impairment. And even though GLP-1 receptor agonists are generally not associated with significant liver toxicity, and actually should offer beneficial effects in the context of NAFLD, aka MAFLD, SLD. Exenatite, liraglutite, and retrotitite are known to increase liver enzymes, and there are rare cases of autoimmune hepatitis that have been reported for liraglutite. Regarding exenatite, liraglutite, semaglutite, and retrotitite, albeit potentially, there might be an increased risk of developing pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer. Exenatite was associated with a significant increased risk of pancreatitis and reported pancreatic cancer instances. Liraglutite and semaglutite have been linked to an increased risk of pancreatitis compared to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, though the scientific meta-analysis findings suggest that there is no significant risk of developing pancreatitis, and they are not associated with the development of pancreatic cancer. Retrotitite has suggested the risk of pancreatitis based on the results of the other GLP-1 receptor agonists. That's never been proven. Scientifically, I couldn't find it, at least in the scientific evidence that's available, but I haven't read the scientific evidence that's locked behind the paywall, obviously, so donate if you want me to find risks of pancreatitis. And for your information, C-tagliptin, a dipeptidolpeptidase 4 inhibitor, which prevents the breakdown of incretin, GLP-1, and GIP, is also linked to an increased risk of developing pancreatitis. Exenatite and liraglutite are both associated with thyroid cancer in various animal models, albeit that the human scientific evidence is reasonably thin and not very conclusive. And regarding gastrointestinal adverse events, exenatite, liraglutite, dologlutite, semiglutite, terzepidite, and retrotitite are all associated with these kinds of side effects. So nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bloating, acid reflux, all these problems with the intestinal tract caused by GLP-1 receptor agonists are well documented. But it seems to be dose-dependent. And the longer you stay in a particular dose, the more these side effects become tolerable and then eventually become non-existent. But the satiation and the appetite suppression remains intact, albeit that the dose sometimes need to be escalated upwards when the satiation becomes non-existent. And then the side effects might return again, unfortunately. And for the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, since there's so little scientific evidence to go with, it seems that gastrointestinal adverse events are not very well documented. Atrial fibrillation, cardiac arrhythmias, elevated resting heart rate, and elevated blood pressure can occur with exenatite, liraglutite, dologlutite, semiglutite, and again, eretrogetite. Exenatite has been associated with atrial fibrillation, elevated heart rate, and blood pressure. Liraglutite has been linked to ventricular premature beats. Other arrhythmias and elevated heart rate by approximately 10 beats per minute. Dullaglutite has been associated with sinus tachycardia and increased PR interval, and elevates heart rate by approximately 4 beats per minute. Semiglutite has been associated with an increased resting heart rate. Retrodutite was shown to cause supraventricular arrhythmias and cardiac conduction disorders in a few participants during the clinical trials in a dose-dependent fashion, albeit that these side effects were not considered to be serious. And with the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, cardiac arrhythmias and an increase in elevated heart rate are not reported because of scientific evidence paper-thin. Exenatite, liraglutite, and semiglutite are all associated with neurotransmitter modulation. Exenatite has been studied for its potential neuroprotective effects in Parkinson's disease, where it may influence dopamine cell survival. However, direct modulation of dopamine levels is not well documented. Liraglutite reduces the expression of hypodermic 5-HC2A receptors, which are involved in appetite regulation. However, this is coming from an animal model, hasn't been proven in human subjects, and it doesn't affect serotonin synthesis directly, which has been shown in studies using tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitors. So not only does liraglutite promote appetite suppression and satiation by activating the GLP-1 receptors, it might also promote appetite suppression and satiation by modulating short-ternergic response in the brain. And there is a theoretical potential for semiglutite to influence serotonin and dopamine levels in the brain, albeit that studies indicate that semiglutite does not significantly impact the efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in patients suffering from depression. So the serotonergic and the dopaminergic effects of semiglutite are still basically poorly understood. So overall, while GLP-1 receptor agonists might modulate or influence neurotransmitter systems in the brain, direct evidence regarding the modulation of serotonin levels, dopamine levels, norepinephrine levels, or epinephrine levels is extremely limited at this point. So while retrodutite might appear safer compared to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, which are currently FDA-approved and being used by the general population, mostly people suffering from obesity or type 2 diabetes, where people who are not healthy generally use these kinds of medications, the side effects regarding pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer, thyroid cancer might come after, after retrodutite is introduced to the market, introduced to general population who are not healthy, suffer from obesity or type 2 diabetes, have lifestyle problems, and then these kinds of instances might be more reported in the future. Still, we're well ahead of that from occurring because the clinical trials go up to 2029 when they're set to be completed, and then it might still take a couple years for retrodutite to become available as an FDA-approved medication, and then it hits the market. So instances of pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer, or thyroid cancer might happen 10 years from now. As always, caution is advised when using once weekly. Medical dosages, whether that's from retrodutite shown in the clinical trials or the other currently FDA-approved GLP-1 receptor agonists with once-weekly administration protocols, it's probably safer to microdose retrodutite or the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, maybe three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, at a low and effective dose just enough to blunt your appetite, promote satiation, and take away the food noise, where you're undergoing a cutting phase, so you're not ravaginously hungry, thinking about donuts, cheesecake, ice cream, etc. And thus, diet adherence is so much greater, and the successful outcome of your cutting phase is thus significantly enhanced. But if you look at the clinical trial doses of retrodutite at, let's say, 1 to 3 milligrams or up to 4 milligrams weekly, the instances of reported side effects are significantly less, obviously, compared to the maximum efficacious dose of 12 milligrams weekly, which is basically 4 milligrams three times per week. Yeah, nobody would do that in their right mind. So here's your segue into the retrodutite dosing protocols. For men and women, basically, a sustainable and tolerable dose really depends on how much appetite management you need during a cutting phase. And that could be between 0.25 milligrams up to 1.66 milligrams subcutaneous, three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, aka 0.75 milligrams to 5 milligrams weekly. And the deleterious dose based on the clinical trials would be over 12 milligrams weekly. I've never talked to anybody who went up to 12 milligrams of retrodutite weekly. But I do know guys that administered 5 milligrams, aka an entire valve of retrodutite in one single shot, and all the gastrointestinal adverse events manifested to the point they could not even hydrate themselves because their appetite was so severely blunted and they got extreme nausea and vomiting that even water was not palatable and they could not keep it down. So start low, build your way up, so you prevent these terrible side effects. And even if you notice that you get good appetite suppression for a particular dose, but gastrointestinal problems might manifest, then you might need to stay on that dose for two or three weeks and then your body will slowly adapt. The satiation and appetite suppression will remain, but these gastrointestinal upsets or problems or nausea or diarrhea or bloating, that slowly goes away with time as you get more used to these kinds of medications. Anecdotally, retrodutite is the most potent and most productive GLP-1 receptor agonist out there when it comes to appetite management and fat loss overall. Again, you get this added benefit of glucose-dependent insulinotropic receptor agonism or a glucagon receptor agonism, which might actually help with fat mobilization, especially if you do this during caloric deficit and you really control your diet regarding dietary fat intake. So you have less fatty acids going into adipose tissue and more fatty acids coming out of adipose tissue, resulting in net fat loss, assuming that your caloric expenditure is sustained for the entire time that you're using retrodutite in a caloric deficit. So most people have already pivoted from exenotide, lyruglutide, semaglutide, and even terzepidite, even though there's still a lot of people that favor terzepidite over retrodutite because they feel they get better appetite suppression from terzepidite on a milligram-for-milligram basis compared to retrodutite. But terzepidite is a good amount cheaper, approximately 30% cheaper than retrodutite comparing all the sources which sell terzepidite and retrodutite. So the guys that notice improved appetite suppression with terzepidite over retrodutite, they stay with terzepidite because the price is lower and thus it's more cost-effective. Now, during the off-season, it seems that retrodutite might offer some benefits regarding the sustainability of insulin sensitivity and the prevention of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. But I think that the benefits regarding insulin sensitivity and the benefits regarding non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are stemming from caloric restriction being stimulated by the satiation and the appetite-blunting effect of retrodutite. Still, if during the off-season, you tend to overeat, which is what I do, I eat more than I need to, to make progress regarding the accrual of new muscle tissue, strength sites, etc. I tend to overeat a little bit so I get fat during the off-season. So the next time I do an off-season, I will definitely include retrodutite at, let's say, 0.25 milligrams three times per week at the maximum half a milligram three times per week to see if this insulin sensitizing effect remains. Of course, I will check my liver health with a fibrous scan and ultrasound regarding non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which I resolved years ago. It hasn't come back yet, luckily. So I'll keep track of that before and after. But there might be something to say for it, albeit that in the scientific evidence, it's not very conclusive regarding this potential benefit. But anecdotally, in the bodybuilding community, there are a lot of guys who blunt their appetite or at least take away the food noise that they don't overeat during the off-season. And they report that they have better glucose homeostasis or don't need to use insulin at all while they use retrodutite at a low-effective dose of, let's say, 0.25 milligrams to 0.5 milligrams three times weekly. It's very hard to determine if this potential beneficial effect regarding insulin sensitivity during the off-season results in the accrual of more muscle tissue, increasing strength sites, and overall muscularity. And that remains to be debated. But again, there's plenty of anecdotal reports of people showing a before and after, including retrodutite in their polypharmacy protocol with anabolic energy exterans, growth hormone, and whatnot. And they look better than their previous off-season. So it's worth looking into. I'll definitely look into it myself during the next off-season when I'm done with this cutting phase and I get my lower back fat and the glute fat under control. I'll add in the retrodutite and then see how much of a difference it makes. And then maybe report back to you guys with an addendum live stream. But to be fair, I've also heard reports of people claiming that retrodutite, or trisepatite for that matter, makes them flat, which is to be expected to a certain extent because it blunts your appetite. So it restricts your carbohydrates and fat intake unless you really force feed through the appetite suppression, obviously. And the people claim that retrodutite might cause flatness through this glucagon receptor activation. Now, if you activate the glucagon receptor on the liver, obviously, you get a gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis modulating your blood glucose levels and dumping a little bit of this glycogen stored within the liver into the bloodstream. But it doesn't work like that on the skeletal muscle, right? Once glycogen is stored in skeletal muscle, it's in, it's locked in there. You literally need to burn that away through activity. So if you take retrodutite during the cutting phase and your carbohydrate intake is restricted, then obviously you're going to be a little bit flatter than you would otherwise during the off-season where you can eat a bottle of carbs and your glycogen storage in skeletal muscle are saturated to the max to the point you now have full-blown insulin resistance, right? This is how it works. So if you have good insulin sensitivity, all of the carbohydrates would go into skeletal muscle, which is something that retrodutite promotes, obviously. So you should not go flat. If you go flat, it's a problem with your electrolytes. It's a problem with your overall caloric intake or your carbohydrate intake. And through some intelligent diet manipulations, you should be able to restore the flatness to somewhat fullness and still get a solid pump in the gym. And otherwise, guys, otherwise, that's what the Anadrol is there for. I made an entire video about how to get skin-splitting pumps, whether that's during the off-season or a cutting phase, whether you're on retrodutite or not. So give that one a watch. Regarding fat loss, though, it's absolutely amazing, right? Not only do you get appetite suppression, you also get this mobilization of fatty acids, which is unlike the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, because this one also contains GIP and glucagon receptor agonism. But until this bioglutite hits the market, I think that retrodutite is probably your best appetite suppression compound over the other stimulatory fat burners that raise your heart rate to the nth degree, right? An elevated heart rate of, what was it, 6.7 to 12 beats per minute, I think it's acceptable during a cutting phase. And you should be able to mitigate that by doing daily fasted cardio, which is something you should do anyway. So regarding appetite management and fat loss, I think retrodutite is next level compared to other GLP-1 receptor agonists. But once bioglutite hits the market, where you get quadruple agonism, also of the IGF-1 receptor, I think we're all going to pivot from retrodutite to bioglutite. But stay tuned for that deep dive that might drop a couple years from now because scientific evidence right now, paper thin and it's not available anywhere. And regarding addiction and dopamine signaling, whether that's a food addiction, drug addiction, or other kinds of addictions, gambling addiction, porn addiction, there are some anecdotal responses that retrodutite or GLP-1 receptor agonists help with the resolvement of these particular addictions. So it's something worth looking into. Will it be as potent as cerebral lichen or ibogaine treatments, for example? Probably not. But as long as you're using retrodutite or another GLP-1 receptor agonist, it might be easier to manage these symptoms of addiction and preventing addiction from recurring, obviously. Certainly for food addiction, it's probably hands down one of the best medications you could take. Albeit that the addiction, the food addiction, or other kinds of addiction might come back with inventions when you take retrodutite out. I've experienced this myself when taking terzepidite out or lyruglutite out in the past. Food addiction comes back and I'm morbidly, no, not morbidly obese, but I gain fat like nothing else because all the appetite is so ravenous and I can't under-eat and that's, or physically, I can't under-eat in that particular context. So yeah, it's pretty tough. I think when I start retrodutite again, I'm going to keep it at a low and effective dose and maybe a little bit higher dose during the cutting phase just to take away the food noise and prevent a rebound. And again, the clinical trials regarding appetite suppression and the management of obesity, they ramp up the dose of retrodutite, keep that at a certain point, let's say up to 12 milligrams weekly for over a year and then they taper it downwards, but keep the retrodutite in to sustain this appetite suppression and keep obesity management or type 2 diabetes management under control because they know when they take it out based in the other clinical trials and scientific evidence on GLP-1 receptor agonists that that's probably not a good idea to do. So it only works while you're using it. And if you suffer from an addiction and you use retrodutite to overcome this addiction, then you're probably on retrodutite for life, albeit that you should be able to lower the dose quite significantly, at least in the context of food addiction. All right, I'll leave it here. Please let me know your anecdotal response and reports to retrodutite. Did you get side effects? Did you get beneficial effects? How did you find it stacking with other GLP-1 receptor agonists or other appetite suppressions, whether those are stimulatory or not? And how is your fat loss journey or cutting phase by adding retrodutite in? Was it significantly easier or did you just feel that you're spending a boat on the money because again, retrodutite ain't cheap and that's why we have discount codes out there. All right. If you start solving experimentation, you should do your blood work over at Merrick Health. If you live in the United States, they have excellent healthcare providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results and make sure that you stay healthy while you're undergoing a self-experimentation with polypharmacy. And if you can't figure it out by doing blood work at Merrick Health, then you can always contact me for a consultation and I'll gladly sort out your protocol with you together on a consultation call. You can find all of my other sponsors and affiliates down below in the YouTube description section and if you can't find a particular sponsor or affiliate there, head over to my website vigoroustheve.com where everything is explained into great detail. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A almost unretrodutite front double bicep for you guys. Not quite unretrodutite yet. Otherwise, it'll be a lot leaner. But hey, maybe at one point or another, my appetite becomes unmanageable and I need some appetite suppression and then the first thing that I'll look into is retrodutite at a low-and-effective dose of a milligram to one milligram subcutaneous three times weekly. All right. Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Safest Methylene Blue Protocols (Overlooked Compound) Mitochondrial Function & Anti-Aging Nootropic [CnIJbbCvFdQ].txt ===

! METHALschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschsch but let's keep it PG-13, welcome to the Methylene Blue Deep Dive, where the dose is the poison. Vigorous thief here, let's get started by explaining what Methylene Blue actually is, what it's used for medically, and most importantly, which dosages it's prescribed in, so you know which dosage ranges you need to avoid, because the medical dosages can come with a slew of potential side effects. Methylene Blue, also known as methyltheonium chloride, is a dye and a medication, which is commonly used as a nootropic, as a mitochondrial function enhancer, as an anti-aging and longevity compound, and might even be used as a performance enhancing drug. The applications of Methylene Blue are vast and varied, with over 28,000 studies available for literature review, I'll be attempting to make sense of all of the potential benefits and side effects in this deep dive video. Now, if you feel that I left something out, feel free to post your citations and interpretations down below in the comment section, and I'll gladly make an addendum video if there's a lot more to discuss. Methylene Blue was first synthesized in 1876 by German chemist Heinrich Karo, and initially used as a textile dye to stain silk wool and cotton and paper in various shades of blue. And then 10 years later, in 1886, Dr. Paul Elrecht discovered that Methylene Blue also stains live neurons blue, and it had the same effect on Plasmodium found in infected human blood. Plasmodium is the parasite that causes malaria. And then five years later, in 1891, with the help of Dr. Paul Goodman, they successfully treated malaria in human patients using Methylene Blue as a treatment. It was also used in the First and Second World War as an anti-malaria medication, and in 1933, it was found to be an antidote for carbon monoxide poisoning, as well as cyanide poisoning. Methylene Blue has been widely used as a medical dye due to its strong staining properties and its ability to bind to biological tissues. Its bright blue color and ability to interact with biological structures make it a valuable tool for medical procedures and diagnostics. Methylene Blue has been used as a medical dye for the staining in histology and microbiology, which helps to visualize cells, bacteria, and tissues under a microscope. It's been used as a surgical marker. Surgeons use it to trace lymphatic drainage or identify damaged tissues. Methylene Blue as a medical dye has various diagnostic applications. It's injected to detect fistulas, leaks, or structural abnormalities in the body. And as a medical dye, it's vital in procedures to aid in identifying specific tissues, such as during central lymph node mapping in cancer surgery. Currently, Methylene Blue is being extensively studied for its potential uses in neuroprotection and Alzheimer's disease, to inhibit monamine oxidase, to inhibit nitric oxide synthase, and inhibit granulite cyclase, and as a redox agent in cellular metabolism contributing to mitochondrial function. Wait, what? Not so fast there, Steve. Methylene Blue is a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor? That's not bodybuilding approved. What about my massive masculine pumps in the gym? Don't worry, gym bros. Everything will be explained and debunked in this video. But before we start debunking, it's very important for you to know that Methylene Blue is studied and administered at much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much higher dosages than we would generally recommend for nootropic or performance-enhancing purposes. Here in this study performed by Galvin et al., published in January 2021, so a very recent good review index paper titled Methylene Blue for the Treatment of Health Conditions, a Scoping Review. In this study, the researchers indexed 16 previously performed studies which investigated various medical conditions where Methylene Blue was shown to have beneficial therapeutic effects. When you scroll down to table 1, 2, and 3, you see that the dosages are all well above 5 mg daily, going all the way up to 390 mg Methylene Blue twice daily for 7 days consecutively, which is what, 780 mg Methylene Blue every single day for 7 days in total, which are insane, insane dosages that nobody would recommend to healthy individuals for all of the reasons that we'll get into. At 5 mg daily, Methylene Blue might alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety as it acts as a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, raising serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine levels in the brain. More on that a little bit later on. And at 50 mg per day, Methylene Blue might alleviate pain after surgery, potentially by reducing oxidative stress and improving wound healing. Now, personally, I use 10 mg Methylene Blue every single day after my surgeries. I did Fentolasic eye surgery, I did gynecumaceous surgery, I did liposuction at the same time, and I had orthopedic leg surgery, all within 10 days, right, get all of the surgeries out of the way. After the surgeries were done and dusted for, I use 10 mg Methylene Blue every single day to help as an antioxidant and potentially improve wound healing. But I did have significant pain in my leg after the orthopedic plate was removed, up until the two-week mark, and then from one day to the next, the pain was gone, and I could walk normally. I had no pain in my eyes, minus one day after the surgery, a minimal pain in the breast area where the gynecomastia tissue was removed, and the liposuction took place. So, I could say that Methylene Blue aided in my recovery. And another study I want to highlight, again, you can find all citations down below, as usual, in case you're interested, performed by Zeit Kazina et al., published on September 29, 2022, so that's even more recent, titled Clinical Effectiveness and Prospects of Methylene Blue, a systemic review. In this study, the researchers reviewed all relevant clinical trials revolving around brain diseases, cancer imaging and diagnosis, infectious diseases such as malaria and C19, and cardiovascular diseases. And here, the investigated dosages are anywhere between 50 mg daily, up to 280 mg daily. Again, these are not the dosages that we're looking for. Besides these two review papers, I couldn't really find much scientific evidence revolving around very low and modest dosages of Methylene Blue, let's say 3 mg to 15 mg in a single serving, multiple times per week to daily use. So, we might have to go a little bit more with the anecdotal evidence from the fitness and nootropic community over the scientific evidence, because all of the scientific evidence is usually around 10 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg, 800 mg. And again, those are not the dosages that we're after here. So, first, let's look into the medical applications of Methylene Blue, so you know what it's actually being used for and prescribed for in humans. It's prescribed in methamoglobinemia. Guess how many times I had to try to pronounce that one? Methamoglobinemia. 1 mg to 2 mg for 1 kg of body weight, intravenously over 5 to 30 minutes, which might be repeated after 60 minutes if needed, for a maximum of 7 mg per 1 kg of body weight daily. So, if you're 100 kg bodybuilder suffering from methamoglobinemia, that's up to 700 mg Methylene Blue daily. And this is coming straight off my screen because it's impossible to remember and to pronounce without looking at my screen. So, here we go again. Methamoglobinemia is a condition where hemoglobin can't carry oxygen effectively as the iron in hemoglobin is oxidized from a ferrous to ferric state. Methylene Blue acts as a cofactor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent methamoglobin reductase, which can reduce ferric iron back to ferrous iron needed to restore oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin. You know, it also increases the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin, myoinocytil, triparaphosphate, but we'll save that for a separate deep dive dropping in the near future coming soon. So, subscribe now if you haven't subscribed already if you're interested in myoinocytil, triparaphosphate for overall endurance benefits. During chemotherapy, Methylene Blue is used to treat ifosfamide-induced neurotoxicity at 50 mg intravenously every 4 to 8 hours for a total dose of 150 mg to 300 mg daily. During cancer surgery, it's used to map sentinel lymph nodes at 10 mg in a 1 ml solution or 50 mg per 5 ml solution administered subcutaneously. They're used as a dye to identify lymph nodes in surgical oncology. Methylene Blue is being used in the treatment of vasoplegic syndrome occurring during septic or cardiogenic shock, where it's used in refractory hypotension when vasopressors are ineffective, in which case the dose is anywhere between 1 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight administered intravenously over 10 to 20 minutes, continued with a quarter mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight every hour if needed, as long as the vasoplegic syndrome and refractory hypotension is present. It's being used in cyanide poisoning, 1 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight intravenously as an adjuvant therapy in combination with sodium thiosulfate and sodium nitrite. Methylene Blue is currently being investigated during clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease and neurodegenerative disorders at 60 mg to 300 mg orally daily. It's being investigated during clinical trials for potential fluorona C19 acute and long hauler syndrome resolvements. It does just between 0.5 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg body weight intravenous daily or 1 mg to 4 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally daily. So again, all these previously mentioned conditions close to hundreds of milligrams. Methylene Blue is sometimes being prescribed for off-label purposes to treat urinary tract infections usually in combination with other antibiotics. Add 65 mg to 100 mg orally 2 to 3 times daily for a total of 130 to 300 mg daily. Methylene Blue is also used to treat pre-apism, a prolonged erection that lasts for hours and might damage your penile tissue. Add 50 mg per 5 ml to 100 mg per 10 ml by intra-covered nozzle injection. And this is off-label use as well, usually administered after first-line treatments fail. So they would do a blood aspiration from the penis or administered alpha agonists like phenyl ephrine. And if that fails, then well, an intra-covered nozzle injection of methylene Blue might be required. Again, Methylene Blue works as a guanylite cyclase inhibitor reducing nitric oxide signaling and relieving prolonged erections. And it used to be prescribed in the treatment of malaria, but it's now largely replaced by modern anti-malaria medication. Previously, it was prescribed at 36 mg to 73 mg orally every 8 hours for 3 to 4 days. So again, over several days, hundreds of mg, not the dosages that we're after in this deep dive. And to further drive that point home, since I'm sure you're already hopelessly lost in the mg per kg of body weight dosage ranges, I did you a solid. All you have to do is like this video and leave a couple comments for the algorithm to show me some love. I converted all of the dosage ranges to body weight at 10 kg increments. So here's an aggregated dosage range for all of the medical treatments where Methylene Blue is being used to treat something, not as a diagnostic tool in cancer or chemotherapy, for example. So the dosage ranges would be between 0.5 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally or intravenously in a single administration. Continued if needed to a maximum of 7 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally or intravenous daily or 60 mg to 300 mg orally daily in a single serving or multiple servings over the day. So if you're a 100 kg bodybuilder like I am approximately, that would be between 50 mg to 200 mg Methylene Blue daily for a maximum intake of 700 mg. Way too high. I would never do it. Personally, I would never dare to attempt to take 50 mg Methylene Blue per day. Certainly not 200 mg, let alone 700 mg over the day, even if it was in a single serving. Unless I'd be guaranteed to transform into Dr. Manhattan, even if it's only for a single day, so I could vaporize a couple people, it would be totally worth it to turn completely blue. So did you lose your pump yet? Let's get into this reduction of nitric oxide signaling before we get into the rest of the evidence-based unique characteristics of Methylene Blue. Because many of you are already sweating profusely and you didn't even take the other industrial dye used as a pesticide and herbicide and explosive known as 2,4-dinitrophenol, aka DNP. Methylene Blue acts as an electron donor, disrupting the normal electron flow for nitric oxide synthase enzymes to function correctly, effectively lowering nitric oxide levels. And this disruption occurs in the nervous system, the vasculatory system, aka the bloodstream, and the immune system. Methylene Blue also blocks the activation of soluble guanylite cyclase, an enzyme stimulated by nitric oxide to produce cyclic guanylcine monophosphate. And it's this C-GMP which acts as a key signaling molecule involved in vasodilation, neurotransmission and the relaxation of smooth muscle tissue. By preventing the formation of cyclic guanylcine monophosphate, Methylene Blue prevents nitric oxide's physiological effects. So the role of nitric oxide in skeletal muscle function is as follows. It contributes to vasodilation resulting in muscle oxygenation, ATP synthesis, lactate clearance, and improved endurance capacity. Nitric oxide contributes to muscular contractions, helps with calcium utilization and contractive efficiency. Nitric oxide contributes to strength and power output through muscle profusion and neuromuscular efficiency. Nitric oxide even contributes to hypertrophy. It helps with the anabolic signaling pathways like mTOR activation, muscle protein synthesis, and satellite cell activation. And nitric oxide also contributes to recovery as it regulates skeletal muscle and neuroinflammation. Just be forewarned that excessive nitric oxide levels can contribute to oxidative damage. All of that aside, Methylene Blue is known to increase blood pressure at therapeutic, aka higher dosages, due to its nitric oxide synthase inhibiting effects, reducing cyclic guanylcine monophosphate levels in the bloodstream, well before, again, well before it starts to mitigate the pump. So if you have a crazy pump in the gym but you notice your blood pressure is going up, then your dose of Methylene Blue is probably too high and you need to put something in place to keep your blood pressure under control, one of which is by lowering your Methylene Blue dosage. The key here is not to take too much. You know, dosages used medically for vasoplegic syndrome or pre-epism at 50 mg Methylene Blue per injection. In the medical literature, Methylene Blue is shown to have a noticeable increase in blood pressure at dosages beyond 1 mg per kg of body weight through intravenous administration, not by oral administration. Methylene Blue has an oral bioavailability of approximately 53 to 97%, 72.3% on average, and is absorbed over 30 minutes, not instantaneously, which you would see with an intravenous administration. So there's a huge difference here between excessive nitric oxide synthase inhibition from super high dosages acting instantly through intravenous administration compared to a lower oral bioavailability, which is being absorbed over 30 minutes at single mg, maybe 10 mg dosages, right? The dose is the poison. I can't emphasize this enough. Now, I know what you're thinking, and you're very smart for thinking that way. What about Tadalafil Cialis? A phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor which prevents the breakdown of cyclic guanosine monophosphate and thus raising C, G, and P levels, leading to smooth muscle relaxation and vasodilation, resulting in a phenomenal super pump. As masculine as could be. Now, if you would like to know more about Tadalafil aka Cialis, I would highly suggest you to watch the deep dive. But yes, from personal anecdotal experience, you can combine Cialis with methylene blue, both at low and effective dosages, 5 mg Cialis to 10 mg Cialis with 5 to 10 mg methylene blue. Pumps are insane. And you get all the benefits from methylene blue and none of the side effects. So if you want to combine both for a phenomenal masculine super pump, go right ahead. And if you're still not convinced, here's an extensive list of all of the compounds known to increase nitric oxide levels in production in the body, many of which are found in over-the-counter pre-workout formulas. I mean, why do you think that Gorilla Mode Nitric is called Gorilla Mode Nitric? It's not because it's filled with deli meats, buddy. You can consider L-Arginine at 2,000 mg to 6,000 mg pre-workout or L-Citrulline coming from L-Citrulline malate. So we're after the actual L-Citrulline here, excluding the malate. A dosage is between 3,000 mg to 12,000 mg pre-workout. Nitrocygene, 1,500 mg to 3,000 mg pre-workout. Pycnogenol, 50 mg to 100 mg pre-workout. Ubiquinol, 100 mg to 400 mg pre-workout. Beetroot juice or powder extract. If you go with the juice, you can dissolve all of the other aforementioned nitric oxide-enhancing vasodilating compounds. That would be 250 ml to 500 ml pre-workout. Or go with the powder extract and dissolve everything in water, whatever you prefer. 500 mg to 2,000 mg pre-workout. You can look into Pomp Grenade extract, 500 mg to 1,000 mg pre-workout. Grape seed extract, 100 mg to 200 mg pre-workout. Hawthornberry extract, 250 mg to 500 mg pre-workout. And if you want to go with the theobromine flavonoids for all of you chocolate lovers out there, make sure that it's over 70% cacao dark chocolate, 30 g to 50 g pre-workout. And feel free to increase nitric oxide levels in the body by using omega-3 fatty acids coming from fish oil, high-potency fish oil, for example, Gorillamide Omega-3 Elixir, at a total dose of 3,000 mg EPA and 2,000 mg DHA over the day. And while you're at it, you might as well throw a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor on top of this nitric oxide increasing over-the-counter supplement stack. Whether that's Sildenafil, a.k.a. Viagra, 25 mg to 100 mg taken pre-workout. Or Tadalafil, a.k.a. Cialis, 5 mg to 20 mg at any time during the day, because the half-life is super-duper long. Same for Fordenafil, a.k.a. Levitra, 5 mg to 20 mg anytime during the day, because the half-life is quite long. And with a consecutive Tadalafil or Fordenafil administrations, the dosage compounds and the pump is significantly enhanced. And if that's not enough, there's always nitroglycerin, but you might want to do some research on nitroglycerin before you start experimenting with that at 0.3 mg to 0.6 mg sublingually, right? Caution is advised. Now, diminished pump aside, what I would be more worried about, by inhibiting nitric oxide synthase, methylene blue might impair kidney function by causing vasoconstriction in the kidneys and reducing renal blood flow. And it might also cause vasoconstriction in the brain, reducing cognitive function by impairing blood flow to the brain. I couldn't find any scientific evidence that that happens at low to moderate dosages of methylene blue, the dosages which we'll recommend at the end of this video, but it could be a concern at therapeutic dosages beyond 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight through oral or sublingual administration, or 1 mg per 1 kg of body weight through intravenous or subcutaneous or intercarbunosal administration. So like I mentioned many times before, like with so many other compounds out there that we can choose from, with methylene blue, the dose is the poison. So I hope I put your worries at rest. Now let's dive into the evidence-based unique characteristics of methylene blue. Methylene blue, like I mentioned before, it inhibits nitric oxide synthase enzymes, reducing nitric oxide levels, which could potentially be attenuated by taking nitric oxide boosting supplements. Methylene blue might diminish vasodilation, reduce skeletal muscle pumps and impair exercise performance. Again, this is only observed at higher dosages. And methylene blue also inhibits granulite sicklyse enzymes, reducing sickly guanosine monophosphate levels, which also can potentially be attenuated by taking Tadalafil at any point during the day, because the half-life is so long. And again, it might diminish vasodilation, skeletal muscle pumps and exercise performance at higher dosages, by inhibiting the granulite sicklyse enzymes. But the inhibition of nitric oxide synthase enzymes and guanalyte sicklyse enzymes is only observed at higher dosages, beyond one milligram per one kilogram of body weight, when taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily, or beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, when taken orally or sublingually daily. And methylene blue improves mitochondrial function, but we'll go a lot more in depth a little bit later on in this video. Don't you worry. Methylene blue improves mitochondrial respiration, acts as an electron donor in mitochondrial complex 1 to 4, which increases adenosine triphosphate production, increasing overall energy levels. Methylene blue increases nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide production within the mitochondria. It stimulates glucose metabolism in anaerobic conditions and lowers oxidative stress. But again, more on this later on. Methylene blue inhibits monamine oxidase A and B enzymes, which prevents serotonin norepinephrine, aka noradrenaline and dopamine neurotransmitter breakdown in the brain, which means that methylene blue has known selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, as well as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, or tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitor drug interactions, leading to serotonin syndrome. And methylene blue can even cause serotonin syndrome or serotonin toxicity all by itself, even without the use of an SSRI or an SNRI or TCA or MOAE medication alongside of it, albeit that this is only observed at a reasonably higher dose, just beyond 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight daily, or 300 milligrams administered over 24-hour periods, all through intravenous administration. The correlation between methylene blue and serotonin syndrome or serotonin toxicity are indexed in this study performed by Boots Guide, all published on August 30th, 2022, titled Methylene blue, a controversial diagnostic acid and medication. When you scroll down to Table 1, you see that serotonin toxicity occurs in emphosphamide-induced encephalopathy at dosages of 50 milligrams intravenous every 4 hours until symptoms resolve, which means 300 milligrams over a 24-hour period, or serotonin toxicity occurs in parathyroid imaging at dosages beyond 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight when taken intravenously. And for the other clinical indications, it seems that serotonin toxicity is not an issue for these particular dosage ranges. Now, it would still be advised to skip or avoid certain medications or over-the-counter supplements which are known to have serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine-modulating effects. So I'm talking about selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or serotonin norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, atypical antipsychotics, opioids with serotonergic effects, nootropics or stimulants with either serotonergic or dopaminergic or both effects. And that includes bromantain, modafinil, ritalin, ephedrine, adderol, dexedrine, and vivant. So those, again, caution is advised, doesn't mean you can't combine methylene blue with either of these nootropics or stimulants, but you might have some serotonergic or dopaminergic drug interactions, especially when you start escalating the dose upwards. There might be a drug interaction with the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists, including exonetides, liraglutide, dulaglutide, semaglutides, terzepidides, eretrotutides, and some of the other underdevelopment GLP-1 receptor agonists. GLP-1 receptor activation has been shown to modulate serotonin levels in the brain and enhance the activity of serotonin-producing neurons, which might treat and resolve anxiety and depression, similar to how low-dose methylene blue might treat and resolve anxiety and depression by increasing serotonin levels in the brain, whether that's from methylene blue or GLP-1 receptor agonists. This results in appetite suppression. And in the case of a GLP-1 receptor agonist, increased serotonin is one of the mechanisms on how GLP-1 receptor agonists results in weight loss. Still, there might be some drug interactions there. Again, I've combined methylene blue at a low dose with a moderate dose of a GLP-1 receptor agonist, whether that's liraglutide, terzepidide, or retrotutide. And I found that my appetite was suppressed and my mood was enhanced, but there was no symptoms of serotonin toxicity. And you have to be cautious when you combine methylene blue with serotonin and over-the-counter supplements like L-tryptophan or 5-HTP, which are the building blocks of serotonin, as well as ashwagandha root extract, ginkgo biloba extract, rhodiola rosea extract, St. John's wort, and theanine. And keep in mind that St. John's wort is a cytochrome P450, 3A4, and 1A2 inducer, increasing the metabolism of particular compounds, but I discussed that in other videos. Feel free to give those a watch as well. And be cautious when you combine methylene blue with dopaminergic over-the-counter supplements, including L-phenylaline, L-tyrosine, L-dopa coming from mucanoprirines, aka velvet bean extract, because these are all forming the building blocks for dopamine, as well as ginkgo biloba extract, rhodiola rosea extract, forscolin extract, theobromine coming from dark chocolate, and theanine coming from green tea. Now, just because there might be some potential drug interactions increasing serotonin levels, norepinephrine levels, or dopamine levels in the brain when combining methylene blue with either of these, over-the-counter supplements or medications I just mentioned, doesn't mean you can't do that. Take myself as an example. I've combined methylene blue with vortioxetine, 3mg methylene blue with 2.5mg vortioxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, and I got full-blown serotonin syndrome, salivating, hallucinating, not knowing where I was, and completely hot my entire body, feeling very, very weird and having micro-contractions for no reason, full-blown serotonin syndrome. So I threw the vortioxetine in the trash because it was also giving me tremendous libido issues and a minor erectile dysfunction. So that SSRI was not meant for me, but combining up to 10mg methylene blue with up to 50mg fluvoxamine, another SSRI which I have great results with, no problems. 10mg methylene blue five times per week with 50mg fluvoxamine every single day, no issues even when stacked with 1mg retrotutite three times per week. So now we're talking about three serotonin compounds that could potentially increase serotonin levels in the brain without any symptoms of serotonin syndrome or serotonin toxicity. I'm not entirely sure if I would add in more serotonin compounds in the form of over-the-counter supplements or other medications if I would get some sort of serotonin syndrome, but I feel that if you keep the dosages low, whether that's methylene blue or the aforementioned over-the-counter supplements or medications, then you should be able to have a positive drug interaction resulting in increased appetite suppression, but also enhanced mood and perhaps increased cognition. And this also means if you're currently using SSRIs or other serotonin medications and you want to phase them out of your life, by the Maui inhibition of methylene blue increasing serotonin levels in the brain, you might completely mitigate the withdrawal symptoms. So instead of tapering the SSRIs down with 10% dosage reductions every week resulting in a withdrawal period of let's say a year or multiple months, you switch to methylene blue, again not medical advice, I've done this myself, but it's not medical advice, switching to methylene blue increasing serotonin levels in the brain by acting as a Maui inhibitor. You can basically go from an SSRI to methylene blue the next day without withdrawal. Now I've done this with several consultations and discussed this with several people behind closed doors. It seems to work, but it obviously wouldn't work for everybody. So again, it's not medical advice, but it's something you can look into. So again, it's not medical advice, but it's something you can look into.  cltiteriter, unboxschopposchop教opiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, the side effects that you're experiencing, methylene blue might be a suitable replacement. Still, either way, if you're undergoing this route of combining particular serotonergic medications or supplements with methylene blue and you're undergoing this self-experimentation, proceed with caution, keep the dosages moderate and slowly escalate upwards based on positive effects and taper down as fast as possible when you start to experience serotonergic side effects. Okay, back to the evidence-based unique characteristics of methylene blue. Methylene blue might alleviate Alzheimer's syndrome by improving mitochondrial function. It increases acetylcholine levels in the brain. It has antioxidant effects in the brain. It inhibits beta-amyloid aggregation and may dissolve existing beta-amyloid plaque in the brain and methylene blue binds tubulin-associated unit protein and prevents tau-protein hyperphosphorylation. But this is only observed in the aforementioned clinical trial dosages of 60 milligrams to 300 milligrams. Methylene blue orally daily. Dosages which are way too high and where side effects generally start to manifest. Methylene blue might alleviate pain after surgery observed at 50 milligrams daily. Methylene blue might alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety already observed at 5 milligrams daily. So these are the dosages that we're a little bit more interested in. Methylene blue might alleviate fluorona C-19 acute and long hauler syndrome. It has potential antiviral effects. It improves mitochondrial function. It has antioxidant effects systemically, not just in the brain. Methylene blue enhances the oxygen-carrying capacity of red blood cells by reducing ferric iron back to ferrous iron, which is what is prescribed for methylmoglobinemia. Methylene blue offers erythropoietic effects at therapeutic dosages. The dosages that it's investigated in during clinical trials. Methylene blue reduces chronic fatigue and body aches and reduces chronic systemic inflammation. Now again, these effects are observed at 0.5 milligrams to 2 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when administered intravenously daily or one milligram to four milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when administered orally. Dosages which are considered to be in the ballpark of inducing various side effects. Methylene blue has systemic anti-inflammatory effects. It reduces pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, modulates microphage and neutrophil immune cell function. Methylene blue has systemic antioxidant effects. It increases nuclear factor, erythroid 2-related factor expression. It upregulates superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase activity. So that's very, very promising. That's at all dosages, but you get a dose-dependent effect regarding the antioxidant benefits as well as the anti-inflammatory effects. So that's a dose-dependent effect observed at low dosages, which I'll recommend at the end of this video. Methylene blue improves skin quality. It enhances skin viability and skin hydration, resulting in skin anti-aging effects. It increases dermis thickness, promotes wound healing, and upregulates elastin and collagen 2A1 synthesis, resulting in a more youthful appearance. So regarding a brief side tangent here, regarding the anti-aging benefits of methylene blue, that's mostly observed in the skin. So from a longevity slash cosmetic appearance perspective, methylene blue makes you look younger with perceived anti-aging benefits. And these anti-aging benefits in the skin are very similar to injectable glutathione, leading me to believe that a combination of injectable glutathione with oral methylene blue, you don't need to inject it, don't be silly. Injectable glutathione with oral methylene blue, both at low and conservative, yet effective dosages, should enhance your appearance, making you look more youthful, which allows you to say that you have anti-aging benefits. And these are actual anti-aging effects. Methylene blue protects against skeletal aging by improving mitochondrial function like it does everywhere else. And it also improves antioxidant status within bones. So if you're a little bit older and you have a lot of oxidative stress in the bones resulting in bone aging, then methylene blue might be able to protect against it, resulting in actual anti-aging effects. Methylene blue affects the gut microbiome diversity and composition. It has antimicrobial properties, might prevent candida overgrowth, might disrupt the beneficial bacteria that play an important role in digestion, immunity, and metabolic health. But this is only observed at higher doses beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when taken orally, not subcutaneously or intravenously because that bypasses the gut microbiome. Methylene blue increases cognitive performance and offers neuroprotection. It passes the blood-brain barrier, reduces oxidative stress in the brain again. It increases serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine levels, like I mentioned earlier. Again, assuming you keep the dose moderate and you don't combine it with some of the aforementioned medications or over-the-gunder supplements. Methylene blue improves mitochondrial function in the brain, ATP synthesis in the brain, and reduces beta-amyloid levels in the brain, resulting again in cognitive performance and neuroprotection overall. Methylene blue increases erythropoiesis at moderate dosages. This is very important for you to understand when you start stacking methylene blue with erythropoietin or other erythropoietic compounds like bulbenone, for example, or anadrol, or sleep apnea. It also increases your hematocrit and red blood cell count. It reduces oxidative stress in erythroid progenitor cells. It reduces nitric oxide levels, lowers methyloglobulin, which is the oxidized hemoglobin, which then increases oxygen carrying capacity of the red blood cell count as the hemoglobin can now carry more oxygen around, and that enhances hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha stability, all might result in increased erythropoiesis. And this is observed at moderate dosages between 0.1 milligram to 1 milligram per kilogram of body weight when taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily or at a little bit higher dosages, 0.5 milligrams to 2 milligrams for 1 kilogram of body weight when taken orally or sublingually. So again, if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder from 50 milligrams per day onwards, you might experience erythropoiesis unless you combine methylene blue with other erythropoietic compounds. And methylene blue actually inhibits erythropoiesis at higher dosages by increasing oxidative stress and disrupting mitochondrial function, damaging erythroid progenitor cells, causing oxidative stress to hemoglobin, which is the heightened body formation and even resulting in hemolysis. And methylene blue interferes with erythropoietin receptor sensitivity. And this is observed medically at dosages beyond 2 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight, either taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily or beyond 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight when taken orally or sublingually daily. But anecdotally, I see this effect of reduced hematocrit and reduced red blood count. We're talking about a hematocrit of like 37 to 39%, which is very low for a male bodybuilder, beyond 25 milligrams methylene blue daily. So it seems that erythropoiesis already starts to occur at 3 milligrams to 10 milligrams methylene blue daily, even though medically, that would start to occur beyond 0.5 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight daily. So that's way higher in a medical setting. But we as bodybuilders or fitness enthusiasts combine methylene blue with erythropoietic compounds. So at 10 milligrams methylene blue daily, unless you're using something to inhibit erythropoiesis or reduce hematocrit levels, you might see that hematocrit and real blood cell count starts to shoot up. And beyond 25 milligrams per day, regardless if you take erythropoietin or boldenone or anadrol or you have sleep apnea or not, you might see a reduction in your hematocrit and real blood cell count. So again, if you start escalating the dose upwards, but even at low and moderate dosages, blood work. Do your blood work to prevent issues with your complete blood count parameters. And now for the really bad news, methylene blue reduces cerebral blood flow by inhibiting nitric oxide synthase enzymes and lowering nitric oxide levels. It inhibits soluble guanylite c-clase enzymes and lowers cichlid guanylcine monophosphate levels, inducing vasoconstriction and impairing blood flow to the brain. But this is only observed at higher dosages beyond 0.5 milligram per one kilogram of body weight. Highing kilogram bodybuilder taking 50 milligrams methylene blue and the blood flow to the brain might be impaired. So again, the dose is the poison, like I say, every single time. Methylene blue induces oxidative stress at higher doses observed at doses beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight. So don't do that unless you suffer from a medical condition where you need methylene blue to get you out of that particular scenario. Methylene blue causes acute toxicity at extreme dosages where it induces hemolysis, methylmoglobinemia and severe oxidative stress within red blood cells and also induces severe neurotoxicity and this observed at doses beyond seven milligrams per one kilogram of body weight daily, aka 700 milligrams methylene blue for 100 kilogram bodybuilder. And methylene blue causes hemolysis in glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase, gene deficiencies. So if you suspect a G6PD gene deficiency in your genetic makeup, please do a genetic analysis with 23andMe before you start taking methylene blue because that could result in significant hemolysis and, well, basically death. But the good news is that there might be potential synergistic effects with PPR modulators like telmosartin or cardirine because methylene blue increases peroxisone perifylator activated receptor or gamma coactivator one alpha expression which might enhance fat metabolism. Now, I personally didn't experience any of that comparing a low and effective dose of methylene blue with an effective dose of telmosartin and an effective dose of cardirine which I also have a deep dive on. If you want fat loss, stick with cardirine. The methylene blue and the telmosartin on top of that might offer a 1% benefit which is basically unnoticeable in the bigger picture. So as you might have suspected, methylene blue exhibits a biphasic dose response meaning that low dosages might be beneficial under various conditions but at higher dosages it might have deleterious effects especially if you don't suffer from the particular medical condition in which these elevated dosage ranges are generally prescribed for. So based on a review of the scientific literature it seems that the negative effects of methylene blue start to manifest at dosages beyond 0.5 milligram per 1 kilogram of body weight daily regardless of administration around. So again that means 50 milligrams methylene blue if you're 100 kilogram bodybuilder or 25 milligrams methylene blue if you're 50 kilogram short king. Keep in mind that chronic high dosages of methylene blue can accumulate in tissues stating them blue literally leading to unknown long term potentially deleterious effects. It seems that methylene blue has potential performance enhancing benefits through its effects on mitochondrial function improving and optimizing adenosine triphosphate synthesis which should result in increased energy capacity during your workouts. Methylene blue enhances mitochondrial function biogenesis and ATP synthesis through various mechanisms. These effects seem to be dose dependent and observed in in vitro and in vivo studies so that means that at a low and effective dose methylene blue already enhances mitochondrial function that does it up until certain points at which point there's a tipping point in the dose and methylene blue is no longer an antioxidant but starts to potentiate pro-oxidant effects and these are methylene blue's effects on mitochondrial function where it enhances electron chain efficiency. Methylene blue acts as an alternative electron carrier in the electron transport chain. It accepts electrons from reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides at mitochondrial complex 1 and donates then directly to cytochrome C bypassing mitochondrial complexes 1 and 3. This rerouting of electron enhances the activity of mitochondrial complex 4 which reduces electron leakage and mitigates the production of reactive oxygen species which can otherwise damage the mitochondria due to oxidative stress. By facilitating efficient electron transport within the electron transport chain, methylene blue increases mitochondrial respiration and adenosine triphosphate synthesis increasing overall energy levels. Methylene blue contributes to mitochondrial biogenesis. Methylene blue induces the expression of peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha which is a key regulator in mitochondrial biogenesis. This leads to an increase in the number of healthy mitochondria within cells enhancing cellular energy production and resilience. Methylene blue stimulates substrate level phosphorylation in conditions where oxidative phosphorylation is impaired due to the inhibition of mitochondrial complex 1 or mitochondrial ATP synthase. Methylene blue stimulates substrate level phosphorylation through the succinyl coenzyme A ligase enzymes. This alternative ATP production pathway helps maintain cellular energy levels even when mitochondrial function is compromised. Now I don't think this is something you have to worry about if you're otherwise healthy your mitochondrial function is normal or slightly upregulated through the use of various mitochondrial function enhancing compounds like MOTC, SLU, PP332, etc. But if you're in a chronic state of oxidative stress or you're somewhat unhealthy and mitochondrial function is impaired, then methylene blue might be a first line of defense by stimulating substrate level phosphorylation, increasing overall energy levels, when again oxidative phosphorylation within the mitochondria is impaired. Methylene blue contributes to reduction in oxidative stress. Methylene blue reduces the production of reactive oxygen species by preventing electron leakage in the electron transport chain like I mentioned earlier. Methylene blue can also be reduced to leukomethylene blue, leuko-MB, which acts as an antioxidant, scavenging free radicals and preserving mitochondrial integrity. Methylene blue enhances cellular oxygen utilization unless you've been taking such a high dose of methylene blue that you get tremendous vasoconstriction and increase in blood pressure and even then, methylene blue improves oxygen consumption by cells, ensuring efficient ATP synthesis even under hypoxic or energetically stressed conditions, including strenuous strength, performance, or endurance exercise. As a compound that increases mitochondrial function and biogenesis, you could consider combining methylene blue at low and effective dosages where the commonly reported side effects don't occur with other compounds which are known to improve mitochondrial function and biogenesis, increase ATP synthesis, but reduce oxidative stress for an overall synergistic effect. Just be forewarned, you might be able to shoot lightning or laser beams out of your fingertips when you start stacking various mitochondrial support aids together. Methylene blue is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural. So have a look into these various mitochondrial function enhancing compounds including astaxanthin, 4 mg to 16 mg daily, carnitine, whether that's oral L-carnitine, L-tortrate or oral acetyl-L-carnitine at doses of 2,000 mg to 3,000 mg! daily or go with injectable carnitine, 500 mg subcutaneously or intramuscularly once or twice daily, creatine monohydrate, 3,000 to 5,000 mg daily, glutathione, whether that's coming from N-acetyl-cysteine and let's say 1,200 mg to 2,000 mg daily or coming from S-adenosyl-methionine 400 mg to 800 mg daily, reduced glutathione 500 mg to 1,000 mg daily, S-acetyl-gluthione 200 mg! to 300 mg daily or injectable glutathione 1,800 mg intravenously once weekly or 600 mg intramuscularly 3 times weekly for total weekly intake of 1,800 mg injectable, glutathione nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide being produced from nicotinamide mononucleotide at let's say 300 mg to 1,000 mg daily or being produced from nicotinamide riboside at the same dose 300 mg to 1,000 mg daily or administered directly in the form of injectable nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide at 100 mg to 200 mg intravenously once weekly or 15 mg to 30 mg sub-q or intramuscularly daily vitamin B complex helps with mitochondrial function at B50 or B100 complex daily vitamin C helps with mitochondrial function between 2,000 mg! 3,000 mg to 5,000 mg daily quercetin helps with mitochondrial function at 500 mg to 2,000 mg daily curcumin helps with mitochondrial function at 500 mg to 1,000 mg daily berberine 500 mg! to 2,000 mg daily omega-3 fatty acids coming from fish oil at 3,000 mg! EPA and 2,000 mg DHA daily might help with mitochondrial function mod C for sure helps with mitochondrial function at 0.5 mg to 1 mg subcutaneous or intramuscularly daily or 5 mg to 10 mg subcutaneous or intramuscularly 1 to 2 times weekly have a look at the mitochondrial support stack which I have an extensive deep dive on how to use mod C with other mitochondrial biogenesis and function agents but I didn't include methylene blue or SLU PP332 because at that time I was not aware unfortunately so maybe it's time for an updated mitochondrial function video let me know down below if you would like to see it SS3-1 at 5 mg to 10 mg subcutaneously or intramuscularly daily I ran a protocol with SS3-1 for about 2 weeks in duration at 5 mg daily and it did not do anything for me but you might be different again I used it in a stack of various mitochondrial support agents SLU PP332 at a total of 200 mg to 1000 mg! daily I have a deep dive on that you should give it a watch 5-minute 1MQ prevents the breakdown of NAD plus in the adipose tissue it might help with mitochondrial function as well but it mostly helps with fat loss at 50 mg to 150 mg! daily I have 3 videos on that give it a watch and then maybe through PPAR activation and expression telmosartan and cardrine might have a beneficial effect alongside methylene blow with regards to fat loss telmosartan at 20 mg! to 80 mg daily depending on how high or low your blood pressure is and cardrine at let's say 10-40 mg daily split out over 2 servings of 10 mg to 20 mg pre-cardio and pre-workout I have a deep dive on cardrine you should watch it unfortunately I couldn't really find any direct scientific evidence that methylene blue improves athletic performance increases endurance stamina strength or overall exercise capacity that's a little bit of an extrapolation from the benefits of mitochondrial function and ATP synthesis there's no documentation regarding beneficial effects on fat loss or overall weight loss but hey methylene blue is found in the urine samples of athletes which are subject to drug testing and it's not recognized as a masking agent so let's assume athletes are using methylene blue to improve their physical and mental performance during competitions there are several studies that show that methylene blue enhances cognition albeit mostly in Alzheimer's patients but the doses used are generally not the doses that I would recommend because the doses are in their range where side effects already start to manifest which I highlighted earlier at the start and in the middle of this deep dive still this study is pretty interesting to read performed by Rodriguez et al published in June 2017 methylene blue modulates functional connectivity in the human brain in this study 28 healthy subjects between the age of 18 to 65 years old received 280 milligrams methylene blue comparable to 4 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight again dosage ranges where a boatload of side effects start to occur particularly vasoconstriction and then some to assess the effects of methylene blue on the functional connectivity of the human brain using functional magnetic resident imaging fMRI as a diagnostic tool at baseline and 60 minutes after methylene blue administration without getting too technical in the discussion the researchers say that low dose methylene blue 280 milligrams methylene blue is considered a low dose increased visual motor task induced deactivation of a task related network and increased functional connectivity amongst regions associated with working memory visual and motor coordination but they also found a significant decrease in cerebral blood flow like I mentioned earlier after low dose methylene blue in clusters located in the posterior circulate cortex prefrontal cortex and inferior parietal lobes associated with the visual motor tasks of the study so too long didn't read a reasonably high dose of methylene blue what the researchers consider to be a low dose methylene blue 280 milligrams of methylene blue improves memory recollection working memory and visual and motor coordination but it can impair cerebral blood flow and this is not what we're after if you want to have a nootropic effect and if the beneficial effects on functional brain activity are observed at lower and conservative dosages 5 milligrams 10 milligrams 25 milligrams even it seems that that's never been investigated in the studies beyond alleviating symptoms of depression and anxiety so again if you want to say that methylene blue improves cognition go with anecdotal reports not really with the scientific evidence because let's be honest we're not going to take these dosages and we don't suffer from Alzheimer's disease and a lot more studies need to be performed regarding its potential benefits at 3 milligram to 10 milligram dosage ranges but those haven't been performed and the next study is a little bit more comprehensive regarding neurological function under the influence of methylene blow performed by Rajas et al published on January 2012 a little bit older than the previous one titled Neurometabolic Mechanisms for Memory Enhancement and Neuroprotection of Methylene Blow this study goes through all scientific evidence showing that methylene blue could potentially be used as a memory enhancing drug but the index studies are all animal models and mostly use intraperitonal injections that are straight into the abdomen and only one study used oral administrations of methylene blue still the results of these studies proving memory enhancing effects in these animal models is very promising so I did the dose conversion to get the human equivalent dosage where these benefits are already observed in the animal models the effective dosages are anywhere between 1 milligram to 4 milligram per 1 kilogram of body weight which is approximately 0.08 milligrams to 0.65 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight in humans meaning that 100 kilogram bodybuilders should already get memory enhancing effects from methylene blue and a single serving dosage between 8.1 milligram to 64.9 milligrams so let's keep the dosage moderate for me I would say that the nootropic benefits are already observed at 5 milligrams and around 100 kilos and at 10 milligrams I seem to be a little bit more cognitively enhanced unfortunately that dosage is based on interperitonal administrations not oral administrations the effective oral administration dose was 9 milligrams to 30 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight and if you convert that to the human equivalent dose that would be 0.7 milligrams to 2.4 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight orally meaning that a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would need anywhere between 73 to 243.2 milligrams oral methylene blue to get a potential beneficial effect regarding cognition memory formation and memory recollection again those doses are way too high those I would consider to be the side effect inducing dosage ranges now there's a lot more to the study and I would highly suggest you to give it a read if you're interested in the potential nootropic benefits of methylene blue as always the citations are down below in the conclusion the researchers mentioned that all the quoted studies provide conclusive evidence that low dosages of pharmaceutical USP grade methylene blue are effective for improving different forms of memory and preventing various neurochemical structural and functional deficits derived from mitochondrial inhibition and oxidative stress so again most of the nootropic benefits are coming from the improvement in mitochondrial function even though it might impair blood flow again if the dosages are a little bit higher further studies could prove that methylene blue has neuroprotective effects in neurodegradation and amnesia and might be effective as a nootropic agent methylene blue could be used to enhance memory and prevent aging related and disease related memory loss especially in conditions associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in humans yeah very interesting reads it's linked down below in case you're interested since there's little scientific evidence on truly low dose methylene blue administrations dosages which are significantly lower what the researchers consider to be low and effective dosages I'm just going to play it by ear and go with the anecdotal reports of the nootropic space and the fitness community because most of the people in the nootropics community and the fitness community don't really experience the side effects which are commonly associated with methylene blue again with methylene blue less is more especially if you expect to use methylene blue multiple times per week to daily for weeks to months in duration for men the sustainable tolerable dose seems to be anywhere between 3 to 15 milligrams orally upon waking two times weekly to daily and the deleterious dose seems to be over 25 milligrams orally based on anecdotal reports for women generally because their body weight is lower than men the sustainable intolerable dose is anywhere between 3 to 10 milligrams orally upon waking two times weekly to daily and the deleterious dose would be based on anecdotal reports over 15 milligrams daily but based on the scientific evidence that would be beyond 1 milligram per 1 kilogram body weight orally or sublingually daily or beyond 0.5 milligrams per 1 kilogram body weight subcutaneous or intravenous daily and again highly dependent on what else you're running alongside the methylene blue because there's a lot of drug interactions whether those are beneficial or deleterious so do additional research and compare the stack that you're currently on if that might have an overlapping or negative effect when you start combining that with methylene blue ideally you stick with oral methylene blue capsules from reputable sources to ensure that you get the highest possible quality of methylene blue with the highest purity at 99.99999999% which is United States pharmacopoeia quality because there seems to be some risk of heavy metal contamination with non-USB grade methylene blue so beware where you purchase your methylene blue from it's not all the same and the quality might vary amongst the different methylene blue manufacturers and if you do go with methylene blue powder and you get the highest possible quality you can find then you need to dissolve one gram of methylene blue in 10 milliliters bacterial static water to get a 10% solution of methylene blue or one gram per 100 milliliter bacterial static water to get a 1% solution of methylene blue you can dose the 10% solution with an insulin syringe so you draw 3 IOs on the insulin syringe to get 3 milligrams methylene blue and 10 IOs on the insulin syringe to get 10 milligrams methylene blue now unfortunately this high of a concentration doesn't pass through the needle of the insulin syringe so you need to either backfill that by using a higher gauge to remove the plunger from the insulin syringe you draw from the sterile vial let's say 100 IUs or 1 milliliter containing 100 milligrams methylene blue again it's a 10% solution then you backfill that into the insulin syringe and then you literally press down for as many IUs aka milligrams of methylene blue you need and if you go with a 1% solution 10 milligrams methylene blue in 1 milliliter bacterial static water then you need to draw the 30 IUs on the insulin syringe to get 3 milligrams methylene blue and to 100 IUs on the insulin syringe to get 10 milligrams methylene blue again don't be an idiot and inject this 1% or 10% methylene blue solution subcutaneously or intravenously or interperitonally or intercavernosously don't inject methylene blue period you use this insulin syringe to inject or drop the appropriate amount of methylene blue solution into a glass cup then you add more water then you take a straw you stir that up until the solution is a homogenized blue and then you drink that through the straw by aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut  autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo absolutely no reason to take the powdered form of methylene blue when the capsules are readily available at three milligrams five milligrams or ten milligram increments which allow for any kind of milligram combination you could potentially be after and even though methylene blue is not included in the world anti-doping agency prohibited list of 2025 you never know if they're going to add it next year because you can bet all of your testicles and your blue tongue that the world anti-doping agency is watching this youtube channel for potential performance enhancing drugs with endurance enhancing benefits so here are the evidence-based detection times for now unfortunately it's never been assessed regarding a proper excretion study for doping analysis so the half-life i am aware of through intravenous administration and oral administration half-life is pretty much the same between five to six and a half hours and with subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitonal administration it's around 24 hours not entirely sure what an intravenous administration the half-life would be i couldn't find that in the scientific evidence unfortunately so again stick with oral administration because the half-life is five to six and a half hours and it's reasonably easy to extrapolate a detection time from but it seems that all of the excretion studies are only lasting 24 hours and after a single serving of methylene blue at various dosages it's still detectable in urine for over 24 hours because the studies don't last that long so unfortunately there's not much to go with yet but once wada starts banning methylene blue potentially then there will be excretion studies regarding the metabolites and how long they are detectable in human urine or in human serum and then we can make an addendum video to make sure you guys keep beating those drug tests now i'd like to hear from you guys write down below in the comment section to fuel the algorithm obviously what was the highest dose of methylene blue you ever took how did you feel did you experience any side effects did you get serotonin syndrome or elevated blood pressure or impaired blood flow to the penis making you lose your erection right whatever silly story you have from a high dose methylene blue let us know down below i would love to hear about it i've experienced zero side effects besides that one instance where i combined three milligrams methylene blue with 2.5 milligrams for the oxytine and i was on the couch for 24 hours suffering through serotonin syndrome was not fun that's the only negative experience i've had on methylene blue and i've gone up to doses of 10 milligrams every single day but usually i stick around 10 milligrams five times per week on workout days and then i rely on something like bromontain or another nootropic on my wrist days right so i can cycle through my nootropics and have different kinds of effects on my productivity and i take a boatload of antioxidants all the way through so i think my antioxidant status and my mitochondrial function is significantly heightened whether i take methylene blue or not i've seen a good amount of blood work on guys that make a dose methylene blue beyond 25 milligrams per day and it's very clear that our hematocrit comes down and their real blood cells come down even if they're taking erythropoietic compounds like a boldenone primabolin potentially or anadrol or again uh they have sleep apnea um so you bring the methylene blue down and you give them a c-pad machine and everything balances itself out like all good things should be do your blood work over at merrick health if you're thinking about running methylene blue so you can get a baseline analysis of your blood work parameters and i give you a little bit of an indication on where you're starting those should be if you're worried about vasoconstriction and impaired pump just buy yourself a tub of gorilla mode nitric i take it before every workout and our pumps are insane even though i take 10 milligrams methylene blue upon waking no diminished pumps have been observed while combining gorilla mode nitric with methylene blue and if you don't know where to get methylene blue well that's what the website is there for vigorsteve.com and you'll save yourself 10 wherever you might shop online all right vigorous crew you guys know what to do a fully enhanced with methylene blue frontal bubble basket for you guys large and in charge nice skin texture fully antioxidant status raised to the max and nootropically enhanced for this entire deep dive i hope you enjoyed it as did i it was a lot of work to prepare for and a lot of stumbling over medical terminology but hey somebody has to do it might as well be me thank you guys so much for watching and i'll see you in the next video

=== FILE: Safest Myo-Inositol Trispyrophosphate (ITPP) Protocols (Endless Endurance & Nootropic Effects) [DGE4lvsI_6c].txt ===

 autoprilsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, autopsch, completely sleeping on a compound which is known to boost endurance and stamina tremendously especially if you combine it with nasal strips methylene blue the peak o2 adoptogen mushroom blend and cardarine or mildronate potentially give the endless endurance video a watch in case you're not up to speed don't worry this video is all about myonositol triaspire phosphate combining the limited scientific evidence with a healthy amount of anecdotal experience to fill in the blanks since myonositol triaspire phosphate increases the oxygen carrying capacity of hemoglobin found within red blood cells and thus enhances oxygen delivery to metabolically active tissues like skeletal muscle or the brain it's very important for you to understand what hemoglobin does and how modulation can enhance your endurance and stamina overall hemoglobin is the active component within red blood cells giving blood its distinct red color hemoglobin contains a hemoglobin with iron which allows for oxygen binding hemoglobin exists in two states in the 10 states it has low oxygen affinity but in the relaxed state it has high oxygen affinity hemoglobin is responsible for oxygen transport through the bloodstream again contained within red blood cells it carries oxygen from the lungs to tissues throughout the body each hemoglobin molecule can bind up to four oxygen molecules now an oxygen molecule contains two oxygen atoms so that means the transport of eight oxygen atoms for every single hemoglobin molecule the normal oxygen binding capacity of hemoglobin is between 1.34 milliliters to 1.39 milliliters of oxygen per one gram of hemoglobin it also transports carbon dioxide from tissues back to the lungs for expulsion normal carbon dioxide binding capacity of hemoglobin is 0.061 milliliters carbon dioxide per one gram of hemoglobin hemoglobin also facilitates the transport of various ions through the bloodstream including carbonic acid bicarbonate ions hydrogen ions all contributing to the serum acid base balance balance now if you guys remember from the endless endurance video where i discussed baking sodium sodium bicarbonate or beta-alanine converting into l-carnosine all helping with the acid buffer within skeletal muscle or the acid buffer within the bloodstream if hemoglobin content is significantly elevated allowing for hydrogen ion transport throughout the bloodstream and thus contributing to the acid base balance assuming that your red blood cell count contains a lot of hemoglobin and your red blood cell count is somewhere towards the top of the reference range just like your hematocrit is then that means that the acid base balance is more sustained and your endurance and stamina through the removal of these metabolic waste products is significantly heightened as well hemoglobin indirectly contributes to nitric oxide transports nitric oxide binds to the iron containing hemoglobin of hemoglobin forming nitrosyl hemoglobin and nitric oxide also binds to the cysteine residue of hemoglobin forming s nitrosyl hemoglobin the nitric oxide is released at the same time as oxygen is to metabolically active tissue whether that's the brain or skeletal muscle for that matter and hemoglobin also binds various toxic molecules including carbon monoxide nitrite ions cyanide sulfur monoxide and sulfide the body naturally produces carbon monoxide as a byproduct in the breakdown of hema or other hemoproteins through the enzyme hemaoxynase carbon monoxide binds the hemoglobin with approximately 240 times the affinity of oxygen and thus displaces oxygen from the hemoglobin causing an overall toxic effect now since methylene blue is used in the context of methemoglobin inbia there might be a potential drug interaction between methylene blue and myonocetyl traspire phosphate i did my absolute due diligence looking for scientific evidence but i could find none of it so this is a speculated beneficial drug interaction from my personal experience combining methylene blue with myonocetyl traspire phosphate i would say that the oxygen enhancing effects are very pronounced and i also couldn't find any scientific evidence that myonocetyl traspire phosphate increases the affinity of hemoglobin for nitric oxide carbon dioxide or hydrogen ions or other ions for that matter now that doesn't mean that's not the case it simply means it hasn't been investigated as of now yet and maybe in the future with more scientific evidence coming to the forefront of myonocetyl traspire phosphate it might make l-citrulline or beta-alanine or baking soda for that matter completely obsolete and then instead of taking these vanilla over the counter pre-workout formulations we stick with a low and moderate dose of myonocetyl traspire phosphate to have an increased effect regarding oxygen carrying capacity an increased effect regarding the removal of carbon dioxide and the delivery of nitric oxide and again the removal of hydrogen ions right there's a lot of scientific evidence that still needs to be performed but for now i would say that myonocetyl traspire phosphate has very potential beneficial properties which hopefully with time will come to the forefront as more scientific evidence is performed on this particular compound for the maximum beneficial effects of myonocetyl traspire phosphate to take place we obviously need to increase our hemoglobin content and concentration within our blood cells we can stimulate erythropoiesis and increase hemoglobin content and red blood cell count and a market with the following methods and compounds i don't want to spend too much time on these because we already went quite in depth during the endless endurance video or the optimize insurance deep dive video series i've linked all of those down below in case you want to get more additional information about these erythropoiesis stimulating and oxygen carrying capacity enhancing compounds so let's go over it real briefly you can use altitude masks living at high altitude a hyperbaric altitude chamber look into vitamin a whether that's beta carotene or retinol look into vitamin b9 folate or also known as folic acid or vitamin b12 cobalamin look into vitamin c ascorbic acid copper iron all of these micronutrients the vitamins and the minerals contribute to the production of red blood cells and hemoglobin if you want to keep it simple even though supplements are never a good replacement for your diet but if you want to keep it simple go with gorilla mind elite multivitamin in combination with gorilla mind beef liver capsules which contain iron the multivitamin doesn't contain iron again these are a supplement on top of a healthy diet with adequate amounts of nutrients vitamins and minerals which contribute to red blood cell production and hemoglobin production but if you do a combination of both then i think your erythropoiesis and your hemoglobin and your hematocrit and your blood cell count should be more than optimal for you to supplement myonostal tri-spy phosphate in like i mentioned before look into methylene blue or look into boldenone adesinate also known as equipoise or methadone annotate also known as prebobolin or methadone acetate also known as premium ballon s or oxymethalone anadrol or erythropoietin methoxy polyethylene glycol epoietin beta also known as mercera or dorboboietin alpha also known as rns and all of these last mentioned compounds whether those are the anabolic anogenic steroids the oral ones or the erythropoietic derivatives are all used medically in the treatment of anemia myonostal tri-spy phosphate has been investigated as a potential anti-cancer drug candidate during a clinical trial back in 2015 which is over 10 years ago i've summarized the results for easy digestibility as the accompanying study publication is a bit hard to interpret the pending brand name of myonostal tri-spy phosphate was oxy-111a not oxymethalone but oxy-111a the investigated conditions of this single clinical trial was the maximum tolerable dose of itpp in patients with secondary hepato pancreatic and biliary neoplasm pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma colorectal cancer liver metastasis or hepatocellular carcinoma the sample size was 28 the investigated treatment duration was three weeks with a follow-up duration between 10 days to five months the investigated dosages and here is where we start to run into problems but don't worry i already did the conversion for you guys we'll address that a little bit later on the investigated dosages was between 866 milligrams itpp per cubic meter up until 14 500 milligrams itpp per cubic meter three times weekly for three weeks through intravenous administration the reported half-life in this clinical trial was between 1.3 to 3.3 outers based on the intravenous administration not by oral administration which is generally how we take itpp for a recreational endurance and stamina purposes and reported beneficial effects were decreased angiogenic biomarkers which is beneficial in the context of resolving various kinds of cancers improved disease stability and chemotherapy treatment outcome the reported side effects were elevated diastolic blood pressure but that was below 20 points but this was only observed at the higher dosage groups upper respiratory tract infection and fluid buildup in the abdomen but this was likely due to cancer progression not from the treatment or administration of itpp reported blood work parameter changes were as follows decreased vascular endothelial growth factor levels decreased angiopoietin 1 and angiopoietin 2 levels decreased epidermal growth factor levels decreased platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule levels also known as cluster of differentiation 3.1 hyperkalemia due to the co-administration of calcium chloride because myonoxidyl traspire phosphate has calcium chelating properties more on this later and the other reported side effects were hyponatremia that's low sodium levels hypokalemia that's low potassium levels hypomagnesium and hypophosphatemia what a mouthful and the maximum tolerable dose based on the single clinical trials was up to 12 390 milligrams myonoxidyl traspire phosphate per cubic meter now here's the problem milligrams per cubic meter isn't a very tangible number we can use to extrapolate a milligram per kilogram of body weight range with as always i did my absolute best to calculate this milligram per cubic meter to milligram per kilogram of body weight so you don't have to and then we can use that to interpret the rest of the scientific evidence regarding what kind of beneficial effects we can expect from a single human clinical trials because all of the other scientific evidence is based on animal models the additional problem is is that in order to calculate milligrams per cubic meter to milligrams per one kilogram of body weight we have to use the average body surface area and average body weight of humans and then specify that for both men and women and finding the average weight for men and women is already problematic enough because i'm sure you guys understand that the average weight of humans whether those are men or women from the western world like america australia europe etc is a little bit different than the average weight of humans men or women in asia or other parts of the world there's a huge discrepancy there maybe 10 20 discrepancy in overall body weight and potentially overall body surface area again this was a bit of a brain bender i might have made some mistakes here or there i reverse engineered the formulas once i was done with the calculations converting a milligram per kilogram of body weight back to milligrams per cubic meter and i got comparable results if you want to point out my mistakes though do so in the comment section just do me a solid please be gentle and use some astroglide before you get into it in the clinical trial the investigated dosage range was between 1866 milligrams to 1200 390 milligrams itpp per cubic meter we're not including the highest investigated dosage because that's where all of the side effects were generally observed this was administered intravenously three times weekly for three weeks so that's nine administrations in total the average body surface area of humans is 1.78 cubic meters for men that's between 1.87 to 1.91 cubic meters and for women that's between 1.66 to 1.71 cubic meters the average body weight globally is 62 kilos aka 136.7 pounds quite light from what i would say and in the bodybuilding community that's basically one dumbbell four dumbbell rows the average body weight globally for men is 65 to 90.6 kilograms which is 143.3 to 199.8 pounds and for women that's 49.8 to 77.5 kilograms 77.5 wow to uh which is 109.8 pounds to 170.8 pounds and some of you girls are thick af and it brings us to the converted dosage range the dose per one kilogram of body weight is anywhere between 16.9 to 112.3 milligrams myonocytol triaspire phosphate for men and women combined based on their average body surface area and average body weight but if you want to differentiate between men and women the dosage would be for men between 10.8 milligrams to 101.9 milligrams myonocytol triaspire phosphate per one kilogram of body weight and for women that's 14.1 milligrams to 149.9 milligrams itpp per one kilogram of body weight and using this range to convert that to the weight of a bodybuilder or fitness enthusiast or an endurance athlete and i'll leave that entirely up to you for a hundred kilogram bodybuilder and the rest of the details are on the screen obviously that will be between 1080 milligrams to 15 000 milligrams myonocytol triaspire phosphate intravenously three times weekly which is reasonably high that higher end of the range but at the lower end of the range that will basically mean 500 milligrams myonocytol triaspire phosphate intravenously daily and you might be able to get a comparable effect if you administer that orally instead now i don't think that any of us are after the anti-cancer anti-tumor or anti-angiogenic effects of myonocytol triaspire phosphate because angiogenesis is beneficial for endurance and stamina to allow for increased blood flow to metabolically active tissues and if you impair that if you impair the hypoxia signaling resulting in angiogenesis then um well the vascular endothelial growth factor and all of the other growth factors which are necessary for improved angiogenesis are somewhat reduced and then in the long run endurance and stamina might be hindered and it's especially important not to combine myonocytol triaspire phosphate when you're up regulating angiogenesis with compounds like TB-500 bbc157 etc using some highly dubious extrapolation and calculations the calcium chelating effects were observed at approximately 22.6 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight onwards so that means for a hundred kilogram bodybuilder that would mean a dose of 2260 milligrams myonocytol triphosphate where calcium levels and the other electrolyte levels in the bloodstream might start to deplete which is double the anti-tumor anti-cancer dose for a hundred kilogram bodybuilder and probably two to three to four times the dose of what i would generally recommend so these dosage ranges i would consider to be the maximum tolerable dose even though it's the lowest effective dose based on the clinical trial but again in the clinical trials even though the side effects are minimal regarding blood pressure the effects on angiogenesis and calcium chelation is something i would likely want to avoid if i use this compound for longer periods of time okay with the clinical trial out of the way let's get into the evidence-based unique characteristics of myonocytol triaspire phosphate and see what else we can find in scientific evidence itdp increases the oxygen carrying capacity of hemoglobin and the oxygen release from blood cells without altering serum hematogrid or total blood cell count stemming from human subjects animal models and in vitro studies using human red blood cells itpp sustains oxygen carrying capacity of hemoglobin and oxygen release from red blood cells during increased serum acidity which is known as the boar effect the boar effect means that as serum acidity goes up the oxygen carrying capacity and the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin goes down so if you're dumping a lot of acids the hydrogen ions or other metabolic waste products um during a strenuous activity the oxygen carrying capacity of hemoglobin actually goes down and does the oxygen delivery to metabolically active tissue is decreased as well impairing your performance endurance and stamina so myonocytol triaphyl phosphate might actually mitigate this effect to a certain extent and improve and sustain oxygen delivery to metabolically active tissue even if the acidity of the bloodstream goes up to a certain extent itpp was shown to have a dose dependent increase in hemoglobin oxygen binding affinity up to 31 percent and an increase in exercise capacity up to 57 percent in an animal model using mice you can see that that was observed after a single administration of 500 milligrams itpp to 3000 milligrams itpp per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection that's straight into the abdomen and that would mean between 40.5 milligrams to 243.2 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight for humans albeit through intramuscular administration which i feel interperitonal versus intramuscular has similar pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics when itpp is administered orally in an animal model using mice it increases hemoglobin oxygen binding affinity by only 16 percent so that's approximately half of what we discussed through intraperitonal injection in the exercise capacity only increased by 34 percent still approximately half give or take this was observed at 20 milligrams myonocytol triaphyl phosphate per one milliliters of water consumed as needed which is at libitum mice usually consumes approximately 5.8 milliliters of water over the day resulting in a total intake of itpp of about 116 milligrams and this was administered daily between four to eight days and if you convert that to humans that would be 9.4 milligrams per one kilogram body weight orally daily um again for multiple days in succession which is about 940 milligrams per one kilogram bodybuilder which is well beyond the doses recommendations that we're going to make a little bit later on in this video itpp has a dose dependent increase in exercise capacity up to 71 percent in animal models using transgenic mice with severe heart failure this was observed after a single administration between a thousand milligrams and two thousand milligrams itpp per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection which is between 81.1 to 162.2 milligrams itpp per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans itpp decreases hypoxia inducible factor one a messenger rna expression by 61.9 percent in the myocardium in an animal model using mice again the dosage calculations are on the screen because it's very similar to the previous one and itpp doesn't offer any vasodilating effects stemming from the same animal model using mice there was no effects on heart rate no effects on systolic or diastolic blood pressure and again the dosage ranges and the human equivalent dose details are on the screen using all of the aforementioned scientific evidence on the animal models using mice this dosage range converting the animal dose to the human equivalent dose that would be between 940.5 milligrams to let's say 24 300 milligrams for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder and even 940 milligrams myonostal triaspire phosphate daily for 100 kilogram bodybuilder when administered orally i would say that dose is way too high and not dosages i would generally recommend itpp attenuates cellular hypoxia which reduces vascular endothelial growth factor and hypoxia inducible factor one alpha levels stemming from an in vitro study using human red blood cells which reduces hypoxia induced angiogenesis now again this is an in vitro study so we can't really extrapolate a dosage range for human individuals from this data but it does mean that angiogenesis might be impaired especially if you ramp up the dose of ittp beyond what is recommended to improve your endurance and stamina and this might actually hinder your endurance and stamina or impair wound healing if you do this for longer periods of time but on the flip side of that ittp administration might actually restore liver function and prevent liver failure after hepatectomy which is the removal of a significant amount of liver tissue from the liver during surgery ittp normalizes steatosis and metabolic or regenerative deficiencies post-surgery again an animal model using mice ittp was shown to reduce hypoxia inducible factor 2 alpha which is primarily found in the liver it restores downstream peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha and peroxis on proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1a expression which contribute to mitochondrial function and this was observed at a single administration of either 25 milligrams or 500 milligrams myonostal traspire phosphate per one kilogram of body weight intervening before surgery which translates to 2 milligrams or 40.5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight for humans so even though ittp administration before surgery might lower angiogenesis and delay the recovery of liver function in this context it might promote mitochondrial function and thus the overall antioxidant status and energy production within the liver again in this context might be upregulated and then as ittp gets out of the bloodstream this angiogenesis returns and with upregulated mitochondrial function this increased angiogenesis which occurs after surgery restores liver function and prevents liver failure it's a little bit of an extrapolation the scientific evidence really didn't go this much in depth but i'm just using basic human biology and knowing how the mitochondria and angiogenesis biomarkers functions in the process of recovery so again if you had surgery maybe a single administration of myonostal traspire phosphate might improve the outcome of surgery but prolonged administration of myonostal traspire phosphate post-surgery is probably not recommended because you're suppressing angiogenesis for longer periods of time and you need the angiogenesis for recovery overall itpp might be a potential treatment option for various cardiovascular diseases including heart disease adverse cardiac remodeling aka heart enlargement that's very promising for guys who train insane and have elevated blood pressure obviously you don't want left ventricular hypertrophy and myonostal tripire phosphate again based on animal models and in vitro studies might be able to prevent that from happening including something like an angiotensin receptor blocker or beta blocker which also is known to prevent negative cardiac remodeling itpp might be a potential treatment option for coronary artery disease pulmonary hypertension and organ hypoxia stemming from animal models using either mice or rats and in vitro studies using cardiomyocytes and these studies show that itpp reverses hypoxia induced and eczemia induced cardiac injury itpp has promising anti-cancer and anti-tumor properties stemming from human subjects that single clinical trial we just highlighted and various animal models using rats or mice and in vitro studies using various cancer cell lines itpp activates tumor suppressor gene phosphate and tensin homolog itpp inhibits phosphoenocytite 3 kinase it reduces vascular endothelial growth factor and hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha levels it reduced angiogenesis overall and it might have a synergistic effects with oxygen dependent anti-tumor therapies like radio photo and immuno therapy and lastly myonocidal trispyrophosphate has calcium chelating properties stemming from that single human clinical trial it depletes serum electrolytes particularly serum calcium levels unless that's exhaustionously administered at the same time they administer itpp intravenously this was observed at higher doses beyond 22.6 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight intravenously three times weekly not entirely sure if that translates to oral myonocidal tri-pyrophosphate administrations which probably have a lower bioavailability compared to intravenous administrations and again that will be 2260 milligrams per 100 kilogram bodybuilder which is generally not something i would recommend and um i never see in the bodybuilding or endurance sports community i will tell you this i've done plenty of blood work on myonocidal tri-pyrophosphate as many of my consultation clients have done blood work on itpp and none of them myself none of them experience any kind of depletion in serum electrolyte levels and serum calcium levels stay exactly within normal parameters don't even budge so i don't think this is something to worry about but again if you escalate the dose upwards for whatever crazy reason maybe you have cancer and that's why you're gonna increase it but if you're otherwise healthy i don't see a reason to do it but if you escalate the dose upwards you might have again anti-angiogenesis and reduction in serum electrolyte levels especially calcium levels which would ultimately affect your blood pressure and overall performance so don't do that obviously the beneficial effects regarding the treatments of various cardiovascular diseases and the anti-cancer and anti-tumor properties of myonocidal tri-spirephosphate all stemming from animal models are summarized in this study it's well worth the read in case you're interested in these additional beneficial effects performed by okninska et al published in october 2022 titled new potential treatment for cardiovascular disease through modulation of hemoglobin oxygen binding curve myonocidal tri-spirephosphate from cancer to cardiovascular disease regarding the beneficial effects of various kinds of cancer these were observed at 500 milligrams to 3 000 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight in mice and 1500 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight in rats which translates to the human equivalent dose of approximately 40.5 to 324.32 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight or about 4 000 milligrams to 32 000 milligrams for 100 kilogram bodybuilder and the beneficial effects on the treatment of cardiovascular diseases were observed between 500 milligrams to 3 000 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight in mice and again 1500 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight in rats which translates to human equivalent dose between 40.5 to 243.2 milligrams for one kilogram body weight aka 4 000 milligrams to 24 000 milligrams for 100 kilogram bodybuilder and at these doses you might experience impaired angiogenesis excessive calcium chelation and elevated blood pressure but if you suffer from cardiovascular disease and cancer then these side effects are probably a non-issue for you and it brings us to the dosing protocols which fall well below the investigated dosing protocols whether that's in animal models or human clinical trials so i highly doubt you have to worry about calcium chelation or blood pressure increases or impaired angiogenesis for that matter unless you really start ramping up the dosage upwards which is not something i recommend because at lower doses you already get the endurance and stamina boosting benefits and it's still if you'll reuse itpp for longer periods of time you might be experiencing some side effects down the road and again based on my own blood work results i don't see any changes to my serum calcium levels and i eat or i consume approximately 1500 milligrams of calcium from dietary sources and supplemental sources over the day for men and women the sustainable and tolerable dose for myonocidal tri-spirous phosphate at the loading phase lasting two to three weeks for you to get these beneficial effects regarding your endurance and stamina is between 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams itpp upon waking daily for total weekly intake between 700 milligrams to 1750 milligrams i would prefer 250 milligrams over 100 milligrams myonocidal tri-spirous phosphate because that seems to give a more pronounced effect regarding endurance stamina cognition memory recollection overall productivity and that builds it up a little bit faster so you can take the creatine monohydrate route instead of going on five grams creatine monohydrate for multiple days you go with 10 grams for one or two weeks and then your muscle creatine stores are completely saturated and then you drop it down to a maintenance dose similar with myonocidal trash-spirous phosphate you increase the intake daily and then you drop down to a maintenance phase with the same dose between 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams itpp upon waking but then three times weekly to sustain the beneficial effects regarding the oxygen affinity to hemocytoccus  aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut performance and endurance and stamina over to a certain extent and again a little bit of caution is advised combining myonositol traspers phosphate when you're undergoing surgery maybe before surgery it can have a beneficial effect but after surgery when you want angiogenesis to take place then i would exclude myonositol traspers phosphate um for actually 12 days because based on the animal models the oxygen carrying capacity and oxygen affinity of hemoglobin was sustained after multiple administrations of myonositol traspers phosphate for about 12 days even though itpp is detectable in serum and urine for approximately 24 hours the oxygen carrying capacity and oxygen affinity for hemoglobin is sustained for up to 12 days again it's stemming from an animal model i couldn't find that in human scientific evidence because well there's not much to go by besides that single clinical trial so um i would abstain from itpp before surgery and if you want to recover from injuries especially if you're taking angiogenic compounds like TB-500 or BPC-157 and whatnot and then as soon as you recover from that injury the wound is closed and you can go back to the gym again where your endurance and stamina needs to be boosted to an all-time high then well you start with the loading phase and transition into the maintenance phase as soon as the beneficial effects become apparent anecdotally people report that itpp increases their overall cardiovascular endurance stamina and performance regardless of the sports that they like to perform happens in bodybuilding happens in fitness cross you guys know what the sport is a strongman endurance cycling uh mma any kind of sports itpp is very beneficial to improve cardiovascular endurance stamina and overall performance and people also report that it has nootropic properties and this happens in this little as a couple of days so they notice that the concentration improves moods focus mental clarity memory recollection and overall productivity all improve within a couple days of myonostal tri spires phosphate administration during the loading phase even though the enhancement regarding endurance and stamina might take a little bit longer to manifest so within the first week of itpp during the loading phase you might already notice that it improves your cognition and has nootropic effects and then in week two or three you might start to notice that endurance and performance and stamina in the gym increases as well now i experienced all of this myself in the beginning you feel more productive and then later on you feel a lot more stamina in the gym win-win some people report that itpp improves their overall sleep quality not entirely sure if these people suffer from sleep apnea or snore quite a bit impairing their overall oxygen intake throughout the night now since itpp increases the oxygen affinity and oxygen delivery to metabolically active tissue it does make sense that if you suffer from sleep apnea or snore quite a bit or use mouth tape while your nose is clogged from a common cold then itpp can definitely enhance your sleep quality because your sleep quality is so i'm atrocious without attacking the root cause and i'm not entirely sure how itpp regarding sleep quality compares to something like grothramone or cerebrolysin or both or delta sleep inducing peptides or melatonin that i'm not entirely sure i always sleep well whether i take itpp grothramone or cerebrolysin or not even though cerebrolysin makes me wake up super refreshed and very well rested too bad it's not available anymore um i've read that idpp has a more pronounced effect when you take it sublingually allegedly due to a difference in bioavailability comparing oral itpp administration to sublingual administration i've tried both in the past i couldn't find or notice a difference so i took sublingual itpp for let's say two or three weeks during the loading phase and then i switched to a maintenance phase using oral itpp and overall the beneficial effects regarding stamina endurance and cognition were sustained now i'm not entirely sure if you go with oral itpp administration during the loading phase and then go to sublingual administration during the maintenance phase if you notice a bit of a difference or maybe even a boost compared to the loading phase orally to a maintenance phase sublingually which allegedly should have increased bioavailability and thus a more pronounced effect i couldn't find anything in scientific evidence comparing oral administration to intravenous or sublingual administration directly and even though there's a clear difference in overall exercise capacity and the oxygen carrying capacity and oxygen affinity of hemoglobin comparing one animal model using a single intraperitonal administration of itpp versus a multiple day administration of itpp when dissolved in water and consumed at libitum the dosages are not the same the duration of the study is not the same the um the administration route is obviously different which is what we're after here but there's too much discrepancy in the dosing and the duration of the study meaning that you can't really extrapolate too much from the scientific evidence showing about 50 percent effectivity regarding exercise capacity and the oxygen carrying capacity of hemoglobin comparing intraperitonal administrations to oral administrations in the anecdotal reports i've read that itpp offers a more pronounced effect regarding endurance and stamina and overall performance in the gym or other various sports compared to either cardarine or mildronate which you shouldn't combine because cardarine shifts energy production to fatty acids and mildronate does that to glucose so they compare itpp to cardarine or mildronate and in both comparisons itpp wins something i have to agree with i feel that the effects of itpp are far more pronounced regarding endurance stamina and nootropic benefits which i get none from cardarine or mildronate but i would say that it's better to combine both right you can easily combine myonostal traspire phosphate with either cardarine or mildronate i'll leave that decision entirely up to you the problem is is that itpp is somewhat expensive and not as cost effective as nasal strips or a peak o2 adoptogen mushroom blends or a methylene blue for that matter or cardarine or mildronate right itpp is the most expensive compound in this stack but if you can afford all of them then a combination of myonostal traspire phosphate with nasal strips with methylene blue with the adoptogen mushroom blends contained within peak o2 and either cardarine or mildronate stamina galore right that is the ultimate stamina boosting hack and something you should look into if you're really after endless endurance like i mentioned in that previous video talking about performance enhancing benefits even though myonostal traspire phosphate isn't specifically mentioned in the world anti-doping agency prohibited list of 2025 it might still be banned under m 1.2 artificially enhancing the uptake transport or delivery of oxygen i mean but why do you never know if they want you to fail they'll make you fail no exceptions however ittp is specifically banned in various sports or federations including horse racing so let's have a quick look into the potential detection times of itpp albeit that there's not much to go with the reported half-life is between 1.3 to 3.3 hours based on intravenous administrations the reported active life based on the hemoglobin oxygen carrying effects is up to 12 days based on intraperitonal and oral administrations detection methods includes uh well it's on the screen it's impossible to pronounce the detection limit of itpp in urine is between 1 nanograms to 15 nanograms per milliliter and based on a single study using horses where 200 milligrams myonostal traspire phosphate was administered intravenously in urine it was detectable up to 24 hours and in serum up to six hours um but they didn't look at the metabolites of myonostal traspire phosphate so this is not a proper excretion study we can't really extrapolate anything to uh human urine for this matter so um for now i would have to say that the detection time is unknown and if you want to play it safe at least 24 hours after the last administration but preferably over 12 days as a little bit of myonostal traspire phosphate remains attached within the hemoglobin as these beneficial effects regarding the oxygen affinity for hemoglobin are observed up to 12 days so this is all we have to work with if you have any experience with myonostal traspire phosphate please let us know your anecdotal results down below in the comments section did they give you endless endurance and improved cognition to the point you're now considering a promising career in either tennis or biathlon let us know down below did itpp alter any of your blood work parameters did it raise your blood pressure did it drop your capacity for wound healing by impairing angiogenesis did it drop your serum electrolyte levels bottoming out your serum calcium levels to absolutely zero impairing your performance and endurance with longer usage share away down below in the comment section we would all love to hear about it and then we'll discuss all of these posts and questions and answers at the myonostal tripyrophosphate adendum live stream dropping a couple days from now if you do a lot of self-experimentation you should do your blood work as do i every single month before during and after very important for you to do your blood work when you're taking these kinds of compounds that are not ft approved and have very limited human scientific evidence you can extrapolate from the animal models but it only goes so far do your blood work to see how these compounds affect your overall health besides the beneficial effects that you might experience for performance enhancement if you live in the united states you can do your blood work over at merrick health have excellent health care providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results allowing you to stay healthy while you're undergoing a lot of self-experimentation if you need personalized advice you need my help interpreting your blood work results we can either do that during a consultation or by email you can find the rates on my website linked down below you should bookmark my website of vigoroussteve.com so you have access to the information at all times especially for sponsors and affiliates you can't find down below in the youtube description section all my sponsors and affiliates are usually there and otherwise again they're on my website vigorous crew you know what to do a front double bicep for you guys fully enhanced by my nostril trash virus phosphate into less endurance i don't need to breathe at all but when i do breathe it's usually quite deep because again the methylene blue the pico2 and whatnot is enhancing my experience with my nostril trash fire phosphate and the combination of multiple compounds instead of mega dosing one is what i prefer thank you guys so much for watching and i'll see you in the next video

=== FILE: Skin-Splitting Pumps In The Gym (The ULTIMATE Protocol) Nitric Oxide, AMP, Anadrol & More! [gqzNbJz59B4].txt ===

 Hi there, do you enjoy massive mass con pumps in the bedroom as well as in the gym just like I do? Keep watching if you identify as a super soldier serum loving Captain America or as Bane a venom connoisseur? This video will teach you exactly how to get skin-splitting pumps that last for hours if not days right after the disclaimer! America or is Bain a venom connoisseur? This video will teach you exactly how to get skin-splitting pumps that last for hours if not days right after the disclaimer. Vigorous Steve here. All right so many of you guys had a minor heart attack and started sweating profusely when I discussed in the methylene blue deep dive that methylene blue is a nitric oxide synthase and soluble guanalyte cyclase inhibitor and might diminish the pump but I also simultaneously debunked any potential negative effects that methylene blue might have on your massive masculine pumps in the gym as methylene blue's inhibitory effects are only observed at higher dosages beyond one milligram per kilogram of body weight by subcutaneous or intravenous injection or two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when taken sublingually or orally and these are generally not the dosage ranges that methylene blue users are aiming for and again your blood pressure will increase well before you start to notice any kind of diminishing effects on your gym performance so that brings us to the ultimate skin splitting pump protocol to take your workouts to the next level and literally mutate into Bain right in front of everybody's eyes with each consecutive set including the grunts and the swearing and the sweating before we continue please keep in mind that a carbohydrate rich off-season diet is infinitely better for your pump and overall gym performance compared to a carbohydrate restricted cutting phase diets especially a ketogenic diet or carnivore diets which are basically pump killing diets so trust me when I say this I've been following a ketogenic diet for close to two decades now and even with the entire performance enhancing drug stack discussed in this video when carbs are excluded the pump won't be as insane compared to an off-season filtered carbohydrates and anadrol allegedly that means you might need more of these pump products if you follow a ketogenic diet or a carnivore diet compared to when you're stuffing your face with carbohydrates all day long more carbohydrates equals more pump it's that simple so you'll have to design your massive masculine skin splitting mega pump super stack to your individual dietary restrictions and needs there isn't a cookie cutter way to optimize the pump only guidelines so enjoy some volumizing self-experimentation in the process first you need to know which compounds drugs medications and supplements you need to avoid as they might diminish the pump dramatically leaving you with a flaccid softy reminiscent of that time you spent a little bit too much time in the cold plunge and everybody started laughing at you when you got out you should avoid amphetamines which increase catecholamine release including epinephrine and norepinephrine aka adrenaline and noradrenaline leading to vasoconstriction and impaired blood flow to skeletal muscle and that includes amphetamines like adderol dexedrine and vivans you should avoid the beta blockers which reduce heart rate and impaired blood flow needed for optimal gym performance which might diminish the pump overall this includes nabivolol and propanol albeit that nabivolol selectively blocks the beta-1 receptors of the heart and stimulates the beta-3 adrenergic receptors which might improve overall exercise performance so nabivolol at a low and effective dose of let's say 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams upon waking a couple hours before you go to the gym should be acceptable should not diminish your pump but if you take the other aforementioned beta blockers then you might notice a small to significant reduction in the pump by impairing a systemic blood flow you should avoid the decongestions which cause vasoconstriction by stimulating the alpha adrenergic receptors or by increasing catecholamine release both can diminish the pump quite substantially this includes ephedrine you should avoid non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like aspirin ibuprofen and naproxen as well as regular peracetamol which are all known to inhibit the cyclooxynase enzymes which is essential critical for a muscle protein synthesis post-exercise which might diminish the pump potentially during your workout you should avoid statins which are medications used to lower cholesterol levels and low density lipoprotein levels in the bloodstream now you might be able to get away with the low and effective dose of a statin of your choice assuming that your lipid parameters stay in range but you don't observe the generally associated side effects of statins which include muscle pain cramping and weakness which can all potentially interfere with your gym performance and ultimately downstream might diminish your pump as well this includes a monoclon k which is found in red yeast rice which is a naturally occurring statin found in malt fermented rice as well as rosuvastatin or symphastatin which seems to be more commonly prescribed again a low and effective dose of a statin you might be able to get away with it but if as soon as you start to notice that due to your poor lipid management through other practices you need to increase the dose of statins or red yeast rice for that matter and you start to get side effects resulting in a diminished pump then you might want to reassess this protocol in your overall lifestyle because well you need to keep your lipids in range but you also need a massive masculine super pump in the gym i mean if you can't have both what's the point of it all you should avoid type 2 diabetic medications including glucophage aka metformin or a pi glitazone metformin has been shown to impair muscle protein synthesis and reduce mitochondrial function it acts by increasing insulin sensitivity by reducing the gastric emptying and disposing some of the carbohydrates through the intestines out to the bathroom so that already lowers the amount of carbohydrates that you need to absorb in the skeletal muscle for a massive masculine super pump unless you follow a ketogenic diet and your carbohydrate intake is already significantly restricted that being said there's several pathways in which metformin and pi glitazone might impair and diminish the pump that you would otherwise expect in the gym but some people swear by metformin that it actually enhances their pump in the gym quite substantially and that's usually in the case with people that don't really follow a strict diet they were on this um all you can eat hamburger diet with all of the soda and the french fries attached and then when they start disposing of some of these carbohydrates uh by the use of metformin their insulin sensitivity increases and now all of the carbohydrates and saturated fats that they were eating finally ends up in skeletal muscle because they no longer have this chronic insulin resistance or full-blown attack to diabetes that they induce themselves with terrible dietary habits then the metformin literally gets them out of that situation and somehow some way the pump returns i don't think that healthy individuals who follow a healthy diet should use metformin because from my personal experience and everybody else that i know that follows a structured bodybuilding diet as soon as you add in the metformin the pump diminishes very very noticeably and with continuous lose the pump is just completely gone no matter how many carbohydrates you consume you should avoid anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid steroids as they're known to cause muscle atrophy over time by inhibiting muscle protein synthesis and by actually increasing muscle protein breakdown resulting in a significantly diminished pump during your workouts now again if you have these prescribed for a particular medical condition obviously you need to keep taking the glucocorticoid steroids but as soon as you take them out you'll probably notice that your gym performance increases and that the pump magically returns you should avoid alcohol as alcohol impairs muscle protein synthesis quite dramatically it also reduces testosterone levels albeit that we probably have a way around that by taking TRT or there above alcohol dehydrates the body especially when you take a lot of alcohol and if you're hung over i'm sure you've noticed the next day if you can even make it to the gym after you're hung over when you go do a workout no pump the only pump that you have is literally in your brain giving you a splitting headache alcohol diminishes the pump and might actually hinder recovery you should avoid caffeine at higher dosages albeit that you build up a little bit of a tolerance to its vasocorticoid constrictive effects scientifically it's been shown that caffeine has vasoconstrictive effects beyond 400 milligrams caffeine in a single serving usually that results or manifest itself during the workout by inhibiting the pump quite substantially but over time as you get more used to caffeine you might be able to ramp up the dose to 500 milligrams caffeine without any weight shape or diminishing effect on your massive masculine pump in the gym and caffeine has been shown to cause vasodilation at lower to moderate dosages let's say at 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams caffeine in a single serving and like i mentioned in the methylene blue deep dive methylene blue inhibits nitric oxide synthase and soluble gonelite sicklase but this is only observed at higher doses at one milligram per one kilogram of body weight with injectable administrations or two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight through oral or sublingual sublingual administration so that's not something you really have to worry about so long story short too long didn't read 2.5 to 5 milligrams of the bivitol should be okay should not diminish your pump in any way shape or form it might actually increase exercise performance by acting on a beta-3 adrenergic receptors find a nice balance between your statin intake whether that's a medical statin or red yeast dries and your overall gym performance because again we need to keep your lipids in range because all of the steroids that you're taking are skewing with your lipids parameters and if that means you need a high dose of a statin to bring that in range and that diminishes your pump there are ways around that don't you worry regarding caffeine intake unless you have a super high tolerance for caffeine just like i do because i'm an addict um let's say 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams caffeine pre-workout should not diminish your gym performance and then as you go higher you might need to take caffeine more frequently again to build up a tolerance to prevent it from inhibiting your pump by causing some sort of vasoconstrictive effects and when it comes to methylene blue i think five milligrams to 15 milligrams of methylene blue is perfectly okay should not diminish your pump in any way shape or form but i would avoid all of the other aforementioned compounds that might diminish your pump in the gym if you're after that imaginary lat syndrome swole look and with that being said there are a few medications that you might already be taking that have a synergistic effect with the entire stack that we're going to discuss in this video these are all blood pressure medications known to lower blood pressure and improve blood pressure management in a dose-dependent fashion when taken just by themselves when we start stacking these with pump enhancing uh performance enhancing drugs for example there might be a synergistic or drug interacting effect going from a normal blood pressure management to a severe hypotensive state so make sure you have an omron 7 wrist cuff or another arm cuff on standby so you can keep track of your blood pressure when you start stacking these blood pressure medications with pump enhancing compounds at the same time to enhance your massive masculine super pump in the gym and these include alpha adrenergic receptor antagonists also known as alpha blockers which actually reduce or fully blunt the release of catecholamines which would otherwise cause vasoconstriction most of these medications are prescribed in cases of benign prostate enlargement to help with urine flow but as you see from the list there's a yo himbine and rawolcine which is generally used to help with a fat loss from the lower back in a fat loss and cutting phase scenario but if you ramp up the dose of yo himbine and rawolcine to let's say beyond nine milligrams daily especially in a single serving then you might see that you still get vasoconstrictive effects and the pump is diminished so a low dose of rawolcine or yo himbine you be should be able to get away with should not diminish your pump in any way shape or form and is often included in various over-the-counter pre-workout formulas at a low and effective dose of let's say 1.5 milligrams to 3 milligrams in a small serving it should not diminish the pump but if you take over 9 milligrams in a single serving then the pump might be significantly diminished and you feel terribly jittery so i would not recommend that some people swear that they can take 3 milligrams yo himbine or well seen over 3 servings over the day for total daily dose of 9 milligrams without having an inhibitory effect on their pump but i would still recommend you to keep the dose low especially if you have a benign prostate enlargement and you're also prescribed thomsolosin or any of these other alpha blockers you can have a synergistic effect with various angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors including um lisinopril which is the most commonly used angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and with anapril a vasotec that actually lowers hematocrit and red blood cell count which is observed at a low and effective dose regarding blood pressure between 2.5 milligrams to 10 milligrams daily so if you're after endless endurance which we're going to discuss in a separate video then i would avoid anapril altogether unless your hematocrit levels and red blood cell count is really really high because you suffer from sleep apnea you take a blood load of erythropoietic compounds and now your hematocrit is like 56 to 58 percent then maybe you should take 2.5 milligrams anapril three times weekly or a daily to keep that under control which then should not affect your pump because you're keeping your levels at the top of the range you'll probably get a synergistic effect by taking an angiotensin receptor blocker including thomasartan now thomasartan has been shown to modulate hematocrit and red blood cell count it might increase it at a low dose of 20 milligrams daily but it might reduce it at a high dose of 80 milligrams daily so you kind of break even depending on the dose and how much blood pressure management you actually need alongside the entire performance and hunting drug cocktail that you're on personally i take 20 milligrams to 40 milligrams thomasartan in combination with the large majority of this entire pump stack my blood pressure is in range and i get phenomenal super pumps so this combination is pretty much warranted from my personal experience you might have a synergistic or hypotensive effect with calcium channel blockers i have no experience with calcium channel blockers but i do have extensive experience with phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors including viagra cialis and levitra but we'll save those for a little bit later on because those are actually included in overall skin splitting mega pump stack so first let's get this pumpage protocol started by optimizing nitric oxide production which increases the pump substantially partially by acting as a vasodilator but also by increasing soluble guanylite cichlase enzyme activity which then downstream increases cyclic guanylc monophosphate levels which you can then prevent the breakdown of with phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors like viagra cialis or levitra more on this later and the cyclic guanylc monophosphate also acts as a very potent vasodilator so no and c gmp is raised to the nth max degree then expect to have a phenomenal super pump you can increase nitric oxide with the following compounds including l-arginine l-citrulline nitrocycine which is a dietary supplement that's patented it's a complex of l-arginine potassium silicate and inositol pycnogenol ubiquinol beetroot whether that's the juice or powder extract pomegranate extract grape sweet extract hawthornberry extract and over 70 dark chocolate containing theobromine flavonoids these can all be taken 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout either taken separately or found in various over-the-counter pre-workout formulations don't worry we'll address that because it's a little bit easier to go with an over-the-counter pre-workout formulation and buying all of these separately and then trying to figure out the most efficacious dose for you even though i'm not against that kind of practice at all so it's a little bit more convenient just to take one scoop or two scoops and then be about your business by adding all of the other pumpage products in on top so um right the details are on the screen and then omega-3 fatty acids coming from fish oil are known to increase nitric oxide levels over the day it's better to split that up to let's say 500 milligrams to a thousand milligrams fish oil with every single meal for a total of 3 000 milligrams epa and 2 000 milligrams dhea daily again the phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors you can take either as a pre-workout or sometime in the morning because many of these have a long lasting effect due to their long half-life and active life and especially with the data fill with a very long half-life and active life the dose compounds up start low at five milligrams daily and then give yourself one or two weeks for the maximum serum levels to occur and for the maximum pumpage to occur and then there's always nitroglycerin at 0.3 milligrams to 0.6 milligrams sublingually this is probably the most potent way to increase your nitric oxide levels but this is not for the faint of heart yeah may it cause significant vasodilation and actually hypotensive states especially when you combine that with certain blood pressure medications that many of you guys are using prophylactically so a little bit of caution is advised do additional research on nitroglycerin if you can even source it but yeah the pump on nitroglycerin through sublingual administration and not comparing that to injectable pre-workouts which we're going to discuss a little bit later on uh pretty potent pretty powerful but not recommended so based on these no and cgmp boosting ingredients we can select an over-the-counter pre-workout formula that contain most of these ingredients all in efficacious dosages and then start stacking some more compounds on top to take that vanilla pump to a masculine super pump here you see that gorilla mode lightning contains l-citrulline but it's mostly a stim based pre-workout that might cause vasoconstriction especially when you start double scooping gorilla mode base also contains l-citrulline but that's not enough to get my juices flowing then you have gorilla mode the og pre-workout from gorilla mind also contains l-citrulline and creatine monohydrate more on that later as well as glycerol and sodium and other electrolytes which should all help with the pump but it's still not 100 what i'm after myself and then you have gorilla mode nitric my absolute 100 favorite for the last couple of years which contains sodium nitrite to help with nitrite nitrate and nitric oxide pathway other electrolytes to help with the pump as well l-citrulline to increase nitric oxide production obviously creatine monohydrate glycerol and betaine to help with the muscle volumization hydration and energy production and vasodrive ap which inhibits angiotensic converting enzyme to a similar extent that thomas artan does all contributing to a massive masculine super pump in the gym especially when you take two scoops pre-workout trust me so let's take gorilla mind nitric in any flavor you prefer at one to two scoops as a base and then start stacking other products on top to again bring that vanilla pump to a masculine super pump you could take inter-workout carbohydrates whether that's a waxy maize or cluster dextrins also known as hybranced cyclic dextrins or dextrose or fructose or de-ribrose or a combination thereof personally waxy maize always gave me some indigestion whether they took a full dose let's say 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout or uh slowly drank that throughout the workouts diluted in let's say three liters of water always digestive issues so i usually go with a combination when i take carbohydrates a combination of cluster dextrins with dextrose fructose and d-ribose gorilla mode intra contains 15 000 milligrams cluster dextrins 15 000 milligrams dextrose 7 500 milligrams fructose and 5 000 milligrams de-ribose with an additional 2500 milligrams creatine monohydrates so that's on top of the creatine monohydrates you would get from gorilla mode nitric per single scoop and then 750 milligrams electrolytes from coconut water and himalaya pink salt so depending on your overall diet caloric intake how many scoops of gorilla mode nitric you take your training intensity your overall muscle mass you might take an additional one to three scoops gorilla mode intra throughout the entirety of your workout intra-workout or maybe one scoop pre-workout and then two scoops intra-workout to give you phenomenal stamina increased endurance but mostly a massive masculine super pump that is longer lasting after the workout has concluded for at least a couple hours you could take intra-workout essential amino acids with l-leucine isoleucine valine lysine threonine phenylalanine histidine tryptophan and methionine a gorilla mind essential amino acids contains 4000 milligrams l-leucine 2000 milligrams l-isoleucine 2000 milligrams l-valine a regular bca 2 to 1 to 1 ratio with 1000 milligrams l-lysine 1000 milligrams l-3-in-650 milligrams l-phenylalanine 600 milligrams l-histidine 450 milligrams l-tryptophan and 300 milligrams l-methionine you could take one to two scoops um intra-workout alongside your gorilla mode intra or another of intra-workout carbohydrates formulation right you go with whatever you prefer so if you take intra-workout carbohydrates and intra-workout essential amino acids you should be able to lower the intake of both because you want to keep the caloric intake very similar yes essential amino acids have calories uh albeit that the nutritional boards probably doesn't agree with that right they might be converting into uh glucose through gluconeogenesis and then the glucose that you get from these essential amino acids even though the intra-workout carbs should prevent um gluconeogenesis from amino acids still they have some caloric value and give you a good amount of energy but in combination both of these especially with electrolytes don't worry we'll get to that that should give you a crazy workout capacity and raise your pump to the next level personally i take about half a scoop of essential amino acids pre-workout and another half a scoop essential amino acids with my intra carbohydrates intra-workout so i have a little bit of a spread out effect again it highly depends on your caloric intake what your macros are and what you're after how you need to dose and how you need to scoop the essential amino acids or the intra-workout carbohydrates you can add in an electrolyte formula containing sodium potassium magnesium calcium and chloride in efficacious dosages as well as correct ratios this is very important for proper muscle hydration and enhancing the pump gorilla hydration contains 750 milligrams sodium 545 milligrams potassium 100 milligrams magnesium and 50 milligrams calcium per sachet so you can take one to two sachets pre-workout or maybe one sachet pre-workout and one sachet intra-workout if you train in the gym or you sweat buckets just like i do right i train in a gym without air conditioning i need one sachet pre and one sachet intra-workout otherwise i lose all of my electrolytes and my pump is nowhere to be found um and again keep in mind the gorilla mount intra also contains a decent amount of electrolytes so you have to dose your uh gorilla hydration sachets accordingly creatine monohydrates 2500 milligrams to 10 000 milligrams pre or intra-workout and gorilla mode intra also contains 2500 milligrams creatine monohydrate per single scope so if you double scoop your pre-workout and you double scoop your intra then you already have 10 000 milligrams creatine monohydrate and you don't need to supplement with additional gorilla mode creatine which contains 5000 milligrams per single scope uh again if you want to go higher that's entirely up to you but you might have some intestinal upset and gastric distress more creatine certainly isn't better but i prefer to go with glycerol compared to creatine both give me similar energy levels but with an efficacious dose of glycerol the pump is substantially increased compared to creatine and an efficacious dose regarding again energy levels i prefer liquid glycerol over a powdered glycerol you can either go with hydro prime or glycerol monosteroid powder and let's say 2500 milligrams to 10 000 milligrams pre-workout and a little bit higher dose for liquid because that's not 100 percent net glycerol because again it's soluble in water gorilla mode nitric already contains 2000 milligrams hydro prime which provides 1300 milligrams net glycerol and separate grill mode hydro prime contains 3250 milligrams glycerol powder from 5000 milligrams hydro prime per single scoop in case you want to enhance the pump further but i prefer the liquid glycerol from gorilla mind and then add that to my double scoop nitric and intra and essential amino acids that kind of stuff and then the pump with the electrolytes sweet i'll tell you that and then on top of this let's say 30 minutes to 60 minutes pre-workout you can add in peak atp muscle tech muscle builder has an oral adenosine 5-tri pyrophosphate disodium capsule formulation at 400 milligrams each they recommend one capsule but sometimes i take two shame on me which seems to be as potent as an injectable pre-workout formula which we're going to discuss that contains approximately 40 milligrams injectable adenosine tri-pyrophosphate and maybe 5 milligrams adenosine monophosphate on the site depending on the formulation so if you don't want to go with the injectable pre-workout route then oral peak atp seems to give you masculine massive super pumps that are skin splitting nonetheless right you do seem to build up a little bit of a tolerance so in the beginning of taking 400 milligrams peak atp the vasodilation and the slight hyperventilation might occur during the workout which is you're going to hyperventilate anyway if you train to failure and beyond but you notice that you get increased oxygenation but also a significant vasodilation when you first start taking this muscle tech muscle builder containing 400 milligrams peak atp per serving but then over time it seems to have diminishing returns as you build up a little bit of a tolerance i'm not entirely sure how that happens maybe start increasing the breakdown of atp in the bloodstream before it ends up in skeletal muscle or you reduce conversion of atp into amp which acts as a more potent vasodilator that i'm not entirely sure of so in the beginning you might need to take one capsule and then later on you might need to take two capsules 800 milligrams peak atp for similar vasodilating effect and before you ask lf atp which is a combination of ancient peat and apple polyphenols which is touted to increase i didn't see trap our phosphate production in the body doesn't seem to do anything at all i've tried various dosages of lf atp um far beyond what's recommended didn't change my pump or didn't cause any vasodilation or didn't make me heave like amp atp coming from peak atp or injectable pre-workout formulations in any way shape or form so personally i would avoid lf atp and stick with peak atp or injectable pre-workouts instead and then again vasodrive ap or betaine anhydrous also known as trimethylglycine tmg all increase the pump through a different pathway than no or c gmp but they're already contained within gorilla mode nitric but if you decide to go with the other pre-workout formulations or you decide to stack your own pre-workout together then please include vasodrive ap and trimethylglycine betaine anhydrous for an enhanced super pump then there are various pump enhancing performance enhancing drugs including dianabol right at various doses you can get to decide which doses of dianabol you want to take pre-workout whether that's 10 to 50 milligrams orally or sublingually or 5 to 25 milligrams bilaterally intramuscularly coming from an injectable dianabol formula 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout three times to five times weekly and then if you want to go the extra mileage for stable serum levels then on your wrist stage you could also split up your injectable or oral dianabol into five milligrams to 25 milligrams a morning evening for total daily intake of 10 milligrams to 50 milligrams i know it's a bit of a dosage range but everybody has their preference i prefer not to take dianabol but if you like dianabol start low build your way up go through the various administration routes and if you end up at 50 milligrams injectable dianabol split bilaterally into 25 milligram servings then please let us know down below in the comment section how your pump is i would love to know because maybe you can convince me to take injectable dianabol instead then there's super droll right the dosage range is a little bit lower let's say 10 to 30 milligrams orally or sublingually um i don't know that there's a injectable super droll but if there's an injectable super droll available please let us know down below in the comment section so yeah i might give that a shot or three or 25 um oxandrolone anivar at five milligrams 25 milligrams orally or sublingually pre-workout right some guys prefer 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams oral anivar or sublingual anivar in which case i'm going to have to say that your anivar is probably not anivar uh maybe it's providing instead and that's why you're able to make a dose up to 100 milligrams or maybe your 100 milligrams of anivar is actually 10 milligrams and you get a 10 milligram like effect for the 100 milligrams that you think that you're taking then there's uh oxymethalone anadrol this dot just can be a little bit higher 25 milligrams to 100 milligrams orally or sublingually taken pre-workout or in the case of injectable anadrol that could be 12.5 milligrams to 50 milligrams bilaterally intermuscularly for total dose over again 25 milligrams to 100 milligrams  aut autopril, cschoppoop教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教 subcutaneously up morning and evening on rest days. If you want to have daily testosterone suspension administrations for more stable serum levels, make sure you use an aromatized inhibitor with injectable suspension, as is the case with oral or injectable deana ball, because aromatization is going to be substantial if you go with the injectable or even the oral route. And with tremble load suspension, the starting dose is the same, but the maximum dose is a little bit lower because, well, based on my personal experience, 50 milligrams trenbolone suspension per day is a little bit too much. So you could go with 12.5 milligrams to 25 milligrams trenbolone suspension, split bilaterally, intramuscularly, pre-workout, and taken subcutaneous morning and evening on your wrist days if you do so prefer. Again, a little bit of caution is advised with trenbolone suspension, even though it gives you a phenomenal super pump, especially when you start stacking it with everything else that we discussed in this video. It can also make you rage and turn red hot because you're overheating, because your metabolism has increased so much. So a little bit of caution is advised. Use it sparingly and start low and build your way up as needed. And these you might not have heard about because they're erectile dysfunction medications, injectable papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix. I've used papavirine in the past when I got a big fat box of like 50 ampules from Mother Russia at 30 milligrams per one milliliter papavirine. I think there were one or two milliliter ampules. I can't remember. It's been a while. But splitting that up bilaterally up to a maximum of two milliliters pre-workout, depending on the body parts. Pumps were crazy. Yeah, pumps were crazy. And it did not spill over into the organ that it's supposed to be injected in. Again, this is administered by intercavernosal injection, either papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix straight into the penis, basically for a long-lasting erection because, again, it's an erectile dysfunction medication or a medication for impotence. I've never injected it there. That always scares me. But I've injected copious amounts of papavirine into my muscles before injectable pre-workouts became a thing. And I had great results. I'll tell you that. So you can either go out with 0.25 milliliters to 1 milliliters papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix, split bilaterally, intramuscularly in the muscle group that you're going to train that day. And then start low, build your way up based on your own experience. Because, again, Bi-mix has fentolamine included, and Tri-mix has fentolamine and aprostadil, PGE1, which should give you a more enhanced effect. But, again, I've never tried it. So I'll leave it up to you to write down your personal anecdotal experience with papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix, whether that was for erectile dysfunction or to enhance your pump. So going forward, on the topic of injectable pre-workouts, we'll have to use a couple of abbreviations to adhere to the YouTube guidelines. If you're not knowing what I'm talking about, go to my website, vigorsteve.com, where everything is explained into great detail. The OG, injectable pre-workout, scintillator from ST, at 40 milligrams per one milliliter adenosine monophosphate, which converts into adenosine triphosphate, which, depending on the scientific evidence that you read, might or might not permeate into the cells. Still, adenosine monophosphate is the most potent vasodilator you can inject. Don't take this intravenously, unless you do an MRI with a galanidium contrast to check for your cardiac function. But if you inject it locally into the muscle group that you're going to train, splitting that up bilaterally, up to a maximum dose of one milliliter pre-workout, 40 milligrams adenosine monophosphate, pump is insane. Yeah. You could skip all of the other compounds which I mentioned earlier. If you just stick with this or some of the other injectable pre-workouts, it's honestly all you need. It's honestly all you need. Now, scintillator used to be used pre-contest before pre-judging at the entire vial. So that's 400 milligrams adenosine monophosphate, a 10 milliliter injection split, 5 milliliters left cheek and right cheek, about an hour before stepping on stage. Then the athlete would disappear or retreat in a corner to hyperventilate for approximately 10 minutes, as the vasodilating effect from this much injectable adenosine monophosphate is taking place. And all of this vasodilation kind of directs off the blood flow to the peripheral tissue, causing a tremendous super pump. Again, before pre-judging, don't do this twice. If you do it twice, you spill over and you look absolutely terrible. But if you time it right, before pre-judging, an entire vial of scintillator, fullness galore. I don't need insulin, don't need anadrol, don't need anything else. A full vial of scintillator, as many competitors will vouch for, it's like night and day. Yeah, it's like night and day. But again, the heaving and the vasodilating effects are not for the faint of heart. This is not for amateurs. This is for hardcore bodybuilders who've practiced this several times back home. And then once you undergo this terrible process of hyperventilating for a couple minutes at home, then you know what to expect backstage. And then you can time the scintillator accordingly. I used it as a pre-workout many different times. Great super pump. But nowadays we have a couple other companies like AA or MA, which specialize into injectable pre-workouts, which contain a lot of other ingredients, which have a synergistic overlapping effect for a more potent super pump effect. AA has various injectable pre-workout formulations. I've grouped these from least potent to most potent. My favorites are the Mass Monster Blend and Stampedes. I combine both of them, usually pre-workouts, at the maximum efficacious dosage. Again, I have a lot of experience with AA's injectable pre-workouts. I started low, built my way up. And with the copious amounts of muscle tissue that I have, that needs a good amount of stimulation for a massive masculine super pump, I can go to the maximum efficacious dose or even go beyond that, because I have the experience. And needless to say, I can't get my tank top off after the workout, unless somebody helps me, especially for upper body. It's like, I can't get it off. That's the side effect of injectable pre-workouts. I haven't tried their Ultra Instinct formula yet, but that formula sure looks tasty. So all of the details are on the screen with recommended dosage ranges. Again, all of this is split bilaterally, intermuscularly for localized effect. So if you want to get started, basically you start with the GAC blend, then you proceed into the shredder, then you go to GAC extreme, then the monster pump blend, then the mass monster blend, and then the super shredder, which also contains albuterol, which might act as a vasoconstrictor downstream. It shouldn't impair your pump in any way, shape, or form. It will stimulate your central nervous system by acting on the beta-2 adrenergic receptors. And otherwise, well, the adenosine tri-pyrophosphate at 50 milligrams per one milliliter, converting into adenosine monophosphate downstream, which helps with vasodilation, should give you an overall beneficial effect regarding the pump. And if anything, you just get additional fat loss from the albuterol that the super shredder contains. And it may be proceeding to Ultra Instinct, which based on the ingredients, I would say would probably give you the second best pump out of all of the AA injectable pre-workout formulations. My absolute favorite is AA Stampede. I've been using Stampede for a very long time now. I've used it many a workout, I would say. It contains 400 milligrams per one milliliter L-carnitine, 40 milligrams per one milliliter adenosine tri-pyrophosphate, five milligrams per one milliliter adenosine monophosphate for total, a dose of 445 milligrams per one milliliter. And I would go up sometimes to two milliliters pre-workout, split one milliliter bilaterally, but don't do that. My recommendations are half a milliliter, split bilaterally, intramuscularly at maximum until you get some experience with Stampede yourself. Start low, build your way up. And then if you're crazy like me, you need a phenomenal super pump alongside of all of the other things that we're discussing in this video, then, well, feel free to up the dose. But that's not my personal recommendation. Don't do what I do unless you want to be small. Okay. And then MA also has their own line of injectable pre-workouts, similar to AA, albeit in different formulations. I've ordered them also from the least potent to the most potent regarding an improvement and increase in the pump overall. My favorites are Carved and The Motivator. And yes, I combine both of them as well, similar to I combine two products from AA. So you could start with max drive at the dosages on the screen, then move on to focus, then move on to pump, then move on to the daily driver, and then maybe proceed to one of my favorites, MA Carved, containing 50 milligrams for one milliliter L-carnitine, which helps with fatty acid absorption into the mitochondria, 50 milligrams for one milliliter choline, 50 milligrams for one milliliter inositol, and 10 milligrams per one milliliter, which helps with fatty acid mobilization. That's a MYC blend that helps with transport of fatty acids across the cell of the adipose tissue and also into the cells of metabolically active tissues. So carnitine and MYC blend, great for fat loss overall. And then 25 milligrams for one milliliter vitamin B6, and 500 micrograms for one milliliter vitamin B12, greatly contributes to energy production and overall energy levels. If you take this pre-workout, during the workout, obviously, and then 20 milligrams for one milliliter nicotinamide mononucleotide probably gives you the most energy during the workouts because nicotinamide mononucleotide NAD+, is an electron donor, but also contributes to thousands of enzymatic reactions in the body, keeping your metabolism going alongside vitamin B6, MB12, and the carnitine, and the MYC blend. Again, one of my favorites. You could proceed into the builder. Zeus Juice, that's also great for pumps, but the best pumps and the best motivation out of all of the injectable MA pre-workout formulas I got from MA The Motivator, containing 175 milligrams per one milliliter L-arginine, 45 milligrams per one milliliter CDP-choline, helps with cognition tremendously, especially during the workout. 40 milligrams per one milliliter adenosine tri-paraphosphate, helps with pumps and energy levels. 35 milligrams per one milliliter N-SDL-tyrosine, helps with motivation, basically injectable L-tyrosine. Who wouldn't want that? I certainly do. 30 milligrams per one milliliter betaine anhydrase, also known as trimethylglycine TMG, helps with the pump tremendously. 20 milligrams per one milliliter nicotinamide mononucleotide, NAD+, for energy and pump, potentially, and 5 milligrams adenosine monophosphate AMP, for tremendous vasodilation on top of the adenosine tri-phosphate at 40 milligrams, which the motivator also contains. For a total of 350 milligrams per one milliliter, and then I might go up to one milliliter bilaterally, even though I recommend half a milliliter bilaterally to start. Now, just like with injectable Deonable or injectable Anadrol or injectable Superdrol, potentially, and certainly injectable testosterone suspension and injectable Trimbalone suspension or windstrel suspension, which doesn't really give you a pump, but let's mention it here anyway. They can all potentiate post-injection pain, obviously. If you take them 30 minutes to 60 minutes pre-workout, and you split them bilaterally, you maybe dilute that with bacterial static water to get a lower concentration and a higher injection volume. If you do this all pre-workout, and you have a good workout with a phenomenal super pump, all of these compounds should diffuse into the peripheral tissue, potentiate local effects, which potentially result in animalism, but certainly enhance the pump substantially. And then not potentiate any post-injection pain. But if some post-injection pain occurs, that's meant to be expected. You're injecting literally directly into the muscle, and there's no free ride. So this is part of the game. Experiment with a couple ones, and then see which one you prefer, which one gives you the best pump and the least amount of post-injection pain or complications of post-injection. And then stick with the one you like at the efficacious dosage that you prefer. And it finally brings us to Steve's massively masculine, skin-splitting, super pump, mega stack. And again, this is what I do, not my recommendation, but if you want to have a little bit of an insight on what I do before my workout, preventing me from taking my shirt off, post-workout, then this is basically what I do. My total electrolyte intake over the day, which includes the electrolytes that I get from pre-workouts or hydration and whatnot, is about 3,500 to 5,000 milligrams sodium, 7,000 milligrams to 10,000 milligrams potassium, let's say 2,000 milligrams to 2,500 milligrams magnesium, and about 1,000 to 1,500 milligrams calcium over the day. Then I take 40 milligrams Thalmasartan upon waking. Sometimes it's 20 milligrams, but most of the time, since I'm on cycle, most of the time it's 40 milligrams Thalmasartan. Then I might take, on certain days, 5 milligrams to 10 milligrams Cialis upon waking, but that kind of depends on the workout and how much pump I want to have later in the day. Then I take 100 milligrams Ubiquinol morning and evening, which increases nitric oxide levels. And then I take an additional 200 milligrams or 400 milligrams Ubiquinol pre-workout, depending on the workout intensity that I expect. I take one or two scoops, Gorilla Mode Nitric, 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout, three to five times weekly. In combination with Gorilla Mode Essential Amino Acids, one scoop, 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout, three to five times weekly. And if I have really strenuous workouts, especially when I start to get a little bit depleted, low body fat levels, then I might have an additional scoop Essential Amino Acids inter-workout. I usually save the Gorilla Mode Intro containing carbohydrates for the off-season where I eat more carbohydrates. But right now, when I'm following a ketogenic diet, I skip the intra containing the carbohydrates and I stick with the Essential Amino Acids and the Glycerol instead. I take Gorilla Mode Hydration, usually two sachets, one pre-workout and one inter-workout. I take Gorilla Mode Glycerol, one to two pumps. Sometimes that's one pump pre-workout and another pump intra-workout. But most of the time, I take two pumps pre-workout because if I take it intra-workout, then I might feel a little bit nauseous because it's so sweet. It's so sweet. I mean, it's carbohydrates after all. And then I might have a combination of the Mass Monster Blend with Stampede or a combination of Carved with the Motivator. Sometimes I'm crazy and I combine Stampede with the Motivator at one milliliter each. I'd split bilaterally, not two milliliters of each. That's way too much, adenosine triphosphate and adenosine monophosphate, which would probably put me on the floor with severe hypotension. I have a lot of experience with these injectable pre-workouts. So I combine efficacious dosages and I look at the total picture of all of the ingredients. And then again, the pump is quite insane whenever I do the maximum application. Obviously, sometimes I take my oral steroid sublingually. Again, I prefer anadrol sublingually over the injectable anadrol because the injectable anadrol that I can source is causing a little bit more post-injection pain than these injectable pre-workouts. And I still like to keep my post-injection pain to a minimum because I'm old and I don't want to be limp all the freaking time. And then sometimes I take grothermone too. I use pre-workout which also seems to have a synergistic effect in a stack like this. And one of that's come from, coming from a lipolytic effect, releasing free-form fatty acids in the glycerol backbone from a stored adipose tissue converting into glucose or the glycerol is actually contributing to skeletal muscle volumization just like the gorilla mode. Liquid glycerol does. That I'm not entirely sure of. But this combination of everything we just mentioned, full as a house. Absolutely fantastic. Again, make sure you monitor your blood pressure while you'll start stacking all of these vasodilators and pump-enhancing products together. I've linked the Omron 7 down below. You can purchase it on Amazon. And again, if you start to experience any kind of symptom of hypotensive or just a slight reduction in blood pressure, which you can check with your Omron 7, stop, increase your sodium intake to increase your blood volume so you keep your blood pressure in range and just stay home. Write it out. You overdid it. You don't want to be hypotensive with significant low blood pressure in the gym making you faint, especially during a strenuous deadlift, for example. I mean, we've seen those incidents happen all the time, right? So if you overdid it, just stay home, write it out, increase your sodium intake to increase your blood volume and keep your blood pressure in range and then you try again the next time. I've linked all of the Gorillamide products which we just discussed down below for easy access. Just make sure you use code VIGORUS for 10% discount if you want to purchase some of these products yourself. If you live in the United States, you can do your blood work over at Merrick Health which have excellent patient care coordinators and healthcare providers who can help you interpret your blood work results. I don't think that any of these compounds besides the injectable steroids are going to skew your blood work parameters but it's still important to do your blood work frequently when you do a lot of self-experimentation in order to achieve the most masculine super pump you could potentially get. And for everything else, check out vigorsteve.com if you're looking for something specific that we didn't discuss. In this video, literally everything is explained on my website. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A super pump front double bicep for you guys. Maybe I should do a couple of push-ups to bring this pump to the next level but I'm always pumped talking about performance enhancing drugs. Maybe it's just me, maybe it's you too but I like the pump. I'm sitting here being fully pumped and charged up ready to inject some injectable pre-workouts and then head to the gym. Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Steroids： FIRST Cycles To IFBB PRO Cycles ft. John Jewett ｜ Growth Hormone, Insulin, Diuretics, Etc. [DxZFXR205IY].txt ===

 I wanna ask the most cheeky question ever. Where did you end up for the Mr. Olympia? And how far was that off from your peak dose, you just maybe in the past? Because obviously at one point or another, you went up, you know, try to do a heavy cycle yourself. I will go through this process. So spill the beans, please. Sure, happily do so. On the J3 forum, like I lay it all out. There's nothing that I don't talk about. With past off seasons, I've run heavier stuff. Like I worked with Jansen earlier on in my career. Now, my next offseason year, I assessed the previous. I know I ran 2,300 milligram. However, I'm moving to the open. I want a similar rate of progress for what I know I need. I moved very close. It was right under. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Anabola Groundtable, where everybody decided to wear black. We got our first guest, yes, black to make ourselves look smaller. I got our first guest to join in, because we're going to discuss cycles from starts to IFB pro and potentially the Mr. Olympia stage. So I figured it would be only appropriate to get the highest ranking PD educator on board. IFB pro John Jewett, who placed 11th at the most recent Mr. Olympian Open. You placed thirds in the 2019 to 12th. And what was his fourth, third or fourth? Who knows, it was fourth. Who knows, yeah, top three. And then he also won that Vancouver pro last year, where he qualified. Thanks for jumping on board. It's an honor and a pleasure to have you here. What's an honor and pleasure to be here. I have looked forward to chatting with you guys for a long time. I feel like, well, Dean, you've been on our podcast a long time ago and just finally give a good group of guys just to talk about what we love to do is exciting. Yeah, for sure, for sure. So John, you, let's just get right into it. Like we're going to talk about cycle starts to finish, right? So what can we put in place before we even think about drugs? Because of course we all decided at one point to start enhancing. Hind sign is 2020. So I was drug free for 11 years. I think Kurt, you were drug free for about 500 years. Yeah, four, four, 98. 498, 29. And Dean, do you, you were natural for quite a bit? Of course, yeah, I think up until age 24. So it was like five six years. Okay, so what about you, John? Please, please take it away because you're, again, you're the most knowledgeable when it comes to this stuff. Yeah, gosh, this, I feel like it dates me as being a long-term drug user, but I didn't start like my, I'll say my intentional first cycle. So I was about a year out from my first bodybuilding show. So this was like being, I was 25 years old. However, I'd started some TRT prior to that. But the reason I say like intentionally is because I came up in the air when there was like the designer's steroid or it was called prohormone on the market, right? So you could go into G and C, you could go into a supplement show and buy like these prohormones and being young and kind of naive, I just thought, well, yeah, these things like convert to this hormone, this isn't a steroid because you can buy it in the store. So I definitely, definitely had some exposure, probably in this like 19 to early 20 area of these different compounds, which gosh, who, what were they? Being naive and stupid, not a lot to know there. However, I do know probably my first one was one called TORQ that was here, a local company that was being created and it absolutely was superdraw. So my first exposure was superdraw. That's terrible dude. How were your liver enzymes? Did you ever check those or did you feel toxic or? I don't know. No, no, no. I don't think anyone did back then. That's the blood road things newer. So I, and I was young, right? So it's like as cheap as you can do it. I don't know. I mean, my body weight shot up like 20 pounds in like five weeks, my binge press went up like 50 pounds and it was amazing. And then I lost like 50 pounds of strength and dropped right back down to where I was previously. So I was like, well, that's kind of demoralizing, but anyway. And when you shut down, like looking back, were you shut down from that first quote unquote, or only cycle or what do you think you were underage in the patient for a bit? So I didn't have labs pulled until probably, it was probably three years prior to wanting to bodybuild. And I had lower, low normal testosterone at that point. And then I'm like, well, okay, I hadn't been using and just kind of went about my way. The doctor was like, oh, you know, it could just be the test, blah, blah, blah. So when I actually got into like, hey, I want to bodybuild, let me look at my hormone levels. And they were still like around this. I was like, I got 270 nanogram per deciliter. I'm like, well, this isn't going to cut it. I think just using these hormones in the past caused some issues. Could it have been come back over like more years of this letting off? I don't know, but my path was going to be bodybuilding anyway. So that's when I was like, well, let me get a script. I got my first script and that kind of led me into doing my first shows and how I kind of progressed forward from there. Okay. And then like with the knowledge you have access to now and how you would design it for guys that would do their first cycle, what do you think needs to be in place before people even think about taking PEDs? I mean, I think you need to go through just your, a lot of understanding of just what you're about to jump into. Of course, I think you need time as well to train naturally, to maximize those variables. Cause you see so often that guys are going to jump on and you can easily mask a poor diet training, a recovery protocols just with using more gear. And then you eventually hit this roadblock where like you had high dosage of gear and you still don't look enormous. And you're like, well, now you have to backpedal and figure out why is that is. And usually you just like, well, let me just take more of these drugs in place. So I think having some time spent training naturally has a huge benefit. What I usually outline is like, spend at least three to five quality years. I mean, quality. So doing all these things right before making the decision to move on. Cause within the first year of someone training naturally, like you can make substantial progress and then kind of every year it get halved from there. So when you get to the point where in a year you're adding maybe three pounds of tissue on, this might be the consideration point for like moving to enhanced area. Where does that look like age wise? Well, I wouldn't have touched anything being 18, 19 years old. Probably 19 to 20, you see some of your peak hormone levels in the blood, maximize those like absolutely. And even at that age, I didn't have the awareness of what to do with training and nutrition and even my recovery aspect. Even for males, we don't see like full brain development till you're around 25 years old. So there's an aspect of like, do you really want to expose yourself to like neuro toxicity and the neurodegeneration potential around steroids? When you haven't even reached your full brain development yet. Also just the maturation side, right? Like being in my early twenties, like probably wasn't the best decision of what I wanted to do even long-term career wise. So I would say, hey, first exposures you might consider getting out of college, being in this kind of like 23 year old era. Then you have the potential of like, how long exposure wise to reach a pro ranks, if that's your goal, 10, 15 years of exposure could take you up to the pro level. And that's being, you know, at 35 where we see a lot of guys are peaking in their prime. They're starting to peak. I think this timeline kind of makes a lot of sense. Now I know that doesn't fit for everyone because you have guys getting into it later. So that kind of changes the dynamic there. But I think giving yourself some time to train naturally, maximize what you already have would be essential. From there, I think guys would be just a questionnaire that you need to go through of PD preparedness to say, like, you know, what is the need of your division? This probably caters more to like the female population. There's a lot you can do before you jump into gear with if you're training on bikini or you have our new fit model division that just came out yesterday, right? Oh yeah. Oh no. More time spent in the benches before everybody starts. Yeah, so like these are the questions that I would have in mind if I was my younger self of like, have you spent time maximizing all your variables? Like, do you understand the short-term and long-term risk of using PDs? Do you have some basic understanding of endocrinology and the compound risk? Do you have access to quality products? Are you shopping at GNC for your performance? Are you getting them from the steroid dealer corner or can you access farm grade? Do you know like the supplementation that you'd even need in place to protect yourself and how to handle like an estrogen issue or a DHT issue or whatever it may be, if that was to pop up? Like, can you afford this without having limitations? I think all these questions would be some, at least some starting points to consider before you even move into that area. Now, guys- What you're basically saying is there needs to be some sort of entry exam. Nearly. Before you start PDs, where you have like four to five years about the same time as a proper education where you graduate from your NADI status and then based on your performance during your NADI career, you might go into the next phase or performance enhancing that might be under guidance of a coach or I think that's a good way, but like the way you said it, like there's needs to be multiple steps in place before you even consider this kind of stuff. I think there would be some sort of entry exam and I think a lot of people would fail on their first try. How are you, they would say, hey, maybe you need another year in the benches before you can go to the next level. Dean, what do you think? Yeah, no, I agree. I mean, I think even to Bill on like John, we have the old-school mythology of like the three, four, five strength methods of being able like bench tree plates, squat four, deadlift five to sort of reach that natural strength plateau, I guess. Like most guys will never really push themselves to the limit of reaching strength plateaus before taking the leap to being enhanced, let alone like the hormone situation of assessing where your hormones are naturally. I think guys jump to go without reaching a plateau when these compounds really build upon that central nervous system strength aspect. Kurt. Yeah, I mean, I agree with everything both of them said. I just, I waited longer. I didn't really need drugs. I was kind of against them for a long time and I waited until basically my body started going the other direction. When I tried to lose fat, muscle would come off and when I tried to gain muscle, fat would come on. I was always naturally leaner. So it wasn't, I could see it in my body that was just changing. I went and got lab worked on. My test was like in the low fours. So I went on TRT and then I was on TRT for like very short period of time before I did my first cycle. Yeah. Do you think TRT is a good entry into steroids? I was 39. So for me, yeah, for a younger guy, I think TRT for most guys is a misused term. If you're under 20s, most likely you don't need TRT. Like fix the lifestyle stuff unless you actually have hyper gonadism. And if you do, why is it primary or secondary? I think that's my problem with the online medicine stuff nowadays is that clinics are just prescribing stuff without actually thinking of what's wrong. Why would a 25 year old be hyper gonadal? A lot of the clinics are glorified cellular dealers and not a lot of clinics like the one we work with, Merrick Health, that one actually goes into the situation and tries to optimize the testosterone levels with sleep and healthy lifestyle and all these little things first before any kind of script needs to be taken place. And I know from the former doctor that used to work, Dr. Adam Hodgkis and a couple of the current doctors that worked there is that they really assessed the situation and see, well, many of the guys that think that their end of the deficient were similar to John where they experimented with psalms or hormones or something along those lines and they shut themselves down and they never gave themselves adequate time to kind of recover from that. And now since all these TikTok influencers want to stay in shape 24 seven, the fat intake is low and the sleep quality isn't so good. So how high can your testosterone levels come back? I think every natural should go through a period where they just, disregarding of how they look, they try to get their hormone levels as high as possible with high food intake. And if that means you get a little bit fatter, so be it. But if you sleep better because of that, I think if you learn your basal hormonal state and try to optimize that, I think you can learn a lot about your body and actually take care of your seat quite far. I mean, will you look like a pro bodybuilder unless you're genetically inclined? You know, we can name a couple guys that look phenomenal without PEDs, but those are the exceptions, not the norm. So I think if you're a natural guy and you're really passionate about bodybuilding, I mean, at least try to dial in your nutrition, training, supplementation. And for nutrition, it's very simple. You eat the foods that you can digest, moderate protein, high carbs, and moderate fat during the offseason, you know, reasonably high protein, moderate carbs, and maybe lower fat during the cutting phase. And that seems to work well for most people. Carb cycling as needed based on activity levels. Supplementation is basically what you need to supplement what you can't get from your diet and then maybe creatine monohydrate on top of that. And the rest is just extra fluff that maybe contributes one or 2%. I mean, let's be honest. And then, you know, the training, most people do well with a three to five day split. And that kind of depends on your development. So if you have a lot of development that needs to take place, you do a push for legs, AB routine, something like that. And I mean, maybe later on, you can split it up into a four day split or five day split. And then it kind of depends on, you know, how you develop from that, because some body parts will develop faster than other body parts. Again, a coach who understands natural bodybuilding would go a very long way. And I think now that they're being a good amount of natural, or coaches that are specialized in natural athletes, you spend $300, $500 for a good coach to learn it faster. And then you basically graduate yourself to your first cycle, which again, I think one ampoule of testosterone per week, it's probably a great starting point. It's already double the reference range for most guys for one half times the reference range. And that 500 tests in a cycle with the endable kickstart, then the start form is perpetuated? No. No, no, no, no, no. You do that for 12 weeks, then you do a PCT. And it's only 12 weeks for some reason. I don't know why. Yeah, yeah, time on this time off, right? It's a great way to. Make sure you start to, make sure you start two weeks after your last shot, regardless of what you talk about. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then let the nander alone just stay active while your at CT is working. So discussing the first cycle, maybe we can start there. What do you think about the duration, compound selection, things to avoid, things to look for, just probably from a direct perspective, we're going to assume that the athletes graduated from their natural stuff, right? So they're financially secure. They did blood work a couple of times, their nutrition training, et cetera, is all in place. What would be a good place to start? John, take it away. Sure, yeah. Just a second, one last thing that you said, Steve, is that to this day, still my greatest focus in learning is training. That's where I spend most of my time on the day, thinking how can I prove my execution throughout every set, even while I'm in the gym. It's not spent learning all about drugs all day. Most of us love it just, and we go way beyond what you'd probably need to know. But at this level, like if you get together with like other high-level pros, it's talking about training, because that's still your greatest tool to drive this process forward. So if you invest that time in anything, spend more in training, because even at this level, I'm still learning and improving. So someone that's earlier on, I used to coach people and not have weight training included, just do that nutrition and supplementation. People would be like, oh, I got training, don't worry about that. Man, you don't have training, because I don't even have training, I'm still figuring out. Anyway. I think it also evolves. Like I think that the intensity and knowing when to back off or when to really go for it, I think you need longer than five years, honestly, because I really started piecing together after 15 years of training, where you really know how to contract properly and stay in that ideal range of motion and some exercise it's more range of motion than others. So you have this little library of how to perform each exercise to the perfect capacity. And that might be more cumbersome than learning about steroids, because every exercise is so different than you have to work with your biomechanics. And like you could do a crash course on steroids maybe in a week, but when you train legs twice per week, I mean, how many workouts do you really need to piece it together? It might take several years. Absolutely. Back to your original question, those things like starting points, I would still be a testosterone first kind of guy and not be a Sarm Goblin or anything of this sort. I think starting dosage wise, along lines that we all have spoken to, I think a great paper to look at is like that Bayeson paper of 2001, I think it was where you have varying graded dosages of testosterone, again, I get some ideas of what really moves the needle into super physiological territory. And that one group that was on 125 milligrams per week, that was a battle replacement dosage for those guys. They're around like the 600 to 700 nanogram per deciliter. But when they jumped to 300 makes a test per week, they go super physiological, which was around this, it was over 1200 nanogram per deciliter. I don't remember exactly, but that's the point of superfizz, right? So if you're looking at this range, like 125 to 300 for some individuals, that's gonna move the needle a lot. So what I would want in my first cycle would be moving beyond my natural levels for one, or pretty close to it, because you don't wanna be under because that's just not beneficial at all. So I think starting even at 200 milligram testosterone per week would be reasonable. And then to assess where that moves you if you have some natural lab work in place. And why I say low is milk the most from the least. And it also gives you opportunity to learn how to manage if there was a side effect to come about, it would be a less likely issue to have a side effect come about versus starting at 300, 400 milligram of testosterone for you as genetically you can image all that takes you way beyond. And now you have to deal with, oh man, now I have like estrogen issues, my guide was filling up or something along these lines. And you're having a back pedal and figured out. And as a first time user, I don't think you want that complication. You want something pretty close to like physiological levels to where you can manage estradiol and DHT very reasonably. And so I think something at 200 milligrams per week testosterone would be very suitable to do so. And very low risk in that same study, like there's some of the guys that were running 600 milligram testosterone per week over 20 weeks. You see a little HDL lowering, a little hematocrit rising, but for the most part, it's fairly benign for that duration of time. So I think this gives you a lot of ground as a start point just to keep driving that up and make a lot of progress. And I don't think you actually need a set timeline per se. I think your timeline is probably more to take a depictive of what's gonna be your limitation factor when you're bulking. I think some of you guys are running to like getting too fat too quick or digestive issues getting, you know, appetite smashed or they're just smashed from training and they need to then scale back and deload or do some type of fat loss phase. And that would detect like moving the dosage back down to a maintenance. But if you're at tier like this 200 milligram, you would need to do that. But I think that's kind of the start of a framework of where I would go from there. Would you guys agree on that dosing? Or would you change something about it? Can I? Yeah, I think that's reasonable. I mean, you're basically doubling your serums for most people, you know. Can I touch on two points that I think get misunderstood? So when we're looking at blood work from a medical point of view, hemoglobin and hematocrit are not the biggest deal, right? A lot of doctors, and they learn this stuff. I don't know if they just forgot it or they're just doing it to protect their own ass. Those aren't the concerning things when they go up a little bit. What we look at is platelet count. So if you need to see a phlebotomist to get blood, it's when your platelet count is elevated because that's what's gonna cause the clotting issues, not a rise in hemoglobin and hematocrit, right? You don't obviously want them super high, but they in and of themselves are not the risk that we're looking at. So we don't obsess about, that's kind of a benefit of using steroids, right? Prevent anemia. If you give blood every time you're hematocrit or hemoglobin goes slightly above the range, you can become anemic. It doesn't make any sense. Yeah, you don't have much iron. I just look at platelet count. Platelet count's in the middle of the range. You're generally fine. The other thing is to define physiological versus super physiological. And I think this gets lost on the internet. So what we're taught in school, and people can ask you for references, and unfortunately, unless you wanna buy an endocrinology textbook, I don't have an act. There's not necessarily studies that show all this stuff. Some information you just have to understand. You just take from people that are more educated than you and you just accept it. What we're defining super physiological is, it generally at 300 milligrams. And the reason being is that in the average person, that'll get your serum level over 1400 nanograms per deciliter every day, as an average is a low. In order to cause muscle growth through the three anabox pathways from drugs, from testosterone alone, this does not include other anabox, you need to be above 1400. If it drops below that, you're not anabox. So what we see for the average person, there are people that might get above 1400 on 200 milligrams. So I think with physiological, so I think people get too obsessed about the numbers, like, well, we produce 11 milligrams, testosterone a day, and if you add that out, 100 milligrams is TRT. That might be fine for TRT. For some people, it might also be inadequate. That's, I wasn't ever taught to use 100 milligrams for TRT. But we generally look at under 250 is considered physiological, even if the dose is more than you would naturally produce, because on the average person, it's not gonna get you on an average above 1400 milligrams. So that's kind of what we're looking at. And that's how you define those terms. It's not that just because it's more than you would produce, that it's all of a sudden this magical amount of steroids. Very few guys are gonna grow a significant amount of mass on 200 milligrams a test. Most of that mass is probably because they were under eating, eating incorrectly, not training correctly, not sleeping well, right? There were other things going on. So, wait, wait, wait. Are you saying guys on 200 milligrams a week are using TRT as a crutch? To compensate for a lot of the... Yeah, of course, for bad lifestyle stuff, totally. I honestly, I call placebo ballin. When guys are growing, like I took 100 milligrams of this and I blew up. Well, that's because all of a sudden, you decided that you weren't gonna drink, you weren't gonna get better sleep, you were gonna start eating better. It was those factors more than, yes, you fixed your hormone profile. So there's some effect there. But again, you're not leveraging adiabolic to the extent that the adiabolic is driving the growth per se. That makes sense. I agree, I think on a primed natural athlete that's been grinding for five years in the gym, 100 milligrams to 200 is not going to move the needle much. Maybe 200, but obviously, if the testosterone levels are high and they're basically pushing against their natural potential, they might need a little bit more unless they're pushing against their natural potential with a natural testosterone level of 400. Then I don't mind bringing that up to 800 to 1,000 nanograms per deciliter, right? To kind of assess response. But since it will take for most esters about four weeks for serum levels to peak, at four weeks you can do your blood work and kind of assess. And then obviously you would probably have three months of progress in you and then make a dose adjustment. So you would start maybe between 200 to 300 milligrams and then basically your progress, you would slowly ramp that up and then maybe leverage an aromatizanibular or some sort of DHT derivative to kind of keep estrogen arranged or getting your body fat levels down. Yeah, for a bit. Can I just touch on the TRT dosing too, the way that I was taught? So general practitioners, wellness doctors, neurologists are probably not taught the same stuff. What we're taught within standard of care is, let's say Dean comes to me and he's hyper gonadal. Most guys are afraid of needles, right? Let's say you're 40 years old, you've never injected anything, it's weird, your wife is strange, it's not super into you injecting needles. You give the guy 100 milligrams. Most likely he's not gonna feel a whole lot and he's not gonna wanna continue, right? He's gonna be like, this is for the birds. His heart is a lump now. I don't really feel a whole lot different than I did before. The primary reason is one, you give them, depending on the way the test is made, either give them the 200 or the 250. They feel amazing right away. You can always back down if you need to, if the blood markers change or there's something wrong or there's side effects. But that way at least you have patient compliance, right? When you give them the proper dose immediately, you can always shift it. If you give them a low dose, you're generally not gonna work it up. Most doctors don't increase doses. The other reason that people seem to miss is that from a measurement point of view, we are all educated, we know how to measure things. I could tell John knows the difference, he knows how to calculate to measure GH and peptides and all these things. The average person can't do math, right? They did a study with McDonald's and they asked people about the quarter pounder. And people couldn't understand what size a quarter pounder was. So you're gonna tell a guy to take, to dilute something with a weird amount and measure to that, like they're gonna get it wrong. So generally drugs are given in the dose that they come, right? Testosterone comes in 200 or 250 milligrams per ML. You give them a one ML syringe. You say fill the syringe, inject it once a week. It doesn't mean- It doesn't mean it's best practice, it's just simple. You don't give someone a Moxicillin and say, it's a 500 milligram pill. But what I want you to do is cut it in thirds. And I want you to take it every two and a half days at nine hours into the day. No one's gonna do that right. You give, yes, saracens is a perfect example. If you're under over 140 pounds, you take the bottle. They don't have people diluting it with 1.8 MOs of water and pulling through units and doing it at this time. It leads to disaster. No one does it right. Well, that's what the bodybuilders do. We try to reinvent the wheel, which is fun. When unfortunately you're knocking out smart Merc or Pfizer. Yeah. It's not gonna happen. Yeah. Dean, what do you think about first cycle practices? Yeah, relatively in agreement. Although I think, you know, having a hormone baseline as a natural gives you a stepping point to build from. So obviously we're taking the assumption there that we've got a natural athlete whose total testosterone level says 25 nanomall per liter or whatever, 800 to 900 nanogram per desiliter. Yeah. If you give them one to five tests, it's gonna probably yield the same serum level. You give them 250, even though pretty much doubled their serum level. The only time I'd be a bit cautionary is, let's say you do have someone who is a natural athlete who is for all intents and purposes, hypergonadol on paper, but doesn't exhibit hypergonadal symptoms. So their total test level is eight to 10 nanomall. You give them 250 milligrams of tests, their level is now 45, you know, you've quadrupled their total test level. Yeah, that's probably gonna see a brilliant effect to that level, but you've now quadrupled the total testosterone that could bring side effects, you know, unwanted metabolic outcomes like estrogen, DHT. So I guess you have to look at where your natural level is to start and then adjust from there. I mean, we had this discussion, I brought this point up at the conference last week of, if we're gonna start picking medical dosages to give athletes like the enhanced games, all right, let's just start giving 600 milligrams based on base and study. You know, we have to tailor to that person's biochemistry, what their total level is, and then adjust the dose from there, that's my personal take on it. And you're gonna end up somewhere between two to 300 milligrams anyway, to take someone's level, double or triple their natural level, if they are, you know, in that mid-20s. Where for someone who's a little lower, going too high, too quick to start, like John said, you wanna milk the like absolute most from the least dose. Yeah, and I think it's a good point what John made is that we're starting this first cycle during the offseason, because then the food is in place, right? The training is at the highest capacity, so you're basically pushing against this natural limited terrain, and then a low dose of a couple hundred milligrams to start strong goes a very long way, because again, the food is in surplus and you've already learned how to be anabolic through several dieting phases. What I will add to that is that I think it's a good idea to do your last natty diet before you start your first cycle, so you start lean, so you don't have to worry too much about the aromatization, and you can see the changes on your physique, because you don't have to x-ray through this layer of fat, where, you know, at least your abs and your glutes and your quad separation and all that stuff, the visual changes are so apparent, not only to yourself, but to everybody in the gym, and then now with social media, you can milk the fuck out of it, make some money while you're at it. Of course, if you're...  N-acetyl-25, don't promote the drugs, because your audience is even younger. That's the biggest problem nowadays on TikTok. So basically, you start from this ideal point where you can see your physique, you just come from a cutting phase, your calories might be a little bit low, but you can ramp that up. And I think through multiple caloric adjustments, even if you start with 200 milligrams or 300 milligrams of testosterone and nothing else, you can make so much progress. And we're talking about 10, 20, 30 pounds on your first cycle, starting from this reasonably lean state. We've seen some pretty good effects with starting with guys. I think there's a lot of value to doing your first show natural. Some might not wanna do that, but I think you'll learn actually nutrition, training, fatigue management, aspects, peaking without the drug massing and the complication of masking as well. Coming off the back end of that, you know you're gonna be suppressed in several different positive hormones. I think from a natural, that could be a very good starting point as well, versus what's the difference of like, we're gonna let these natural levels come back up through just normal processes and timing. Then we could start our first one. Might as well start it right out the gate there, low at a time when man, you'll leverage so much out of that gate. So if you're not competing, that's okay. Like Steve suggested, like do a cut phase, come off that. So you have a lot of runway to grow. But if you're competing, I'd say at least do your first show natural. And then if you decide, hey, move it from there, do a couple of shows natural and move up the needle. I wanted to like, just clarify a statement that you had mentioned, Kurt, because you said, you know, at 1400 nanogram per deciliter, like you won't leverage anabolic processes. I think we're talking about like, what might be within a reference range. And I don't think you disagree with what Dean had said, that it depends like physiological, normal exposure would depend on what that person's been used to, right? So moving that needle up beyond, maybe for that person, 1000 is like, man, they're a whole new man. While it wouldn't be the case, right? Correct. Well, medicine is based on averages, right? We can't tell her everything, but within that, that's what clinical practice should be. It should be based on standard of cares based on the individual. So again, let's say Dean comes to me, he could be hypogonal, but have no symptoms. You don't necessarily have to treat it unless there's obvious, right? Issues, you also, you see guys that have a 600 test that have horrible symptoms. It just depends on the person. And that's where seeing a real doctor helps over, sometimes some of these, you know, shady clinics or whatever. Or trying to, the other one I see nowadays is guys trying to diagnose and fix real medical problems themselves, right? They do everything on their own and they're trying to interpret blood work. Then they're trying to manage other health issues that come along, right? They got high blood pressure. Now they got kidney problems. Now they got all these things and they're buying all these drugs in the black market and they're trying to manage their entire health without, you know, their 20 year short of school to make that decision on how to fix those things. You know, playing nephrologist is not an easy job. No, you know. It's tough to say you're on user, right? Being like young, like myself, and I didn't have the money to run all of these tests and meet with doctors and have like say, a great clinic like Merrick Health to like manage my health markers. Essentially, yes, you have all those things, but I think that's part of the initial realization. Is that it's gonna be a costly endeavor and make sure you can at least afford. Yeah, and honestly, labs are so cheap now. Like I think probably all of us have some type of code we give out for lab work. We are, you know, adequately evaluating labs because I see a lot of guys will be like, hey, my labs are still good. Can I keep pushing? They're missing like most of the markers that you should probably have on there to check. You're like, yeah, that's not everything you need. And also lab work doesn't mean there's not still risk there. But I think, you know, having at least understanding like, hey, every 10 to 12 weeks, you should be pulling some serum lab work in your analysis. Like this is cost that you should probably be thinking about. Yeah. And if you don't- I put that into your cycle. And if you're young like John said, and you just don't know where to go right, and you don't have a doctor that you trust. I mean, all four of us, I don't know if you still do consultations, but the three of us at least do, and there's probably at least 10 other guys out there that I would trust interpreting blood work. There are resources now that weren't available when I was younger, right? And I get it, you're nervous to go to your GP, your family doctor, and be like, I'm on test in DECA, and I don't feel great. Yeah, when you're young, you're maybe a little bit short on finance. I mean, you're probably- No, I get it. But- Yeah, you're short on finance, but you're fat on time. So you can do a lot of research already, learn as you go along, but also ask your questions very direct. So you know exactly how to get those answers for 10 minute, 20 minute consultation. Because, you know, preparation into a consultation or even with a coach, I think that's half the work when you're young, you know, when you're short on money. Because then you can get it most out of a personal service. I think that's very valuable to bring back to blood work. Like blood work every three months, every month, you know, depending on the level of your bodybuilding. In person, I do it every month, and I've been doing that for many years. I did it every year since I was 15, because I just wanted to know. So I literally have graphs of my testosterone levels declining until I was 26 years old. I mean, my levels were 629 against per deciliter, so it's not terribly low, but you know, after 11 years of night bodybuilding, I wanted to see what one ampoule testosterone was going to do with me. And I gained 15 pounds in five weeks. And yeah, it was great. Yeah, I started dieting. Yeah, it was a lot of fun. A lot of gains. So, but a lot of guys, they don't really do that. But I think nowadays there's no real excuse anymore with the reef. I mean, all four of us are basically excellent resources of information. And I think if you just follow through for the first four years, five years, before you start your first cycle, you're close to as much of an expert you can be on testosterone, because in the time that you're not training and cooking meals and ordering supplements online, you can do some research on testosterone only, and you know exactly what to expect on your first cycle. Now, if you do a blood work a couple of times, I don't see a problem with running testosterone only for a year straight. Right? Maybe a sodium-grasm, ATG for testosterone function, maybe two years, but there will come a point in time where Pandora's box is now appealing, and then what we're gonna add. Yeah, wait, can I just- If I had a time machine, I would add growth hormone, but Kurt, I'm gonna add growth hormone. I was just gonna back up to address what John said about Dean's comment. So what we find in natural individuals, and it probably carries over to drug enhancements, when we're talking about what amount gets you over a certain serum level with your own biochemistry, what we found the best responders, the most naturally muscular people, don't necessarily the highest serum testosterone levels. They have the highest level of angiotemperceptors. So their AR density is naturally much higher than someone who's not gonna respond. And we see that even in guys that use drugs, right? I'm sure we've all worked with people who have you pushed the limits of the gear up a little bit, and nothing really occurs, right? That's generally an AR issue, or some other polymorphism or other gene, but it's not so much the serum, but we can't measure, I can't necessarily measure someone's angiotemperceptor density. That's not like a practical test you're doing on people all the time. So we go by serum level, but yeah, you're right. It just depends, it's an individual thing, not so much. I think when you start this first cycle, you absolutely should be seeing on a week to week basis the ability to increase load reps every single session, nearly across every single exercise. I think if you're not seeing that, then likely your dosing could be inadequate, or you still just really suck at programming your training and doing those things. So I think whether you're increased dosage, it should always be that questioning process and assessment. So if the dose is too high, like, hey, do you have all the following check, like adequate sleep, like you have a low stress, nutrition's on point, trainings, that adequate volume and effort, are you in a calorie surplus and gaining weight? Like if you're not gaining weight and you're not eating enough, well, yeah, the gear's probably not gonna be taking this full advantage and you're probably not seeing training performance increase. Now if you're doing all those things and training performance is still not increasing or slowing down, this might be the assessment point to you, it is time to increase the dosage. But before that, it's like, yeah, hey, what about health risk and markers? Like are those in check? Yes, or are it steps like within that risk profile? Okay, now we make decision, yes, it is time to push up the dosage and that's kind of where you might fall along the spectrum like Steve's bring up that I very well think you could run a testosterone only cycle for a year without having to adjust dosages back down and just have this continued slow escalation, using that assessment along the way, which absolutely I think holding dosages for at least eight weeks at a time would be very reasonable. For esters to your chimalate, you hold that peak dosage for a time, you look at labs, you make your next decision from there. And I do think a 20 to 30% increase, milligram-wise total per week is very reasonable to keep moving that needle. So this might be 70 milligram increase of testosterone at a time and of course that percentage would build upon so you keep leveraging the same amount of growth as you get more advanced. And by the end of a year of doing this, you very well get end up in the 500 milligram of testosterone point. You might not because you can tolerate, you reach this point of where you have to make a decision of, hey, this estrogen issues are becoming problematic. You could go the AI route and build testosterone up that way, or you might need to leverage some other type of compound and build up that way. Got a two decisions to go, but I think within that dosage profile for your first three week, you make tremendous gains and you wouldn't have rationale to really need to be pulling back the dosage and just really milk everything out. Yeah, I like to just set 500 milligrams up a year. A lot of people are going to be pissed. Which is what the Anabolic Ground Table is about, we're really the break hearts. I would hope to do that in 12 weeks and then I lose my gains and then I do a PCT and... Yeah, exactly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Breathe that, I let your nephisage up and then you end up looking exactly the same as you did at week zero. Dean, anything you would wanna contribute? No, I think we've touched on it quite a lot. And the reason and thing that we keep coming back to is training, is being able to train effectively and efficiently. And I think, I guess we were all lucky, we probably grew up in a period where there was no social media of confounding biases to training. We all understood DC, top set, backoff, second and annihilate yourself, which... Yeah, we've discussed now several times that we've probably leveraged antibiotics to overcome recovery issues from that type of training. But now we're falling into the pattern of single arm cable exercises of like nailing, execution there, where you're losing the focus on load, on tension, on technique. That... We're doing high level exercises to sculpt a physique which is already there, to build a physique that is still under development. So you're basically trying to ride a sports car when you're six years old. You have to ride a bicycle first. And like what we've discussed, about high volume approaches, reps and reserve. Most of us have been training way over 15 years that we're now getting to more nuanced ways of staying injury free more than trying to gain muscle tissue specifically. So even that training that John touched on, you touched on, before you even assess your next move on a bollocks, you need to be looking at your training and really having an honest assessment of your training intensity. Like you said, you could be training legs three times per week. Most people, I know if they train legs properly, you'd be lucky to get back into the gym after five days. So, you know, that real honest assessment of your training progress alongside your dosage increase and then food on top, that's quite often the missing puzzle piece. I'm eating correctly, I'm taking the gear, but then you're not training properly. So the physique isn't adapting to that training stimulus. I will say that purely based on social media, I think people take their training a lot more serious now because it's a bit of a badge of honor than we used to do back in the day because we couldn't share our training videos, right? So when I look at John, look at John train or myself or some of the other people that I follow in social media, everybody's training very deliberate. And that seems to occur at a much younger age as well because they get exposed to it. Now, does it qualify them to start cycling earlier? I'm not entirely sure, but that also seems to be the norm now where people don't start at 25 where their brain is fully developed, but maybe 23, 21, 18. Then again, I went to school with classmates who started their cycle at 16. So, you know, has it really changed? They went into their parents' deionable jar that they cut from Thailand, by the way. But that's a story for different subject. So advancing from the first cycle, right? We milk this testosterone only as long as we can. Within that first year, do we see a need to add in something like growth hormone or another anabolic androgenic steroid? Like what would be some key indicators for yourself or maybe the coach to say, hey, listen, you know, wait a minute, we're leveraging this testosterone, but what about, let's try to figure out what's behind door number two, maybe torinibol as an oral or anivar as an oral or growth hormone as an injectable, would be a suitable option. Because at one point you're going to have to diversify a little bit. Yeah, so I guess I'll answer. My thoughts are on that. Yeah, I think it's going back to you all. You have your assessment point of like losing your logbook as your diagnostic tool, right? And when this is starting to slow down, like what's the process from there? I do think you could leverage just the anabolic lever for quite a bit. And I think we have to consider the actual feasibility of what's going to be available for someone that maybe not have access to everything and cost-wise, because if I was to go back and I reached this bridge of like kind of this stalemate of 500 milligram, do I leverage more anabolic or do I bring in something like growth hormone? Man, I would be really keen on probably starting growth hormone earlier on as just the synergy that it creates with being able to partition more towards muscle, limiting fat getting in the offseason, doing your kind of phases, easier time holding tissue and fullness and dropping body fat with very low risk. I think that's what's the realization and to realize that your anabolics are create the most growth, but also at the greatest detriment to your health. So if you're able to mitigate that to a degree and work on synergies, it would be much in your favor for a long term of doing this. Like we mentioned, this could be 10, 15 years down the road when you're finally reaching like your all time peaks and competitiveness. So earlier on growth hormone utilization would be probably a first lever to pull, but the reality is that some people might not be able to have access to this or with the affording thing, it's growth hormone is more affordable than it's ever been. However, you have to be able to access that affordability. So you might be getting some UG growth hormone that's just total junk, even though you're not paying a lot of money for it. But I think that would be an initial starting point. So I'm with the two to three I use of growth hormone versus going up beyond 500 milligram. Would y'all utilize growth hormone first? Or would you keep pushing the anabolic lever? I would, if I had a time machine, I would put growth hormone for, which I actually did on my second cycle, I put growth hormone in, because that was the time of a GF4 or kick tropon becoming available on the GH15 form. That's around the time I did my first cycle. So I stocked up heavily during that time. It was pretty affordable. Got a good results. I grew, got another growth spurt out of it. But I think everybody's different. But like you said, growth hormone is very available now. And if you have a good coach with a good hookup, again, that's worth paying for, to have a guy that not only guides you regarding your PD usage, but also maybe is able to point you in the right direction or work to acquire high quality pharmaceuticals. Now, we can all agree that starting at 25 is probably ideal. But if you're younger, would a growth hormone secretagogue be more suitable than real growth hormone? Yeah, we're threading a little bit in the gray area now, because I think we all feel the same about growth hormone secretagogues. But would it be an option for younger, let's say you're super serious, right? You've been bodybuilding since 15 to 20 years old and your growth hormone output could still be leveraged by a growth hormone secretagogue. Would it be an option or are we putting these guys, or would we recommend? How old are we talking here? 20? I mean, realistically, you're probably making about three milligrams a day anyway, growth hormone. Is it MK-677 gonna make a difference there? Probably not. Might make you hungry. Yeah, that's true. That's the only problem with the growth hormone is that, I do agree, I think it has more value than anything else. I even put on part of testosterone. I think the problem is when a guy's super young, how much do they need to actually leverage it, where they're just not turning the pituitary off to either match it or get less, right, because we know that you're not gonna get a ton of growth out of something like 3I use, GH. And it becomes an affordability, like you said, like I would rather guys use GH long-term, it's not something that's used, like I'm out of the school thought where it's like a cycle thing. Like you go on GH, you're pretty much on GH. The guy of no intention of ever stopping using growth hormone at this point. So that would be a huge issue. We realize the benefits, especially at a little bit more higher dosages, why would you stop besides financial reasons? But hopefully by that time, you get your financial situation in order for you to afford a good amount of growth hormone. And again, a higher dose of growth hormone, it's been well studied. It seems to be a little bit safer than high-dose steroids. And if that allows you to keep your steroid dosage moderate, which again, like John said, it's going to skew your blood work parameters the most, it didn't cause heart enlargement and all that stuff. I think that's a more suitable route. So you'll have two compounds that you could probably run for the first three years, which makes it very unexciting. But honestly, if I had a time machine, that's what I would do. The first three years, I would just use the test in GH. That's it. That's all I use now. Yeah. Yeah. That might all be I ever use again. You had a great point, Steve, because I get the question too, where do you access this cheap growth hormone, John? It's like, well, yeah, let me just give this out, Willie Neely, right? But I think you have a good point, Steve, is like, well, how would you? And I was like, well, I would find a reputable coach and make friends with the gym that's in town, with all the big guys that train there, and then have my coach. And through that, people will help each other out. So I think that's your route to finding potential access to these things. And that might be a good way to go to clarify something that you brought up, Kurt, around. Because I don't want anyone out there to think like, if they are gonna use three, I use a growth hormone that that's a waste of time. No, I didn't mean to waste. Yeah, no, I didn't. And I know you didn't mean that. I think you're right. The aspects of growing probably come directly with higher dosing of growth hormone. But I would say the leveraging of the ability in that gained body fat, or a limited state, could come from that lower dosage, if, right? It is going beyond what your natural limitations were. And so that, I think it's indirectly your ability to drive food and partition it towards all these growth processes is where that benefit comes from even lower dosaging. To the point as well, up being with Steve is that if you are using testosterone in your young, that might have already in turn already leveraged a lot of the increases of GH and IGF-1 to testosterone working. Where you might not see that huge advantage if you're just replacing that high amount already for the same amount of growth hormone you're taking. So yeah, to that degree, if you are having to be using younger, which is your growth hormone, not be your best route. I would bring this up, because I don't know, I've had a hard question a lot. We know systemic IGF-1, it's not the best measure of actual response to what we really want is localized IGF-1. However, we don't really have a means to testing localized IGF-1 feasibly. However, even in like, in Kurt, maybe you can bring this up is that even with growth hormone deficiency in children and looking at growth, they still use systemic IGF-1 to an degree to see some type of response. And potentially there's a correlation if you're getting peripheral conversion. Hopefully there is some localized conversion as well occurring that you could test, hey, just like you did your natural testosterone level, you have your natural IGF-1 level. To get an idea if you're utilizing growth hormone is moving you up beyond what that natural level was versus it being lower. I don't know if y'all would agree to that, but I know the limitations around systemic IGF-1 that does not really entail like the response that you get from it. Well, with children, we use X-rays. So we'll actually measure bone growth from it. So we're not just looking at the serum IGF. Serum IGF is like you said, it measures IGF to an extent, but it's systemic. It's not necessarily going to your muscle because most likely it's bound at that point and it can't enter the cell. So, and again, I don't wanna go from the estrogen tender, but that's also the estrogen things that the guys are like, well, my IGF went really high, went up to my estrogen right high, yeah, because that's bound. So women don't need, women's physiology dictates that they don't need high IGF. That's why estrogen binds it because it's protecting them from it. Where men are different, we're supposed to have more intramuscular IGF. So, you know. Of course, we're not going to administer IGF-1, LR3 or Inc. collection our first cycle. Or within the first couple of years, that's more of an advanced exotic compound where we need maybe some localized side enhancement besides fallostatin or some of the sorts, side enhancement to really leverage our placing. But that's for later on. I think that's not really needed. So, if you can get a good IGF-1 response out of it, I'm sure it can be beneficial to kind of track, because again, IGF-1 levels stay elevated for 20 or 32 to 36 hours after growth hormone injections. So that will be similar to checking your total testosterone level, it's an indication of what's going on in your body. But in the end, it's the before and after pictures of what's really showing you where you're going, similar to height, velocity and kids. You're before and after pictures of your contours and how you're developing is basically showing you the effectiveness of everything you put in place and whether that's the training, nutrition, supplementation or the drugs, right? Putting everything together, that's basically where the progress is stemming from. Dean, anything you would like to add on, when additional compounds are going to be added? I think just budget, budget's to really, trying to convince someone to spend quite a bit of money on pharmaceutical GH, even a generic GH kit versus the cost of like a 10 mil underground vial of premaboline. You know, we're not even considering getting, you know, remaboline, pharmaceutical premaboline. You have all these costs on the table of, you've got your blood work, your supplements, your food, your gym, blah, blah. And they're saying to someone, okay, $200 at a cheat point for a good source of cheap pharma GH for 36 IU's. And then they're sort of looking, okay, well you want me to take four IU's, that's nine days, so now you're telling me I have to spend, you know, four or $600 per month on pharma GH on top of everything else. It can be, you know, yeah, long-term, it's a great benefit to the whole overall cycle design, but then they're looking at, you know, a $40 bottle of 10 mils of premaboline, but that looks like a cheaper alternative. So, you know, it comes down to budget, but I think, you know, all of us agree, even myself, including Heinz, I, you know, testing GH is a sort of affordability. If you can afford it, that's your next step, I think. Yeah, so let's say it's the second compound, right? If you're on 500 tests or even 750, what's that really costing you with an AI per month? $100? Yeah. $100? Like, one amp of testosterone is what, $45? Seven, if you're unlucky, it's not like remabolling where it's 36, and then you don't need one ampio per week, but maybe three or five. So you're spending significantly more, and then an oral of choice would be what, Teriniball or Anivar, Teriniball's pretty affordable. That is a good entry start. It would be a great on the tier list that Teriniball would be a great oral to start with. And then you use it one and done, and then you advance to Anivar, because hopefully during that time, you learn how to source a little bit more properly. So I think everything considering I would rather spend the money on GH, because up until this point, the bodybuilding was reasonably cheap. You know, the second you're not able to like, What work? You know, wasn't that crazy? John, go ahead, sorry. Yeah, if you're probably not getting your growth from going from a dollar to a dollar 50 per one IU, then you're probably getting charged a lot and you'd have great access. So if that wasn't the case, and you're paying double to triple that, you might leverage some different routes before going and revisiting the growth hormone piece. And I think that's a great point. It's the feasibility, right? Like what's your next compound selection? The reality of this and coaching is like, we can talk all day about what's optimal in paper. Like probably most would agree like, Premaball would be probably my second top steroid to utilize, absolutely. You can access farm grade premullan. Hey, this reduces risk in multiple fronts from a sterilization standpoint, from like an endogenic side standpoint. But how many people can access that or even afford it? Might be limited. So then you're left with what other compounds could you be utilizing? If I was younger, I probably would go the AI route and hire testosterone because you're paying what maybe 50 cents a day for like an AI versus like premaballan or what it may be. So maybe even less for your NASTRAs also. Probably would leverage those pathways. I think ideally I would probably, I like the idea of less complexity and maybe have your stop point for testosterone where you find this optimal estradiol sweet spot, whether it be with a little bit of AI present or without AI present, that you kind of go down the list of tiers of if it's not premaballan, what comes next? And gosh, really when you see in bodybuilding, there's like Mastra and Bouldinone and Nandrona. Like these are compounds that are kind of prevalently used and beyond that, there's not many more injectables used outside of Trinballone, but that's still yet to come for us or going down our journey of bodybuilding. And then you're kind of weighing pros and cons of like all four of these compounds. And what I want for a second compound is a milligram amount total to hit. And that's gonna be the most benign for my health. And we see like vast individual variability in what that does. Like I had people that say, premaballan was terrible in my lipids or Mastra and really hit my hair hard or Bouldinone gave me anxiety and high blood pressure or Nandrona just makes my gynoflora up. So which one of these four caused you the least benign health effects that you could fill in as a secondary compound? I think that would be the more optimal choice. I can't tell you all day on paper like what optimal would be. Or if I think a lot of people think I have some bias of Mastra, you know, like John just uses Mastra. It's like, well, no, like going down my pro con list, this fits well into me personally. Is that what I want to put on you? Well, no, I think as a beginner, you should probably rotate between all these on a solo basis with testosterone. So you understand which one gets the long best for you. Then that might be the one you leverage more along your path. Yeah, I agree. And of course the only real way of knowing what is going to work for you is by getting your hands dirty. You could do all the research you want, but the studies that have been performed on Nandrona regarding heart enlargement have not been performed on Mastron, Prima-Ballon, and Bolvano. And all the kidney studies that have been performed on Bolvano have not been performed on Mastron, Prima-Ballon, and Nandrona. And the cancer studies, again, on Prima-Ballon, Mastron have not been performed, well, Nandrona may be to a certain extent, but not on Bolvano. So you could do all the research you want, but the overlap between specific studies, especially this Bolvano and kidney toxicity issue, it's not being duplicated. So you can take that as a decision point, but switching to other compounds doesn't guarantee you that you're safe in that aspect simply because those studies have never been performed. Now, do we see tremendous kidney issues from Bolvano? Not really. Do we see tremendous heart issues from Nandrona? Not really. Unless health metrics are not addressed in the long term.  so I think experimenting with these kinds of compounds when you feel you're ready, maybe under the guidance of a coach or just doing copious amounts of research on J3 University and SN education and coach forum in my YouTube channel, all right, it's all there, so you can do the research you want and then make a decision for yourself. But most roads lead to test primo-annevar. I think we can agree on this. But yeah, if primo-annevar or growth hormone are not within your financial means, then maybe you need to go with test anadrolone and a heavy aromatazenibiter or test anbaldenone and no aromatazenibiter, right, or test a mastron. But mastron seems to be a little bit more expensive nowadays. But that could also be because, well, mastron and primo-annevar have been in the news a lot and then the price goes up. I think it's our fault, honestly. Very well, good point. Honestly, too. What did you see? What, I don't know if you guys see this, the impact of what we said at the beginning of the last video with the shortage. I don't know if you see that. I've seen quite the impact there. I've seen the impact, so yeah. You should buy stock and say the right thing and leverage our net worth. Yeah, so I bought stock in nolva Nordisk and Ellie Lilly when Lyriglutide and Seven Glutide came to market. And that has paid off quite well. Very good. So last week, or a month ago when we recorded the previous podcast, which went live a couple of days ago, we discussed a potential shortage come up from Chinese raws. And, well, if we're in touch with the raw providers or the middlemen, you would have gotten a message and say, hey, listen, we just podcasted and, of course, think big also discussed it in a couple other podcasts. We sold out. The other thing you see now, too, is people are gouging stuff. So the companies that make the glass bottles and the stoppers, the caps, have all doubled their prices. B.A. prices will be going up. B.B. prices will be going up. Everyone's going to try to make money on this now. Oh, my Bitcoin before it's too late. So basically the intermediate phase of trying to piece things together until you're ready to step on stage enhanced is trial and error. I guess because there's so many compounds we can choose from. And again, individual response kind of dictates what the best compound is going to be for you. And I've discussed these cycles with mini amateurs and mini pros, and it seems to be all over the place. Of course, nowadays we can kind of agree that trim blow needs to be kept low and that you can leverage the test primo or masteron a reasonably high. Instead of doing the rip mix, right, 300 tests, 300 masteron a 300 trend, those days seem to be over. I wasn't Breonna Ansley doing that. Well, that's besides the points. Coach is probably from back then too though, right? Yeah, back at, well, yeah. I don't know who is Chris from here. So that's the back of the day, the 300, 300 mix. So nowadays we come a little bit to the same conclusion. Just last one is a base, leverage your DHTs, and then keep your trend moderate to the point you don't get tremendous side effects, right? For glucocorticoid receptor innovation and prevent the catabolism, and you don't use any more than that so your sleep quality isn't impaired. Beyond that, beyond that basic compound selection, we've got an hour left so we're going to have to skip the queue a little bit. At one point we have to look into things like insulin and IGF-1, and maybe some niche peptide companies. Like at what point what you say those become applicable, or maybe we can briefly discuss this for every drug or every steroid real quick, like a rapid fire, when do we leverage drugs XYZ? Parts, please. You want to start with the start, like when would you leverage trend? Just start, yeah real quick. When we leverage trend, typically the only two times I would leverage it. Most common is pre-contest if it's needed. Lots of guys do shows now without it. So is it needed? No. Is it help? Sure. If you tolerate it, but like anything else, if you don't tolerate it, don't use it. Right? You might have to diet harder, you might have to watch your food, you might be doing more cardio. The only other time I would leverage it is in an offseason. If you've hit like a true plateau, it will put mass on you that you might not have gained through other compounds. Right? On a milligram basis it's stronger. It is a very strong anabolic. If it weren't, we would be using Primo for cows. And we unfortunately don't use Primo in cattle. You know, that would be the only other time I'd leverage it. Things like masteron outside of the current use where it can be substituted for, you know, premium bond, perhaps. masteron typically was a pre-contest drug. That was the only time we ever really saw it. Right? And even 15 years ago it was rare. So half the guys back then didn't even use it because they couldn't find it. I mean, like you said, those classic anabox, the EQ, the Nandrolone, the Primo, they're relatively interchangeable and you do have to experiment to see what feels the best to you. Some guys, you know, can't use some of them. You know, tests should always be used. GH, I think, is a basic as well. I mean, what are the orals? I typically would save orals outside of Vanadrol for pre-contest. Pretty much just windstroll, perhaps Anivar, Halo testing. I wouldn't be leveraging. I'm not a big oral and off-season guy. I don't think it's worth destroying your health, you know, to leverage because you're going to get there's nothing that Anivar does specifically that you couldn't get from Primo. Right? And we talked about this last video, the five unique, the five unique stories that don't have any that do basically everything are test, trend, Winnie, Anadrol and Dianable are the really the unique ones. All the others basically have some crossover effect that you can get from one of those. Right. So half of the orals were used for cosmetic benefits, not necessarily for your antibiotic potential. Yeah, I wouldn't use Anadrol. Yeah, besides Anadrol. But Anadrol fits into one of the unique ones, right? And it's generally more favorable than Dianable. I mean, and then things like insulin. I'm not a huge insulin proponent. I think if a guy needs it, if he's big enough that he's eating enough food and his pancreas can't keep up with that demand of his food, then sure, if you are 180 pounds, probably don't eat insulin. You know, if you're not eating 1000 grams of carbs, probably don't eat insulin, right? Get leaner. When you get most guys show lean, usually they pull the insulin out. I don't know what you've done, John, but when guys are stay lean or very or get very lean for show, most likely they're going hypo anyway. Yeah, they're insulin sensitive. You know, and the other stuff like the other peptides and stuff. I mean, outside, increlux, I would say is a very advanced drug. That's like you're like if they Arnold, you're at the Olympia, you're at that, you know, New York pro, you perhaps one of those guys in open, it's expensive. It's hard to cut, at least in the United States, it's hard to come by. And it's probably not going to be super beneficial to the average Jim Rath. Yeah, and the guy that sold it in the US, he's sold out. Yeah, so already. Yeah, exactly. So it's sorry. So if you want to fly to Thailand, they might be able to hook you up. Yeah, but I mean, for the average guy that's not competing in bodybuilding, if he can't grow on test and G8 or test and G1, Primo, like you said, revisit the training, revisit what you're eating. There's something else wrong or it's not the sport, right? If you have a poor genetic response to this stuff, maybe this isn't the road to go down. Maybe chess is a better idea. Yeah, you know, that's the unfortunate reality. Rapid fire of drugs, when to apply them? Yeah, I'm pretty much in agreement with Kurt. I mean, we've, I guess, upset a lot of people where our change in dynamic, even towards trend. And even what I've done personally, what we've discussed when I compete the last two times, where this whole 300, 400 milligrams of trend is no longer really warranted or required when you really look at what's the effect of dose of where we use it. And then the time length of exposure, we've completely changed that. Most of the time people are trying to train in at the very start of a cutting cycle or competition prep that, you know, we're now reserving it for like the last eight or even six weeks before a show, when you are really getting down into that, you know, sub 6%, 5% body fat to try and, you know, stave off catabolism or just add another small bump to toalandrogenic loads due to how strong it binds like Kurt said. So I think, like Kurt said, if we can't leverage off the basics, then, you know, you have to probably consider your choice of sport. And I think, depending on what phase you're in, whether it's, you know, offseason or pre-contest, it still keeps coming back to the basics of, you know, recovery, nutrition, training, sleep. The drugs are just there to facilitate those overall anabolic processes and recovery that when you really look at it, it's not like a magician's hat anymore of, you know, a special coach knows how to get someone in shape for the stage. It's just simple dose adjustments that person's biochemistry and, again, going back to those boring basics of sleep, nutrition, recovery from training. And willingness to get shredded because that's getting more rare also. I mean, there's more people in the sport than ever using drugs and less people in actual shape. I mean, when I was at the Olympia, I was at seventh row and John walks out and I was excited because John was in shape. That's not really if you pay $1500 for a gold VIP ticket, you want to see some guys in shape. And when the top three walks out and there's a little bit off, right? And then Martin Fitzwater walks out and he's like, yes, this is bodybuilding. And John walks out, this is bodybuilding. But even at the highest level, it seems to be more rare than the norm, where absolutely phenomenal dice to the soft physique that are fully peaked. I mean, we had you and Martin basically, you know, not throwing any shade at the Mr. Olympia this year. But I think the top three could have been significantly better. And that's why I felt John was so much overlooked, which we talked about when you walked off stage. You know, and when you go down the armature ranks, how many guys are really in shape? You know, we have all the drug education in the world and all the drugs available in the world, but the ability to push to that shredded state, it seems to be more rare, rare, rare nowadays. There's a lot of mental stuff there. Yeah, as you see, like from a coach, as one of you, a lot of people can't push to that place. Right? You really have to go to a dark place to get in that shape. John, like I've seen John in the offseason, John is always in shape. Like when I say Arnold, like you're always rock around looking fantastic. You know, but that's also part of it. If you stay in shape year round, it's much easier to peak. True. Nothing to the biggest mistakes made for guys not getting in shape is an improper prep timeline and the inability to manage fatigue to actually get down to the body fat level that you have to require. Because a lot of people, what the first issue is, they didn't prep for long enough. The second issue comes into play when they're a few weeks out, they're like, Oh, shit, I still have like 10 pounds to pull off. And then they push down. However, now that they're at like lower body fat levels, they can't manage that fatigue level and training for when it starts dipping down. They have just become kind of a smaller version of themselves and not having the time to pull off the last bit of body fat. One should actually slow down the deficit in those phases. So these are the number two mistakes. And they're still made in high level bodybuilding. And like you said, Steve, it is shocking when you stand amongst open pros at the Olympia and you look, you're like, man, this guy barely has some glute lines in. And it's not just a glute line show anymore, right? You have to have the full physique, right? So, of course, like the top three, absolutely, these are phenolphozoics, they deserve to be there. But along this way, it's just, it's always going back to our point we keep bringing up and like mastering nutrition, training in the assessment point of improving your process. And I think when you have too much drugs going in, it really murkies your assessment, especially in contest prep. When I used to, I was taught that like at certain time intervals, certain drugs go in. So like 10 weeks out, you put Trin in six weeks out, windstraw goes in at three weeks out, hella testing goes in, you're like, well, why? And then you're like, oh, because it hardens you up. You're like, is there more to that? So I think where I differ and people have kind of come out of this idea is that in contest prep is actually my milligram totals are lower from a steroid perspective. Reason being is I think it's a lot easier to maintain muscle than it is to build it. And so on a percentage wise, I'm maybe 30% less total peak dosing in my contest prep. But this is from someone that knows how to manage that fatigue aspect and training. And where I think these other protocols come in, we're like, no, I use way more drugs on prep is because you're having to make up for poor training and fatigue management and nutrition with more drugs to uphold that training. So in turn, you wind up using more drugs and prep that you did in the offseason. If you're finding yourself doing that, you might want to reinvestigate your training and nutrition approaches, because you might be leaving aspects on the table to retain that tissue. So the other thing around my statement around using less steroid on prep is that there is a different type of steroid being utilized that could potentially drive other processes of being anti catabolic like trend balloon, however more toxic, right? So there's kind of a tradeoff here and your milligram total might go down, but your risk profile might increase slightly. But on this way down to your prep and your fat loss phases, it's still assessment along the way of like, remember, what does a steroid do? And as its basic level, it's to build muscle, retain tissue, simple as that, which indirectly we could look at your logbook. If you're upholding training performance on prep, you should in turn be holding muscle tissue relatively well. And I think that can drive kind of your dosage decisions. So if you're prepping along and training forces driving down and you don't have the ability to increase recovery capacity through maybe modifying your training volume or increasing sleep and things, then that might be the time where you need to add in some type of compound to drag up the milligram total. And as you get closer to show, you might need something that is fast-reacting. Trim balloon acetate, but at a low dosage could do. My own Olympia prep, I was hard as nails. Steve confirmed. Yes, use Trin. I didn't use Trin and I didn't have an oral start. Broken hearts left and right. Yeah, you're not the only one who did a Trin balloon prep, a free prep this year. Like Roman Fritz last year, when he was, I also didn't use Trin when he was at the Mr. Olympia stage. So a lot of people, again, will be having their hearts broken. But when you're truly in shape, you don't need so much of these drugs. And food's coming up. Yeah, I'll add to that real quick. The guys that increase their dosages are usually doing that because they're not ending up in shape on stage. So they're training too hard, they're maybe too watery, too fat, overcompensating with higher dosages to get this cosmetic change that you would also get by dropping your body fat levels 2% more. Because again, in the end, you get some, you get great cosmetic effects from something like windstroll and halo testing at the end, but you probably don't need to leverage those that hard if you're truly in shape. You do have to ask the question of like for the aesthetic effect, because I think this creates some mysticism around all these oral steroids that each one is a different flavor of Skittle, and they're all going to have a different taste and do something different in the body. When in reality, we're still looking at a steroid working on the antireceptor as its main mechanism of action, primarily for what we want from bodybuilding. So I'd have to ask the question of you, if you're putting in this oral with this magical way of like this one's going to thin my skin and make me hard as nails of how does it do that? And is steroid the greatest tool to create the hard look? And it's either leveraging what it has to be, losing body fat or manipulating water. Those are the only ways you're going to get a harder look. Maybe you get a little fuller muscle push against the skin, but I think you can leverage that all through carbohydrates in your diet. So are steroids the best tool to lose body fat? Probably not. Are they the best tool to manipulate water? Well, if you adjust your dosages, you could probably do plenty of that on its own. So where I stand as far as oral usage and prep is I think just like how we talked about rotating injectables and finding what gets the long best for you, is you're able to do the same thing with these orals that we did mention like Antivara, Hyalotestin, Winstraw, and that you maybe try each one for a peak. Deeming the need for muscle retention is present because I think that's where oral shine is when you see quick drops in training performance, they're great at bringing up training performance and upholding tissue. When you don't have time for your injectables and esters to accumulate like you would in far other weeks out from the show, you can add that in. I think that's where you leverage worlds. As far as all of a sudden, this is going to make me harder. I have the stronger belief that that's not the case and that still comes down to your timeline and mangy body fat. Now, maybe it does leverage some age to indestion ratios and you see a little bit of water shift, but I've done preps one year where I rotated each oral every time and the only thing that dictated when I was conditioned on stage and looked hard was my body fat level. I would be more inclined to say, hey, rotate through these and see if you maybe noticed some effect like that, but it'd be more so based on the decision process of assessing when you're seeing training performance decline and just know that you don't have to use an oral either. If training performance is solid, you're in shape and now you're raising food up. When food goes up, muscle retention is going to be even easier. You don't need more drug during that time. I think that's how you can also leverage doing multiple shows back to back as having ebbs and flows of drugs coming up and down and a lot of it's going to be based around leveraging food increases when you are in shape. This is obviously at the highest level we have like a decade worth of experience. It will be very hard to translate to an amateur competing, trying to make his way up the ranks because this is something you've been incorporating for maybe the last three, four years since you moved from 212 to open or before that time as well? 212 give me a lot of opportunity just to because I'm basically in maintenance mode for a long time to kind of hold similar dosaging or lower it because I just get better at the bodybuilding process and so I get more out of less because my training is improved and whatnot, but then also the opportunity to rotate just individual variables with drugs and seeing the responses to see like does the bro-lure hold weight as far as what this drug is evidently supposed to be doing. So yeah, yeah, across the span I've been competing for 12 years but actually mindfully competing probably the past six years. So you've been leveraging list dosages as you got better at the bodybuilding process to put it to a degree through 212 but then to move up you absolutely had to push dosages because I've already leveraged all the variables right so the only card left to play is moving total dosage level up and so these past little over a year now was making that same thing that I've done 30% increases in total anabolic load is enough to keep driving that process at a similar rate that I want to achieve stage weight from the previous year and so that's where I lie. So back to you I guess our conversation of on our journey here to evidently the highest muscular freak status or being amongst the just amateur ranks forever is where do you find yourself dosage wise and it's going to vary tremendously but again if you stick to this assessment process and as you need it 30% increases a lot of times I think from a gram to two gram could get a guy very very far on a per week basis I think you're going to find a lot of top pros are falling and the two gram mark with some edging towards the three gram mark per week at different phases throughout their season and what that drug composition made up is going to be already the compounds that we already mentioned based on their individual responses. Beyond that yeah beyond the three gram mark is I think where you get to the the anomalies and the rare cases and at that point you're going to have to really make deciding factors like we mentioned earlier if this is really the right place for you if you're still in the amateur ranks and you're like already pushing three grams and you're like man I've leveraged all variables like what's left it's like there's nothing left but more drugs but more drugs equals more risk and is this really worth it at this point maybe you should take up some other hobby like basket weaving or crochet or I don't know but then to move beyond that that's where I would really question you've been doing so based on like all the open guys that I know and the dosages that they run are shockingly most below three grams do not think that you should be taking it there if you haven't reached the amateur ranks like this would be a be a problem so I'd say in in five years of steroid usage you're gonna have a you're gonna have a pretty quick realization of where you lie genetic wise in the proclivity to progress in the ranks and from that five-year assessment point I think there should be a decision probably made if it's worth continuing to push forward or moving to more like lifestyle enhanced usage if that's your decision from my personal decision I wouldn't I'm not a proponent of using much gear unless you decide to compete so I don't see the risks is worth it let's speak but anyway back to you Steve so I want to while we're on the topic I want to ask the most cheeky question ever where did you end up for the mr. Olympia and how far was that off from your peak dosages maybe in the past because obviously at one point or another you went up you know try to do a heavy cycle yourself I will go through this process so spill the beans please sure happily do so on my on the j3 forum like I lay it all out there's nothing that I don't talk about with uh with past off seasons I've run heavier stuff like I worked with Jansen earlier on in my career I couldn't tell you what the what the peak dosages were back then to even have to trace down my cycles but they were a vast escalation from what I had previously done and I had a lot of growth that happened in a short period of time now back to when I actually had like more meticulous tracking and assessment of like my needs um 2021 I died in like all year and basically lost my soul eventually to where I'm like all right I'm going to take a year off and grow and that dosage to like move that needle up to max out the 212 I was at 2,300 milligram total per week in the offseason that that took me from being on stage when I was eventually like 205 that year at 2 at 212 at the Olympia to circle back to my last 212 show I was ready at 218 so substantial progress and I had barely can make weight and so that was at that dosage then I did my open show and I just threw food and leveraging growth hormone a lot is what I had never pushed the late the mark for I was all around 5 IU so I moved that to 8 IU I got on stage at 221 222 in eight weeks later yeah now my next offseason year I assessed the previous I know I ran 2,300 milligram however I'm moving to the open I want a similar rate of progress for what I know I need I moved very close it was right under 3 grams per week in 8 IU's of growth hormone and that this past year is what I got on stage at the Olympia was right around 233 so at a pretty advanced level of training able to put on 10 11 pounds of stage weight at that dosage level was a fast escalation now what I would say if I got to a muscular level that's hey I'm very competitive I don't need to run that in the offseason anymore but there's going to be a time when you're going to need to push to put on that tissue and then these pros that you see that talk about man I don't run a lot of gear it's like they're already freaking huge like of course you don't need to anymore I absolutely could drop way back down in my offseason phases and then now I'm saying yeah I run low dosages and look how huge I am well what caused you to get there to begin with and you'll have to push it so it's the same with anything when you know when new guys ask they go to most a guy like you in the gym and they're like what do you what do you do what what how much food are you eating how are you training it's that's not the right question it's how you got there not what you're doing now yeah now I do the pinky dumbbell cable I only take 500 makes a test and I'm huge well that's with bums that right people were people didn't believe that bums that was using 500 milligrams of test and soft season he was already in his wake up with a classic he didn't need more more drugs are going to do right he's going to hold it you know if that's what he was using who knows no and it's it's of course difficult to you know convey to the audience um when all they want to know is what you're doing now to look like that but you might have done crazy stuff in the past or considerably crazier stuff and what maybe put you in a you know precarious health situation and then you realize you know what it's not really worth it to have look at my labs and cringe for the same amount of muscle mass that I can maintain for half the dose last question for john if you were to leverage the growth hormone to 18 i use per day what do you think your steroid dose just would be because if you only went up to eight i use but you double that would you be able to have your steroid dose i have i have played with moving up a little higher and at 10 i use is kind of my limitation point where i feel diminishing returns and so what i would preface this by saying is that if any pd design is impeding your ability to sleep eat or train then that's not the aid that you want from these drugs and for me like moving growth from up cause more like sleep discrepancy actually because it can aid sleep the same time it can impede it too um it could hurt i would need more like c-pap aid um and then yeah because you're really getting more fluid to you you're just a bigger body weight and you're not really getting any new muscle tissue for the and one thing to consider is even digestion i think we brought up training the offseason like that's another great point or orals in the offseason where maybe it creates this much more tissue but at the detriment of you not being able to eat and sleep is not worth that trade off at all like you won't grow more doing so so for me like that was kind of like a cutoff point where i don't i don't see enough progress worth the diminishing returns i've even had some guys in the offseason running the higher dosaging of growth hormone and if you look in growth hormone deficiency and replacement and there's there's a cool study where they look at some interactions with leptin and grayland and it actually can lower grayland in in an active with leptin despite changes in in uh body fat so it actually can decrease hunger signaling and grayland aids and gastric motility so i've had guys they're like man i'm so bloated and they miss their growth from days and like man i can finally eat it's like well is it worth taking growth from one of these causing your ability not to eat it's like ah no it should be adjusting dosages based around that so should i uh to 18 i use i think the diminishing returns could very well potentially be there um to your point steve as well what i'd like to add on is the same thing goes with um offseason compound selection and what is deemed a mass drug or a cutting drug uh which i think a lot of people might say man nangeloin caused me to grow way more than primaval and i'd say like i challenge that we're like well how much did you keep once you remove the nangeloin of actual contractile tissue we're looking at these drugs you actually build like actual contractile tissue not just increase water acutely and that acute increase in water now you have to manage blood pressure more now you're at a higher body weight and potentially the higher body weight aspect is more detrimental to health across the board to maintain that with discrepancies in sleep too so we could leverage a drug stack design that makes you just retain a little less water and maybe you're more accurate in assessing if you're gaining body fat versus water versus muscle that would probably be an easier way to assess from a coaching perspective and and have better results long term that way so again circling back your pee design should be aiding your sleep training nutrition it's taken away from that restructure the drugs Dean you've been awfully quiet please yeah no i no i've been listening very intently um you know i agree absolutely everything that we've said and i don't want to keep banging on about you know mitochondrion oxidative stress this is going to be a whole new level to coaching setup or even dieting where we start to actually go back to basic biochemistry of why guys don't get in shape in the first place i really have that bias where they look at fullness so oh i'm getting a little flat here so i need a refeed let's chuck in some insulin to add some more carbohydrates you know the the mentality of being able to drive down to that low body fat like we've covered here it's like and Kurt said it's a mental approach you know i could never ever step on stage where i didn't consider myself in condition let alone my wife let me get on stage my wife would turn and tell me you're still fat you know so you and i guess we're in that i guess buttercup phase where people are being told oh you look amazing but we know in reality they've probably gone about 20  alfalfalpounds, to lose, to be truly conditioned on stage. And I guess it's sort of easy now, if you can turn up in shape on stage these days, you get rewarded, because the guys beside you still look eight or 10 weeks out. So, looking back at how you approach losing body fat then and that sort of dieting phase and the association that everyone has got with certain compounds, at the end of the day, we've just seen dosages escalate with poor recovery. And we're just coming back to a very basic thing again. Of, you know, and I've covered it myself for being guilty of the log book, of just annihilating the log book on prep, all means. But when you really look at rep execution and quality of rep execution, you're just gonna move and, you know, wait from point A to B without any focus on actual tension on the muscle or actual engagement of what you're trying to retain. It's, oh, the leg press on my log book says 500 kilos, so I need to lift 500 kilos. When you could have probably maintained the tissue with 250 kilos, both correct tempo, which was what built the tissue originally, not the actual weight you were lifting. So, I think, you know, we've covered some really good things there that doesn't really matter amateur to pro level, still comes back to execution in the gym, nutrition, and then finding the right compounds there. Suit you both physically and mentally, because no amount, you know, telling someone 300 milligrams, 600 milligrams a train is the sweet spot on prep, and they're going around like a cycle that you can't sleep properly. Just because that was the ways of the past and what we've sort of come to see that even 10 milligrams on training days could be just enough to give you that sweet spot, which you'll recovery without driving that oxalate of stress. I think that's a great point, Dean, around old school things that have just keep coming up, and where they just get, you know, perturbated is, you know, from old school thought that doesn't change, but where I see, and just moving a little bit if it's okay from the drug conversation, because I think there is a additional health aspect that can be considered, and why I bring it up and people are like, oh man, health, like, I just want to get freaking huge. It's like, well, this is how you get huge, is because when we talk about 15 years of anabolic usage, to see that out, you're going to have to stay healthy, and a lot of what matters too is we see some guys that have very good resiliency to side effects, and to get into these dosage aspects that you might need to, if you're more resilient and have a focus on health, you're going to be able to stay in those phases longer when you, if you need to, to see out that progress, and where I see a lot of things left on the table is even nutrition-wise, where the typical dogmatic approach of we eat chicken rice, and that's it, just chicken rice or beef and rice, and we rotate those meals and eat six of those a day, and that's your approach when I think the basics of where antibiotics have their problems is inflammation, oxidative stress, to just systemic organs, and I think your first defense around this for one, probably sleep, and secondarily, or right at it would be your nutrition approach and trying to bring in fruits and veggies, and that's so basic, like before you even take a supplement, like, oh, it's cool, take an antioxidant supplement, it's like, man, you have one that you can just eat, and so I usually recommend, hey, a thousand grams of total fruits and veggies for the day, and there was actually a really cool study that I was reading on earlier in the week, it was a Mediterranean diet comparatively to a green Mediterranean diet, which a green Mediterranean diet is one that's higher in polyphenols, so they used something called duckweed, which I don't think they've given the states, it's high in a specific polyphenol, walnuts, and then also green tea, and this group, same weight loss, but they had double the visceral fat gain loss, having this higher polyphenol content in diet, so bodybuilders like lightbulbs should be going off, like some of the biggest risks that we have is basically as a bodybuilder looking like a lean person with metabolic syndrome, you know, and so if you can mitigate some of these effects, just the nutrition kind of. Sorry, I'm trying to imagine, I know exactly what it looks like, yeah, but this is very common. Yeah, like, so if we can implement it, like, I drink green tea every day, don't worry, like the anti-estronaric, you know, aspects about it, like you won't be losing gains or anything, having some green tea, but I think just having a diverse amount of fruits and veggies potentially would probably leverage some like dark green veggies, like spinach, or like high nitrates. I drink beetroot powder, pre-training, like 30 grams. 30? Yeah, yeah, so it can, yeah, some like maybe some aspects around training benefits, but also to leverage like increases in nitric oxide. You could supplement garlic, I think, Dean, you're gonna be the supplement wizard here, but I think garlic, if you looked across the board, the benefits from like a coagulation standpoint, blood pressure aspects, and lipids, it's a pretty solid one. Eat some garlic, close a day, very simple. Have walnuts, have berries. I think pomegranate juice is a great one, if you need to get in some extra calories, and want to leverage the other like polyphenols and potential nitrates that can be present in those. And the last one that I kind of like to have in is like cocoa powder. I think cocoa flavonoids have awesome aspects around health. So all these things you could have in your diet, without having to even take a supplement yet, and create like a ton of micronutrient and antioxidant and anti-inflammatory defense, against all the steroid usage that you're using. Yeah, I mean, even I was just gonna say, John, church is on something beautiful, as simple as nutrition, because aside from all the fancy training setups, and techniques, wherever else, we're battling against, if it fits your macros in a prep setting, of trying to keep somebody's nice, ultra-processed foods, which could be contributing on top of your steroid load towards oxidative stress, that having immaculate nutrition, both offseason and pre-contest, there shouldn't be just, oh, contest comes around, time for veggies and fruits, and whatever else. There has to be this commitment, even Steve goes on about that, you're married to this lifestyle, of eating these foods year-round, rather than flip-flopping between phases. Yeah, yeah, but I think not everybody's willing to track their micronutrient intake. I mean, and doing it since I was 15 years old, just scrolling through the books about nutrition, and not only writing down the carbohydrates, and the fibers, and the fats, and the carbs, or the protein, but also going through the amino acids, and the electrolytes, and the vitamins, not everybody's willing to do that, but I think it can be really a game changer regarding your digestion, and also covering just the micronutrient requirements that you have, which definitely go up as you become bigger than average. Your B vitamin requirement, your vitamin D3, all these little things they contribute, and I think if you start tracking that based on your just regular diet, and then fulfilling particular micronutrient deficiencies with foods before you start supplementing, can do your world of good. But again, that's a whole other level of dedication. What do you use to track your macros, Steve? So you go to the USDA database, and then you have all the foods, so I converted that to an Excel sheet, because I found that all these trackers are not sufficient. So I did this 15 years ago, where I just copied everything. Yeah, and then I found the soluble, the insoluble fibers and the creatine content, and particularly, so I have a whole diet sheet that's maybe 50 columns long, and for each food source that I consume frequently, and then I would use that for the diet sheets of my clients. Yeah, but it took a long time to put that together. That's a process. Like, I personally still use chronometer. I think out of all the trackers, that's the one that I have found, for someone who, I'm sure they could pay Steve to help him with access, his tremendous Excel sheet. I think out of my fitness pal or some of the other ones, it's a little bit better. I notice his many discrepancies, but I think that's an excellent starting point to say, look at foods first, to fill in the diet, because I think what's a quote unquote good diet, it's probably one that is meeting all of your micronutrient requirements as well, and doing that through food first, and then where those gaps are, and you see gaps within discrepancies in your labs, that's where you fill in supplementation pieces, which it might be vitamin D, it might be some mix from magnesium, maybe zinc, but through foods you can do a lot. So yeah, now I agree. And for all the guys that worked office or are going to complain about meal prep, I worked office for seven years, being a financial business consultant, and I prepped all my own meals, and I brought them with me to the dismay of my colleagues, because I had to watch me eat multiple times per day, but I still got it done. So there's no excuse, honestly, and otherwise, I find somebody to do it for you, find a loving caring partner who can cook for you over the weekend. I tell like, as a general easy application of buy, go to the grocery store and buy two frozen bags of veggie medley. That way in each one, you're going to get like four different veggies, and then two bags of a frozen fruit medley. That way throughout the day, you can easily get like six to eight different fruits and veggies. You don't have to worry about them going bad. Typically they're also cheaper because you're not buying fresh, and sometimes even at higher nutrient content because of the seasons, that might be limiting your fresh produce. So easy way to get these in, and the meal prep's so easy. Throw it in a Ziploc and just take it with you. It thaws out and you eat it at work, whatever. That's easy. So all you have to do is cook your chicken and your beef and your salmon. If you have an air fryer or two running at the same time, you could, you know, or do it like what the Stein-Efforting vertical diets kind of plan to put everything in the rice cooker. You'll be surprised how many meals you can prepare for that day fresh in very little time. We're talking about 10 minutes, 15 minutes of meal prep for the day, which I think everybody has time for. I know guys that take longer to inject their cycle every morning. They spend 30 minutes on all their peptides. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All that castor oil takes forever from the primo. So yeah, I think it's a no-brainer for me. But again, a lot of people struggle with the nutrition, even at the highest level, because when you see, you know, when you see that the pros, they go through their day of eating and you look at it, it's almost cringe-worthy. And what they're doing with the fruit loops and the blended rice crisps, like fuck dude, what are you doing? Yeah, I mean, at some point, like I do have some guys, I have one guy that's on 1,100 grams of carbs per day in the offseason, which at this level, you have to have maybe some more content, like carbohydrate, fat sources. But as a percentage basis, like, I guarantee it's still aligned with like, our normal recommendations around less than 10% added sugars to a total diet. But when your whole diet's consisting of like, processed added sugars, and that's a big, you know, what constitutes your carbon intake, I don't think it's really needed. There's not something special around leveraging a big insulin spike around training that we know of. So for our goals. Yeah, you can get very far with rice flour. Just what I've noticed, you can get up to 1,000 grams of carbs in it, digest pretty well. That's what I do in the offseason in the past when I was eating so much carbs. We got about 20 minutes left. I wanna go over a list of things that are not needed. I mean, we kind of laid a pathway of people to think about, about the nutrition training and the PD, and the decision of the PDs. But there's a lot of compounds out there, and trust me, I've used many of them. I am, you know, have the biggest YouTube channel about these experimental compounds after all. But I think at the pro level, from the audience perspective, certain compounds are romanticized, and they think that the pros make it also all of them to get into that phenomenal shape. So things like D and P. Aidepultide, site enhancement, is that really required at the highest level? I think not. Not at all. I hope not. I hope not. No, no. It's, you're gonna see those things at the lower levels before you see at the highest level. And because most of these guys, the genetic proclivity to just advancing and responding to training nutrition drugs is on another level. And so you're not gonna see these guys trying to leverage these, you know, mystic compounds or research-based drugs because they wouldn't even need to. And I don't think they add to the basics of what they're doing because the basics are still what drive the ship forward to the largest degree. So like in a fat loss phase, D and P know it creates such a mess in a prep scenario from assessing and then also managing fatigue. That it's, I see it as more of a judgment to utilize. And also like the lethal dosing versus the effective dosing is really close. And I would hate for this sourcing to get off a little bit to where you run into problems and you might have your untimely demise using D and P. So D and P would be off the list. So there's three coaches who are now out of job. Man, too bad. Not David getting names. Adipotides, have you ever heard of this? I have heard of that one. And again, it's another one that we have just limited human data on over long-term safety, right? So it's an experimental aspect. Of course, we are a big experiment in our own selves. And I think there's a lot of drugs that are on paper that have potential that we're like, man, this could be better than some alternatives. But again, if we don't have that long-term track of safety records, I don't see it needing to be leveraged still. And just when you look at the biology of it, it creates apoptosis of the fat cells, which I would be very hesitant to use if it goes systemic. And I see people talk about it on Instagram and YouTube, like it's the next best thing that it creates localized fat loss. But again, if that goes into your kidneys or your heart, I mean, you're literally just damaging the tissue there, and using such a compound, just understanding the basic human biology, it's something I would avoid all entirely myself. Yeah, people seem to be quite high on it, unfortunately. But I guess I wouldn't assume that that's being used at the highest level. I don't know anyone that's using it. And I feel like that goes the same for a lot of these peptides, or even just research chemicals that are out there. Like, man, you're, and it probably aligns with like head, these top guys, it's who they're getting coached by, are a lot of the main head gurus, are kind of old school guys that aren't on the up and up on upcoming research drugs, or ones that are of interest. And I think there are some that are very interesting. But again, you just don't see a lot of that utilized in the higher level. But I think if you're gonna investigate something like this, is I would probably not want to be the first one to implement it and let others do it. And then if it is deemed to be reasonably safe and aligned with your physique goals, and maybe that is something to implement, but I wouldn't want to be the first ones to take on these new research drugs. So it's me and Dean, it's too late for us, Dean. Well, you did introduce something new. So Dean introduced a stack for mitochondrial health. Did you take it away? Yeah. That's actually being used at the highest level because I know they were all calling me at in between shows. Like, Steve, this really works. So Dean, please inform. No, well, a memory just come up on my phone from Instagram last year. So I'm taking SLUPP 332 now 12 months. So probably the longest running human experiment of it, which from blood work has shown no detriments. And I keep saying, that's how to say something negative is gonna happen in the future. But I think 12 months in, I can probably vouch for my own health that nothing has been observed other than positives. I mean, Steve saw me last week when we train. I'm still very, very lean post-show despite eating 4,000 calories most training days. So it's one compound I think will soon see move into human clinical trial, I think, based on the animal studies and the anecdotal experimental research that these compounds are gonna be probably licensed. They're gonna try and start moving these into human trial. And we had SLUPP 332, the Medline Blue, I guess a MOTC, the mitochondrial efficiency stack. If I could duplicate how my prep went this year when I come out of retirement, people would be snapping this up. Yeah, they do. I can see what the uphiliate sales, it's one of the biggest sellers right now. Just to play devil's advocate to myself and when we're looking at, hey, if you're only gonna use drugs that have been approved for human usage, that the current era that we're in, it takes, I would say, a lot more for some of these drugs to move through versus DMP was utilized clinically. In the 1920s, it's like, so does it make that okay? But even though that was approved at some point for usage versus some of these other drugs that there sees a lot of pre-clinical trial data on that very well could carry over and be safe for humans and have application, it's just that the era just doesn't lend itself to letting easy things come through that very well could be beneficial. My other devil's advocate thing approach to is, also from a coaching and assessment point of view, I think it's important to try to keep it as many variables as low and limited as possible so you can clearly understand what's happening. So like, Dean, if you add in, methylene blue and motse and SLUPP332 and three things all at once, and then you're on PrEP, and maybe you became a better bodybuilder. Maybe it was just that you're able to manage your fatigue better in PrEP and you're like, oh no, no, it was my three drug combo cocktail that gave me the best PrEP ever. If you're adding all these things in at once, sometimes it's hard to have the assessment of what's working and what's not and what to leave on the table, right? And so you end up getting my best PrEP ever, and I needed like 10 drugs to do this, but now you don't really know which one was really effective. So I would be the scientist in your approach moving through if you are going to be experimenting with one of these things, adding in one and holding variables constant so you can really understand what that effect is. Oh no, that's what I did do. I added one thing at a time from the offseason and then moved into PrEP, the final sort of piece of the puzzle was metal in blue, but like that, I added in SLUPP 332 by itself in a muscle building phase earlier this year. And then the next part, obviously prior to that was MOTC when I was doing like gut cleaning and stuff from the celiac. So yeah, it would have been MOTC first, nothing else. Then the next layer was SLUPP 332 last December into March with a muscle building phase. And then metal in blue went in around May when I decided to PrEP. And I was just seeing the change. And obviously, yeah, fatigue management and being a more experienced person towards fatigue management. But I think that still wouldn't explain when you line up how the PrEP went in terms of calories, in terms of fatigue management, mental clarity, everything else, competing back to back. I mean, I competed shows one week after the next. I'm still banking on those three things being the trifecta that changed PrEP because when it came to like even drug load with PrEP, it was a quarter of two years previous. And Dean, just to piggyback on that, I definitely wasn't saying that you're not the science-minded one to apply this. Because to hear Dean explain, I think for the listeners was important because Dean does track his variables very precisely to where he understands when each thing's going in what is occurring. And not to just say, oh yeah, Dean took all three. Let me take all three. But if you're like, Dean, you're gonna understand these applications and be able to pull out. Like, oh no, I really think this did merit weight. And so I think thank you, Dean, for clarifying that because I think it does give listeners the chance to understand how these things might be implementing when you're at a higher level of execution where you might be trying to leverage some more acute things. Yeah, of course. I mean, I know I was gonna say, Yeah, go ahead, sorry. No, I was gonna say like that's exactly it. And I mean, it was just when obviously we're competing and then being on the podcast, Steve, and even just my mental clarity of, what's the secret going on here? You've got shredded glutes, but you're sharp as a knife mentally. That it's just uncommon where someone is like, yeah, I'm gonna compete in three days. I'm getting on stage in three days with basically no, I guess, mental loads or physical load of prep. And that was, I guess, when I came back to how I viewed this year's approach to getting back on stage was optimizing the mitochondria both from a physical and mental standpoint. And then metabolically, I mean, I guess most people would kill to do a prep where you're doing 10,000 steps, 20 minutes of cardio, eating 3,500 calories on a training day, a body weight of 200 pounds. You've got all these sort of things stacked up where you start to see, well, like I even said, the stack, the base core, my stacked issue was one, two, five tomatoes and 300 pineapples. And people would look at that and go, you're not telling the truth, but that was the transparency of laying everything out there. When I came back to, like you said, fatigue management, being able to understand that I don't need to go in the gym and bury myself every week, or even every leg day, was a huge game changer. Being able to mentally just train through the whole prep, but two reps in reserve and never going beyond that. That was a big game changer in terms of like, well, you're metabolically recovering, and how well you're sleeping, how well you're switched on mentally, and then everything else on top of it, getting the mitochondria optimized through those three basic compounds really added a whole other layer to the whole prep. And probably being more focused keeps your emotional decision process a little bit better. Really like, man, I feel like shit today, like I'm just gonna push it. Like jump on to do some extra cardio. So I'm sure like the clarity of thought is huge in decision making. Well, I mean, it helps when you're just cognitively still present, because normally you would get some sort of prep brain towards the end, and Dean was not having any of that when we're doing these high level podcasts three days, one week before his competitions. Because I think we did what, four or five of these podcasts most of the time, you were like, I'm on week out, and you're totally happy, go a lot to your side of studies, and going through particular drug interactions and discussing the biology, like nothing was happening. And then by the time I edit the podcast, we got Dean's stage pictures to show that he was shredded out of his butt cheeks, basically, doing podcasts, and that's quite rare. I mean, I know that John is very cognitive when he does interviews a couple days before stepping on stage, but again, it's more rare than what is the norm. Absolutely. It is getting better in the bodybuilding space, because if you watch the Battle for the Olympia in the 2000s, 2010s, the Mitsuro Kabi videos, and you see the interviews, people are just not present. Yeah, you're a zombie. Yeah. And I've done preps definitely like that, and I think speaking on that peaking process and going back to drugs that you could probably leave off would be a vast majority of diuretics. And in bodybuilding, this is probably one of your highest risks, where we see a lot of people have unfortunately passed away from electric shifts and causing cardiac issues. So these rapid ways of trying to drop water weight for if you're trying to make a weight class, ribbon peak. I think there's a lot of new thoughts coming out and mastering your peak just through the manipulation of this carbohydrate and water. And to get on stage without even using a diuretic, or in some cases, maybe there is a very small amount used, but I haven't used one personally or my clients in like the past three years. And I get pretty peeled. Now I have a property that I can do it. Like I stay lean, but there's the individuals that the round bubbly guys that tend to home or water, I think there is more to be had with them, but probably that is to come with better PED management. And probably giving them a better timeline to assess that. But as far as like some of the high risk diuretics, I don't think those should have a place. And then you probably also didn't stop the growth hormone leading into the show. That's me, one day out and Olympia is a two day show, right? So yeah, every night was still banging away and ate I use a growth hormone. I only get worse when I take it out. And if I lower testosterone, I get worse as well. So I am that guy, but that goes to like, going back to like a true coach is assessing the need. And we don't go off of any like cookie cutter approaches. Like you always cut tests three weeks out or whatever it may be, your growth hormone comes out at this point. Some guys need those things to stay in. Some guys need those to fully come out. And that's where coaching should be happening on the PED front is assessing along the way and learning our individuals abilities of what they need in their stock. So if you had a time machine and you could go back five years to tell yourself, like this is what I'm doing now, would you be surprised five years ago of what has progressed in your own career? Because like a lot of things are changing the last five years. I mean, we see it at the pro-sort, and I see it with my clientele's, we're all introducing new concepts into the bodybuilding space. And I think five years ago, we couldn't have imagined where we are now as PED educators. It's changed quite a bit. Yeah, yeah, a lot has. Like looking back to what was kind of first done. Luckily, like I've always been, and probably like all of you, you're always a mindful bodybuilder. And so you're always intrigued on how and why things are working. And there was a lot of question marks back then because I had coaching and you're kind of, you do what coach says, but you still want to understand why it's working. And there's just a lot of gaps there where I couldn't really explain. And I think having the current John go back and be like, here's the explanations behind those. You'd be like, that makes so much sense. And it would be like a light bulb go off moment. And then I would look like super huge and be like, oh, well, you're big, so it must make sense. And then I would listen to big John. Yeah, yeah. So. And then things you're doing now that you think you would never do or you're still within the confounds of, doing everything responsibly. And you don't see anything that you're doing, particularly now that would be considered risky if you thought about it maybe a couple of years ago where you're pushing the boundaries of what you would consider healthy. Well, I turned pro when I was 30. And that same year I went into a gym in New Jersey and there's an old pro there. He's like, man, he's a hell of a thing to do this for. You know, it'll kill you, right? And I was like, man, when I'm 35, like that's it. Like I won't be a master's bodybuilder. Like that's where I'm cutting it off. And here I am, I'm 38 and I'm still in bodybuilding. And I think my health management has advanced so far compared to what it was, probably more so than even the changes in stack design that even doing what would be deemed probably back then as a riskier approach in my eyes. However, the health markers and everything tracking has even been proved. So I think that's been some greater advancements. I mean, what we have information wise is health monitoring and interventions earlier on. So looking back to what I'm doing from what I was, I don't think it would be too shocking, at least to me, like my weighing out where I'm at from a competitive status and now that this is a career aspect for me and it seems justifiable. I know from outside it all depends on your perspective that you very well might think like this is still not worth it. But at least in my eyes, like I'm living out  abut a dream life, and if that comes with an earlier demise of a few years off my life, I really have lived at the peak of the mountain than just looking at the base and being content, because I've had that life of working in nine to five, working a clinical job in the hospital, trying to make bodybuilding work, and that is not living for me, and I absolutely would take the risk of what I live currently at, but I still, I'm not stupid, as stupid as I could be, it's still stupid, right? But I just tried to mitigate those risks, so just because you are pursuing this doesn't mean you can't do it with intelligent design and thought process. No, that's, I think, a great way to close off this podcast. What I would like to ask all of you is, we're all basically at the highest level we can be, right? We're not all pros, I mean, I never even competed, but I think right now at this current point in time, we're all at our peak. What does it take for you to be at your peak? I want to start with Kurt, what does it take right now to be at your absolute best shape you've ever been in? Just as a quick elevator pitch. Well, 80% complying with diet, 80% complying with my diet, so my diet doesn't really change much at the year. I do leave room so I can have fun with my kids and my wife. I do cardio every day. That was an influence I got a lot from AJ, Sims, and from talking to John when I saw him in March, that kind of changed my mind about adding cardio back in. With the exception of that last cycle that I read for eight weeks, I just test and GH, like I'm trying to use a lot less. I don't need as much to hold anymore. The GH is really big ground rake, and for me, it allows me to use a lot less anabolic to keep the look. Sleep, I'm very focused on sleep and health, like fruits and vegetables, supplementation. My diet is not chicken and rice. Like that's honestly, I might have had rice once this week. I try to eat a variety of food, seeing doctors, getting lab work, just the whole approach to it. I don't think anything fancy. I think guys might over complicate this stuff. A lot of it's just time and consistency of just doing the healthy things for a long periods time. Yeah, true. Dean? Very similar to Kurt, I guess, from a physical standpoint. For me, I'm a little bit limited now being celiac, so my diet is basically chicken and rice. But not to discount the importance of antioxidant and mitochondrial health. That's what I think my biggest takeaway now of being able to stay on top of mentally and physically. My days probably this year was the last what if of being a competitive bodybuilder, so now it's just a matter of maintaining peak physical health for my own benefit and also my family's, and then focusing more on, I guess, mental aspects, where that's work, engagement, consults, and everything else, all your other sort of projects. John? Yeah, to just maintain this peak that I'm at, it's created just a lifestyle that has been catered to around being as successful and possible in bodybuilding and in my business endeavors, which I just try to wake up every day and make sure that every step forward and foot forward is moved towards trying to enjoy the process every moment along the way. And so if there's no work or whatever it may be, relationships that aren't leading me to that goal and that success, and what I deem successful was as an outcomes, it's more of this ultimate happiness in life, and those just aren't in place anymore. And so a lot of time is spent in having relaxation time or enjoying work tasks and projects that I like to take on and excited for training and having my training reflect around something that's sustainable or my diet reflect around something that's enjoyable that still aligns with my goals. And I love my bodybuilding lifestyle, and I think that's what keeps pushing me forward and being successful, especially as long as I've done it. And so I think just trying to move away from these cookie cutter type approaches that make bodybuilding miserable have made it more enjoyable, sustainable, consistent, and that drives the ultimate result. But enjoying and sniff sniffing the flowers along the way. And I used to think bodybuilding was about, you know, lone wolf, hood up in the dark gym. And it's also about trying to build relationships and enjoy that along the way. There was a show I was at where there's two 12 years competing, and there's barely one in the audience. I was just thinking, man, if I was here alone competing, there wouldn't be any joy in it. And it's truly like trying to enjoy the people you're with along that. So I'm trying to be more in the moment. And that's in harness and make these relationships improve. So that's, that's what's helped me become more of a peak in my physique. Yeah, so for myself, I started bodybuilding when I was 15. And I always made sure that I stayed in love with the process. So whether that's the nutrition or the supplementation or the training or the PDs later on, I just make sure that I really enjoy it. But I don't let it detract from business or relationship. And I found that if I really go 100% on bodybuilding, that it detracts from business or relationships is one of the reasons why I never wanted to compete because I know how I am mentally and going into that single direction. So I always made sure that I have a little bit of balance and perspective. That doesn't mean I don't treat it like a full time job, the health and the nutrition and all that stuff. But I found a nice balance for myself where I get the maximum enjoyment out of the bodybuilding thing and all aspects of it. In relation to all the other stuff that I need to do, because again, I don't make money bodybuilding directly. I make money talking about bodybuilding for other people to stay healthy. And I got typecast a little bit on YouTube. So I'm basically a professional drug user now, where I do the research, use the drugs and then talk about it and make money somehow. So that's the situation I find myself in. But for me, I found that the most enjoyable way is the most sustainable way. And that's why I still love it up until now, being 41 years old. Having been doing this for 25 years, I never took a break unless I was forced to and I don't think I ever will. I just love it too much. So guys, where can people find you? Let's start with John. Where can people find you? Well, I'm most active on Instagram. So at John Jewett 3, you can find me there. Also have a YouTube channel, personal, follow my bodybuilding endeavors. Also, the J3 University YouTube channel, we have our podcast there and I just put out education information as well. And then J3 University.com, that's where I have my course on A to B, A to Z, not just B, being a bodybuilder. And we have a female course and a training course. So anything you want to just be the most muscular, lean individual, that is where we teach it at. And that's where you can find me. Perfect. Dean. Instagram, Dean STM. And then obviously supplement needs.co.uk or SN Education, which is our education platform. Okay, Kurt. I'm most active probably on my forum at this point, which is forum.atomiclifecoaching.com. Instagram is Kurt.havens, YouTube is Kurt.havens. I wish I had more time to make more content, but this is pretty much the extent of it at this point. You're full-time coaching right now. Yeah. Yeah. And you have to come on about a ground table every month. We need to appear. No place I'd rather be. I think we got about one or 25% to do the questions I wanted to ask, John. So, John, can you commit to another two hours in the near future? Because I had a lot of fun talking with you. And I think this is this quadruplet of PED educators can make a significant difference in the bodybuilding space. So, in the near future, if you have another two hours, please join in, because I would love to talk to you some more. It's been a pleasure, gentlemen, and I hold all of you all in high regard. So, to be amongst and be part now in the anabolic four-way, weakwink, I really enjoyed it and look forward. I would love to come back and chat with you guys. Awesome. And for that, we are out. We'll see you next month. We'll discuss the, what is it, the fat burner tear list next month, because people are already begging for it. And then we can break some more hearts saying that Clem Boutros F-tier, because we've got mirror wick run now. And we'll find a suitable slot for John to come back and discuss some more hardcore and high-level bodybuilding, because my eyes have been opened quite a bit today. All right, guys, peace out. We'll see you next month. Thank you. Bye-bye.

=== FILE: Telmisartan & Nebivolol Are OVERRATED! The ULTIMATE Blood Pressure Management Tier List! [eVut4stzp-M].txt ===

 I think if you take that around the workout, it could be eight here, because you will really prevent your blood pressure from reaching alarmingly high amounts to the point you get a tomato face, or nosebleed, or hemorrhoids. Hey, it's not talked about, but after years of consultation, Steve, why every time I do a leg press, I get my a**hole explodes. It's not talked about, but it happens, man. It happens, especially during prep, where all these guys eating chicken, brown rice, and broccoli, there's no stool lubrication, and then of course it pops when they go crazy doing heavy stuff. It's not good for you just to eat chicken or rice every meal? It's better than eating McDonald's. Welcome to the Unabodded Ground Table, episode 14 with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Mart. It's been five weeks, six weeks since we sat here. I had a birth to take care of, but I was able to cut the cord. It was a lot of fun. So my daughter was born, and I got to squeeze her into existence after all the crying stopped and she was properly wiped. Interesting experience. Now, I'm a dad myself, so I joined you guys in the sun, basically, of being anabolic daddies. So now we should call it the Anabolic Daddy Podcast, or the Anabolic Daddy Round Table. So yeah, it's pretty cool. I've been doing a lot of daddy stuff, diaper changes, and bottle feeding, and nothing much else. Finally getting back into the gym, so that's good. But yeah, four weeks. It's a total life overhaul. Very interesting. Yeah, very interesting. So any tips? Even though we already talked for 20 minutes off air? It gets easier. It gets easier. And just cherish it because it goes away as well. My kids are pretty grown at this point. So one time I picked my daughter up from the crib, from like overnight. So I put her in the crib, go to bed, sleep eight hours. I picked her up the next day and like, did you just grow up like noticeably? Facial features changes bigger, heavier, I'm like, what the hell? It goes really fast. And when I compared, so I was there in the area where you can kind of observe the baby right after they're born, super small, tiny, moving around a little bit. And I have videos of that. And then I compare to now, four weeks later, and just like twice the size. Yeah. And if you do trenbolone 200 milligrams of acetate in the ear with the pellets, she'll go like 157% faster. No, it's the castrator for no, it's even go on the same amount of food. There's pellets that specifically say heifer on them. Just use the heifer ones. Don't use this. Yeah. I don't need the castrator for no, but it has to be in the ear though. It's only FD approved. It's in the ear. Yeah. She didn't get my ears though. So it's going to be different. I don't know if they would hold the pellets. Yeah. My ears would. She got my wife's ears luckily. She'll throw in the bottle across the room at you. Oh, yeah, yeah, dude. She'll be talking about Mastro non-stop. Off to a great start. Oh man. No, actually, she was conceived on just fertility medications. Unlike Dean, right? One of your sons was produced on the most aerotike. Yeah. Well, the end of one and then your room was off. So you can do boats. This is why I often bring up, well, you have to make a decision on what's most available to you, but most guys will choose to come off and stay off, but that has its own problems. Yeah. Staying on and then having the cost burden of fertility medication for months and months, because I guess the downfall of that strategy is you have to keep taking the stimulus like the FSH and whatever else to keep things elevated until you conceive. And it takes 12 to 16 weeks for sperm to fully mature. So you're sort of locked into a 12 to 16 week plan either way. If it's not longer, like it took me one year of trying and my fertility, dude, if you watch my fertility video, I had like 500 million sperm pre-jaculate. It was insane with the highest morphology and the highest motility, but it doesn't really go far when you're 40 years old and, you know, and the partner still has to be receptive of that. So after one year of natural trying, either should have done it when we were 25 or just did like whatever sperm I produced. And then I do IVF like nine months earlier. So I didn't have to undergo that, but you never know. Like I figured, you know, a ditch much semen, I could get the job done naturally. And we'll have a lot of fun, you know, inter-coursing around ovulation. After one year, you're like, fuck man, it's turning into a job. Yeah. I don't think a lot of younger guys take that into account before they start a cycle, that they might want to have kids someday. But it's weird. The younger guys, when they're like 22, 25 years old and their partners the same age, you can get up your partner pregnant like that. Just look at her. You know, because they're so fertile, younger women, but it gets into a problem when you're over 35, 40 years old. And honestly, looking back now, I'm so happy that we waited and that we did IVF because I was able to do the DNA testing. I was able to choose if you wanted to implant a boy or a girl. And even though I want a son really bad, we only had one son embryo and two girl embryos. So you have a spare in case it doesn't implant. And the implantation rate goes up, right? When you're with consecutive implantations. So the first time is like 74% and 78% and an 82% and an 86% for a live birth. So I figured, well, if the first one doesn't implant, then we always have one boy, one girl's pair. But first one stuck, because we're the best fertility specialist here in Thailand. So he threw the kitchen sink of his knowledge at it, hepper in and all that stuff and all little little vectors. So it's a lot of fun discussing the protocol with him because I do like polypharmacy. And then the first one stuck. And then right at the Mr. Olympia, I heard that my wife was pregnant. So now we're nine months later in four weeks. And it finally happened. So that means no, nothing else besides podcast stuff I've been doing. I did start a cycle again, though, I was on TRT and man, I was miserable. I was on 200 tests and fuck, this is not enough to function. You know, it's weird, like the older I get, the more I feel I need to run just to stay functional, which is so weird. I was on 200 tests, like 100 propranage Monday and Friday. And I was like, man, this is not cutting it, dude. Maybe that's, you know, the postpartum depression. You weren't getting dipped there? No, not really. No, I mean, the fluctuations, yet are noticeable. Okay, Thursday, you're like a little bit like, eh, fucking nothing crazy. But on Wednesday or Saturday, right after my shots, like propane, I peeked pretty fast. I was also not feeling it. I was like, I don't want to go to the gym. Why, why propane? That's what I had. Okay. So I vouched myself this year not to buy any gear. So if somebody wants to give me gear, sure. So I have all cabinets full with stuff that's like leftover. Because when Aaron left the United States, obviously couldn't bring his gear. So he gave me whatever he had. And it was all pre-contest stuff. So I ran first through my own gear and now I'm running through Aaron's gear. And then once that runs out, then I'll, I'll ask one of the affiliates to send me some gear again. But this, there's just so much there. Don't police, please don't come to my house. I'm not trying to incriminate myself. I'm trying to dispose of it as humane as possible. So the propane is finished and now I'm on a 300 tests, 300 deca and 150 mint. And then I might continue to mint. So I'm doing them together. Yeah, but I had gyno surgery. No, but how do you feel? I feel great. Okay. Yeah. That's why that's why I went on the stack because I did it last year for an offseason where I got too chunky and I'm still dealing with that. Still dealing with the chunk now to grow the gyno and get the most obese looking in gynecomastia tissue, which was fully removed and now looks beautiful. But I felt really good on that cycle. So I was like, you know what, I'm going to do it again, make myself look extra watery and then start cutting. So more motivated. Because now I look like a bag of smashed ash holes. With this much deca. This much mint and I'm controlling my estradiol, obviously, but still it's like too, too progestogenic, 19 North to make you look pretty watery. So my lower back is literally like, I don't know, it looks like a camel, two camels, both sides. I'm like, fuck this. Like my lats, it attaches to my lower glutes. Basically it's at one, one, one pillar. It's not nice. So, but at least I'm more motivated to get in shape now. And I noticed the last time I was doing this follow start and experiment and YK-11, everything started getting a little bit dry and squeaky. So I just want to not worry about my joints and connective tissue for a while while I try to get lean and then fingers crossed, I can get lean and then I'll pull the deck and the mint, replace that for Primo and a little bit of Mastron. And then, you know, the magic will happen, fingers crossed. So yeah, I'm just trying to torture myself right now. But I feel very energetic and very good and I'm strong as shit already. So yeah, that's what I'm on the off-screen. What do you weigh now? 107, 108. Okay. Yeah, no G, no GH. I don't want to be a little targic. That's stable too? That should go away. Yeah, it goes away, of course. But if I add the GH back in now, it'll be, yeah, it'll come back. It's going to be a violent time, right? Again, I have like five kids laying around of generics. So it's not going to finish itself. And that would be with us that the hormone replacement therapy does for parents. Four I use. Four. Four is what we set them. Times four in your case. So yeah, so if I do four, the GH will last until like the end of next year. So I could do like 10, I use generics. Generics, you just use a violent time. But then I'm really sleepy. And I was really lethargic after the full stathin experiment. And then the enginli creeped up to me and I was running some chagrinotide that made me very sleepy. So I'm like, you know, get me on the Dr. Dean stack and some offseason drugs and then I can function. So now I'm kicking ass and chewing bubble gum again, but I had like a four week dip of like, I don't know what to do. I don't feel like a body butter and I look like a fucking dad bot. But it's picking back up again. Yeah, it's pretty bad, man. We stayed in the hospital for like four days or something after my wife's birth. Yeah, because she had to cesarean. Yeah, she's there for, you know, she had to stay for observation. And here they're really, like my sister gave birth two weeks before I did, and they checked the babies in their home, you know, that's healthcare in the Europe. And here they're really, well, that's why we went to the private hospital here. They're really attentive. So they really took care, good care of us. But then you're staying in the hospital room for four days straight watching TV. When you're paying for it, that's why they'll keep you there. The insurance is there for it. They're not going to keep you there. Well, we had insurance. Oh, I'm just saying in the US. Yeah. So but the insurance, I think the entire hospital bill was $15,000 for cesarean and aftercare and private room. That was after insurance or before insurance? The insurance paid for the whole thing. Oh, good. Okay. Yeah. But we got insurance right before the implantation. So we need hospital insurance. Okay, we got the hospital insurance and now we can start implanting the embryos. We had that grace period, they have to wait. Yeah. So that on the one well, but we're here to talk about drugs, not about parenthood. I wanted to start a tear list again, but for ancillaries where we can talk about blood pressure management, tear list, kidney health management, tear list, lipid management, tear list, liver health management, tear list. And I'm sure we can come up with a lot of other tear lists. And I'm sure you guys will let us know in the comment section, do a XYZ management, tear list and acne management, tear list or a hair loss management, tear list, organic and master management, tear list, right? So we can keep going until the sun turns off a couple billion years from now. But I think for this podcast, since we always ramble and go scientific, let's try to do the blood pressure management and kidney health management, tear list, because that's kind of related. And kidney health blood pressure kind of goes hand in hand and then lipids and liver kind of go hand in hand. And then the acne and the hair loss. So that's probably estrogen related. So that kind of goes hand in hand. And then we'll figure out from what the audience wants. So regarding blood pressure management, let's just start with electrolytes, the overlooked method to control your blood pressure. And I know a dean is really on the edge of his seat to talk about magnesium. I think we're going to be shifting focus with blood pressure to potassium, me and Kurt have covered this. True. Yeah. Nearly two years ago, it was surrounding the importance of potassium and blood pressure regulation. So I guess what you've touched on electrolytes is hydration. And when we say the word hydration, people are like, yeah, but I drink three to four liters of fluid per day, or I drink two gallons of water per day, I'm hydrated. You're probably pissing out all your electrolytes with that much fluid if you're not taking the electrolytes with the water. So the water, water is neutrally charged. So it needs an electrical charge to be pushed in and out of cells. And that's where the ions, sodium, potassium, calcium, chloride, even to an extent, phosphate, they all help with pushing fluid in and out of certain cells or different transporters. And when we look at what regulates our blood volume, as in the volume of fluid in our blood, that's where sodium becomes important. So sodium will retain volume of fluid in your blood, which is where blood pressure will increase because you've increased the volume of your blood with more water or more pressure required to push that around. And potassium works in the opposite fashion that potassium pushes fluid into your cells through the potassium pump. So when we're looking at someone who is like pre-contest, getting ready to get on stage and all of a sudden, their flat, their muscles appear flat, they're not able to get a pump. They've done two things there. They've both gotten rid of sodium out of their bloodstream. So now their blood volume has dropped, which then in a certain instance, we'll put the breaks on diuresis where you actually start to retain fluid or you look much softer. And you'll have also lost some extent of potassium inside your cells, which deflates the appearance of the muscle. So if we're looking at managing blood pressure, the simplest task that we should be aiming for is a two to one ratio to start between sodium and potassium intake. The sort of golden numbers I often suggest is 4,700 milligrams of potassium, which is the RDA for potassium. And then somewhere around 2000 milligrams of sodium. In most contest, bodybuilders, it's actually way more sodium. They're salting every meal. They think like salt is key for a pump, which is true. But I think you almost understand the pump. So the pump is outside of the muscle cell, right? The sodium biosmosis pulls the fluid out and it's around the cell. But where does where does muscle protein synthesis occur in the cell? So the pump doesn't contribute to growth because it's not occurring in the muscle cell. You're just getting a visual look from it, right? And sodium in serum is very tightly controlled in the human body. It doesn't matter if you take in 1000 milligrams or 10,000 milligrams. Within a day, it regulates and then it's the same. So when these guys take this huge excess amount, they're not necessarily achieving anything. All they're doing is causing more excretion. So the body will balance. Right? You see the same level on blood all the time. Although as you'd be dead. Yeah. And it's not like you're just excreting sodium. No, you're then excreting everything, but you're excreting the rest also because it's not a salt just make any sense. No, like Dean said, 2000 milligrams is plenty. I think it does make a little bit of sense to increase your sodium intake if you train in the gym without air conditioning. So me, for example, I sweat buckets. So I drink about three liters of fluid during the session. I just cold water because I need to cool my core temperature down. I sweat profusely this entire session. When your carbohydrates lower too, you're going to excrete more. Yeah, exactly. Your diet takes that versus someone on a high carb diet doesn't need as much sodium. So that's true. I probably excrete more sodium also through urine because I have a carbohydrate deficient diet, basically. And then the sweating really depletes my electrolyte level. So my sodium intake is a little bit on the high side. But I wouldn't recommend people to do that in a country where they don't sweat profusely. And Dean, correct me if I'm wrong, even in athletes though that are used to training in that environment, though the kidneys get very used to still maintaining it. So your sodium loss is probably not as great as it was initially. So when you first went to Thailand and trained in that environment, you were losing a lot of sodium. And then after a period of time, relatively quickly, your body got used to that. So it's going to retain just to keep the balance again because it's all about keeping that balance in the serum in a constant range all the time. And then that being said, still my potassium to sodium intake is to the one like Dean said. So if I have five grams of sodium, that's 10,000 milligrams of potassium per day. And it's fairly easy to maintain that ratio with salt substitutes. Like guys often ask, how do you do that? Well, you find a potassium iodide or potassium chloride based salt. And normally these are in a two is to one ratio. So you have like 450 milligrams of potassium and like 200 milligrams of sodium. And so as you increase your salt intake from that sort of perspective, you maintain that ratio. So if you weren't even to account for any of the salt, sodium, potassium, and foods, we have a product in the UK called low salt orders disorder different brands of it. 11 grams of that works out pretty much to 4500 or 4600 milligrams potassium, roughly 2000 to 200 milligrams sodium. So even if you were in a contest prep diet, or even in general, and you're worried about maintaining this balance just weigh out 11 grams of low salt and distribute it across all your meals. But like that, like what you're covering about training, then you have to think about what you're losing with sweat. You have to think about rate of replenishment as well. So if you've lost a large chunk, like Kurt said, you've got homeostatic balance with aldosterone and anti diuretic hormone to try and retain sodium in your body. And obviously, we've done the pre contest talk before. This is like the basics behind sodium loading that used to be done years ago, you just ramp sodium higher and higher and higher. And then one day out from the show, you literally don't know sodium in hopes of you've pushed your aldosterone balance so far that anti diuretic hormone kicks in and you just flush all that subcellular fluid or subcutaneous fluid out of the body to have a dryer appearance, which you know, doesn't really work in practice. No, I just have guys measure, you know, starting in eight weeks out, just tell me how much sodium they consume in a day and how much potassium they consume a day and how much water. And I just try to keep it constant, right? Because it's the variations that screw up the look, right? Because then I can also add a little more, take a little more away if I need to change it. But if you don't know, a guy goes, he's in peak week and he has no idea how much sodium he's consuming or potassium. It's really difficult to, right? You can kind of guess by the look and what they feel, but it's, that's a really tough game to play. Yeah. And it's hard when they start switching their meal plans around. You have a couple days of depletion and then a couple days of loading. So there's a caloric difference there. And then you go from, let's say, six meals to 10 smaller meals. So how are you going to solve that? That's why I always put the electrolyte balance in my diet sheets. So it's easy to keep track of the removed, the column for vitamin C and vitamin D. That's kind of irrelevant in the peak week. But I feel it's very important because like vegetables and stuff and the most animal protein has a good amount of potassium in it and not so much sodium. And then depending on which vegetables or condiments you use, like if you add a pickle to each meal, you're going to increase your sodium intake. If you add soy sauce to each meal, you're going to increase your sodium intake. And these simple little things, it's just very hard to keep track of if you don't put that in a diet sheet with the electrolytes listed or at least measure everything consistently. You know, where you use like a cocaine scooper to measure or something. So very few guys measure accurately, right? And I found that. So outside of a handful of guys that are really accurate with what they do, at the end, I give guys exactly what I want them doing every day specifically because people assume, like even with macros, they're just off. Right? And it doesn't even line up at all. I often laugh at when it's like measured in grinds. I don'T4 or six grinds of salt on my meals. And I'm probably going to trigger a lot of people in the comments both your measuring your salt intake through grinds of salt. Have you actually ever weighed out what six grinds of salt is one, two, three, four? It's like not even half a gram of salt. So. Right. And it's the same with sprinkling and counting the seconds. I did two seconds of sprinkles. Well, with the sugar, the British sugar thing where you go one. And as sugar comes down, it's less. So you start pouring more. And that old school crystal sugar measuring device, that's my mom to do that once time. So how many times do you do that in your cup of coffee per day? So she started doing that. And she's eating like 100 grams of sugar over the day. So now you know where you're not in shape. So I guess with blood pressure, the very first thing is electrolyte balance. That's the easiest and simplest thing to start with is your electrolyte. Forget about angiotensin. Forget about ARBs or just angioterin. Get your hydration proper. And then from there, the second ancillary if you want to tear it is cardio. Just cardio volunteer. You don't just take a bunch of drugs instead of watching while you're eating and exercising? Or not going to sit in the sauna to bring the sodium down and then do the ice bath for the adrenaline dump so you don't get the vasodistric constriction? Cardio? Really? Haven't been saying this for the last 14 episodes. It was at one point called fitness. I don't know where that went. Okay. So simple tips aside, I guess, electrolytes, cardio. And then the other one, before even going near drugs, that would improve vasodilation and improve nitric oxide content of your blood is nasal breathing. So pay attention to how you're breathing because your biggest reservoir of endothelial nitric oxide synthase, enos, is in your nose. Oh, good. I thought it's your mouth. No, if you breathe through your mouth, you're actually limiting your enos. So that's where breathing through your nose, everywhere in nose strips and everything. As you breathe into your nose, the warm air that's coming into your nose activates the enos enzyme or so they believe. And so then that leads to higher levels of nitric oxide being produced in your bloodstream. So nasal breathing, if you're doing cardio, nasal breathing up to a point where then you're at an exertion level that you have to mouth breathe. But nasal breathing, combined with cardio is a surefire way to lower blood pressure from nitric oxide production. So those simple things, I guess, then you get into more fancy the ancillaries, where we start taking. We got to tear them first. So we got cardio. Don't skip ahead too much. We're doing S to F. So I think we can all agree that electrolyte management, including magnesium intake and calcium rich foods and stuff, and cardio, that's just certified S tier. You just no excuses. Off-season cruising, blasting your socks off, just watching this podcast and not really following bodybuilding. Yeah, you'll be surprised. I watched this podcast. I love the anabolic ground table and there's no anabolism in sight. So even those guys that are just here for research purposes, cardio and electrolyte intake stable, please, please, please, please, please, please, because I can't go through all these emails. You know, I started my anodual cycle and my blood pressure is through the roof and I ask, what's the diet and the cardio look like? Diet? I want to get big. All right. The basics. Yeah, start the basics. So S tier for both. I want to briefly discuss magnesium and calcium intake since it's part of the full Monty of electrolytes. So I supplement with about 200 milligrams magnesium bisclosinate with every meal five times per day. So that's a thousand. And then based on my dietary magnesium intake, it's also about a thousand from the animal meat sources and the nuts and seeds and, you know, the vegetables that I get, how, how bioavailable is all of that. You don't really know, but it's about a thousand milligrams magnesium. And then I get about 1500 milligrams calcium just from food. There is some calcium in the supplements that I take, like vitamin C, ester C. It's a little bit more highly bioavailable vitamin C formula with bio flavonoids and some calcium bound in there. And then apple cider vinegar has a lot of vitamin C in them all the multivitamin and some vitamin C. I take all of those with meals because they don't want that calcium to dump into my bloodstream potentially, you know, sticking plaque and stuff. Don't worry. I take my vitamin D and vitamin K and all that stuff. So it goes into bones. But I noticed that if I have a very stable intake of all of these electrolytes supplement with low magnesium, again, the sodium potassium that's mostly for flavor, right? And keeping everything stable that my blood pressure is solid up until I start pushing into the gram ranges. Yeah. And then when I go over a gram of steroids, I do need a little bit of blood pressure management, but that's mostly because my blood pressure shoots up during the workout. Not when I wake up. When I wake up, I'm 165 over 125, you know, regardless of how much shit I run. It just mostly to protect my kidneys during the workout because a lot of violence occurs when you're over a gram. Start up pretty sad. You go to the gym, you're over a gram of steroids, then a lot of heavy weight and a lot of grunting and a lot of pushing to failure and beyond. And that just increases your blood pressure. There's studies that show that where they put like one of those measurements into what is it? One of the arteries here and then mentioned the intra-vienus blood pressure during strain U.S. satin. It's just undetectably high. It's like 240. It's insane. So, and that's where you have like, you know, temporary pressure in your kidneys, which we're trying to avoid. So that's really the only reason why I'd run blood pressure medications. But with cardio and electrolytes and, you know, stable hydration, I can manage my blood pressure at rest just fine. So, STR for those two. What's, oh yeah, you said the intranasal breathing. That's, it's new to me, but I'm not a mouth breather. So I guess my E-nose production is pretty okay. Where would you rank that compared to cardio and electrolyte hydration? Nose breathing. I probably put it A, because you should be nose breathing in your sleep. So if you are waking up with a big dry mouth and you're snoring, nasal breathing is very important during sleep for reducing your blood pressure in your sleep. Would you say then on that topic, if there's several masks, right, for CPAP machines? I mean, I think 50% of our audience has a CPAP or needs a CPAP. I'm assuming 50% of you guys are biggest fuck. So you have the full face mask and the nasal pillows, it's like this. And then the little...  naysal, nasal mask, so that's the one I use. So based on that, I would say that the nasal mask is superior over the full-face mask because it allows you to nose-breathe in nothing else. Until you open your mouth. So normally if you do use a nasal pillow for a CPAP, you're probably better off doing the micro-pore mouth taping so you're actually closing the system because what will happen is when you snore, when you release tension on your jaw and you open your mouth, the CPAP pressure is designed to force your mouth closed again. One side that can be detected as an apnea on your CPAP, but the other thing is if you're sleeping beside your partner and you open your mouth and Ollie hears, the air is escaping out of your mouth, you're going to get a slap. To keep the system closed, that's why you don't hear these sort of hisses with full-face mask because the pressure is basically if you open your mouth, your mouth is closed straight away from the full-face mask. Right, so in both cases, it's probably best to take your mouth closed anyway. Just the way when you see crazy people, you all these sort of things with micro-pore tape and all you need is like a small little square strip, put it between your two lips and that's enough. What you're trying to do is psychologically train your mouth position to keep your mouth closed and keep your tongue against the roof of your mouth. That can have absolute wonders to your blood pressure like snoring, hidden hypoxia. It can ruin your blood pressure. When we think about it, when we're at sleep or the early parts of the night, the process is called dipping. Your blood pressure should be its absolute lowest during the night because your cortisol level is extremely low. It's wide and when you do your blood pressure in the morning time upon wake, your blood pressure is supposed to be its highest value upon wake. What we can sort of determine from this is who is at risk of cardiovascular disease through a process called reverse dipping. If your blood pressure in the morning says like perfect 120 over 80 and then your evening time blood pressure is 135 over 90, you've got this reverse dipping happening. It's signaling that something's not right in terms of the body's ability to manage blood pressure. It could be that you've trained late in the evening time like you've trained close to bed that can be a confounding factor. But normally if you've got two restful periods either when we wake up in the morning time to your blood pressure then, two hours before bed, wind down, blood pressure before sleep, it should actually be lower than the morning reading. Yeah, I think the only time when it can really be higher is post-workout. I've tracked out one of those Hilo bands or what was the name of it? They were called so at key I think was the company's name but they've renamed themselves Hilo which is a wrist strap blood pressure monitor that works off a laser diode. You calibrate it with an arm cuff so it is calibrated correctly with an arm cuff measurement and then it takes your blood pressure pretty much every 10 minutes when you're sitting at rest. You get this huge insight into your blood pressure of how it changes across the 24 hour period. I put it on my story loads of times. I suffer with low blood pressure and that's genetically from my mother. I put it up on my story before my blood pressure can be like 100 over 59 over 60 and guys like how would you get your blood pressure so low? It's like well it's just genetics. The reason why I put that content out is if I was to start drawing an ARB in or whatever else we're going to discuss about here I probably end up hitting the deck with high power tension or I'd faint and smash my head. You have to be very clued into your blood pressure and whether you need to manage it or not. Quite often I actually enjoy it offseason or pre-contest because I actually took my blood pressure from a low position to a relatively normal place where I didn't have the symptoms of heavy body, heavy head, lethargy. Something like that if you're concerned about your blood pressure probably for the big guys that are listening to this I think the cuff only goes up to about 17 and a half inches. I think there is plans for them to bring out an extra large cuff for the calibration. I think they were going to bring out an XL cuff so that they then had to calibrate the data for people to wear the band if they are a big bodybuilder. Unfortunately my arm size is just under 17 and a half so it just outfitted that arm. I can utilise that type of equipment to keep an eye on my blood pressure but this reverse tipping is very important to manage and the electrolytes and everything else we've discussed plays a big role. I guess the next part then is probably dietary supplements. We started with low hanging fruit as opposed to going straight to the pharmaceuticals. Like berberine? Yeah berberine is mostly for lipids and blood glucose management but the funny thing about these aerobatic herbs is they are super studied in India mostly, Indian studies and then there you can fix every ailment and usually those studies are funded by Himalaya or whatever company produces those aerobatic herbs. Carditone though does have some merits. I know Dante Trudeau is always talking about carditone because a lot of guys couldn't get their blood pressure medication so that's the one I kind of want to rank. It's just a herbal formula. So carditone basically actually has an active pharmaceutical ingredient if you want to call it that. Oh really? I guess the segue here is natural herbs still have medications inside them. Yeah, reduced risk for them. You know like when we're looking at herbs they can be just as potent or as dangerous as pharmaceutical medicines. At least with a pharmaceutical medicine you're taking potentially one ingredient and it creates one metabolite as one mechanism of action, one mechanism of excretion or whatever and it's very targeted. When you take herbs the standardization of the herb is important, the active components, the synergistic effect of the herbs also. So we have this synergistic effect where herb A and herb B can complement one another or they can create more dysfunction. So there is this entourage effect. I always forget that word. Entourage and you see this but like cannabis, the entourage effect between isolates and the full spectrum plant. The full spectrum plant has the entourage effect of all the things inside it basically. So if we're looking at carditone the active ingredient in it is called reserpene. It is actually a norepinephrine blocker or norepinephrine receptor blocker. There you go. And how it lowers your blood pressure is by lowering norepinephrine levels within the brain. So now we reduce the stress hormone on the brain which causes vasoconstriction and we have this knock on cascade effect where we reduce blood pressure from an adrenaline perspective. But unless we know that the blood pressure is being driven from a cortisol or an adrenaline conversion perspective it's going to be fairly useless for lowering your blood pressure. Now in saying that most guys have a lot of stored noregenalins so in the scheme of it dopamine converts to adrenaline or epinephrine and epinephrine converts to norepinephrine. Norepinephrine has vasoconstrictive effects. So taking reserpene you're blocking that off the brain so the blood vessels can actually relax again. And you do see anecdotally anywhere from 8 to 12 point reduction in systolic from this cortisol inhibition. So it is a useful strategy but it's very case specific. So if you don't have cortisol issues driving your blood pressure reserpene isn't going to do too much. Doesn't it also raise serum potassium as well? Yeah it is a good amount of potassium, carditone. Which is going to help that as well? Yeah it will. It will. I've never seen that. All I've ever looked at is the active ingredient which is reserpene. It is useful. It's available. Not like anything can't be available but it's available in a legal fashion as a supplement. It's like a try it and see approach. Like if someone has blood pressure of like 145 over 90, given the context of what they're doing maybe if they have a very stressful life or stressful job or anything like that you might lean towards reserpene first. But most people are going to go the other way and block angiotensin first to see what happens and if that doesn't create a drop in blood pressure then you know you're going back to adrenaline being the problem. So normally I would go angiotensin first and then the scheme of it go towards noradrenaline as another way of getting it down if the ARB or the ACE inhibitor didn't work. So case specific if it is a cortisol issue then I would say from a tiered perspective I'd place it quite high as a readily available supplement. But in that case emodein which actually inhibits cortisol production might be a more suitable solution to at least to the point you address the root cause of why your cortisol is chronically elevated. Yeah I guess emodein being a cortisone blocker so you're blocking the conversion of stored cortisol into cortisol that you're then upsetting like Kurt said there's always a dynamic balance between having enough stored cortisol and converting cortisol for like circadian rhythm, daily energy spikes, you know adrenaline output, blood glucose management that you see sometimes anecdotally that emodein just blunt someone's cortisone or cortisol too low and then that of itself has problems over the body. Yeah issues getting out of bed and then they're finding that during the day that their energy is dropping off because they don't have this lift and adrenaline. They're useful like I said this is where it gets interesting that we see these natural things and they do have side effects themselves. So yeah and keep in mind some of the formulas of cortisone also has rovolfina serpentina which contains alpha yohembin also known as the stereoisomer rovolsine which is an alpha blocker and that by itself in low amounts can actually improve blood pressure but in higher amounts. The dean has experience. Yeah. You all did and yo hem by what's that right? Not at full experience. No I could imagine. So that can increase your blood pressure. So with some of these things there also seems to be a dose dependent response. If you have one capsule of cortisone is good, two is better, so I'm going to take four and then you might be wired and cultured and elevate your blood pressure. That's a clear example of like it's like case specific from a mechanism perspective that if one capsule after a week isn't doing anything to your blood pressure it's more than likely not norepinephrine induced. So either continue taking it because you bought it or finish the bottle and don't buy more or figure out what's the next root cause to your blood pressure issue. I've seen at work I've seen guys who you see high like pre stage one hypertension and it's enough to bring them down. So could cartotone then be a good solution for training induced hypertension where you're chronically or you have chronic elevated cortisol levels because you're basically over trained or you have chronically elevated adrenaline levels because you train you know doc rep training or you have to be the logbook and you kind of psych yourself out increasing your blood pressure that way you look at the logbook 12 plates for 12 reps and it's 8am and you work out as a 2 and you already give yourself anxiety and high blood pressure just looking at the logbook. I mean we've all been there it's just for the next six hours like fuck me this is going to suck. So I think in that case cartotone really helps because you kind of do it to yourself and there is training induced hypertension you know from electrolyte depletion and you know this adrenaline that you kind of you know raise by yourself. You can say if it's and if it's a cortisol you could growth hormone will prevent the conversion of cortisol to cortisol as well. That's true that's true so that's where the replacement dose of 4IUs before bed comes into play. So would a replacement dose of 4IUs growth hormone before bed be more suitable? Border attention included we have to keep this one. And there's other benefits for the growth hormone? Yes. Right but I mean when I take a few more prednisone I need to take a much larger dose than some and not on growth hormone because I can't convert it. So if we're going with a tear list then technically we'd have to put growth hormone over cartotone as a blood pressure management method if it has to do with cortisol. If it has to do with cortisol the initial fluid retention is going to flip the opposite way for blood pressure but that should go away. But if your potassium intake is high which ester stuff you should do first, well we're going to put cartotone. It does work I've seen it lower blood pressure but it's not like it's magic it's not F. B or C. Yeah I'd agree with cartotone or B or C. I mean it's very like I said case specific whereas if we took probably the next two dietary supplements to tear it would be hot hornberry which is very rich in arginine which converts to citrulline or beetroot extract. And it also helps with the pumps tremendously. And that is where we see this synergy come from that if we look at some of the studies on hot hornberry by itself and beetroot extract by itself, yeah the lower systolic blood pressure may be by three or four points. We put the two of them together and we take advantage of the improvement in citrulline, citrulline to nitric oxide and then we have a direct source of nitrates from the beetroot itself. We see a reduction in blood pressure anywhere from like six to eight points so and that was like the that was the premise behind the kidney and blood pressure stack that I formulated years ago. Was this entourage effect when you looked at when you combine hot horn, standardized hot horn with standardized beetroot extract you're improving this availability of nitric oxide in the bloods. So if we're looking at like a more global approach again we're coming back to dietary nutrition or still you know someone could incorporate beetroot or beet juice or pomegranate juice. These specific foods that give this benefit and this is where obviously a supplement is supplementing this food into your nutrition. Can I add another one to the list that's not on there? Yeah. So I've already studied, flaxseed oil has a pretty profound effect on that as well and I on a side note that's why people need to be careful when they use the word seed oil right and they group them as this bad thing because seed oil is not actually a group of anything. I never thought about that. The vague term right so there are seed oils that are clearly not good for you and there's a lot of flaxseed oil. Those are people that are not puppets for the carnivore. They got Paul Solodino's hand in their ass. Yeah and so the two of the fats right two of the fats in flaxseed oil are the only two essential fatty acids that are needed in the human diet right that are then converted to EPA right. We just consider fish oil to be an essential fatty acid but technically we produce it right. We just don't produce enough of it so we take fish oil as well. But flaxseed oil is something I've used since the 90s and it's partially why my blood pressure is always low like Deans and it's partially why they miss my lack of kidney function because I they would expect you to have high blood pressure. No doctor ever picked up on this until I did organ scans to find this. I'm not diabetic. I'm not overweight. I don't have high blood pressure. And so all the classics. But you treat yourself right and that even with one kidney you can. Yeah drinking was the only thing I did that made the function go down the toilet. But you've all been young. But yeah so but flaxseed oil I think is something people should consider adding to the diet. What volumes are we talking about? I don't think I mean you could use a tablespoon a day. I don't think it has to be anything right that supplies almost 8000 milligrams of those fatty acids in a table. I mean realistically how much fat do you need in your diet especially if you're enhanced. And before before we start complaining about lignins inhibiting the androgen receptors the lignins while they're only found in full flax with the fiber. Yeah well I'm talking about the oil not the yeah no exactly so that's why I want to I wonder how much they block the androgen receptor if you're taking it. I talked about eating a bag of licorice and people were like yeah but Steve you said that licorice root extract is an androgen so you empower people to hold it against you. And it's the same with flaxseeds. I had some flaxseed meal to my meals and it makes it taste nice and rich. Yeah but Steve it has lignins in those inhibiting the androgen receptors. You got plenty I wouldn't worry about it. Yeah I got plenty of androgen receptors. Yeah and I think the deck has a little bit higher binding affinity anyway. Then flaxseed oil I would say so. Yeah no but there's no lignins in flaxseed oil. I'm sorry then flaxseed. Yeah just flax so before people start complaining you know don't worry about it. And one tablespoon again if it improves your blood pressure then all the more power to use less medications. Yeah and that's I would always rather go that route with at least my clients. The nutritional stuff versus throw my drugs. And I think that they show the same like with a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil or macadamia at all that it has some blood pressure lowering effects. Yeah I guess it's antioxidant based. Yeah you know when you're looking at what drives blood pressure and what increases the oxidative stress there's one thing that will contribute to vasoconstriction. And the arterial sharing is less because of the healthy fats. So the quality of the endothelium is better and then instead of there's a little bit of resistance inside the bloodstream. The blood can now flow and thus blood pressure is also improved. And all these little things contribute and that's why I always laugh when people go straight to you know Thomas Arta and because there's so many things you can explore that actually not only improve your blood pressure but your overall quality of life. Yeah well where did the Thomas Arta thing come from? I mean he looks very healthy. I mean that channel is very healthy to me. Yeah and he has stock in Buhringer what's it called? Engelsham or whatever. I think he has stock in Dunkin Donuts. Yeah. And then everybody needs a gimmick so. I mean even when we look at the recommendations for blood pressure management and I can send it to you after this and we can put it up on the screen. When you look at like the treatment strategy for blood pressure it says to begin with lifestyle intervention. Because the very first step in the guidelines is to move into lifestyle strategies. I will say let me interject. I've seen this happen once where diet and exercise did not work and it was with my wife when she was pregnant. She got pregnancy hypertension or prenatal hypertension and this is why she had to do a C-section because her blood pressure after the first contraction 185 over 145. Nice. Yeah and I'm like we're not we're sitting here for 12 hours trying to get your blood pressure down. You're going in for surgery because I don't want to have a vegetable because if you have like 20 to 50 contractions before the baby is born that's a guaranteed aneurysm with that much blood pressure. So this is because my wife has been training two days up until the pregnancy or the delivery not technically delivery was a C-section but up until she was supposed to be due two days before she was going to the gym and doing cardio and eating healthy and then her blood pressure started creeping up at the end. So that's the only context. Her estradiol was probably 50,000. Her growth hormone levels were like 15 to 20 milligrams per nanogram per milliliter. Like her hormone panel was sky high. We did blood work for her every month. You'd think she'd be on a full blown steroid cycle. How crazy. Yeah insane man. Her growth hormone levels were like sky high the entire way through. It's amazing. I said I have to inject so much stuff to have it that high. IGF-1 levels was elevated but that's you create an anabolic environment for the baby. My level so that's, can we back up? That's what I keep talking about estrogen and IGF. The reason why I was elevated in serum is because her estrogen was going up like this during pregnancy which binds the IGF and serum which keeps it away from the fetus. So the patient just secretes IGF-2 to support the fetus. If the fetus were to get IGF-1 from the mother then the fetus would grow too large and you would never be able to deliver the baby. That's why IGF serum doesn't mean anything. It's not an anabolic. It's not a look into your anabolism. It's used as a metric for disease. We're looking at chromegaly, giantism, liver issues with children needing prolux because they produce growth hormone but their liver doesn't kick out IGF. That's what the serum IGF test is used for. It's not used for bodybuilders or athletes. I remember Chase Irons, I remember what his number was on a bottle of sarastomid A. What was his IGF-150-200? It doesn't make a difference what your serum IGF is. You don't want it high because when it's on those binding proteins, each of those binding proteins will dictate where it's going to go in the human body and muscle is not one of them generally. It's going to go to bone and organs and other things that cause giantism. Okay. So that didn't mean that she was super anabol from the IGF. It would be intramuscular that you're concerned with IGF. Right. Okay. I think it's just the reason why her hormone levels were so high is that her blood pressure also sky high. And then of course, on drill and dumps during the contractions. Yeah. So that's the only time I saw that diet and exercise didn't work up until the last minute. Like it says here, I've got the international recommendations of hypertension guidelines. I can send you the citation and the picture, but like Kulitri says, for treatment, minimum standards of grade one hypertension is classified 140 to 150 over 90 to 99. And the very first thing it says is start lifestyle interventions. And then if concerned, start drug treatments and high risk patients, you know, those of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, risk, et cetera. But if you have stage two or grade two hypertension, which is obviously the highest one where you're above 160 over 100, it says immediately start drug therapy. It's not even like, because I guess we never even discussed this in the beginning. It's not when we look at blood pressure, it's not the blood pressure that we're trying to control. It's the diseases that come from the elevation pressure. So whether that's eye disease, kidney disease, brain disease, heart disease, the outcome of success with blood pressure management medication is reducing your risk of a heart attack, reducing your risk of retinal neuropathy, reducing risk on your kidneys, kidney failure. So the failure rate of the organ or the success and offset in that is what is deemed the most protective part of taking a medication. So in that regard, you know, coming back to the food and the lifestyle interventions, these are like even medically prescribed guidelines that we're talking about here at our core basics. Just take these simple boxes like you go to sleep. But the funny thing is with these lifestyle interventions, general population is less likely to follow those suggestions and those prescription medications are just being prescribed like candy. Whereas the bodybuilders, they should be doing that anyway, because without them they're not really, well, it was a drug culture now, right? Without them, they're not really in the health and fitness space. Because I would assume that most people follow a regimented diet. It's not true. It's not true. People treat their body like general population where they just eat out all the time and free cell meal together and then cardio is maybe once a week when they go shopping, you know? And then they're skipping breakfast. So it's fast cardio before they have like a crazy meal at the Cheesecake Factory. 20 minutes of walking from parking to where the Cheesecake Factory is. Yeah, that's the weird thing. I would expect people just to follow the lifestyle and then you see that it's very unlikely that you need these kinds of blood pressure medication interventions unless you really throw the kitchen sink of drugs at it. And when does that really happen? At the end of the offseason? You know, most people see, yeah, prep, but then because your blood pressure or your body fat levels are so low, you're so regimented, most guys go high-potensive. Yeah, no, I just meant as far as throwing drugs at them. Yeah, the drugs at it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but most guys are high-potensive at the end of a contest prep, you know, where you have to fuck, I got to reduce the masteron because otherwise they just lose so many electrolytes or they have to reduce the blood pressure medications because otherwise they get dizzy. So yeah, at the end of the offseason, it's usually where you see where people actually need it. And that's, and at the end of the offseason, it's the time where, you know what, I want to break a couple of plateaus, so I'm going to go on the anodual train, you know? Okay, then I get it. The body fat is a little bit higher, the fat is compressing your arteries, and then even though the lifestyle is still there, it's just, you know, basically in stage offseason where it is actually required. So besides the, where can we classify them? These supplementary blood pressure medications, cartotone, and Hawthorne berry in combination with beetroot, but that's mostly in the context of pre-workouts though, all right? Can you have it in that supplement of yours of the SNA supplement? Yeah, I think like what we originally said for cartotone, I think these are like B, B at the highest, C at the lowest, in terms like you're slotting them in to make up for a deficit in nutrition. So if you don't like eating beetroot or it's not in your vegetable intake, standardized beetroot concentrate or extract will give you this benefit. Sure, even taking L-sitrily and pure L-sitrily and 3-6 grams pre-workout is going to positively influence blood flow delivery during the training, but also offset some of the blood pressure management issues like you're talking about. And that is, that is probably one of the most highest risk points of an offseason or a very high level competitive bodybuilders. Today is doing task failure sets on a leg press or squat or max deadlift or whatever, you're driving up that internal blood pressure from obviously the strain that it's required to lift with the force required for the weight, that you're really looking at how can I offset the damage that this...  triennant session might be doing internally, because your blood pressure could be absolutely perfect due to 12, 14 hours of being awake, because you're just sitting around eating food, sitting on a couch, sitting at a desk, it's when you get in and start really pushing your body, and everyone's been there when you're sitting in a leg press, and you're gripping the seat, like full might, and your face is bright red like a tomato, you're creating that much pressure naturally from bracing and pushing the weight that you really need to think about. Your body's designed to accommodate probably a certain level of stress like that from a fight or flight perspective, but doing that day in, day out is going to create some level of share on your arteries over time that we're trying to offset. Yeah, I think cumulative, if you go to the gym five times a week, one hour sessions, and then let's say the last five seconds of your sets is elevated blood pressure, like alarmingly high, you could probably add it up to a couple minutes over the week, and over decades of training it's probably not a good outcome. That's a trend, but it could be a training also. I think it contributes. So I think if you take like beetroot and Hawthorne berry and L-sitrile and maybe Vasodriph AP, which has some angiotensic converting enzyme inhibiting effects, it's like some sort of proprietary blend of proteins, amino acids. I think if you take that around the workout, it could be A-tier because you will really prevent your blood pressure from reaching alarmingly high amounts to the point you get a tomato face or nosebleed or a hemorrhoids. Hey, it's not talked about, but after years of consultation, Steve, why every time I do a leg press, I get my asshole explodes. It's not talked about, but it happens, man. It happens, especially during prep, where all these guys eating like chicken brown rice and broccoli. There's no stool lubrication. And then of course it pops when they go crazy doing heavy stuff. It's not good for you to just eat chicken rice every meal. Okay, let's joke. It's probably better than eating... I don't know, it's what they say on Instagram. It's better than eating McDonald's, but is it... Yeah, better than eating sour patch kids. Yeah. What does your digestion look like eating chicken rice for six meals a day? I think the orange ruffy diet, at least it's a little bit... It has something that inhibits fat absorption. A sugar diet, you probably just shit all day long. Yeah, that too. My shits were legendary on fruits and honey. A lot of fiber, man. So, where were we? Yeah, so your nosebleeds, tomato face or a popping hemorrhoids. Yeah, it's not a good sign. But I think with some proper pre-workout formulas, you can mitigate all of that stuff. And I remember because I started training before there were pre-workouts, right? And then basically every... We would train during summer and then it's hot and you don't know anything about these electrolytes or managing your hydration and you eat like a whole bowl of oatmeal before you start squatting with the belt. And I would have nosebleed every time. It was just part of the game. And we just spit it all over the... Yeah, because you're breathing hard, right? So you have like a double nosebleed and you're spitting the blood all over the wall and we just preemptively had a bucket there. And it would happen all summer. We didn't know any better. We're 17 years old, man, 18 years old. Just egging each other on to do more squats. I mean, Dan, do you change pre-workout existed back then? Oh, yeah. What was it? Something orange? Ultraman orange. And Jack 3D with one 3D dimethyl... Jack 3D was after Ultraman orange, right? Yeah. Dan was like the first one. He had effedrine in there, I think. Yeah. Yeah. And then some other stuff. And then Jack 3D had one 3D MAA. And man, that shit. We used to order that from China. The Raw's and a make-or-own pre-workout and then put a little bit too much in there. Holy shit, man. It felt like drugs. Of course everybody knows. But it's the most potent fast with that later. You can put it in a pre-workout. Yeah. Your arteries look crazy. Yeah. Good times. So everything covering the natural route, even though... Did you have Promise, I guess? I've seen guys reduce their blood pressure 8 to 10 points per hour product. So, heart corn, beetroot, has its place because of what's inside it from a nutritional perspective to improve blood flow. There's other ingredients that we can incorporate, like I said, most pre-workouts now. Non-stimulant based pre-workouts or pump based ones are designed to improve blood flow, which would lower blood pressure. So I think tearing these, I'd probably... I'd be generous and go with B, knowing that they're readily available. Don't cost too much in terms of monetary costs and the benefit that you might get from reserpene and carditone or the nitrates and beetroot or arginine conversion from the heart horn. If it's going to lower your blood pressure by 8 to 10 points naturally, where you don't need to intervene pharmaceutically with the Andro-Tensin system, I think it's a nice place to enter low rather than have that mentality of straight-in medication. You're still staying in line with lifestyle and dietary management strategies first. Right. When you think we should... Lower risk with them too versus from the lower risk. Yeah. Unless you start stacking something like Grilla Mode Nitric with Cialis, then you might get hypotensive during your workout. I do think that if you take them in combination with lifestyle, so the diet exercise, electrolyte management, all that stuff, they could be like a C to B tier, but if you take them as a pre-workout to prevent hypertension during the workout, I would actually give them A tier because it could offset the needle between you having a nosebleed and then a hypertensive episode and just being normal. Because when I took pre-workouts, I don't really take them anymore because I don't train that hard anymore, but when I used to take them and I would go bolster the wall and do sets past failure, I would notice that my blood pressure would go up. Again, it's the only time that my blood pressure was an issue. Then you take a pre-workout, one or two scoops, and that issue is not there or your blood pressure doesn't increase that high, which again, in the long term, could probably protect your kidneys or prevent the nosebleed. Because I haven't seen any of these kids that are cracked out in pre-workouts, the pump products, have nosebleeds during the gym, whereas previously that was common in my gyms, but maybe I went to the crazy gyms. Well, EQ, nanodraw, those things. Yeah, yeah. A lot of guys don't EQ nanodraw too. I think it's a rite of passage that we've all experienced here in the middle of a set and you just feel this warm little drip and you're like, no, that's not a snot. You know, you're running to get serious. Now we're starting, now the set starts. I don't know if somebody with his flip phone digital camera takes a picture of you. It's like, just speak. Yeah, good times, man. All right, so that covers the supplements. And then we have a slew of medical interventions. We have the angiotensin converting anti-manhibitors and the angiotensin receptor blockers and the calcium channel blockers and the beta blockers. Now there's like 10 or 15 of each in each category. I don't think we need to address all of them. I think we should address the one that are either commonly used or has some unique characteristics. Back in the day, lecinobrille was pretty popular as a blood pressure medication. It got the job done. It was the only thing that people really ran because it was readily available, but people would get a dry cough. That's why people kind of went away from lecinobrille and moved over to telmasartan. And then this kidney and liver risk with it too. Oh, with lecinobrille? Yeah, I mean, not common, but it is like, and that's what I meant. It's versus the natural stuff. You're not running into the risk of. Yeah, with asinobrille and ARBs, if you have chronic kidney disease undiagnosed and it's not a good idea, you can't. Yeah, like I can't use any of those drugs. All right, yeah, of course, because you only have one kidney. And there's some, you know, very low risk that it might actually cause issues with your kidneys, and that's documented with most ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Again, it's a rare risk, but it's not unheard of. Now, a nalopril might still have some merit here and there, because it's secondary unique characteristics in that it controls a matter of blood cell count. So for the guys who have undiagnosed sleep apnea and use a boatload of EQ and anodryl, that might be some benefit there to keep their hematocrit in range. So if you have to go with the blood pressure medication and hematocrit and real blood cell count is high, and again, you're worried about that. Then an nalopril 2.5 milligrams, five milligrams might be eight here because you get two beneficial effects, blood pressure management and hematocrit control, even though there's a million different ways to control your hematocrit, but we'll save that for another tier list. Yeah, we could do a whole lot on blood because I think we misunderstand that whole. Right, exactly. It's good to do a reminder on that, but people are still worried about it. And again, you have the reference range, not everybody understands the difference in hydration and platelets and. One, and also ferritin, how that comes into play. Exactly. Right. So we'll save that. We do that another time, but the anaprolosa has risk of kidney disease. Exactly. Kidney damage as well. So they all, you know, so regarding the kidney damage and knowing that there's so many other compounds on the market, do ACE inhibitors still have a merit if needed? Or are we now pivoting more to ARBs? I would go with option B. Yeah, well, again, we can share this from that recommendation guideline, but they are moving away from ACE inhibitors being the first line. That you start with an ARB and then if you need combo therapy, you pick your second choice is either lowering the ACE inhibitions or you inhibit the ACE enzyme or use a calcium channel blocker, which then has other side effects as well. Yeah, you'll get that. ARBs are the first line now from a medical intervention. It should be prescribed to start. Right. And what, what you normally find now in terms of like general population, the most commonly prescribed one is low certain is normally what is generally prescribed to normal people, whereas we've sort of fell in line with the Talmus art and based on its, its half-life, its drug distribution, secondary benefits, you know, lowering, uh, and your 10th and two activation of the, the receptor and all the other antioxidants benefits, FAPR and whatever we've pulled out of space. But it, you know, it, it's the one that we've all favored towards. And, you know, it's, it's nice to see that we're thinking outside of like the medical community and what is more appropriate for our population of people. But like you said, when it, within each class, within a, a, or B's, they're like the Sartan drugs, there, I think there's at least 10 within the, the Andrew Tenzin, um, converting enzyme inhibitors, there's at least eight. We have a whole host of these drugs and I've moved through different generations, depending on how they partition in the body, how they're metabolized. Some of them act as pro drugs and then they convert to the active drug in the body. Um, if we were to pick one to start, then I think, yeah, starting to, to top and blocking the receptors is a, is a better strategy. In that, when you block the receptor, you still allow what has been produced and your 10s and two to move around the body and activate other and your 10s and two receptors. So obviously we're, we're getting down into the nitty gritty now, the two different types of receptors that exists. One being good, one being potentially bad, that you're still allowing activation of the good receptor. Yeah. Dean and I did a whole video just on that on my channel a while ago. Yeah. Yeah. I'll link it down below. And specifically why you shouldn't necessarily just be blocking that all the time, right? Cause there's good that comes from it as well. Right. And so when we're, we're looking at it, I guess it, it's again, by default, if we're going to choose this medication and we've got blood pressure over, you know, that pre stage one, like we're at 140 over 90 and you've done all your, you've done all your lifestyle intervention, all the easy things we covered earlier, you go in with the A or B expect and quite a dramatic shift in blood pressure, if it is and your 10s and driven. And what we're really leaning into here is genetics, genetic expression of ACE two in the lungs. And this is where, you know, you get into arguments around like everyone should be taken an A or B regardless of their status. And you're, you're disregarding that probably 60% of people don't have an and your 10s and two, um, problem in their genetic line and you're 40% to do. And then you're at 40% epigenetically from taking high doses of androgens are influencing that ras pathway. That yeah, people completely neglect them in our corticoid receptor activation where the electrolyte balance is altered, which you can easily manipulate. Dietary interventions. Let's say, let's say, let's say you're on a good stack right of steroids for anablysm offseason contest prep. Is it the Rinn and ankle tension, an old testosterone system that really gets fucked or the mineral or corticoid receptor pathway? I would say the second, the second probably depending on the more the yeah, depending on the judge, right? But in a stack, you know, of a couple of different compounds really aim towards anablysm, I would say that the mineral corticoids and the, the balance take your change regarding your electrolytes, which could have a negative effect on your blood pressure. And again, burning through magnesium and, and, and, you know, faster than usual because you have so much skeletal muscle contractions and, and losing the sodium and potassium because your dietary changes. I think that's more of an issue with body butters than an Rinn and angle tension on the testosterone system. People understand that they need to control the estrogen levels unless. Do they understand that? Unless there's a guy out there telling you to increase your estrogen levels does have a negative effect on your Rinn and angle tension, or testosterone system, and then prescribe a medication that modulate that. Interesting. Somebody has an agenda. Interesting. Anyway, anyway. Either way, the irony of what you've brought up there is either way, you have to take a medication, whether it's the evils of ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, which they're not evil. But then God forbid you say the word AI to control the estrogen to manage the blood pressure. So the iron, the iron is you end up taking a medication out of way. And you're, you're probably, I'm not going to say have less risk, but if you're going to control your estrogen, you're going to have more of a global effect over other parameters like mental health, blood pressure, fat deposition, anabolism, physical appearance, moods, just keep going on and on. I mean, unless you're transitioning, I don't know why you buy restaurants so high. I will, I will say one thing. After I did that gyno protocol, right, where I just let my estrogen run wild. And I think the highest I got was 225 blood pressure was in range. Yeah. I felt fine though. I felt fine. Like I might have to double check with my wife if was crying during particular movies are a little bit overly emotional. Mentally, I felt fine. Um, what was it? You were able to achieve a full erection. Yeah. I was able to achieve full erection. Was there a serious premature ejaculation occur? Yeah. I was able to grow my gyno to like legendary proportions or even a surgeon. It's like, uh, bro, now we see these on, uh, obese people. Um, I haven't gotten acne since. Since lowering it. I always had no since, since that time. So, and my wife noticed the same thing during her pregnancy where estrogen was undetectably high. Um, so everybody always, um, gives Estradao and myself included Estradao or hormonal fluctuations that, that it costs so much acne, right? My wife had zero acne during her pregnancy and now it's slowly coming back. Now that their estrogen levels crashed, I mean, that's an estrogen crash from like undetectably high and it drops 90% in three days. Insane. No wonder there's postpartum depression. Anyway, am I, I'm controlling my Estradao levels now, but I had my Estradao high for like four months, didn't have any acne and haven't had acne since. So there might be something to say in that regard. You know, grow your gyno, get rid of the acne. If that's an issue for you, I had one pimple here, some small one. So, but that's the only thing that I noticed. It may be at one point in time, you could ramp your estrogen really high if you can deal with the side effects. And then if you're acne prone, it might get rid of it. Possibly. I still remember possibly. Yeah. But two anecdotal of two, one on steroids, one. I would think the risks of the highest gem would outweigh any Z it threat. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that can also cause issues. Well, during the tear list, during the acne, it's probably a liver metabolism problem when you look at it, because when you have Estradao and you have Estrone and then you have the two hydroxy, four hydroxy 16, and they have the methoxy counterparts that COMT metallates. I know from personal experience, when my estrogen goes extremely high and that's just with 125 tomatoes that with with my mood, my mood completely changes quite quick because genetically, I've said it to you before, Steve, about having a very fast MAO A enzyme that just burns through serotonin. But one of the things that keeps up with serotonin's demand then, or most of estrogen is methylation. And then you end up with a scenario where you've got high estrogen and then you've got a blockage in your estradiol metabolism because you don't have enough folate metabolism. And I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, but there's times in the past where I've ran like 15 milligrams of methylfolate like max high clinical depression dosage of methylfolate to break through that methylation barrier while bringing estrogen down. That when you have high estrogen, you're putting huge demand on Sam E and your methylation to clear the estrogen as well. So that then causes all sorts of imbalances in your neurochemistry. So it's really important that, like we've said before, it's like golly locks. You want just the right amount that it serves your body physically, mentally, and everything else without fluctuating like a sky high. And now all of a sudden you've got blood pressure problems or mood issues or too low and your joints feel like absolute crap. Yeah. And for most people that seems to be towards the top of the reference range or slightly over it. So we're talking about 35 to 50. And then after that, most guys start to get side effects. I was surprised that I was mentally stable and that my acne went away. After the high estrogen. Now, I'm not sure how much the trust alone and the decade contributed, but you would say that on a stack like that, no AI, like high test, high decade, high trust alone, estradiol through the roof that I would be pimpled to galore, but that actually went away. So it's counterintuitive, but sometimes shit happens. So I'm actually happy that I did this experiment. Um, where were we? Oh, we were talking about Tom Sartre. Yeah. I guess, I guess if we look at, let's say someone does have the genetic basis. So they have angiotensin two issues straight away. Tell me certain from a tear perspective would be S. Like it's the most available drug to people are going to be shocked. Dean is recommending telling me certain and S tier. Somebody's screaming their pants in Thailand right now. 100% is going to clip this. Even Dean said it was S tier. Does he watch this? Oh, trust me, dude. He watches everything I do. So in that instance, that is perfectly suited for that case specific person, which is why I've said all the time from a pharmacology perspective, pick the drug to match the person. No, take the drug just because. So because you heard it on YouTube. Yeah, because shit flowing through XYZ. So in that regard, if they do have these genetic problems and another side point I've often said is we have two medications, I believe have been developed to address root causes of disease. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or receptor blockers go towards the genetic aspect of ACE2 and insulin. They're really the only two that go to the root cause of you've got type one diabetes can't make insulin. Here's insulin got genetic problems with ACE2. Well, unfortunately, there's nothing we can really do regardless of your dietary intervention and this that and the other. You are going to be hypertensive. So we'll block the enzyme or block the receptor to offset. What we covered was the risks of high blood pressure causing disease, not the risk of the high blood pressure itself. Right, right. And it seems that African Americans have a little higher likelihood to have this genetic issue than Caucasians do. You know, so dietary and lifestyle interventions aside, they're probably more likely to end up on a medication like this when they do heavy cycles. I mean, even personally speaking, my dad is African, he's from Mauritius. So I'm half African. Nobody would tell you. No, no. When people see the picture of me and my dad is like, geez, man, who's that guy? I still have a run and joke with a friend who still doesn't believe he's my dad. But anyway, honestly, I think if you like move countries and you post yourself a little bit to sunlight, not this UK son that doesn't give anybody a 10, I think you can get dark. I mean, remember last year, last year when I came back to vacation, I changed species. But like my grandmother and my dad have to take a combination blood pressure medication because of their genetics. And like just my dad, who's like 72, 73 goes to gym, eats right. Does everything, you know, typical sort of eight like Asian African diet. But like my grandmother, her blood pressure was sky high, even with medication. And I guess it comes down to then like the tolerance of the body to the high blood pressure and what diseases come from it and how the body's compensating for it. But then like the other side, you've got my mother, who is extremely low blood pressure that I've inherited that if I take any close to the dose of what my dad is taking for his blood pressure, I'll probably be on the floor or it have a very difficult time getting up out of a chair. So genetically, yeah, it looks like those of African descent have a higher risk of higher ACE to production. If I have to look back through my coaching logs, I mean, I didn't coach that many African Americans, but the large portion of them needed some sort of blood pressure medication and that they're following the lifestyle, just like everybody else. And so some sort of blood pressure intervention was in place. And that's why I always wonder, like some of these guys at the pro level, if they were doing that or not, it's why they seem more susceptible to kidney issues later on in life. You know, so that might be a genetic thing that people need to pay a little bit more attention to. And again, you can't do a 23 in me nowadays, but you can just buy a risk off and keep track of your blood pressure and see how that changes as you add in particular compounds. Non-accusable. Yeah. And again, some people don't respond well to telmasartan. And that's why we have Volsartan or Lozartan as alternatives. And then you lose out on these trace beneficial effects that telmasartan might have, like a PPR receptor activation and, you know, 0.05% additional fat loss or metabolic boost that you can get from the daily fast card. I guess to your side effect. You're fucking carderine, you know, we cancer. Did we ever, did we ever bring it up? I think I brought up with Kurt when we discussed it. Well, that air base, if they make you shit yourself, one of the side effects of air base that we potentially believe is leaky goats as well. They literally create junction gaps between the epithelial cells of your gut, which then opens up all other host of issues. So leaky goat is one side effect potentially of air base that if you're not, then there's liver issues like Ben Chow, for example, you started the issues as well. Yeah, I get the issues like Ben Chow, he got liver issues right away. Really? From the telmasartan. Yeah, it's just liven systems with sky eyes. Like you can't use this and then everybody give him shit. Yeah. But this is the medication to take. So well, shit, sometimes it happens. And there's a lot of drugs I can't take either. You know, I could take a lot of them, but not all of them. And then you just have to make the adult decisions. So this drug is not for me. I'm going to look for a replacement. And if that doesn't fall in line with the rest of, you know, the regurgitation in the fitness space, so be it. You have an individual body that you need to address individually with the medications if needed that match with you. That's why it's so much fun trying to figure it out. And there's always Seattle's like telmasartan. Again, it's S tier if you need it. And Seattle's is also great. I think that's S tier also, you know, it can lower your estrogen. It can improve your testosterone. It can give you massive boners. It can help with the pump. But it's a multifactorial blood pressure medication that has so many multifactorial benefits that it was prescribed as a dick pill. So a lot of people control their blood pressure with Seattle's a downside is acid reflux. You take your Seattle's with oral steroids. You're going to be burping acid the whole day unless you take a proton pump inhibitor or increase your stomach acid with B10, 100 chloride and apple cider vinegar. So that also comes with a little bit of an instruction manual. Load those five milligrams Seattle's 10 milligrams. If you're a big guy, I think you can do a lot of good, but also a lot of harm. Do you guys have any experience with Seattle's? Is blood pressure medications or recreation? I will, you know, everyone's trying it with the pump. It's it's an experience. If you stack another few things on top of it, it can be quite the experience training arms or training chest. Yeah, I think from a blood pressure perspective, yeah, the knock on effect of CGMP and raising, like again, endothelial nitric oxide production, you're probably only going to see maybe a drop in blood pressure of like four or five points. Now that might be enough to take it from 140 down into 135 or 135 into 130. But then you're getting all your potential benefits as a long half-life. It can be used maybe once twice per week. I see it quite often being prescribed by tier T clinics now as an adjuvant for blood pressure management alongside tier T, because in the UK, it's relatively cheap on a prescription perspective that adding one or two pills per week to a tier T dose gives the benefit of satisfaction in the bedroom, but also blood pressure management. And then you carry that into the gym. Yeah. Yeah. And a lot of guys are more like when they start this journey of tier T, they're probably more receptive to adding something like Seattle's because they heard about that. I think Tom Sartem, we all know about this in the bodybuilding space, but  dialysis, of course, legendary status with general population, where it helps with erection quality and might help with libido, because you have more confidence in your erection. And that sense, they've rather run that, and the blood pressure management is in warm added benefit, which initially, that's what it was designed for, but they prescribe it for its side effects, basically. You could microdose, what is it, Viagra or Levitra, you could microdose those, because they have shorter half lives, so you would need to take those once or twice per day, or twice per day, three times per day. There's dietary restrictions too with those, versus Cialis, right? Oh, really? You don't take Viagra with fat in a meal, it's not going to be food. Oh, right, yeah, because I didn't mean to. I'm just saying you have to time it correctly, there's, you know. Yeah. Yeah, Cialis you could take once per day. As much as you could use. Yeah, for sure. And it has a compounding effect. So what a lot of guys notice is that they start with five milligrams, and then after a week or two, it really reaches peak serum levels, and they get a little bit of this flushing effect, where the capillaries dilate, and they get a lot of blood flow through the face, and then it feels like you stuck your face in a hot oven. And you get the same effect with Tom Sartan when you start that, at, you know, 80 milligrams per day, or 40 milligrams per day, because you get that capillary dilation, and then your face gets hot. You can really feel that in your skin. So there's a lot of side effect that people don't really expect. And then suddenly that happens when they first use these medications, your body slowly adapts it out, or you adapt to the feeling, where this, this heat that you get through your skin is a little bit more pronounced than before due to the blood flow. Same thing from red wine, right? Well, but it's the resveratrol. So Dean, if you drink red wine, are you on the floor from hypotension? Me, I can't remember the last time I drank red wine, I was in college. Jesus, Tom was like 15 years ago. Right. So with red wine, you have the resveratrol, right? And it can also have a dilating effect, and then people get red ears from the capillary dilation. And that can also lower their blood pressure. And that's how a lot of alcoholics justify their wine consumption. It's nothing different than some guys. It lowers cholesterol too. It doesn't mean it's anything good for you. It's dissolving your body from the inside. The alcohol. So that's so what can we put? Cialis in the tier list. Do we put it over Tomasartan? Same rank, a tier. And it's eight. Yeah, I think it's eight here. I like it. Yeah, I like actually look into Cialis before looking into Tomasartan because it has more practical benefits. Yeah, well, I guess one of the things that causes impotence is high blood pressure. Ironically. Yeah, or ironically. So you're probably going towards that root cause taking something like this. And it probably falls in line like the pre-workout supplementation. As much as we see it as an erection performance boost and drug, as these benefits of performance based aspects in the gym, that people are biohacking with it from a PD perspective as opposed to even thinking of health benefits. And that just carries over. And when you go to the gym, like we're talking about your lowering your blood pressure from one aspect, just don't get sexually stimulated in the gym. Yeah. Oh yeah, you get the bonus in the gym. Yeah, now there's just so many only founds girls in the gym. So you really gotta select the way you do your training. Oh my God, man. Sounds fucking short waged up all the way. I'm here to train. If I want to see that, I'll go to Born Hub. Please stop it. Especially when you're a Cialis. Yeah, it's a loaded weapon, man. But yeah, I would rather have people look into Cialis as like the first line of defense of blood pressure management than Thomas Sartan. Because again, from a practical perspective, it has more benefits and the Thomas Sartan benefits are mostly on paper. It's a lot of mental masturbation when it comes to the benefits, the additional benefits of Thomas Sartan and how much that really plays out in the real world. Like people again, they hammer on the PPR receptor organism, but how much metabolism boosts or fat loss you get from Thomas Sartan? I think it's negligible. I think growth hormone is a bit of fat loss agent and that's a very expensive fat loss agent. You know, for what it is, it's not clean. It's not SLU. It's not, you know, these other fat burning agents that we have at our disposal. You're saying SLU versus growth hormone? Yeah, I think SLU burns more fat than growth hormone from a finance perspective. I would say pharmaceutical growth hormone, I would disagree with that. And the dose. Yeah. And the dose dependent manner. Yeah, of course, it's a dose dependent manner. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So pharmaceutical growth hormone, if you look at the cost of what you're spending. Oh, yeah, I'm just saying from a fat loss point of view, I don't think anything's going to burn fat and preserved muscles was far from. We're talking about serosteum specifically here, right? Or genotropin, omnitropin. Yeah. What you're saying, you know, you use enough pharmaceutical growth hormone and you can eat whatever you want. Yeah, true. Unless you were born with very odd genetics. That's also true. Yeah, but you really need to run a substantial amount. Yeah, we're talking about HIV, close HIV patient dosages. Yeah. And that's for most people, unaffordable or they can't deal with the carpal tunnel. So yeah, yeah, just say yes. I know I've been there and I will agree. Like if you if you go with the HIV dose, then you could just do whatever and still get lean and basically mutate. But it's either unobtainable, under unaffordable or the carpal tunnel, which potassium solves. Well, I was going to say, yeah. And with the pharmaceutical growth, there shouldn't be the side effects even at that dose. Let's go away. It's temporary. Really? How long do you need to run it? I don't know. I've been on it for years. I don't know then. Yeah, okay. Years. I wonder how long it would take for like for beginner to kind of ramp up the dosages and then go to carpal tunnel. When I ramped up, I went three, six, nine. I got to nine and then I go back to six. We're talking about milligrams guys. Oh, milligrams. No, somebody I use. Sorry. Oh, really? I went one milligram, two milligram, three milligram. Fuck you, Kurt. Nine I use and then three milligrams. Nine milligrams. Nine milligrams. Growth hormone. Nine milligrams growth hormone is a lot. Okay. The back to six for a couple of weeks and then and then it was transient on occasion. Like you'd wake up sometimes in one hand to be numb, maybe the way you were laying on it, but I haven't had numb hands in two years from it. Okay. But initially you had it. Initially you had it. But it goes away when I feel like with the UGL stuff, with the binders and stuff, it doesn't really go away. It seems to us that ramp the dosage gets worse and just kind of sticks around. And I haven't been below nine I use or three milligrams in three years. Okay. You eat whatever you want. I mean, I choose to eat clean. Yeah. I mean, could I, I'm sure I could if I chose to. I wonder what would happen if you go to Disneyland with the family and just eat. I lose weight. I'm going to get you. Yeah, I thought so. Because you're walking around and you can't actually eat enough food. It's just garbage food, but you're not eating enough of it, right? No. Because you can full eat that shit and then you're full for six hours and it can't even get the food in. It doesn't digest. Yeah. I don't know. I'm not, I'm the opposite. Like I'll lose weight. Even when I went to Vegas, if you guys, I lost weight. I got, I got lost initially and then I gained. Did you? Yeah, but I can eat like a fucking man. And it's, you know, I mean, I'm in the U.S. I gotta, I've like 10 days to eat garbage. So I'm going to eat all the garbage I can see and then I have to go back to Thailand where the garbage is not exist. Oh, there's garbage here, but it's not as garbage. Yeah, it's not as garbage. That's why I'm not going this year. So I can actually, you know, not get fat and I have to do a, you know, a binge and purge. Where were we? Seattle? Okay. So Seattle has put it in a tier. Even though I would say it's the first line of defense against high blood pressure if all the other stuff is not working, it's probably a better introduction into blood pressure management than Thomas Arton. Yeah, because then I mean from there on, you've got like the other things like less on a prayer like the ACE inhibitors, calcium channel blockers that from a mech mechanistic perspective, you know, the side effects that come from them, the actual outcome of how protective they are. To me, they're more like adjuvants that you require for combination therapy, but the combination therapy, you should only be really stacking like multiple blood pressure lowering medications if you're in that like stage two hypertension, which is like above 160 over 100. And at that point, if a lot of it is drug induced from high sky high doses of Andrians, probably reduce your dose right on. No, no, no, I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. Tell me get off the 150 milligrams on a drop per day. Come on, man, we're bodybuilders. We got to ramp up the dose and add more drugs, take ancillaries to do that. That means an ACE inhibitor and a bit of blocker and a beta drug. insulin and yeah, what's my drug side is already never use an AI though. No, never use the other 90 drugs to manage using those. Yeah. Yeah. Cover with the AI will close on. Tell us and tell me start and increase the wrong with us and some expression. Wasn't that yeah, increase estrogen. Yep. Yep. We brought that up before. I mean, isn't a paradoxical imagine you started a trend where you just set up the dose and as you keep up in the dose, there comes a point where it's an inverse curve where your blood pressure gets sky high that actually goes sky low. Same as cardery or the dose, the anti cancer. Yes, I'm serious. I did a deep dive on cardery and you find out that the anti cancer dose is higher than the cancer causing those. I'm like, what the fuck 18 studies show that it causes cancer at this dosage range and then the anti cancer dose is higher. So first you got to give yourself cancer and then you ramp up the dose and it can take the cancer away. What, what the hell? It's so proliferated. It eats itself. Yeah. You smoke the cigarette the normal way and then you flip it backwards and you smoke it the other way. Yeah. Yeah. You just blow through the cigarette. Yeah. When you keep the ash in your mouth. Yeah. Yeah. You keep the ash in your mouth. And they use methylene blue to kind of tame. Exactly. Clean it up. Oh, remember, you have more off-boards. They're really fucking high though. So I mean, you could just... Oh, yeah, yeah. The coatinine and the adipocene. Yeah, the metabolites and the nicotine itself. Yeah, it acts as an aromatosis. Why not? Yeah. And it has anti-cancer properties. And smoking definitely does not raise your blood pressure. No. No. No, not at all, man. No. That's why I'll be... That's why all these guys pop zins pre-workout. Yeah. Watch now, smoking seem to be a trend. Thanks to you. A lot of people still smoke, man. It's crazy. I used to smoke too when I quit. You smoke in Thailand? Is it big there? Yeah, it's a lot. It's a lot. They're smoking in front of the gym now. Oh, shit. Those are mostly Chinese. Okay. And I think Muscle Factory got into some sort of Chinese oboe or whatever app they used. It's like the best gym in Thailand. So all the Chinese people started showing up in the evening. Yeah. You know, if I can change smoking in front of the gym. And I just gave up, man. I couldn't... One time I went out with a barbell. I said, hey, do you... Next time I'm going to park this barbell in your mouth. See if you can smoke them, but I couldn't understand it because I didn't speak any English. And then the owner was like, hey, slow down. It's like, fuck these people have the property. That's what I have to deal with. So let's see what's last on this list. Oh, I have better blockers. Nebivalol, propanol, all that kind of stuff. I think those are really the last resort. I do like Nebivalol though, but again, it's only during the offseason. And that's not necessarily to control my blood pressure, but just to prevent laryngeal hypertrophy when the training intensity is so high. And then the downside of Tomasartan and Nebivalol and many of these blood pressure medications is hyperkalemia. And when you're taking a good amount of potassium, hyperkalemia can be a real concern. Mm-hmm. Now, what a lot of guys are going to do is then lower the potassium so they can take the Tomasartan and then the Nebivalol together. When in reality, it's just keeping your potassium intake consistent. So the excretion is consistent and it doesn't build up in the bloodstream. So we're circling right back to the electrolytes. Keep your electrolyte intake, your diet, and your low sodium potassium salt or your new salt or your heart salt intake the same. But then you're forgetting another class of drugs used for low on blood pressure. What? The calcium channel blockers? Dioretics. You just piss out. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Like those OB. I take laysticks every morning to control my blood pressure. Fuck you, fat bitch. I don't know why I pee so much. Oh, my hands are cramping when I play video games. if there was an educator out there just continuously prescribing you to take LASIKs. Someone's going to now watch. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean I do know guys that use Hadoq or Thaisat chronically. I mean look we've got an influencer that thought Halo testing was safe for women and children. Yeah, that's true. Yeah, I guess it never ends man. It's good. Do you guys go to TikTok? I haven't been on a long time now. What's on TikTok now? Don't. Just don't. I was talking with anabolic pharmacist, one of the sources, right, the affiliates, and he goes to TikTok and he's like, dude, it's like everybody copies the anabolic roundtable but they do it wrong. And everything you guys introduce and they get thousands of views. And I want to be, they want to sign up for my affiliate program and I don't let them fuck these guys. They're fucking trash influencers. They're talking about SLU and ModC and combining trend with Anadrol but they don't know how to explain it. He was getting so pissed. Nice. It's good to see we have an influence on people. Oh, we have an influence on the influencers, yeah. But they need to watch maybe two or three times before they regurgitate. Yeah. Yeah. So the Lasix, I don't think that's a valid or a but, diuretics, I don't think, I'll dark tone, right? I don't think it's a valid way to control your blood pressure. No, no. But in the scheme of it, when you're looking at combo therapy, like what we said, it's A or B, then an ACE inhibitor, a calcium channel blocker. And then the triple therapy is hydrochlorotideside on top. Yeah. But we're looking at general population here who don't manage their electrolyte balance or taking the diuretic to manage sodium loading from the nutrition. So that I was only joking about diuretics because we're talking about adding more and more drugs that diuretics should not be used to control blood pressure and put any influencer promoting them for low and blood pressure in the bin. Yeah. Yeah. Unsubscribe, unfollow that bullshit. Yeah. Well, I think the longer we do this in our space, the least or the less we even recommend diuretics, even for contest prep, because it just makes people fly it and it's very unpredictable. You know, and again, when you're truly in shape, you kind of don't need it. You don't need it. Where's water going? Yeah. It's from the muscle. If you get fat free, there's you don't have a ton of water under your skin. No. So the only real way of recommending diuretics is for people who did not get in shape or thought they were in shape and then the back stage like a mistake, right? Inflant. Yeah. Make a mistake with the insulin car loading. Okay. Fine. A little bit of injectable asics. It's not like I've never done that to people, but it's because they were not fat free. Yep. You know, and the guys that had to make a weight class and they're, you know, two kilos over and the only way to get them down is to starve them down. They're fat free. You don't need to use anything. And you fit into the class. I didn't just diuretics for the way and sucka. We talked about before, even with my own prep, like with varicose veins and vein as flow issues, using like a quarter of a tablet of diazide, the triumphantarine and hydrochlorotiolyte to get a quarter at some point in the middle of the night when you get up to go to the bathroom. So as a half-life of action of like 12 hours, it's just ensuring that if you do have varicose veins or vein as inefficiency, some fluid that might pull around your legs and blur some detail. As you start drinking fluid on contest day, you're matching the excretion of the ingestion of fluid. Exactly. Yeah. But like even then, like on contest day, coming back to electrolytes, last year I never ate anything on contest day. What I'd done was I drank like my intra-workout drink, which is highly, highly branched cyclic dextrin and then four servings of our electrolyte products. And then electrolyte plus had 510 milligrams of potassium per serving. So before I got on stage, I had 2000 milligrams of potassium from an electrolyte supplement alone that there was no way I was getting on stage flat because you're hydrating with the fluid, you're hydrating with the electrolytes. Yeah. Once the carbs are in, and I guess it's not like you're a mass sponsor where you're burned through the carbs, you need to replenish that. As long as you're resting backstage and your pump up is not crazy, then you're not going to lose any fullness from a glycogen perspective. Because most of the time backstage, well, what are you doing? You're just sitting in your ass, just laying down in your little inflatable mattress. Yeah. I get a mass monitor, okay, they're big, they need to eat some food. But for your weight, fasting up until pre-judging is fine. It's better to look at as well. Yeah. I think so. So less water retentive around the waist and no chance of having a digestible digestion crisis. You can pull a deep vacuum. And again, it's not like you need to top off the glycogen because there's less inactivity. And then you can fill out for finals. Okay, cool. Because you just had a couple of rounds opposing. Then you're losing some glycogen and some fullness. Plus it's finals, like some veins. A little bit of fun. Yeah. So I think like with the beta blockers, again, very case specific, rest in heart rate would be a big confounder to whether you choose to use a beta blocker or not, thyroid hormone status. It's very specific again because we're going back to maybe some level of adrenaline induced hypertension or catacolamine induced hypertension that we're trying to reduce stimulation on the heart so that everything slows down. But coming back to like Kurt said, like blood viscosity, we want to make sure that everything from a hematocrit perspective is optimal because the last thing we want is very viscous blood. So really high hematocrit low blood hydration. And now you're slowing the heart down in order to reduce work that the heart muscle is doing. But now it needs to try and compensate for that slow electrical activity by using more pressure to push the blood around. So it comes with a bit of a trade off when you go down the route of using beta blockers for offset like LVH or hypertension induced cardiomyopathies. Yeah. All the other stuff needs to be in place. That's why I would say an ambivalence basically the end stage option you need to look at. Because again, you can manage your heart rate with daily fast. And just to help you lifestyle. And if you use all these fat burners obviously, an ambivalence is not going to offset the heart stimulation effects from GLP-1s or thyroid medication. Okay, cliambitriol, sure. It's working on similar receptors. We have mirror brick for that. We have SLU. We have other fat burners that are non-stimulatory or minimally stimulatory. So if that's an issue, then again, you take a drug out instead of keeping the drug in and then putting an ancillary in place to prevent the side effects of that one drug that you're taking 120 micrograms of. Let's start rocket science guys. So I think they do have their place. But again, I would only use nabivalol at the end of an offseason where the abuse in the gym and the body weight is so high. And that maybe that daily fast cardio is not sufficient enough to keep your resting heart rates going because the body weight increase was so substantial. And again, you can grow slower obviously, but that's usually for seasoned competitors. In the beginning you want to get up to 300 pounds or 265, whatever. And then I think 500 grams nabivalol goes a long way. And we're talking about three months out of the year. I think you might have a beneficial effect out of it, assuming you check your potassium levels before, during and after because it can be an issue. So I would put it in C tier because it's like middle of the road. Middle of the road, not really sure when to take or, you know, just limited practical applications. And even then it's end stage application while everything else needs to be in place. Just cherry on top stuff, basically. And again, it can slow your metabolism and otherwise look at something like propanolol. So again, if your leg day is very violent, you're taking a whole pre-workout ritual and your journal levels are sky high post-workout and look into propanolol post-workout where you bring yourself out of this sympathetic drive and allow you to sleep and recover and rest faster. And then you don't really take it as a blood pressure medication, but it's more as a recovery aid where you bring the adrenaline down and the cortisol down. And then again, you take your propanolol with your growth hormone and then shut the fuck up and go sleep. I guess that falls back to the area. Pillars that sleep is another magic for lowering blood pressure and improving resting heart rate and heart rate variability that if we are jacked up on loads of stimulants and everything else, it's going to negatively affect your blood pressure. And that aspect, if you're not sleeping properly, cortisol rises, cortisol causing blood pressure problems. So yeah, sleep, your propanolol if needed, your growth hormone, other things to help you have good quality, deep sleep, your CPAP, put your mouth tape, we're going back full circle here. Yeah, so sleep, cardio and electrolytes and diet, all S tier. Yes. Some SART and we can put an S tier if you need it. And then everything else kind of falls under that. Um, again, somebody crimped their pants just now. Happy to oblige. You know, somebody needs a little win here and there after a decade of failures. And, um, yeah, I don't think we even have time for kidney stuff because it probably takes another two hours. So instead of addressing the kidney tier list, which again, there's not so much, but I'd rather spend the time on it next month than, than rush through it now because we're already two hours in. So maybe we can do like a, um, an F tier list for things that are deleterious for your kidneys. Now, of course, eating like an asshole. We all know that that doesn't help. And the opposite of not sleeping and not taping your mouth and, you know, not taking the electrolytes, it's obviously all F tier behavior, but maybe we can classify a couple performance enhancing drugs in F tier that are certainly or very likely to have a negative effect on your blood pressure, even if you're doing things right. So we're talking about high dose anodrol, maybe tremolone, right? Kurt's, um, in, in your opinion, which, which compounds should be respected when it comes to blood pressure? Yeah. Cause we're talking specifically blood pressure, then causing kidney damage, not the drug causing kidney damage directly. Exactly. Yeah. So I just want to clarify that cause people always make these assumptions that EQ causes direct kid, like that's based on like one case study. No, well, I did a deep dive on it. No, I'm just saying, but I want to make sure that it's clear. It's, it's usually blood pressure just regarding blood pressure. So, all right. I, I, I, I, I just asked for huge amounts, right? Yeah. Estrogen, obviously if it's elevated, uh, tremolone, anodrol, dbol. Yeah. What else would, um, Halo testing? Yeah. Well, pressure was always low. That point in prep. Halo testing probably has a pretty profound effect on blood pressure. If you take it during, uh, power lifting meats, then, uh, I was going to say the G for strength and yeah, it probably does. Um, that's a guaranteed nose. What else, what else am I missing? Uh, trust alone is blood pressure. I guess. No, it's not. Can two of the depending on the fluid level. So scientifically I was, I was actually preparing for like a little bit of a deep dive regarding blood pressure. Um, but it's, you know, with my rate of producing videos, I figured this was a little bit faster to get your, your guys opinion, chime in. Um, so scientifically testosterone, nanderlone, windstraw, windstraw, anivar, anadrol, bouldinone, trimbolone in, in some animal models. Uh, again, no scientific evidence to Rinnable, Deanna, but basically everything except for a prima ball and a masteron has been, and anivar, anivar. Also, yeah. And we're basically everything masteron and, um, let me see. Let me check. And primo was shown not to have, uh, yeah. So there, there's some scientific evidence that shows that even windstraw, because it is used for, um, what is it called chronic angioedema? Yeah. Chronic angioedema. And the funny thing is, uh, Tarenable actually acts as an aldosterone synthase inhibitor that's why a lot of people get cramps, which should technically modulate your blood pressure by promoting sodium excretion. You know, but in practice, it doesn't do that. Yeah. And in practice, it doesn't do that. So again, it's like nobody ever reported high potential until once on Tarenable, even though technically on paper, there should be some blood pressure lowering effects. If you're, you know, throwing the kitchen sink of, uh, sodium at it. So, uh, actually, uh, stand below also no scientific evidence. Yeah. But that's because there's no study. Same as diorobaldon, right? It's no scientific evidence anywhere to be found. But it's interesting then is this like from a mechanism perspective, uh, as acting as an androgen or is this like global? Because obviously, uh, as an androgen, you're looking at more so like angiotensin two or the angiotensin two receptor, but globally you're looking at factors like mineral corticoid expression or retention, uh, cortisol and dopamine and catecholamines, uh, oxidative stress or lack, lack of antioxidants to protect your epithelial cells or endothelial nitric oxide production, all these global things that I'm not sure if you could classify like one andrin over another, um, as being more because it's also dose dependent, right? As being more like after you take this and your kidneys, I guess from a blood pressure perspective, mostly from a blood pressure, but we'll save the kidneys for the next time because I want to do a whole list on that. And I don't think we have time for that already. I did recording for two hours with the  hypertension is like 2% right now. We appreciate you. We appreciate all of you 2%ers out there. I guess we're out of five-minute crew. From that aspect, like if you're going to put a bucket list, like a bin list for steroids for F-tier towards kidneys. No, no, blood pressure. Just blood pressure. Blood pressure, then you could pick. So let's put it this way. We run an effective dose of a steroid where we get a good response, minimal side effects. Which of these are very likely to give you high blood pressure, even though we're keeping the side effects low? I would say trim below. An effective dose of trim below will probably raise your blood pressure. Anegral. EQ. Wendstrom. Wendstrom. And windstrom. And I would add MENT alone to that. Those five. I would say, because my blood pressure increased after going on the cycle again. So I would say five compounds, nandrolone, an effective dose is what, 100 to 200 milligrams a week. I think blood pressure changes are minimal. TRT, up until 500 milligrams. I think you need to run a gram of tests before your blood pressure goes up. That's why I said testing a big amount. Yeah. And even if you control your estrogen, you can mitigate that. So with MENT alone, it seems that even if you mitigate your estrogen, it seems that it increases your blood pressure. But with nandrolone and testosterone, that's not the case. Now, premabola and mastrone, I think you're not living the lifestyle if it increases your blood pressure. Anivar probably not. Wendstrom, yes. Andadrol, very likely. At 50 milligrams per day, I think you can see some changes in your blood pressure, especially if you go to 100 milligrams per day, which is where the fun happens. That's the honest. And at prembalone, we're talking about 150 milligrams a week. I think you're the same as MENT alone, 150 milligrams a week. I think that's where most people start to notice like good effects. Of course, you can run 20 milligrams once in a while, or 50 milligrams a week, 25. I think at those cells, you don't really see blood pressure changes. But where most people start to notice the benefits, 150 milligrams a week, that's where the blood pressure starts to increase a little bit. So let's see. Trin, MENT alone, Anadrol, Wendstrom. Baldenone. Baldenone. And then Halo testing, can we put that in there? Sure. Yeah. And then the other ones I would feel are reasonably safe. And again, Halo testing is not something that you run longer. It's like a two week love experiment. Yeah. Or if it's a 10 day. Yeah, if it's not 10 days. And then again, since you're at the end of prep, it's very unlikely, even though, again, on paper with the inhibition of cortisol metabolism and all these other side effects that Halo testing has, it's very unlikely that you see blood pressure increases because you're so goddamn lean at the end of prep. I never recommended Halo testing so many times to competitors. And I never ever seen them have elevated blood pressure. That's why I didn't think of it. That's why I'm not Halo testing. It's not been an experience because I would only use it during prep. Exactly. So if you use it at the end of an offseason, for example, which I would say would be. When you're using it at the end of a prep too. Yeah. And then it doesn't really do anything to your blood pressure. So many people stay leaner. It's possible that people stay leaner. They wouldn't have high blood pressure. But I like to eat, Dean. Kurt, I like to eat. Then use more growth hormone. Oh, yeah. But then I get sleepy. Use more stimulants. You could for a long time. Use more stimulants. Constrict my blood vessels. And then the last one we should discuss are the fat burners. Some of them increase your blood pressure a little bit. Clembutrol seems to be a little bit person dependent. And dose-dependent. Yeah, dose-dependent. For me, my blood pressure always went lower on Clembutrol. But again, I use it during cutting phase. Yeah. Yeah, prep. Offender, you'll raise it. Offender, yo-him-bi, an entire dose juice. Caffeine. And then, yeah, and then some of the neutropics, like bromantane, ritalin, modafanil, Adderall, if you consider that neutropin. Crystal meth. Yeah, crystal meth. Yeah, crack cocaine. Yeah, so from the ones that people generally use, I would say that some of the Clembutrol that really an effigy, effigy, that really cause elevated blood pressure. I think effigy more. That's why we got the ECM stack. That's why we got the ECM stack to kind of help bring blood pressure down with the aspirin. And that's about it. Yeah, well, there'd be aspirins in there to prolong the half-life process. Yeah, but it also lowers blood pressure, too. Yeah, lowers blood pressure, also. And then out of all the other performance enhancing drugs, I think it's mostly the steroids. The real good hardcore steroids, they're fun to use, that increase blood pressure. But from the entire slew of performance enhancing drugs, peptides, melanotent, too, maybe? It's sort of, I guess, from a, well, but you get with melanotent, too, if you go to, I wouldn't say like an extremely high dose, but let's say like one milligram of melanotent, too, which should probably puke your guts up with. Yeah. The vasodilation effect that comes from that dose probably has blood pressure lowering effects. Right, yeah. I think that's about it, man, that you really have to be paying attention to. And then in most cases, the dose is the poison. The lack of the lifestyle and the dose is basically the sole determining factor. Pretty much. If you need blood pressure medication or not. You know? And I hate to say it, but taking these medications prophylactically the entire year. No, Dina and I talked about that, too. Not a good idea. How about we do dieting cardio prophylactically the entire year? And with that, and with that, the end of all the ground table is done before we really turn it to a half percent audience retention. So next time we'll do the kidney tier list. What I had on there, maybe we can tease the audience a little bit, hydration and electrolytes, yes, blood pressure management, like we just discussed. And then there's actually not much you can do for your kidneys. You've got astrogalus, root extract and mitochondrial compounds like SS3, 1, SLU, Pp3. Maybe you should discuss that in 30 minutes. Do you guys have 30 minutes to discuss the kidney? Because it's actually not much. I have a call. You have a call. Okay, fuck it. We'll do it next time. I think there's other things that we can add on. And we can do it offline like gliothion, cordyceps, mushroom that I've got all those things towards the kidneys that kidney disease, what we'll circle back to is oxidative stress and offsetting the impact of... Not again, Dean. Yeah, not again. Offset oxidative stress at the kidneys and then lowering blood pressure so that you're not basically punching holes in your kidneys that will never hurt themselves. That was basically my conclusion of the ball that I know deep dive regarding kidney health, oxidative stress and lack of estrogen. And with that, we are done. Guys, the links are down below for these two beautiful gentlemen with a little bit of hair and a little bit more hair. Dean, your hairline looks immaculate and Kurt, it's slowly coming back. Slowly. Slowly, good to see. Are you going to, like once it really grows, are you going to do a hairstyle or? I don't know, yeah. I'd like to have some hair again. Okay. Yeah, I like it like this. I like the wing done much. I look at it too good, it's nice to have the option. So... Take better care of my hair. GHK Copper, bro, look into that. I used to... Oh, really? So you're on the peptide bandwagon, okay. I used to do that years ago before it was a... Really? Probably before it was popular. Yeah. Oh. Just come by the pharmacies that made it here for me. Yeah. I'll do one for your hair. Yeah. GHK Copper. And one for your nails. Combination with high-dose growth hormone. You'll be cutting your nails and cutting your hair like twice a day. Exactly. It's like that scene from Indiana Jones, the Holy Grill. The Raiders of the Lost Ark, where he ages super fast and his hair grows super fast. You guys remember that? It's around our time, right? Yeah, we remember that scene, right? That's how fast it grows on GHK Copper and growth hormone. But your skin looks youthful. So you get a youthful appearance, but your hair grows really fast. Too off topic. Guys, this was a pleasure. We'll see you next month. Let's give it four weeks. This will drop on Monday very fast because I have nothing else for my editor. And then let's see, maybe the next episode on the Vigor Steve YouTube channel is another Annabelle Groundtable. I gotta get the Daddy Duty out of the way. Guys, I'll see you next month, okay? Thank you. Take it easy. Take care. Ciao.

=== FILE: Trevogrumab & Garetosmab？ ALL HYPE! Sugar Fasting？ Masteron Vs. Primobolan？ Fitness⧸Drug Community？ [GWUUCOprtrI].txt ===

 there's kind of a loss of fitness in the fitness industry, and people are really in the weeds with the lack of stuff, as we're going to. And so I think we both kind of got to a point where we realized that I think people need a little more help than ejection 87 things. Should we just refrain from calling it the fitness industry, but call it the drug industry? Yeah, it's strengthened that direction. Not sure if it's partially my fault, but hey, I started my YouTube channel with bodybuilding. I did nutrition videos, and I did supplement videos, and training videos, but nobody wanted to see that. So now it's all drug videos, and now we have a whole new generation of TikTok and Instagram influencers making one minute drug videos and trying to educate people that way, which is all a derivative of this podcast. Let's be honest here. Gentlemen, it's the Anabolic Groundtable Episode 13. It's two days ahead of Friday the 13th, so we should have waited two days to make it a double whammy. But last episode was not too long ago. I've been very, very lazy in the meantime. I've been taking care of things that I've been procrastinating about instead of making YouTube videos. But I'm happy to have you two on board again. Kurt Haven's Dr. Dean St. Martz, back for another round of the Anabolic Groundtable. What's up with you guys? Kurt, you're wearing a very nice hoodie. Or a nuts and hoodies, what's this? A skullier hat? It's cold in here. It's cold in here? It's cracked up. It's hot outside, air-conditioned. It's hot. You're wearing winter clothes in the air-conditioning. I should do that as well. Any updates on your cycle or just cruising along? No, I've been cruising. I've just been pushing more cardio and stuff. I'm just trying to accomplish different things. I ran 20 miles last week. Oh, wow. Just for the heck of it. How's the needs? I've run most of my life, so they're fine. I figured I would try different fitness goals. Yeah. Sometimes you need a new challenge, right? Yeah. AJ Sims and I are partnering on some online education stuff, not specifically. Kind of a different take on fitness than what's out there. We're not really discussing anabolic. We'll go into some TRT or TRT plus stuff, but it's more geared toward being an optimal man. So it's geared more toward men and just what it means to be a leader, a father, a husband, a partner. Where fitness industry is that? There's a huge market for that. There's a huge market. There's been, really, I guess, to sum it up. There's kind of a loss of fitness in the fitness industry, and people are really in the weeds with the fitness stuff as we're going to. And so I think we both kind of got to a point where we realized that I think people need a little more help than ejectionate themselves. Shoei, should we just refrain from calling it the fitness industry but call it the drug industry? It's strengthened in that direction. Is that okay? Yeah, it's strengthened in that direction, so we're going to try to work. I'm not sure if it's partially my fault, but hey, I started my YouTube channel with bodybuilding. I did nutrition videos, and I did supplement videos, and training videos, but nobody wanted to see that. So now it's all drug videos. And now we have a whole new generation of TikTok and Instagram influencers making one minute drug videos and trying to educate people that way, which is all a derivative of this podcast. Let's be fucking honest here. Let me emphasize, let's be fucking honest here. It's all just copy and paste. I get my own information regurgitated back to me, but wrong. Isn't that? I'm like, what the fuck? Anyway, so I think we can call it the drug industry now. And contributing that with some masculinity and how to behave yourself and how to conduct yourself, I think we'll be a warm welcome. Because I'm a bald, and I keep unsubscribing more, unfollow more than I follow, restrict their height. Yeah, and I'm not even on trend, dude. Like if I was on trend, I would get it, but I'm just on TRT now, doing a test. I had a running load of this in-gen lie experiment, which is fun. A little bit watery, but it's not too bad. Yeah, so not sleepy though. I would expect to be sleepy all day from this in-gen lie, but so far so good. I know Cortez has his own ideas on it. Give me 10 more days, then I'm running on a third pen. I'll do some blood work, and then I'll see what the results were. What's the dose? 10 milligrams, or six milligrams per day. So if you discount for the ATG subunit, it would literally translate based on the molecular weight, to 10 I use growth hormone per day. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, so I'm taking basically like MK-677 for three people, without the ravenous appetite. Well, I had ravenous appetite, but that was after three days of sugar fasting. Not a good idea, we'll discuss that too. But so far so good, yeah, I'm full. I'm slowly getting leaner, as you would expect from growth hormone. My hair is growing super fast, my nails are growing super fast, because I haven't used growth hormone for all the entirety of the year, because people want me to do that follow start and experiment, that pick out the gene. YK-11 and the follow start in 344, which is something else, my God. We'll discuss that maybe, and otherwise we'll leave video about it soon. But yeah, buying back on the growth hormone now 20 days, yeah, I like it. I like it, it does something. Unless a deem around my ankles and hands, compared to 10 I use generics, or 10 I use pharmaceutical. Maybe it's because it's a longer acting one, or maybe because it's shit. It's really designed to, it's what's designed to mimic the placental, so the retin, which is not IGF one, it's IGF two. It's to protect the fetus, right? So as women moves on a pregnancy, the estrogen keeps going up and up and up, just like modern body builders, and the IGF, it's basically binding the IGF to prevent it from harming the fetus, and it's also preventing it from causing muscular growth in the mother, because that's not advantageous in a state where you need extra calories to grow another human. And then the placenta will then excrete IGF two to the fetus, not one. So if the placenta was secreting IGF one, the fetus would grow too large to deliver the baby. So it delivers IGF two, which is not gonna have the same muscular effect that IGF one will have. We're really not sure what even IGF two does. And that's what that drug was designed to do, is just to mimic. So while you could call it long-acting GH, it's not necessarily mimicking the response that we're looking for. That's fitness people. That doesn't mean it won't do something. I don't know. I usually tell people just to avoid it, because it's not, I don't think it's gonna do what. It's like any of these other things. Everyone wants to jump on this new and fancy. Yeah, that's half the fun, Kurt. You gotta keep expanding your portfolio of drugs, because it's a drug community. We can't just talk about drop sets and super sets and reps and reserve anymore, because there's no new science there. Well, some people think that there's new science, but I think the try and improve in heart training still stands. So we gotta, you know, okay, we've got a sugar diet and a carnivore diet before that, but the drugs keep evolving. So that's why we gotta put our efforts to, and in general, as one of them, man. So TRT and in general, for me, albeit adults for three people. Dean, I heard you're on the Trimbalonni sandwich again. We are, what is it? Three weeks, four? I don't remember now at this point, maybe four. Neurotoxicity, man. Yeah, I'm starting to slowly forget. I think it was four. I can't remember when I started to diet now, to be honest, because before it's just day-to-day. I think it was like four weeks before episode one, so it's been like 14 months now. 14 months. I'm 20 minutes against Trimbalonni pre-workout. And that's actually, we were juice. Remember, we said we'd go from 40 to 20, so it's 10 twice per week, and the train is chew-chewing along as it's supposed to. So we obviously put the photo up from last week's training. You know, fullness is back, getting leaner. I want to see how far I can push without having to do structured cardio, and just a baseline activity, which is like 7,000, 8,000 steps. We've got nine weeks to our vacation, so I'll give another two weeks. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. You're taking Trim for your vacation? Well, we did say. I'm gonna start to spot this off with so much cynicism. Yeah, well, we'll see, obviously, that the experiment was to keep the tea or tea as it was, and to prove what could be done if you add in a small little bump of it, a very androgenic compound for training, for moods, for lipolysis, add in the 25 apples four days a week as well, and then see what that synergy between... Well, there's two kinds of apples. There's very round and full apples, and there's very hard and dense apples. I was thinking, he's talking about hard and dense. Yeah, I think it's a hard and dense one. That sounds like a good dose. Like, the round and full, they're like, yeah, about half an apple too short. I was gonna say that's at least about four apples, be sure. Now, we might put in some super apples towards the end. If we really did take the absolute mickey on the beach. But so between that, it's 245 total per week, which is like someone's tea or tea. Yeah. I'm gonna be very interested to see, obviously, bloods, I expect bloods to change slightly, and also probably lipids, but so far so good. So far so good. I mean, the physique has changed, and no change to nutrition. Like last year's prep, food's still high. I had that trace gluten exposure two weeks ago from... So obviously in the house, you can't say to the kids, you can't eat gluten, because daddy can't eat gluten. So I was eating my dinner, and he was eating a cereal bar beside me, and I think some of my crumbs got into my food. I wasn't paying attention, but I literally woke up the next day on Monday, and I was eight months pregnant. Yeah, I showed it to my wife. She's like, full term now. She's like, oh, congratulations, Dean. Looked more breakout in her. I mean, breaking it into it, I kept putting it off for a minute, and you're like, I must do a five day fast. I must do a five day fast. Just for gut health. That morning, I was like tomorrow, okay, yep, no eating until Saturday, which obviously kickstarted the whole diet, because I was like right now, I can start the diet from Monday. I've regulated your fibroblast growth factor 21 with no carbs. Without eating a lot of Harry Bose. Yeah. Which we can get into. But obviously the fast this time around was a bit strange because towards the end of the fourth day, in my mind, I had it set that I was gonna beat my record, which is like five and a half days, five hours, five days, 13 hours that I said, right, that's like Saturday, midday. If I get to like Saturday evening, I broke my record. And then Friday heading into Saturday, my mood that evening just started to tank, which obviously is genetics. So I've got very fast MAOA genetics. So my serotonin turnover is really, really quick. By that point, not feeding my body protein and amino acids, my turnover of neurotransmitters started to tank and my mood was starting to become rubbish. And I thought, I can't last until Saturday evening feeling this way. So I thought, okay, Friday evening break my fast, which at that point was five days, which was more than enough time. Yeah, the most I've ever gone to was six and a half days. And the last two was horrendous. And it's with some L-tropithane in there and phrovoxamine just to keep me going. So yeah, you just, all you want to do is sit on the couch and watch TV. You can't do anything at that point. You're so depleted. I asked the chat GPT, what's like the ideal ratio between fasting and a ketogenic diet. And it came to the conclusion that fasting for two to three days, followed by three to four days over ketogenic diet is basically the best for fat loss. Yeah, but that's chat GPT. Which is interesting because for correct, like mitochondria function, you need glucose metabolism to happen, which is where there's like a trade off between a ketogenic diet improving instant sensitivity, but on the other side, making your mitochondria slightly less efficient because of you're not really going down that glycolysis pathway for oxidative phosphorylation. It's free fatty acid oxidation, creating pyruvate and NADH through that met. So what about if we just hammer the SLU and the PP332 and the MOTC and the methylene blue and no carbs? By real weight supplements, you can buy those over the counter, right? For a stack of four. I think, you know, like that with anything, if you have the knowledge there, that's sort of where historically ketogenic diets would get you so far. And then you start running to some issues with mitochondrial efficiency of having to bring calories down to keep losing body fat. Regardless of a high carb diet versus a low carb diet. And that's where in the last, probably a year and a half, two years, the whole thing of keeping carbs as high as possible in a contest scenario is what a lot of people are doing, finding benefit because of improved training performance from glycogen, improved mitochondrial function because of glycolysis and feeding into the electron transport chain. It's very rare you see guys, unless they prefer, like if fatty acid oxidation is that person's preferred energy pathway, then, you know, everyone has their own individual biochemistry, a low carb ketogenic diet might suit your biochemistry better. But we're seeing that shift away from like having to go extremely low carb on purpose when that person's body might actually favor carbs and glycolysis as the way of creating energy to allow them to perform and train better. I mean, as a whole humans would prefer glucose. Yeah. Exactly. So where do you guys want to get started first? This sugar-foss diet or the Shreveggrumup and the Gretosmup, what did you get more direct messages for? Let's start there. For me, it was the GDF-8 and the active inhibitors, but let me know where you want to get started. Got me a lot of texts. Yeah, Dean, you too? Split between the two, obviously between my fast of eating, nothing, and then someone going, well, why don't you eat a load of sugar during your fast? I think we can go either way. I think let's start with the monoclonal antibodies. And I guess this is a whole order dimension of compounds we're heading into that from a pharmacology perspective would be classed as biologics, which we're going to see very, very expensive biotechnological drugs that most people need medical support or medical, I guess, referral in order to get the funding to take these compounds. Yeah, so I already did the research on how much it costs. Basically, if you want to stick with the clinical trial dosage, the safety and efficacy study, not the clinical trials, but I look at particular muscle wasting diseases or other kinds of issues where it was shown to be beneficial, just in healthy individuals, in the men who are shown to be beneficial at the highest dosages, we're talking about six to 10 milligrams, and then sourcing that through some of the online chemical websites where they have high purity compounds, all costs you want to have million dollars for 13 weeks. Yeah. So, fund it. So, you can deal. Fund it, guys. Yeah, start to go for me and Steve will climb. I will gladly do it. I mean, I'm sure. So I went to Sigma Aldrich. He can't find it there. Let me just share my screen real quick so you guys know exactly what's going on. So I found this website, Medchem Express, and they sell a travel group up, a Regen 1033, and five milligrams cost you $1,500. Now, I'm sure you can get a better quote for 10 milligrams or 50 milligrams, but you have to contact them. So if you divide 1500 milligrams or $15,000 by five, you get about $300, all right? And for Gretus Mop, Regen 2488, the price here listed is $1,650, which was actually lower before. So they bumped out the price. So it's $165 for one milligram. But if you go to the clinical trial dose, just let me see, this is the one, and guys, I'll link everything down below, obviously. So here you can see this is a single dose blockade of a GDF-8 and active in A antibodies, monoclonal antibodies. So that's travel group up and Gretus Mop, increasingly lean body mass and increased fat mass. This is in healthy individuals who did not exercise, so that's promising. And then here you see a change from baseline of thigh muscle volume determined with an MRI. If they combine anti-active in A, which is Gretus Mop and anti-GDF-8, that's travel group up at 10 milligrams and six milligrams per kilogram of body weight, you see the most change. And then you see that across the board when you combine both of these compounds at the highest dosages, you basically see the most change in lean mass and let's see, other things. So if you calculate that to something that's useful, so if you go with travel group up, the anti-GDF-8, aka anti-myostatin, highest human clinical trial dose, just six milligrams per kilogram of body weight intravenous every two weeks, which means based on what I just found on this MedChem Express, at $300 per one milligram, a three month supply injected six milligrams per kilogram of body weight every two weeks, for a hundred kilogram body builder, would run you $1,080,000. And that's just one compound. Gretus Mop, the anti-active in A, monoclonal antibody, the highest human clinical trial dose is 10 milligrams per kilogram of body weight, intravenous every four weeks, so at least the administration is less often. Or at $165 per one milligram, a three month cost for a hundred kilogram body builder would be $495,000. So it's basically one and a half million dollars to run the dosages which were shown to be efficacious in the clinical trials for three months. For three months. And that would be like a cycle. Of course, these studies are like an injection at week one, two, four, six and eight, or one, four, and then follow up for up to 20 weeks, where the results were quite pronounced. And again, that's incinitary individuals that are otherwise healthy. So not people who are obese, and then take somicrotide to get the obesity under control. That's an animal model, where you lose insulin sensitivity, obviously on the skeletal muscle, shrink a little bit in that process, in a high fat, high fructose diet. Your muscle shrinks a little bit, and then it would take somicrotide, and Travegrumab or somicrotide, and Gretusmab. And then the fat mass would go away, and the lean muscle comes back to a certain extent, or maybe higher than baseline. Or there's less lean muscle loss due to the somicrotide. Now, these animals, they don't exercise. These animals don't take high protein diets that are not very similar to us. And even these healthy individuals, macronutrient intake was not tracked. Training was not tracked. And even then, it shows that lean muscle mass goes up. And again, these healthy individuals, they don't have insulin resistance, or they weren't fed a high fat diet, high fructose diet. So in this case, there's no loss of insulin sensitivity on the skeletal muscle, but muscle actually goes up. You see the same thing with SARMS. You see the same thing with ACE083 and ACE081, or 31, which were, let's see, there were fallostatin, or myostatin and hemorrhage as well. I did a deep dive on that. And even with fallostatin 344, you see similar results. Now, I ran fallostatin 344 for three fucking weeks at one milligram per day. And even though the results were good, they were not as good as steroids. Does anybody know anybody that took steroids and got muscle mass and fat loss at the same time comparable to these results? Raise your hand. Yeah, pretty much. These results resemble TRT, dude. I mean, when you look at what changed there, even on the first graph, it was a 6% change in time mass. So let's say you've got a 100 kilo male, and for even sake, if we have about 40% of our body weight in our lower limbs, and each leg weighs 20 kilos, it's not a lot, 6% of 20 kilos, 1.2 kilograms that you've gained, which when you actually look at what 1.2 kilograms, which is what, 2.2 pounds, 2.3 pounds of muscle tissue, what that actually looks like as a piece of meat going on to your quads, it's not a huge amount for 1.5 million. I don't think you can see the difference visually. That's 1.5 million to add in theory from this result, you know, maybe two, three pound of muscle tissue. You might notice it if you wear skinny jeans. That's it. No, okay, it's without training, right? That's without training. So it is promising, but I think if you go on TRT, you'll gain that 1.2 pounds or kilos also in your leg. Yeah, depending on how androgen deficient you are, you know, your metabolic flexibility, your ability to train, recover everything else, like that IGF-1 turnover, it's interesting, but it's gonna be more interesting which wins them between this or bio-glutides, because at the end of the day, bio-glutide is coming in with the IGF-1 peptide aspect attached to glip, GIP and ghrelin, glucagon, sorry. Yeah. That, you know, have a compound that stops this muscle wastage that can occur with not eating properly with GLPs. And I think bio-glutide will hit the market well before teragromop or gretus mop hits because I contacted all the sources to see if it was available at a cheaper price and not in the pipeline either. Well, the problem is monoclonal antibodies are very difficult to produce. You can't, like someone can buy a peptide synthesizer and basically give it the recipe, have all the amino acids in the vials and you literally just tell it to a coupling recipe and it just builds it like building a cake. To do monoclonal antibodies, you have, well normally in the past, they were used ovarian hamster cells, so C-H-O's. And you basically grew these antibodies so you gave the recipe to the antibody and then you purified them from these ovarian cells. And they're biologics for a reason because they're then as a high potential for contamination risk. And obviously with misfolded proteins, we can have high risk also. Peptides more so don't have that necessarily risk because the tertiary structure of a peptide doesn't interact to the same extent as a protein structure. It does still have a 3D structure and a tertiary structure but it's not as critical if you take a misfolded protein substance, which is like a prion that you're gonna end up with problems. With these monoclonal antibodies, if there is a small change in the sequence within the antibody protein, now you're gonna start targeting other things and not what you're targeting to block because really what these antibodies do is they block receptors. Yeah. So you have these monoclonal antibodies that block receptors and they have A031, A0383, those were decoy receptors for myostatin. So it's basically pholostatin and then modified. And if I remember correctly, A0383 was rapidly deactivated in the bloodstream. So they would administer that in a baller shot of 240 or 120 milligrams intermuscularly and that was shown to only cause localized muscle growth but not anywhere else. And what I'm wondering with these monoclonal antibodies is that if you take that systemically, again, all these clinical trials are done intravenously, if you take this systemically and you combine that with something like semi-glutide or retrotutide, which is what basically in the pipeline is, they wanna combine this with GLP ones and prevent muscle wasting because these people don't eat correctly and don't exercise, which is actually highlighted in one of the discussions of the studies, I can show you that later on. What happens is with semi-glutides, there's a put-ide retrotutide, your resting heart rate goes up. And then what starts happening if you start blocking the active in the myostatin in your heart? Do you now get heart enlargement? Hasn't been studied, but that will be my first concern. Now I take clean and stimulants and of course already have LVH from steroids that I took, but this would be my main concern for general population that doesn't exercise, doesn't do cardio to keep that ventricular contraction and injection fraction under control. If you start increasing your resting heart rate at five to 10 points by mega-dosing semi-glutide or retrotutide later on and then combining it with these kinds of medications, sounds like it's a recipe for heart enlargement, which you're not going to mitigate by doing your daily fasted cardio. And then what's the next combination medication, a fucking beta blocker? Right? So it's not, it has been investigated in any of the clinical trials regarding resting heart rate, where I try to look through it at all the clinical trials that investigate these kinds of medications. Cardiac function is not investigated. And do you really want to block active in? I mean, it's going to stop stem cell proliferation, right? I think one of the concerns is bone density as well. Yeah. And tendon laxity. I mean, yeah, I mean, I like how do you think that's going to be outside the box, but monoclonal antibodies, I think are more, in my view, more beneficial for targeting a specific pathogen or something like that where we can go in and like, with before the mass rollout of what medicine was rolled out in the 2020s, one of the theories that I've suggested was, why aren't we making a monoclonal antibody against this problem? And it was cost. It was a lot more difficult to scale a monoclonal antibody against the ACE receptor of this problem that we had in the world than it was to create a transcription product that we give out to everyone. Yeah. So here's just something I'm going to show you in one of the studies. So here, this is the investigation in the animal model. So they use mice and what is it, macaque monkeys, to see how these monoclonal antibodies behave in the context of a high-fat, high-fructose diet. And here they say in the discussion, while it has been shown that moderate exercise can lead to healthier weight loss with JLP1 receptor agonists, it is difficult to get patients to adhere to such regimens outside of controlled trials. So this doesn't fall within the fitness community or the drug community, where most of us actually do go to the gym. In addition, there's some evidence that patients started on JLP1.  GLP-1 receptor agnes may actually decrease their physical activity. Thus, widespread use of GLP-1 receptor agnes may result in widespread public health concerns. So by prescribing glp1s, people exercise less because they have less energy because they eat less, where in reality you just need to put them on a diet and exercise program and then use GLP-1 later on. Let's see, causes widespread public health concerns, particularly in individuals with obesity or low lean muscle mass and the elderly. So it's hard to get people to adhere to exercise and clinical trials because people are lazy as fuck. Well, that's the pill for an ill and what can reverse environmentally induced problems. Obviously, we've touched on before, yes, there's some genetic aspects to it, but if we're going to use these to combat muscle wastage in GLP-1 use, we already see that once glp1s are generally stopped, people regain most of the weight they lost if they never addressed the dietary habits and things that happened in the first place. Yeah, and with glp1s, it's very important just to change your dietary habits because if you suppress your appetite, it's very important to at least get the protein and the healthy fats in and then at least provide your body with nutrients. But you see this over and over again, I went on semi-glutide and I lost bone marrow density, yes, because you kept eating the same garbage that got you fat, but now you eat less of that garbage and now you don't even get calcium in your diet. When in reality, you should be eating your proteins, your vegetables and healthy fats and maybe some carbs to fill up the micronutrients and shut the f**k up and then live a healthy lifestyle. But people don't do that, that's what Genome Population does, they go into GLP-1 and then they go to McDonald's less. You know, they go to Cheesecake Factory less, which is great, they lose weight that way, but half of the weight is coming from muscle mass, they don't change their lifestyle, they don't go to the gym. And I think this muscle loss that occurs with GLP-1 is purely because they lack the knowledge and the perseverance to go to the gym and eat healthy, which in reality- How they got fat in the first place. What got them fat in the first place and yeah, no, it's true. I mean, it's a lifestyle disease and how they could get themselves out of this fat and obese and disgusting lifestyle by eating healthy and going to the gym and then when you do need to control your appetite later on, okay, use GLP-1 from 12% body fat onwards or something or 10% when you can't control your appetite, when it's been six months on a diet. Yeah, I don't know if I said this last time, there's 900 soma genes that control the EMI, but yet 96% of obesity is lifestyle related, so they're doing it because they're lazy and using glps, sorry, might be lazy. I think hunger signaling is very important when you diet, right? So when bodybuilders use it, that feedback is needed. So you understand what your body's doing. I think that there's very few examples that it's warranted. I see lots of guys try to use it when they're at some mediocre level of body fat. If you can't get pretty darn lean without using stuff like that, perhaps that ain't the sport for you. Yeah, I'm sorry, but guys have shredded glutes way before these silly drugs existed. I do think it's warranted in certain contexts where you have a lot of responsibilities and you'd want to take away the food noise, like some people have worse food noise than others. But you need to learn to condition yourself to that. Yeah. Right, that's, and that noise is your body's telling you you need to learn how to deal with that and cope with it, right? And most people, I interact with thousands of people, I see very few people who are truly starving, right? You see a body that are doing 3000 calories and he's crying about how hungry he is. Most of the world doesn't even eat that much. It's gotten to a place that, like I said before, we've completely removed fitness from fitness and now we're just trying to take as many different chemicals as we can to bypass any sort of responsibility about our health or fitness, right? We all want to look a certain way, but no one's willing to actually do the work to get there, right? Let's take it. Thank God, thank God for TRT and GLP-1 to accept their eigenes, man. Everybody can get results. Which we still don't see. You've got a Disneyland, you still see fat people. Yeah, of course. It's not a change. When those people come off the GLPs, they're going to be just as fat. Yeah. They didn't ever learn how to eat, right? Like the study shows, they don't exercise. When is that groundbreaking stuff that if you exercise, weight loss is healthier? I mean, do they even eat? Yeah, like does that even need to be written? Yeah, it's weird, huh? It's weird. And then it seems like every, you know, Mike Yestertape made a video about these compounds and everybody lost their shit and started flooding my inbox. But it's the same thing that happened with SARMS, with Osterine, where you saw these kinds of, you know, dramatic changes where without exercise, where muscle mass goes up and fat mass goes down. You see this in TRT studies, where fat mass goes down and muscle mass goes up. You see this with follow-stop and studies with ACE038A031. And at least those are available. But this is not available. And they're costing a billion dollars, even if they're available. No, but somebody, everybody that's raving about this shit says that it's the next best thing, but they haven't even fucking tried it yet. So why are you opening your mouth? I hate to say it, but why are you opening your fucking mouth? We haven't tried this stuff yet and then praising to the God that this is going to be the next best thing, at least use it first. You know? I mean, what I don't understand then with these biologics is the share cost. So if we are if we are giving this to a human to reduce obesity, we are looking at someone who is like morbidly obese, who has no potential way of moving if you wanted to put it that way, that they literally just sit and eat all day. That we're giving this drug to stop them from eating, to preserve the muscle mass in their body so that they don't waste away from no appetite. It cost a 1.5 million for three months. You know, this is a 100 kilo male. So let's take someone who is critically obese, 140, 150 kilograms. We're going into a territory where that cost even starts going up. And like Kurt said, then with biologics, you normally get an exemption and it's paid by your public health funds. You make a cause like we have some monoclonal antibody compounds. So anything that ends with MAB is for monoclonal antibody map. And there's just loads of them. If you search up, yeah, there's loads of them. Formulatory books, you'll see all the monoclonal antibodies and be honest, some of the names get crazy. I don't even know how half of us remember but they are very specialized compounds that need exemptions to be prescribed. So I just, yeah, it's great hype but I don't see a filtering into the fitness industry. No, unless it's like $10 a bottle or $50 a bottle. But I don't think it like, but follow statin is 80 bucks a pop like on the gray area market. If you go get it in China, it's maybe $17 to $25 per file depending on the quantity. So and even that is expensive. Because compared to GH, let's say you run, let's say you run, you need to run a valve of something to get results like a valve growth hormone 10 years, a valve of IGF-10 or 3, 1 milligram, a valve of a follow statin 3 for 4, 1 milligram. And the follow statin 3 for 4 is the most expensive and you get the least results. Well, because who said myostatin is the ultimate rate limit in this process? It isn't. It's a total picture. It's a total picture. Right. And when you're in the house and if you want to, if you really want to do like a myostatin, follow statin cost of benefit comparison injectable YK-11 wins hands down out of all of these compounds because it's recently cheap. It doesn't really skew your lipids. It doesn't really skew your liver enzymes. It's readily available. The post injection pain is minimal. And it's just an antibiotic step, anabolic steroid, which, okay, YK-11 is two or three studies on it. But you know, anecdotal experience, it's been around for what five to 10 years now. There's a lot of anecdotal experience that we can learn from and I get great results. So cost of benefit, I would say injectable YK-11 wins out of all of these myostatin modulating compounds, including a picatogen and follow statin 3 for 4. And these are just the latest things that you can throw in the pile. But I don't think you would get that great of results, even if it was $50 for a month for a bottle. And again, if you want to spend $1.5 million for 6% gain in muscle mass, to give that shit to me, I'll coach you through it, and I'll put you on TRT and you'll get 6% additional muscle mass with maybe a little bit of growth hormone, and I'll put the rest in Bitcoin and laugh my way to the bank, you know. It's funny how one video can send this entire fitness industry to crazy and then, you know, I make a video about so much wrong, which actually has a lot of promise and scientific evidence. Nobody watched MOTC same thing. And so you PPP, okay, people burn that now, but stuff that's actually promising that actually works, we can actually use it just completely overlooked. And then this is hyped beyond belief when nobody can use it. And again, guys, if you've used it, let me know, let me know down below. If you have the money to run it, let me know down below. And if you don't want to run it, but you have the money, send it to me, I'll gladly run it for you. Oh, wait, Elon Musk is calling, he said he used it. Yeah, he would be, yeah, he needs some, he got a black eye recently, we're talking too much shit. Yeah, he could do with some monochrome antibodies. But yeah, I think this is just one of those things that looks promising right now based on one study. There's several different studies, there's animal models, there's one human clinical trial, which looks promising. And that was the same for SARMs, and that turned out to be a fluke. So seeing as believing until that time, please stop deeming me about this shit. Because, you know, there's been multiple compounds like this on the market, and none of them really did anything worth your money, besides injectable YK-11. I've tried all of them so far, you know. So yeah, I hope it ends now, but I don't think so. Hey, have you looked into Travorker's Mup or Gretel's Mup? Oh, man, I'll link all the studies down below so you can read them yourself. It is very interesting, very promising, but until it hits the market, don't get your hopes up. And even when it hits the market based on all of the compounds that I've tried so far in this category of drugs, I would say don't get your hopes up. And remember that, what is it, the $20,000, $25,000 follow-up in gene therapy that's running around? All the guys that I know that tried it, that got it for free, said it didn't do shit. Literally didn't do shit. So what's the point, you know? Use some fucking steroids and shut the fuck up. I was gonna say, why don't we just stick with things that have been proven to work. Go read the Basin study and then shut the fuck up. I mean, all that CRISPR technology looks great. Going in and splicing sections of your genome to insert. Maybe we don't use AI design drugs. Yeah, bring your rats back. Yeah, I know a girl who can do all the intrapartial injections. She's very popular on Instagram. All right, so with that out of the way, let's go over to the sugar fasting diet. It's making the rounds. Mark Bell is an advocate. Chase Irons is doing it right now. It's getting some good results. I did it for three days as per instructions of a fuel to thrive. What is it called? Yeah, fuel to thrive 2.0. That's the e-book that Jobin Lee wrote, the owner of Project AD. He's been around for a very long time. So he cordially sent me that e-book. I read front to back three times and then the diet. I had some good results regarding body composition, got full, got a little bit leaner the first two days. And then by the third day, I went into a blood sugar roller coaster where I was hypo and hyper and I didn't feel good. And then it took me a week to get out of the cravings because my metabolism was boosted to the point that I couldn't stop eating. So first three days, I got leaner and then I got fat. Yeah. Yeah, it was fun though. Eating a lot of fruit and honey, manuka honey, very expensive manuka imported. And then finishing the day off with some licorice from a hurry bow. Good stuff. I mean, where's the common sense? I mean, it does make sense on paper. If you do the research about fiber-brow cloth factor 21 and the, you know, upregulating mitochondrial function, improving insulin sensitivity and then using, you know, the triglycerides and free from fatty acids that are being liberated to kind of burn away the excess, right? In the chlorine difference that you're making, it does make sense on paper and there's plenty of people who get results from it. I just don't think it's sustainable. And I don't think it's suitable for everybody because my blood glucose levels were all over the place by day three. And that's following exactly the adherence of what needs to be done, you know? And of course, I come from a ketogenic diet, my insulin sensitivity might be a little bit different than other people. It might be good to do one or two days a week. I had a horrible taste in my mouth. Is that just car cycling? It is. Yeah. At that point, it's basically carbs. Except for the shit protein source. Yeah, there's no protein. You basically take collagen protein because you have to avoid isolucine. Yeah, isolucine suppresses fiberglass growth factor 21. And that's where this metabolic increase metabolic boost comes from. Now fasting also increases FGF 21. So I would make the case that why don't we fast one time per week and then get an FGF 21 boost one day a week, which is something a lot of people do. I mean, John Minow's advocated the one day fast. I've done one day fast sometimes. I think Roman Fritz fast one day per week. He doesn't struggle with his body fat levels. But I think if you want to upgrade FGF 21, either inject it or do it once in a while. I think the premise was to make your mitochondria more efficient. Obviously, we touched on having a higher carbohydrate diet for mitochondrial efficiency and improving lipolysis. But I just, if we have a natural athlete doing this, then I can see all hell breaking loose. And that if they are taking modified hormone assistance, their muscle protein breakdown is going to be a lot lower than a non enhanced person. Their enhanced testosterone levels going to have improved IGF one, that I guess this is going to maybe work for those who are in the assisted community. But those who are in the assisted community will be on that. I guess even the different sugar sources. So what's advocated is pretty much sucrose, like straight up sugar, glucose, or a combination of glucose and fructose from home. Yeah, about 40, 50 glucose and fructose. Yeah, that's pretty much what they recommend. And then you're, you're hoping that you don't have gut dysbiosis, because now you're feeding a lot of glucose into your gut. And most people's gut health is atrocious. And you're also relying on there being adequate insulin sensitivity that when that glucose is emptied into the small intestine and absorbed into the body, the pancreas doesn't have a feeling like maybe what you see where it's so unpredictable that you've got a baseline glucose intake from I guess starchy carbohydrate sources, vegetables, like your standard baseline nutrition. And they're just having a free for all with simple sugars that your woman or your pancreas thinks, okay, it's, it's fairly predictable and what's coming into the body. And now you have either a hyper insulinogenic response where you produce too much insulin and now your blood sugar completely falls. And now your liver is having to make glucagon to get your glucose level back up again. And now you're trying to restore glycogen within the liver and everything has after that that it looks great on paper. But like you said, why, why not just fast for four or five days or 72 hours? Like if you're skeptical about 24 hour fasting, go beyond the 24 hours where you know autophagy and my topology to break down a mitochondria starts occurring. Yeah, that's what two or three days. So that's that's why, you know, it seems that fasting for two or three days seems to be the most ideal for fat loss without down regulating your metabolism without down regulating your thyroid levels without down regulating your mitochondrial function. And it's at least with fasting, that's where most of the FGF 21 increases occur day two and three. And then it kind of slows down again, and then protein catabolism picks up. So you get a lot of these free amino acids in the bloodstream converting into gluconeogenesis and it might suppress FGF 21 as well. So this is the reason why they like to sugar fast, because if you exclude particular or a certain amount of protein, especially isoleucine, and excludes direct dietary fats, which you might still get a lot from a lot of fruit and, you know, candy, basically, can have a lot of fat in there. But if you limit that to below 50 or 30 grams per day, then this FGF 21 is just continuously upregulated. Now, the glucose would, of course, be protein sparing, right, because your mitochondria prefer, you know, the glucose is why high carb diets work so well, you can reduce your protein intake to 150 grams per day. I just wonder if if you do this for like 21 days straight or one week straight, how would it outweigh versus normal fasting regarding your overall body composition? Because I get phenomenal results in body composition from full fasting and digestive health goes up tremendously because my digestion takes a break and my pancreas and my gallbladder and my liver, all kind of, you know, relax and detoxify and intestinal inflammation goes down. But with this, after three days of this fruit diet, from the lack of fiber in the fruit, right, and I would eat like rice, I asked Chad GPT, give me, I have these 10 fruits that I've access to, write me a diet where I combine five or six fruit sources for about 100 grams of carbs, which this much breakdown in glucose and fructose and this much fiber. And then I felt up the rest with a little bit of a manuka honey. So I got about 100, 125 grams of carbs, and then I had six meals per day, right, for 600, 800 grams of carbs and a little bit of protein, a little bit of fat for or a little bit of protein and trace amounts of fat from the protein at the end of the day, for about 2500 to 3000 calories. Got a great diet. I got some melon, I got some banana, I got some mango, right, and then a little bit of honey on top. And the first two days it went well. And then after that, my blood sugar was all over the place. Holy moly. And it, that uniquely happened to me. I don't see any actual reports that happened to other people. Some people swear by it and they continue this for months on end. They're all small though. Because how do you build muscle with no, with a branch team amino acid missing? Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. I don't think, I don't think this is designed for like most, I think this is just for pure cellular metabolism. Yeah. Like to exist, basically. These people would do very well with Travacromop and Carretus mukha. To prevent muscle loss while they exclude, you know, essential amino acid. But like, I mean, the other side of it then is, if, if isoleucine is the main one you're excluding, why aren't they excluding leucine and metionine, which are two other ones, you know, leucine in terms of mTOR, which then is a, a mechanism that doesn't occur during fasting. Obviously, we're fasting. We're boosting A and PK and everything else that feeds off it. But you'd probably make the argument that you just go pretty much no protein, which I think that's what I did see as well, that you, you basically just rely solely on sugar. And then this, this major mitochondria is super efficient. You've got lipolysis occurring and then those fatty acids are going in and being oxidized. One thing that I can see occurring potentially is time in deficiency. Like vitamin B one is what feeds into complex one to keep NAD turning over and the electrons spinning out from NAD. That how, how do you get obviously for fruits, you're going to get, you know, some vitamins, minerals, but unless you're taking like a supplement, which there's no rules against, I just, I'm finding it difficult to see with just a strict sugar based diet. And I wonder what happens with aldosterone levels because salt intake is also minimal on this diet. And what you see with a lot, how do you absorb any fat soluble vitamins? True. So like your vitamin D level goes down to nothing. A, E, A, so you, no fish oil. You have no shortain fatty acid production, right? You get a little bit from maybe apples or bananas perhaps, but not enough without fiber. Fiber is probably one of the most important things you can eat. Yeah. I mean, what I noticed is a lot of what you see the before and after pictures you see these guys, they get leaner overall, except for their lower back. And I'm not sure if that's water retention from aldosterone changing or some sort of insulinogenic response where, of course, the lower back is very receptive to insulin, right? So obviously insulin levels go up. I didn't check my fasting in insulin levels. There are about 2.2, 2.6 on a ketogenic diet. My blood glucose levels never went over 130, but I had periods where it was like 50, 60 in between meals. It was not good. And if you're in ketosis, it's fine because you're, your brain works on ketones. And if you're, yeah, you, you know, you do phycetocardial and your blood glucose like 55, you know, you feel fine because your brain works on ketones. But with this, it really went from 50 to 130, not 150. Luckily, right? I'd still have good insulin sensitivity and good insulin release from the pancreas. But yeah, at the last day, I was going hypoglycemic like three times per day. It was not fun. I woke up hypoglycemic. I'm like, fuck man. It's not what I want. And then you start eating a little bit more fuller foods. I had some beef and some rice and some avocado and some whole eggs just to kind of hold you over with a good amount of vegetables. You have protein, carbs and fats together. And then just kept stuffing myself. So I, yeah, probably gained a lot of fullness. I felt very full. I turned out this food. Should have done it with Richard's side. Then I could have controlled my appetite a little bit better. And you would have improved your insulin sensitivity. We're even like that approach, we're waking up with like a hypo. That's probably like insulin dumping coming out of like your sleep. So you've got the, the dawn effects with your cortisol rising. When I was starting to try and combat that dawn effect, you just pumped out too much insulin, which then you wake up pretty awful like looking to consume whatever's in front of you to save off that low blood sugar. No, it's not fun. It's not fun. And it could be from like a genolysis from the liver that, you know, you get the cortisol dump, kind of wake you up and then you get this blood glucose release or the release of glucose from the liver and they get this hormonal fluctuation in your insulin. And then by the time you actually wake up, you're just full blown out because you make and the word fuck am I, you know, it's, yeah, it's not fun. So, so I'm happy to be back on ketogenic diet. I feel a lot more cognitively sharp, not impaired anymore. Like a day three, my, I was fucking brain fogging here. This guy's on the, you know, the sugar fasting diet say that they're pretty brain fogged at points, which some, yeah, it sounds kind of productive to productivity. I mean, do you really want to go through all of that where you just feel like some guys have a lot of energy, they need to stop coffee. Other guys just say that they're brain fogged, especially after meals. So I guess, you know, it's worthy of a shot, basically, but I think it's pretty extreme. I think it's more extreme than a carnivore diet. To equal. Yeah, I mean, they're both sufficient in serious things. Yeah, it seems that a carnivore diet is a little bit more sustainable though. Yeah, I just, I mean, it's not sexy, but what if people just ate a balanced diet? Yeah, I mean, it seems so crazy, right? But then we have this type of magic diets that work in tremendous ways. Yeah, but you look good all day and get shredded. Isn't that more fun? Yeah, but are you really going to get more shredded eating nothing but fruit all day? Probably not. I think the only guys that really get shredded are the ones that also do a lot of exercise on this diet. So you see some cyclists that are fruitarians. Of course, you know, they're the upper legs as big as my forearm, if not smaller, zero muscle mass. But I do endurance sports and it seems to work. But besides Chase, who just started this, it chase basically the biggest guys and all the other guys that really advocate this, they don't really have that big physique. Mark Belsby jacked, you know, Joe Binley is pre jacked, but they got there on steroids and heavy lifting and but the body but a lifestyle or the power lifting lifestyle. And now they just have to maintain. And again, I would like to see their physique. Joe Binley has been doing this for a while, but I don't think he's putting on any size. So again, if you're just trying to sustain, right, a nice TRT plus physique, that's very fuckable. Then obviously it works. I just wonder the sustainability of it in the long term benefits. There was one guy I'll link that podcast on below. So one guy went into all the science of FGF 21 and he said, it's probably not healthy to sustain this for longer periods of time because it just shows some deleterious effects in the animal models where long term upregulation of FGF 21 causes all kinds of problems. Yeah, I think one time a week is okay. I think fasting one time per week is also okay. And then you go with what you enjoy the most. Of course, I would enjoy eating food all day and then finishing the day off with a kilo of Haribo. Hell yeah. But yeah, fasting is cheaper. This is a lot cheaper. You don't have to do anything for a juice, you don't have to cut any fruit, don't have to peel shit, don't have to spend an arm and a leg of Manuka honey. If you're gonna go with honey, you gotta go to the best one, right? The antioxidant and the antimicrobial and the fancy pansy. If you're gonna do a fancy diet, you gotta go to fancy honey. And then you can't go with the cheap candy that you get to scooping out. You gotta go to high class Haribos, the six dollar bag Haribos. And you're made out of biologics. In my dollar traffic remaps. I mean, I even get questions like with the five day fast of I put up that during the five day fast. I'll have our electrolyte plus that has the Roy Bose in it and like, oh my God, it's a carb. And you're like, well, it's a non insulogenic carb or non glycemic carb. And then you put up all have an energy drink. What about the sweetener and an insulin response? I'm like, all throughout the day, you're having an insulin response. If you didn't, you'd be dead. So try not to do much. You know, asking questions about sweetener and an energy drink causing an insulin response, stopping the beneficial effects of your fasts. That in order to keep you alive, your pancreas is continuously balancing your blood sugar with insulin.  stop that huge tie. Don't you wish you could do power slap over the internet? Like you charge it through the screen? Through the screen with the sound effects? Man, yeah. It's like you don't mean to be captain obvious, but you're like, if you're really worried about the insulin spike of an energy drink, maybe stop breathing. Like that is how nuanced that the arguments are becoming in the industry of if you have to sweeten it, it's going to stop your intestine from having autophagy because of the insulin. Yeah. No. But the guys that question all these silly stuff don't even look good. They're not healthy. It's the ones that get stuck in the weeds with all this stuff. Yeah. Any other things going on that are wrong, right? But they're focusing on this. They're worried about the energy drink, but nothing else in their life is right. Maybe fix that shit first. Yeah. Then worry about the energy drink. Maybe get some sleep and won't need the energy drink. So, sirs, yeah, sleep ride, do some fast and cardio, eat healthy, eat a balanced diet. But it's not sexy, man. It doesn't sound sexy. You've got to do the new things. It's consistency community. That's how we should call it. That will be the real name of it. But drug community sounds better, man. Drug community. Yeah. And then people are super worried about these, you know, what is it called, the sweeteners. And they go absolutely nuts on that. I mean, I don't really consume sweeteners myself, but I don't think it's an issue, unless you really overdo it. I mean, what was that in our study, Dean? What was the equivalent dose in a human? It was like a dump truck with a sweetener. Oh, it's, I mean. The one with the gut microbiome actually showed an improvement in the microbiome from the sweeteners. Oh, yeah. I get it. People that told me on the title that it changed your gut microbiome, but I've actually read the study, it improved it. I, people ask me these questions all the time about sweeteners and you look at European food safety authority, EFSA, that do all the health studies to speak or for human safety of certain food ingredients. And of course, everyone's gonna have their own opinions on biased research and whatever else. So close, we have to study rats with the teratogenicity, where it affected DNA in huge dosages. Yeah, I was gonna say, what was the dose? Or it causes changes to the gut microbiome. So it was breathing in a lot of polluted air or electromagnetic frequency radiation. You've been talking about fruit all day. You know, so you started and like, when people questioned these things, I was like, there's so many variables here, aspartame leading to methanol production in the body, which yes, there is research that suggests, perhaps if you're pregnant, you should not be having a lot of aspartame because of the methanol and the toxicity that could have to a baby. But again, that's a very special population. You have monk fruits, which is like, this is another thing that drives me nuts. We don't use any artificial sweeteners in our products, but as stevia has monk fruits. And then you look at the research and they are both gut toxic and change your gut microbiome. If you really want to be nippy, you'd use nothing because then you put sugar in a product. Why you put sugar in the product for? Yeah. Well, what I would like people to do is just to eat healthy six and a half days a week, cook all of your own meals, and then half a day on Sunday, you don't give a fuck. And you can have your monk fruit and your artificial sweetener and your vinaigrette and your pizza and suggest for some normalicity, right? So you feel like a normal person and you can have my sugar cake in this week. You want to eat some Haribo? Sure. But the rest of the time just eat a healthy balanced diet. Throw your calories up and down, do your cardio, take a Dr. Dean stack and shut the fuck up. At least that's affordable. Yeah. I mean, people just don't want to do that. And it's weird, we just introduced something new that really, really works for most people and they now want to go to the next best thing. Because it didn't outdo the damage they were doing with all the other crap. Right? You can't get six percent of your quadriceps with Marcy. Drink a beer and use an SLU. And they're like, well, how come I'm not shredded yet? Well, this is exactly what I was going to say. You get, well, I get messages all the time. I've tried what you've trialled, Dean, and I've seen nothing. And you're like, well, if you're seeing nothing, then what question should you be asking yourself? That I do with Dr. Dean, then. Not even that, you're a mitochondria. Like you're taking this thing to improve your mitochondrial efficiency. If your mitochondria are already operating like rubbish or crap, you've just made more of them that are working like crap. Like, you know, it's, and they're like, oh, well, I was expecting more out of this. And it's like, this is like the cherry on the cake that once you've got everything optimized, you're going to turbo charge it. It's not that you're coming in to take this and it's going to instantly change the landscape of your metabolism. No, and not for nothing, lifting weights will down-regulate mitochondria, right? And cardio will up-regulate it. So why don't people start there? Like balance the two of those things out first before taking a drug to try to make more for no reason when they're not doing any of the basic things. You know, you don't get this as much. You know what increases MOTC levels? What's that? Exercise. Yeah. Look at that. High, and then high intensity cardio causes mitochondrial migration. So like people don't realize this as well, that your mitochondria move around your body. They do not stay in the same cell. If your body, so if you have a heart attack and your heart now requires a lot of energy, what happens? All your mitochondria go towards the heart to try and keep that alive from ATP. So depending on if you do high intensity interval training cardio, you up-regulate the mitochondria in the muscle cells of your leg or within obviously your aerobic system. So looking at these like not fancy things, like telling someone go and kill yourself on A-50 in second wind gate sprint, you know, five or six times. I knew that four times per week on top of your lifting. It's not as sexy as I'll take 400 micrograms SLU and your mitochondrial massively increase in number. You know what's funny? If you do that for a month, the wind gate sprints are high intensity cardio or just training both to the wall and then you add this stuff in, then you notice a fucking difference. Because- You start with fitness first. Like I remember like a week ago, I introduced it a couple of years ago, like just take a little bit of a week when you're pre-workout. Yeah, but it's an antioxidant. We'll lower your metabolic response. Okay, shut the fuck up. You little minted piece of shit. But people that train fucking insane, they're like, holy shit, this is such a difference. But you need to train insane first before you notice a difference. Before you notice this mitochondrial up-regulation and electron transport chain improving and the respiration improving. And so a lot of people might complain about new things that we introduced that doesn't do anything, but the foundation needs to be there first. And again, this is the anabolic round table. So if you're not anabolic, you're not doing things that you need to do to be anabolic like training hard and taking a little bit of TRT and then some and eating a lot of protein. And yeah, what's the point? What's the point of myonostltriparaphosphate when you have no muscle to oxygenate? Yeah, rent over. So Kurt, would you like to try the fruit fasting diet? No, thanks. I think I'm good. I think I've got the diet thing done, Pat, I think. I think you got it locked on. I'm good, I'm good with it. Dimi, you've got to change your pre-contest or pre-holiday stack to improve more fruits. Plenty more anabolic fruit. Yeah, anabolic more pineapples and bananas and apples. The hard apples, not the full ones. Well, the whole set of pharmacy of what we're doing now at the moment is to try and keep here as safe as possible. So pineapple for me with the low estrogen is no longer a delicacy I can enjoy. So we have to do things a little more intelligently. But yeah, I don't think I'm going to be changing my diet to be eating harrybows and fruits and excessive sugars just to increase my FGF 21 when I do 72 to five day fasts, a couple of times a year. I think what I'm going to do next time is when I get sick of the ketogenic diet, I'm just going to schedule one Sunday to eat like this, like a sugar fasting diet, or just fruits and honey and candy. And then I'll make it in the context of upregulating my FGF 21 and fat loss when in reality I just want to eat candy. Right? It's like all those guys that, like, I'm not trying to shit on a diet, but people go on TRT, I need to increase my, you know, this and that. Just say you want to use the arrangement. Just say you want to eat candy. I'm not trying to eat candy. I'm not trying to eat candy. I'm not trying to eat candy. Just say you want to eat candy. It's fine. Just call it for what it is. Cheap meal rebranded. Yeah. And it's, again, it's, you know, people have been doing this for a long time. You guys know about skip loading, right? There's also some sort of high carbs. That's been around for decades. And the guy would just customize, like, can Skipp Hill, would customize your skip loads week by week, starting with a four hour eating window to six hours to eight hours to 12 hours, and then design the entire carb loading protocol around that about the foods that worked for you and every skip load looked different. So I think this is just very nuanced skip loading with fruits. And if it works, it works great. I don't think it will work for anybody. I don't think it's very sustainable. But if you want to do it for a week or two, sure. Go ahead. Go ahead. I really wonder what happens with Chase after about two weeks. He's pretty in tune with his body. This is his blood work. And he's probably the biggest dude who's ever tried this. Yeah. What's his cycle? What is he on while he's doing this? Test on retrototide probably, in GH. And MOTC in SLU. Are we counting GLPs as part of the cycle now? It's a compound. I don't know. We're in same area. It's like half a milligram GLP retrototide monowenzofride. Let's see, here's another one. We talked about dietary fiber. So, short chain fatty acids produce GLP, GLP-1. So, perhaps if more people ate a balanced diet, they wouldn't need the GLP drug. Just saying. Let's see. Propionate is what improves your GLP secretion. Yeah, but that's too simple, right? Eat right. Does it? Oh, maybe that's why the testosterone propionate is working so well right now. A little different. Yeah, it's a little different. Oh, you eat the propionate. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The fatty acid. Yeah. Yeah. Hilarious. Not the testosterone propionate would work. It does work. I mean, it's still pretty saucy. It's not bad. 235 pounds, baby. It's all that fruit. Yeah, it's all that fruit, but it's still stuck in there. And I really would wonder what happens to people's liver with all this fructose coming in. I think it's gotta be fantastic. And the funny thing is I get carnivore diet is also a great way to get non-alcoholic fat in there. Sweet. Yeah. Aren't the same guys that are preaching this? Aren't they the ones that were just doing the carnivore diet? Yeah, yeah, so Mark Bell got great results in the carnivore diet, but of course, like if you follow a strict carnivore diet with the carbohydrate refeeds, then you get some out of control dysfunction as well. And it's the free-from-fatty acids that eventually ruin your insulin sensitivity. So of course you can mitigate that with injectable quarantine to kind of clean up the free-from-fatty acids and then triglycerides and stuff and cardio and exercise. So again, how much scientific evidence says that you create insulin resistance by going on a carnivore diet or ketogenic diet? That's not in the context of exercise. No, and I was gonna say, more salt the opposite, the high-fat diet can destroy insulin sensitivity. Yeah, so that's what I mean. Yeah, it causes insulin resistance. It causes insulin resistance, yeah. And I noticed that myself as well, if I don't do the cardio and training, that if I just follow a ketogenic diet, actually lose insulin sensitivity and I get flatter and softer, especially in the legs. And that's what's causing the gluten-for-translocation. Exactly, yeah, so I need to keep doing that on this ketogenic diet, but I also know that I need a little bit of glucose uptake post-workout to keep those close for activators going, you know, keep the metabolic process going. So I have about 50 to 80 grams of carbs post-workout. And then, well, whatever the fuck I want on Sunday, because on Sunday, if I wanna eat a pastrami sandwich with fat, saturated fat, full with it, and then some high-fructose corn syrup from ketchup, of course I'm gonna go for it, man, I got a life. When it's my moderation. I got a wife, I got a life, I gotta eat. Yeah, all these things of moderation still are okay. Yeah, once a week, it's totally fun, man. It's totally fun. So yeah, I'm not against people trying it. I just wonder what the long-term thing is this, but then again, you know, the long-term with a ketogenic diet and a long-term with a carnivore diet or, you know, vegan diets, yeah, it's all kind of double-terries. Well, there won't be a long-term because we'll try the next diet that comes out in two weeks from now. Oh, all right. Should we just like come up with the anabolic ground table diet? Why don't we do our own diet? Yeah, it was so boring. Yeah, I don't think no one's going to prescribe to our healthy eating standards. What about two eggs? What about the French fry diet? French fry diet. French fry diet. But you can only have two fries a day, that's your entire diet. Right, there's no ice to lose to me either. So you'll upper regulate all these other fiber-rich food, that's your... Yeah, yeah. Yeah, rare guys remember the potato diet? Potato only diet was very popular in the 50s and 60s. People lost crazy weight on that as well. Last dean, I mean, in Ireland. That's... I'm sure if you don't feel a lot about it, you'll be in Ireland in a place. Open my front door and shout over to the neighbor in the next place in the field. Fuck man. Like in Vietnam during the war, the war they ate taro, and that's all they ate, and that has even less nutritional value. This is just all they had during the war. I can't remember, was it Cosmopolitan magazine or one of these women's magazines where it was the wine diet, where they were allowed to drink two glasses of white wine per day, waiting saying fat loss results. Well, it's not even God was wrote to rolling. Just... Just... Just... Just... Just... Dean, you asked Chad GPT some very interesting questions about relative binding affinity and... And... Androgen receptor mediated gene transcription. You got some great results. Yeah. Please spell the beans, because it was very interesting when you wrote it out in the group chat, but I think everybody should get a chance to listen to this, so... Take it away. So obviously we have team Premo, team Mastron. We've... We've... Well, I mean, to be on one team or the other, you're missing the whole point of choosing one or the other. Yeah. But... When I asked it... Sorry, is there a team Mastron? Really? Yeah. Well, you're gonna have one that favors one compound of deodorant, I think. No one really seems to want to use both. I can only think of one that favors Mastron, but... I can think of three. Oh, three, yeah, right. You're right. Instead of using them both, perhaps? So it's a large... It's a large percent of the population. You can use both, but Premo needs to be the foundation. Yeah. So I asked it based on all the published research, so I had to do a PubMed crawl on Mastron. And one of the craziest things, obviously, with chat GPT is that it crawls everywhere. So even if you tell it, I want you to crawl PubMed, it will go and crawl everywhere. So obviously online, when we ask for the relative binding affinity of Mastron, it returns that it's five times testosterone from... But we don't know the relative binding affinity. Absolutely, because it's on Wikipedia five times. So it pulls it from Wikipedia. And then I questioned it. I said, well, that's not correct. Can you do a search again? And then I came back and said, oh, we do not know the binding affinity, but it is purported to be five times testosterone. Okay, that's fair enough. I asked it some questions on uses that Mastron's been done. So obviously we have all the breast cancer research and women. And then I asked it to explain to me the mechanisms of how it interferes with estrogen positive breast cancer. And then it starts to really show you how perhaps it interferes with estrogen metabolism. So we start looking at the androgen response element when we activate that. So people always focus on you've got your androgen, you've got your androgen receptor, the two don't bind together. It's what happens after that binding that's important as opposed to the affinity for the receptor itself. So the androgen response element is then what tells your genome, this is what I want you to do. But activating the androgen response element can tune down the estrogen response element, which obviously then will down regulate how the estrogen receptor is expressed or functions. So when we're viewing perhaps Mastron having anti-estrogen effects were perhaps interfering with the estrogen response elements as opposed to directly at estradiol from aromatase. The other thing that I question it was, well, here's Premobolans structure and here's Mastron structure. Which one do you think is more anabolic? And I came back with surprisingly, based on the body of research, Mastron is more anabolic. And it started to explain that Mastron is a more flexible molecule. So obviously from this perspective, it's made the assumption that the ligand binding domain of the androgen receptor would be more accommodating for this more flexible molecule going into it. And prior to all this, I'd given all the research on the ligand binding domain, the N-terminal and the DNA binding domain. So I gave all the research known on what modulates the anion receptor to make its decision from. And then following that, I said, well, if anecdotally Premobolin is more anabolic than Mastron in males, what do you think would be the proposed mechanism of how it does that? And its first like iteration back was, well, one would assume Mastron is more anabolic because it is more flexible, having a better androgen binding affinity. But if anecdotally Premobolin is more anecdotal, here's the reasons why. And so one of the suggestions was that C1, C2 double bond makes the A-ring more plain or more flat. And now for that to duck into the ligand binding domain requires less entropy. So there's less chance of chaos interfering. So now it's in there longer and it's also more, even though the affinity for the ligand binding domain is lower if that is true versus Mastron because it is less flexible, because of that flat planar bond and also resonance from C1, C2 double bond into C3's carbon-oxygen double bond, you're making that oxygen on C3, more electron donating or better at creating a hydrogen bond, which is what drives that interaction in the ligand binding domain as well. So it was able to say perhaps that flat structure reduces the entropy or the complex that the molecule forms with the androgen receptor is a more favorable shape to duck into the androgen response element, to turn on genes associated with anabolism. So now you're going beyond, oh, a list structure fits the androgen receptor better. It's now more so when it goes into the nucleus to the gene response elements, that primobolans androgen receptor complex is a better shape for turning on muscle protein synthesis. And then you're heading into the path of SARMS or like tremolone being a interior selective androgen receptor modulator from a muscle building perspective because of that flat planar shape of TREN being able to duck into these elements of the genome to turn on muscle protein synthesis or nitrogen retention, whatever pathway we want to play from and then interfere perhaps with the estrogen response elements that interferes how your estrogen perhaps binds to the estrogen receptor or how you produce estrogen receptors themselves. So you were mentioning that the androgen receptor and estrogen receptors use the same cofactors for gene transcription. And then if you really bind the androgen receptor tightly with these cofactors, these cofactors are no longer available for the estrogen receptor. So this is where the estrogen mediated gene transcription becomes inhibited because it simply doesn't function correctly. And this has been proven for that at the Stahlström in various breast cancer studies where the Stahlström uses these cofactors and are no longer available for the estrogen receptor. And vice versa, Xenoestrogens will block the androgen receptor. Block the androgen receptor, right, right, right. So that means that of course, pre-mobolin and mastron are similar to that of the Stahlström. So it would make sense that something like that could happen for these kinds of compounds. Yeah, I mean, it was interesting because it was really trying to make the assumption that mastron being more flexible should in theory have a higher binding affinity for the androgen receptor. But I think now moving forward and some of the research we were discussing about stereo-oleasmers, where you change the conformation or the 3D structure of the protein, the androgen in space will change the structure of the androgen receptor complex as a protein, change its 3D structural shape. So now it's able to dock into different sections along the genome better. So for able to create steroids with different stereocentres, so a stereo-oleasmers basically you have a carbon and then off that carbon, you share either one part sticking up, one part sticking down. You'll have different substituents playing off that carbon, so it doesn't have the same substituent off any position. You can then change those stereocentres to change the conformation of the molecule in space. So that was the research that you shared that you then start heading down the pathway of potentially creating muscle-specific anabolic steroids with better anabolism and avoiding some of the side effects that can come from classic anabolic steroids. Yeah, because how many polymorphisms are there for the androgen receptor on a 67? Down, I thought over a thousand. Really? There's over a thousand known polymorphisms that I'm aware of. Okay. So yeah, if that can all be indexed and then use AI to design a compound, to only interact with the once-in-a-skeletal muscle. Yeah, now, but it does make a lot of sense that slowly piecing scientific evidence together that again, we're ultimately after response on the DNA. Not how the relative binding affinity is just an interesting number. Yeah. Androgen. Like, nandrolone binds more firmly than testosterone, but is what's occurring in the nucleus any better than testosterone? Exactly, yeah. It's irrelevant. And of course, if you're using testosterone and nandrolone together, the testosterone has a certain domain where it binds to, and that might overlap with the nandrolone, but nandrolone might overlap with other domains that testosterone doesn't overlap or bind to. And then the synergy between these two compounds, and then it's about finding your individual cocktails so you can get the best of both domains in individual ratio regarding protein expression that works for you. And that's why some guys like low-test, high-premo and vice versa, high-test, low-beta-premo or low-beta-train to get this favorable protein expression for them, because again, the protein metabolism downstream is going to be different for everybody as well. And that might take a while to figure out. Now, maybe with a DNA test, you can figure it out more with the GACRP test that Merrick Health offers. You can figure it out more. It just sent me one. Oh, right, so you're going to do it. Okay, perfect. It just came today. Cool, perfect, perfect. Let us know what your results are. I'm still trying to figure out a way to get it here. Of course. Yeah, sending the shit to Thailand is a nightmare, man. I mean, even covering from that, if we can do a genome sequence in an isotope tracer into an isotope tracer steroid, you could try and track the genes that are switched on from primable and the genes that are switched on from mastron. I think one of the other things that it suggested was you could do an assay to profile those coactivators between the two. So again, we're seeing what coactivators are being expressed or initiated from primable or mastron. But I think moving forward, there might be some more questions to ask beyond just the aneurysm receptor and going more so into the DNA. And even then someone's DNA, depending on their chromatin structure or the histone and the acetylation of the histones, certain people's genetic responses from a DNA perspective could be completely different, which again adds why someone might say, oh, mastron give me more anabolism than primable. And the shape of how their chromatin has been wound together if you want to put that way with histones and acetylation, you might not be able to duck correctly in with something like primable versus mastron. So I think there's a lot more complex questions to be asked that, yeah, anecdotally, we all observed primable and being the more potent of the two. But then the other hypothesis that chat GPT even come up it was, well, primable and probably lowers SHBG a lot lower than mastron. So now your testosterone is staying more free, which now you're enhancing your ability of your own, I'm not gonna say your own, your testosterone based that you're using to work more effectively in the cycle, which again will have a known effect on your gene transcription. Yeah, and then it converts the estradiol and DHT, which might have some overlap effect regarding your DNA transcription. DHT is said to be not very anabolic, but I'm sure in combination with real anabolic, it elicits some sort of additional response. That's why some people swear by injectable DHT, right? I know some in bed reached out to you guys as well. You wanna buy some DHT, Enetype, bro? So I think in the end, it just depends on individual response. You have to try what works for you and you don't have to be all exclusive. Like,  for me, mastron is purely a cosmetic enhancing drug. It doesn't really do much anablysm-wise, unless I really go to 2,000 mN a week, which I have no intention to do. That's fucking 10 mL per week. I'd rather run 10 mL per email at 100 mN per mil. And it's probably cheaper also than 200 mN per mil of mastron, innate. And then you also got to think about the molecular difference, because if you compare methanol and innate versus drostinol and innate, with methanol, you get more molecules, if you both do 100 mN per mil liter. So these things also got a factor. What is the 10% difference in molecules? Oh, it's huge. It was like 660 trillion billion or something. Yeah. We looked at it that, you know, even on the surface, this was someone said to me before about two and a half milligrams of anivar for a woman. And it's like, again, it's in the trillion billion molecule number. And you're like 2.5 mL, looks like a small number, weight-wise. But it'S-23 zeros, baby. Yeah. You know, you look at how many molecules. How confident would you be taking that many molecules of cyanide into your body? It's only two milligrams of cyanide, man. Like, you know, the weight has got nothing to do with the number. You take a higher weight because it has more molecules. Two milligrams of clen. You know, like it's two milligrams of clen. Good luck. 20 micrograms, all right. Too much Jesus Christ. Like, I think when we're when we're looking at even that, that comparison between the number of molecules and a standard dose, that's even where it becomes complex of like someone's trying to compare 100 milligrams of primo 200 milligrams of masteron primo is already trillion billion more molecules that you can't unless you want to work out exactly how many molecules would be in an equivalent dose between the two and then try and run that as an experiment. Primo is much more. Favouritism towards having a genomic effect because of the sky eye number of molecules as on masteron. Yeah, it's it's it's a close to 10% difference. I think if you inject 100 milligrams versus 100 milligrams, it might be a 5 to 10% difference in molecules. I did a video about this, about, you know, you discount for the Esther and then even if the concentration is the same. So everything is 100 milligrams for one milliliter. If you discount for the Esther and then the molecular weight, there, there's a discrepancy of like 20% between different steroid molecules between it's just also appropriate and tremolo and acetate, something like that. And that's that's what a lot of people forget, you know, if you boil it down to molecule for molecule, there's a huge range. Even if you count for the same, same amount of milligrams. And I mean, even like that analysis with Chet G P T, I asked it like molecule per molecule. They didn't say here's 100 milligrams of Primo is 100 milligrams of masteron. I asked of the two of these. If I had a molecule, which one is creating more favourable? Anabolism. Did they, did they ever investigate the residency time in the anabolic, the androgen receptors? Not to, not to my knowledge in terms of the time. I guess when you look at the kinetics of what happens, it's very, very quick. Like androgen binds into the androgen binding domain, the ligand binding domain and then the chaperone, Hitchcock proteins, associate and a shuttle into the nucleus. Once it's in the nucleus, I think it's pretty much straight away. If I, what it needs to do and start and start gene transcription. But how long is that gene transcription process? Is that once? Or is it multiple times? For you to be just once? Once. So one one. One. Saptor complex. Docking in and triggering off like translation of a protein or trans transcription and translation. And then the, the androgen is kicked off the androgen receptor. Correct. So the, the two will dissociate and it basically leaves and goes off to be metabolised. So it doesn't necessarily have to be metabolised by three alpha hydroxy steroid, eogogenase or another. It could technically leave the nucleus, go back to an androgen. Right. Rebind. Yeah. There's nothing to say that it only gets one go. It'll create a ligand complex, go into the nucleus, create an effect, dissociate. And like you said, if it doesn't leave, yeah, if it doesn't leave the cell into the bloodstream and arrives at the liver, it's got a code and tear. You create another interaction and go back into the nucleus. So let's say you have a premium ball in the picture that's, you know, producing all these beautiful proteins for an ableism. And you have mass run in the picture occupying the three alpha hydroxy steroid eogogenase, preventing premium ball from being metabolised, allowing you to rebind to another androgen receptor. So now we've got a synergy of two, like it, there's, you know, it's, it's not straightforward when you look at it this way. There's so many what ifs that all this theoretical questions you shut and just discount that one's better than the other. Although we do have the anecdotal evidence that for some premium ball and will crush the estrogen, which might come from this estrogen response element part. And masteron, in my view, being more flexible can go into the gatekeeper of aromatase like we've seen before and block the aromatase binding site from testosterone entering. So you lower your estradiol from that blocking of the aromatase gatekeeper. So. For them, when you look at blood work, certain people end up a crashed estrogen with masteron another is end up a crashed estrogen with premium ball is not straight up. No, it's not straight up. They both do it. And it's now you're starting to make it a bit more complex with this androgen response elements, interferometer, estrogen response elements. Yeah. And I think we were one of the first people to actually report this five, six, seven years ago, that because who would always ask her people to do blood work, right? So you can see, oh, you're on a TRT. Yeah. And it's a premium. Oh, estrogen goes down. And then you see that happen in 99 out of 100 people or 95 out of 100 people, you draw the conclusion. I mean, it's axis and aromatase inhibitor. And I got to find you a study. So, hey, look at the study where they do bio transformation on premium ball and then there's actually two metabolites that prove it. I will those be produced in human body. We're not really sure, but at least there's some scientific evidence that it's shown. And for masteron, there's no scientific evidence besides the bot work. So there's anecdotal evidence and then there's plenty of people that it happens to, but not everybody. The estrogen positive breast cancer where that you're given the androgen to the woman because of it interferes with the estrogen receptor expression. Right. So, I mean, it's two separate things again. Actually, because you have the estrogen receptor being expressed less estrogen levels might go down and then these co factors that contribute to estrogen mediated gene transcription. So you have three steps. And then you might have a deleterious fourth step where mass thrown inhibits the sexual money global and along testosterone to convert estradiol more, which you don't see estradiol levels don't go up when you add in the mass stroke. Nope. Unless the mass thrown is testosterone. It's going to say unless the past one. I would, I would wonder if you, when you see estrogen go down from that's not that's not either. So it could be one of the metabolites or who knows? It's so hard, right? Because you, you see clear changes on blood work and they have to kind of pinpoint what's going on with scientific evidence that has been updated in 40 years. You know, our relative binding infinities have been established for most of these compounds and if they have been established studies from like 1978 or using computer models. So that's or in vitro. Okay. That's great. But is it, is it humans? No. So it's, yeah, it's, it's sometimes very frustrating and difficult to kind of piece it together, but individual responses kind of key here. And for that you got to experiment a little bit and then try both, you know, see which one you like. I'm not against whatever works for you. You know, but based on, based on what I told it, what was funny is it didn't argue back when I said to it, well, if prima bolema is anecdotally more anabolic, why? And then it started to think, okay, well here's the, the certain mechanisms that could play into it. I mean, it's a pity if we had someone that could do computational models of showing docking into that ligand bound and domain, because we have these crystal structures, relatively straightforward computational chemistry, but if anyone hears in the comments and has access to There are, there are people who are interested, trust me, there's people watching things like reaccess. If you have, if I had access to stuff like this back in a academic environment, I'd no doubt be trying to satisfy some curiosity. Now, but there's the high level people watching this podcast that are, that might be able to do that stuff. So they'll probably reach out to me after, or you, or Kurt's after this podcast. I'm sure you guys had it like last, last month also, like, hey, what about this? You know, where people just start to send you like a life story of, you know, have you thought about this? Have you thought about that? It happens, man. This is a lot of high level people watching this podcast now. So it wouldn't surprise me if somebody reaches out that has access to computational modeling and then can run those things on some sort of special software that they have or a special computer system. Wouldn't surprise me at all. And just kind of feed them the information if you have time for it. But yeah, very, very interesting. And we don't come any closer to the answer. No, no. And that, and that is why, I guess, you know, we're never going to have ball opinions of like you're either on the team or off the team. It's, we think one, one works better than the other, but it's not saying the other doesn't work at all. It just in, in our tier list, one just anecdotally performs way better. So why, why change, you know, why change? And it doesn't like, you know, if you're like blacks or blondes, you know, brunettes or blondes, you can have both unless you get into a relationship or you're, you know, you can have two at the same time. It's not unheard of either. I mean, Paul, Paul Burnett got his pro card on test primo and masteron. And he looked absolutely fantastic. And maybe some windstraw tea and windstraw. Yeah, windstraw too. But I mean, there's, there's the difference between my 22 prep and 2024 last year. Last year I didn't use masteron. There's no difference in my view of how I looked two years before that versus last year. Maybe that's where you're so full and not flat. Yeah. Shots fired. They should have this time. Let's see if you can get skinny on the beach, you know, yeah, we do a reverse experiment and all my hair falls out because. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, true. Yeah, you better think about that for me. But wait a minute, that masteron was her safe. What are you talking about, man? In the, in the, uh, as a very cliff note sponsored by syntax, there were no over-reliasing side effects observed in these females with zero estrogen. None, none, zero, no hair loss, hair safe, totally. Considering estrogen is very important for your hair, which is probably one of the mechanisms why my hair fell out on top of. Genetic, genetic, androgenic alopecia. You crush your estrogen, good luck. Your hair is going to fall out. Simplest that. That's why you let your estrogen run rampant. Yeah, until I start crying watching TV. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you can actually identify what it is to be a woman and start loving, you know, the Me Too, Disney, the MCU movies. Oh man. Oh man. Yeah, so that was a very interesting topic that you brought up on, on the group chat. So thanks for sharing. It's just wish we could get closer to the answer. But again, I think self experimentation is just key. And you try a little bit of this, a little bit of that and see what sticks. Like for me, for me, testing Primo, a little bit of Masteron is fine. Other guys like Lottest, Hi Masteron and maybe a little bit of Primo if they can afford it. But man, the prices of Primo, Masteron have shot up. Holy shit. Holy shit. It's back now. The producers are producing. Steve, I ordered 700 kilos of Primo. It's going to be back at Starks. Yes, 700 kilos. It's how much they ordered. I like, holy shit. And then you look at the price list, you're like, Jesus Christ, the prices have gone up tremendously. So at least it's a prize. They're picking up the supply again. So the dryness is soon to end. And the steroid drought. But prices are. I don't know, but the dollar is not worth much anymore. I hate to say it. It's not DXY is coming down from 117 to 99. So maybe that's why the price are going up because the value of the dollar is going down. Start printing, man. Start printing, Kurt. Start printing those dollars. What else do we want to discuss for this podcast? I had like, we can discuss Palloximer. Real quick. Sure. We, we had a little bit of a boo boo last week, our last, last podcast where we went for Boloxone. That's my fault. Yeah, that's okay. It's, it happens. I said to Brahman standalone for a very long time instead of Drommel standalone for Drostan alone. So sometimes you get a boo boo in your brain and then it sticks. Why can't I find it? But it's Palloximer 88. Let me see. What was that? And so we did find, I did find Boloxone 188 in certain places. Okay. It was patents where you went into the patent and it just sort of ended in a dead end. And I was around using these polymers to stabilize growth hormone complexes. But other than that, it was like we discussed, there's just no search of what we're done, what we're seeing on that tread of ingredients for growth hormone subtypes. One of them having Boloxone. I tried looking at polymer manufacturers who would make Palloximer 188 to see would they make Boloxone or Boloximer as well and couldn't find anything. So you found the Palloximer 88 and you also sent me a link. I can share it on the screen. He's a very fragile of the growth hormones that contain that kind of stuff. So genotropin. You can see here what it contains, the excipients and it actually varies per formulation. Now, genotropin is no longer really available. And apparently that's discontinued and replaced for in genula. There's somatrogen gila with the ITCG subunit. But then here you see an omnitrope in the 2.8 or the 5.8 milligrams per vial. It contains a couple of excipients, but then the five milligram pen cartridge. It contains Palloximer 188. So it even varies between their different formulations. So in the vials, it's not contained of omnitrope, but in the pen cartridge it is contained. And let's see. Humatrop doesn't have Palloximer 188. Nutropin doesn't have it. Seizen doesn't have it. Seizen being one of the best, obviously. And then noritropin does have it. 188. And serostim doesn't either, but it's not listed. No, it's not listed here. Yeah. So Seizen and serostim, if you want to avoid the Palloximer 188, that's... Oh, actually it doesn't contain it here. Seizen also contains it in the 6 milligram formulation, the 12 milligram formulation, and the 20 milligram formulation cartridges. So it seems that the Palloximer 188 is mostly found in the cartridges. Right. This is a noritropin cartridge, Palloximer 188. Seizen cartridge is 188. Maybe it has to do with some of the plastics. That the cartridges come in. Genotope, I don't know. It smells like plastic. Yeah. But they don't have it. Oh, good point. Yeah, they don't have it. It's not that it was weird that the genotropin's spelled like plastic though. It smells like hospital. Legitimately. Yeah, like insulin. Yeah, same. Same. So that's pretty interesting that several of these different growth hormone formulation, again, it's linked down below, guys, in case you want to read it, that they use different excipients and maybe based on the excipients, I think that's worthy of a deep dive, I'll make a video about it at one point, based in the excipients, we might be able to select the best brand of growth hormone because all growth hormone is 191 amino acids. But we clearly notice different results between different growth hormone formulations. And I think, Kurt, you sent me something about the UGL, the generics, right from China, that one of them contains Palloximer 188. We can't mention the name anymore, otherwise it goes out of stock. So, Dean, you found that the Palloximer 188 might cause some kidney damage. Yeah. Yeah, that's what we say. There's a pump-in protocol on it. It depends on which Palloximer 188, I guess there's different grades. Yeah, there's a P and an N. N, or something, or S, I thought. Oh, P, you're right, P188. Yeah, and an NTE, I think. And the P was more deleterious for your kidneys. Now, we're talking about milligrams upon milligrams being administered in an animal model. And then, unfortunately, here in the Excipients, they don't really mention how much Palloximer is contained within a cartridge of Omnitrop or Noritropin. I've seen it in clients. Again, we don't know the amount, right? But in the JOS, when the JOS went above in some of the generics, you know, above six I use, the creatinins level started to rise. And then they worked back down within weeks, went right back down. And you saw it in an animal model as well, where creatinins shot up at like 10 milligrams Palloximer, 188 P. Now, is that transient, temporary? I'm not going to take the risk on someone's kidneys with it to try to figure that out. You saw clear, hysteros, histological, I thought you pronounced it way, it's a logical right? When you take an image of the, you know, the kidney tissue and you see clear, you know, nephrodic tissue or changes to the nephrons. And I would consider that to be permanent. Yeah. Well, the NF is more toxic than the P. Oh, the NF. Renal dysfunction, adverbent clinical studies of P188-NF is not observed in clinical studies of P188-P. So I'm guessing the Chinese companies are probably using the NF because it's cheaper. Or I would guess it's cheaper. Right. I don't care. Wouldn't surprise me. Yeah. And we don't see that in the table 13 of, you know, that PubMed article or what is it called, the books from the National Library of Medicine. We don't really see the difference. I'm sure we could figure it out. I think I'll see which pharmaceutical growth hormone is the most kidney toxic. That would be a fucking good video, I think. Oh, man. I think what I sent originally when I looked into pharmaceutical why P188 is chosen is because of it is a surfactant. So basically, it just makes it more stable in solution once it's reconstituted. And that's probably why, again, the cartridges tend to be reconstituted cartridges you load into the pen. If we think about it, P188 from what I remember reading into it, it's 188 for a reason that so many polymers are within it. And obviously it's a huge, if you want to put a bluntly huge plastic chain, if you wanted to say it that way, like a polymer tends to be a term used towards plastics, which are just carbon based molecules anyway. Now, your your kidneys have to filter that out. If it goes into your bloodstream and, you know, passes through the liver and passes through the kidneys, your kidneys will either be able to filter it or they won't. And if they can't filter it, it'll get forced through and cause some damage on the way way past. So I guess it is probably the concentration of the ploximer within the product that like when you look at peptide manufacturing and Kurt talked about this before as well, certain manufacturers will bulk up a peptide product with Manitol. Like I said, have an excipient, you know, if you've got if you've got a vial of five milligrams BPC-157, do you think that whole white puck inside that vial is five milligrams of BPC? It's had to be suspended in solution with Manitol and other excipients and then it's freeze tried. And then you're left with a puck of powder that you can actually visibly see and dilute and make soluble. That it's probably the amount that's in it. And if you have, you know, Chinese manufacturers, they're looking for quick ways to make a more stable product. They're going to add more ploximer to the product to make it more stable and solution. So it doesn't rapidly break down. If someone suspends it put in the fridge, it'll have a shelf life in the fridge of three or four days. Yeah. And I would say where I see the difference between the pharma and the the UGL stuff is not necessarily the lower doses, right? It's kind of hard to tell what's even occurring with lower doses. But as the dose goes up and up and up, the pharma keeps going, right? And it's effectiveness where the UGL seems to flatten and almost go the opposite direction. Like when Chase and I both used whole bottles of that reputable underground lab, we have the opposite effect that serostom has. The weight, our weight start to drop. Like your muscles start to get flat and stringy, probably from too much manateal and things like that. But the effects are totally different, right? Whereas like on a lower dose, you could probably justify using it, you know, for some level of fat loss or something, but it comes to using a dose for hyperplasia, just not occurring. Yeah. And finally enough, if you do serum tests in UGL or pharma, it's almost comes back similarly now. And with the Boulton C.B. 98 to 99.7% between UGL and pharma, it's pretty comparable. So I have, I have generics here that, or UGLs that give me 34, 36 nanograms per milliliter after a 10 IU shot in the shoulder, two and a half hours before enjoying blood, which is comparable, very similar to what I would get for pharmaceutical grades. But I think the binders and excipients gives you some sort of altered response. Yes. Yeah. Just because it's showing the blood doesn't mean it's doing the same thing. It's like the end of the culture. Yeah. Just because it binds to the end receptor doesn't mean that things are occurring at the nucleus. No. And I just, you see that time and time again, not, again, not that there's no place for the UGL stuff. I think there is, right? There's supply issues of pharma, there's major cost issues of pharma stuff. No. And for most guys, they don't just don't need to run that huge of a dose of GL, GH. So four to five IU's. That's your UGL. What does it really matter? Yeah. But when the guys are to creep it up, I think that's when both you see the issue, the health issues go and you see lack of results. Really, the guys using 10 IU's of UGL growth and he doesn't look pretty crazy, GH is junk. I don't care what your test shows because at that dose, you should look noticeably different day after day. You should look full as a house 24 seven. Your pants should be falling off you. True. I guess they're seeing in the comments on the last one, we were asked about like speaking about subq and IM growth hormone. Do one minute. And obviously the, obviously the serum level and when we look at the studies of 10 IU IM versus 10 IU subq. What I interjected with as a comment was when you get a peak plasma level of a drug, the drugs residency time. So you get a big massive spike and the drug residency time is only three hours. Yes, you've got a super physiological serum level. If you do it subq, you have a smaller peak level with a prolonged residency time of 10 hours. When you compare the two as in the area under the curve, which is the amount of space underneath that peak, they're roughly the same between a subq and an IM shot that IM gets in and gets out. But the other thing that you have to consider is a plasma level is how much of the drug is in your bloodstream, not inside your cell. So the amount that's inside your bloodstream that can interact with a growth hormone receptor. What's more important is the IGF one outcome. And again, when you compare the two, the IM versus subq IGF response, whilst one is an immediate super physiological increase, overall IGF one conversion levels are pretty much the same between subq and IM. Other than subq has a more balanced circadian output. So if you want to, no doubt, if you want to have super physiological levels of growth hormone all throughout the day without relying on circadian pattern, you could do IM shots of growth hormone every three or four hours, get a big spike. But who's going to? So, no, who's going to? IM shot eight to 10. I use a growth hormone every four hours of the day. Well, can I give you three reasons why that doesn't make sense? So one, you don't want to be multi dosing it, right? Because then you're going to become insulin resistant. That's why every pharmaceutical brand of growth hormone, the doses one bowl is at night before bed. It is nothing to you're not supposed to be taking it throughout the day. And for what you said also, so you get these spike, but you're not getting this. You get a much nicer curve when it's taken on big bowls. The other two issues is growth hormone is a cytokine. The receptor doesn't translate. The growth hormone receptor doesn't translocate into the cell. If you inject growth hormone into a cell, the body sends it to that cytokine attack and your immune system will destroy up to 20% of it. So especially now you're using a generic growth hormone, let's say it's 50% weaker than a form of growth and they stick it in their muscle. Now you got another 20% that you just lost, right? So again, it doesn't matter how fast it peaks. It's not doing anything. It has to go subcube peptides should always go subcube. They should never be ejected in muscle. You wouldn't stick insulin in your muscle. That's just not the way to use it. Unless you want to go into a coma, that's what would occur if you start using that. I am, but you don't, you don't inject. You don't do growth hormone. I am. Yeah, I think what I was coming off from mine then is like the absorption profile. Even though one is longer acting or slower releasing, the actual amount of plasma growth hormone you get from an IM shot versus a subcube. Whilst they're on different time scales, the overall growth hormone response is still in line with 10 IU's being administered. Just one rapidly hits you and your other matches your like 10 to 12 hour release into your system. Yeah. Isn't there like the growth hormone binding protein that's a truncated receptor, right? So it doesn't seven on, yeah, of course. So it growth hormone doesn't have to dissociate from these binding proteins. It can actually bind to the, the cell surface. Some depends each binding receptor. Yeah. I mean, that's a different destination. So, and that's also when you're testing serum IGF, that's really all you're seeing is the bound stuff. That doesn't mean it's going into muscle. Again, it depends what's going into muscle that's acting on the muscle. Not going into the muscle. What's interacting with the growth hormone receptor on the muscle. Right. It's like certain binding.  proxins will send it to the kidneys or to the bones. Like that's what the issue is, right? Because in acromegaly, you see these IGF numbers of 1,000, 2,000. These guys aren't muscular or lean. They have massive hands and deformed heads. And big feet. Those binding proteins are, it's not advantageous to have them bind to those. And the higher the estrogen level, the more binding proteins are produced. Again, it's kind of body's way of protecting what's going on. Nature doesn't want females to become overly muscular, muscled. No. Well, so you can see it in my wife now, right? She's pregnant, estrogen is sky high, undetectably high. Grytherin levels also undetectably high. Didn't gain ounce of muscle. Yeah, of course. Why? You should use more pros than before. If estrogen was anabolic, people would just inject estrogen. Yeah. Good luck with that. Good luck with that. Unless your estrogen is low. And then you can always take the anabolic. Not the end of the world. Take a look at the anabolic. Take a look at the anabolic. Yeah, at least it's anabolic. Yeah, so what I'm wondering is between these bolus injections and the subq injections, if there's also some sort of change on how the growth hormone binds to the growth hormone binding proteins and limits the rate of anabolism that way. That's what I was always wondering. Yeah, I mean, even some of the discussion would be around an IM injection to a child versus a subq to a child. But more so, subq, because of its pharmacokinetics being across that 10-hour period, you're giving a for growth hormone deficiency before bed to mimic what would be produced in deep sleep. Yeah. And to prevent blocking of glucose uptake as well. Right? If you take it in the morning, you're blocking your ability to eat. Right? And the bodybuilder's compensate by then taking insulin. And it's just this vicious cycle. You're just going to go from one like that. You're going to get insulin. You're blunt forcing it with insulin. Because people ask, which dose of growth hormone do I need to start taking insulin? If you don't need to, you just need to time your growth hormone intelligently and to do a lot of activity to improve your insulin sensitivity. Because if the freeform fatty acids inhibit insulin substrate 1, then insulin doesn't do anything. Adding more insulin will make you more insulin resistant. Exactly. Which is counterintuitive. And I think this is where basal insulin, if you're not taking growth hormone and you're using basal insulin to take some offload to pancreas, like 20 I use. That would be your basal response in the background. For a longevity perspective, perhaps we covered this before. As soon as you start adding in growth hormone, where you're potentially becoming insulin resistant, this increased insulin from your basal use is just going to create more problems. As soon as you start seeing HBNC issues or glucose sensitivity issues of growth hormone, you have two choices. You either lower your growth hormone dose or you stop it, correct the insulin sensitivity problem, and restart again. I think that was when people asked me about why I choose three or four days for my training days. It's for that exact reason, my rest days and given my glucose tolerance a break. I do think with activity and a little bit of carnitine, you can mitigate a lot of these insulin resistance problems from growth hormone. That's why you don't really see insulin resistance with guys that are physically active. Because they take care of the freeform fatty acids and they're not always glycogen loaded. They don't have a boatload of saturated fat in their skeletal muscle. So their insulin sensitivity is sustained even on higher doses of growth. And then especially if you take metabolic with that, the SLU and the MOTC and whatever, I mean, you can eat a bottle of carbs and take a bottle of GH and still stay insulin sensitive. Until you do overdo the carbs and take away the protein and go with fruit only. That's a massive bit too much. Imagine if you do a long acting growth hormone and sugar fasting. We're just putting it. And then BAM15, bro, throw the DMP at it. To offset freeform fatty acids. Yeah, I think we're heading into another, I think renaissance of mitochondria and coupling with BAM15 becoming more available. What was once like a forbidden chemical, it's slowly becoming a bit more mainstream. People throw the M15 and the MOTC in there. So you and I'm like, what the hell are you doing? You don't understand how the shit works? Yeah, but this study showed that it doesn't have that much free radicals. So you're fucking dumbass. I mean, I'm all for experimentation, but I gotta draw the line somewhere, man. What about adipotides? If you wanna kill your kidneys, go for it. I think like DMP, there's probably some intelligent scenario to BAM15 and mitochondria and coupling. But again, you have to really understand what you're doing in the grand scheme of it by uncoupling and basically producing a lot of unspent energy by your body. That I think there's other ways that can be done. That's not to say you can't use it, I'm sure we can design a protocol where it's perfectly safe and very effective. I just don't want to. I mean, in the past. I'm gatekeeping that fucking information because I already looked at it and I know exactly how to do it correctly. And I just don't wanna, I gotta draw the line somewhere, man. Just like high protocols and know exactly how to do it. When you're 12 years old to 16 years old, I know exactly how to gain foot. Just gonna gatekeep it because I don't wanna be responsible for somebody doing it wrong. And then their kids end up fucked. So there's limits to what we can do, man. I think, yeah, no matter how intelligent, sometimes the chemistry is best kept to ourselves. Yeah, and just otherwise ask the B team. There's a B team of educators out there. Just ask them, they'll gladly for $100 consultation. Sure, man. They'll gladly tell you, fuck up your kids or fuck up your health. They'll gladly do it. Just on me. Yeah. Let's, let's, like, yeah, should like that. Yeah. Let's see what this comes up with. I'm on chat. No name calling, Dean. No, no, please. So the funny thing is, if you want protocols like this, you just ask chat GPT. You don't even need to ask an educator because chat GPT will write out a protocol for high protocols, which is pretty accurate. Especially to ask perplexity with a paid version where it integrates GROC and the latest GPTs and all together. That's what I have here. It's pretty fucking good, man. Let's see what it says here. I've asked to base them on what I know. God. It's not bad. Need some nuance, need some dietary adjustments, but it's not bad, man. Five more years, nobody watches the Anabola Ground Table. Just type it into perplexity and then get exactly what you need. And they're like, these fuckers just said, they were limiting the information. Wow, this is scary. I know, right? Not that I'm condoning. Anyone goes and does this, but what is it? Whoa. The way all three of us can retire from consultations in a few years, that's what I do know. All right, court's got a busy day. So let's wrap it up here. It's been two hours, guys. It's been long enough. I hope you got what you paid for. We had a Bully Ground Table. Next month, middle of August, July. Hopefully I'll be a daddy by the time. She's fucking crazy. My wife's like, yeah, I'm Jew. So when? Yeah, soon. I've been waiting like two weeks. I think I gotta wait another week. But next time I'll be a daddy and then I'll join you two in the sun of being the most handsome anabolic daddy's on the planet. So any parting words for this episode? Don't do fruit fasting. Don't do Trevor Grimup and Gareth Smup. Yeah. Just take TRT plus growth hormone, shut the fuck up and maybe avoid the ones with the Palloximer 188. So you can prevent kidney damage. I think this is a takeaway for this episode. And again, guys, this is no Trevor Grimup in these cannons. It's not bad for, you know, having not done crazy cycles in a while. Still 230 pounds. If you're less than 230 pounds, thinking about these compounds. I got news for you. I got all those. Yeah, yeah, just get building our status first and then I'll source it for you, no problems. You can find all their social media links down below. Kurt's got a forum, Dean's got a website that are available for consultations. These guys know a fuckload. Some, some things more than me. That's why you get them on every week or every month. So I can learn something new. Steve, I wanna be on about the ground table. No, I got curtain Dean's snuff for me. Guys, this was a pleasure. Kurt enjoy your consultation soon and we'll catch up soon. Okay. Bye guys. Thanks guys. Take care guys.

=== FILE: VIGOROUS EXCLUSIVE! Parabolan Insert FOUND! (Trenbolone Hexahydrobenzylcarbonate) Full Translation [8TFIFOG824o].txt ===

 It's my absolute pleasure to report that the complete NEGMA Laboratories, perabolin, trimblone, hexahyde, benzocarbonate, medical insert is now available and fully translated from French to English. Up until today we only had the front page to work with, now we also have the back page. Spoiler alert though, there's no citations to be found anywhere. A major shout out and appreciation to Anthony who kept a box of perabolin all this time and just sent me the pictures of both pages of the medical insert. You've earned a lot of money. A lot of sandwiches today my friends and I command the vigorous crew to show Anthony a lot of love and appreciation down below in the comment section. Let's get started. Vigorous Steve here. Alright, it finally happened. Somebody reached out with the medical insert of NEGMA Laboratories perabolin, which was actually discontinued in 1997. Anthony, an avid collector of steroid paraphernalia, kept a box of perabolin, the medical insert and even an ampoule for close to 30 seconds. 30 years. And he just sent me pictures which I could share with our trimblone-fueled bodybuilding community. And apparently Anthony tried to reach out at least five times already, but I get a lot of DMs and emails and messages on a daily basis. So sorry for the delay. Sorry Anthony that I missed all of your messages in the past when I asked for the medical insert of NEGMA Laboratories perabolin. Luckily I was able to see your message on the last trimblone study which we posted a couple days ago. So here we are. Let's share away. And thank you so much for contributing. To this video. All we had was the front page of the medical insert. I mean this image has been circulating the internet for years now. We could see a box of perabolin, three unopened ampoules of perabolin filled with the nectar of the gods, break when divorce is imminent, and the front page of the French medical insert with some hints of text on the backside, which unfortunately we couldn't read up until now. So I've been begging and harassing the community in every trimblone video to send me the back page of the medical insert to see if we could analyze it and possibly find some citations that could lead to further human studies performed on perabolin. I mentioned in the trimblone deep dive that I was able to find one citation of a human study which was listed in the Handbook of Experimental Pharmacology, Volume 43, anabolic androgenic Steroids by Charles D. Cocakian. But I was never able to find the full publication of this human study. The title of the study translates to Action of Trimblone in Malnutrition, Cirrhosis and Osteoporosis Study Based on 31 Cases. Give the trimblone deep dive a watch if you haven't already. Anyway, enough about that. Let's get into the insert. And this is what Anthony sent me, a broken and used perabolin ampoule. Imagine what this entire set was worth if the ampoule was currently unopened. Probably more than the 1979 prototype Star Wars rocket firing Boba Fett action figure. And we also see the Nekma Laboratories perabolin box and the medical insert with some well-placed oxidized perabolin stains for dramatic effect. Now we've already seen the front page of the insert before. So let's go right into the translation. And in case you're interested, I made the full translation available down below with a Dropbox link. You can download the PDF which looks very, very similar to the medical insert produced in France. Similar structure, albeit fully translated to English. You're welcome. And another shoutout is in place to my former coaching client, Noor, who helped me translate this page of the insert a couple years back. I hope you're doing well and staying anabolic, my friend. Here you see that perabolin trimblone is an injectable solution. A box of one self-breakable ampoule of one half milliliter. The composition of perabolin is hexahydrobenzocarbonate of trimblone corresponding to 50 milligrams of trimblone base for the 76 milligrams that's contained within the perabolin ampoule. It also contains 75 milligrams benzyl alcohol and 45 milligrams pharmaceutical grade ethyl alcohol, 100 proof and quantity sufficient for an ampoule of 1.5 milliliters neutralized or righteous oil, a.k.a. peanut oil. The therapeutic indications of perabolin includes in elderly patients' cachexia states of undernutrition, following major surgical interventions, extensive burns and pressure bed sores, and proposed in the treatment of certain senile or iatrogenic osteoporosis. And these are the contraindications of perabolin, pre-pubertal subjects, young women, breastfeeding, pregnant women or women likely to become pregnant due to the viralizing risks on the women and the fetus, prostatic hypertrophy, prostate carcinoma or in the presence of any proliferative process, and hepatic insufficiency, chronic or recent hepatitis. The warnings, the box warnings of perabolin, sportsmen, attention, this product contains an active ingredient that may induce a positive reaction in tests performed during anti-doping controls. And that just wants to make me take perabolin even more. And these are the instructions for use and dosage. One ampoule of perabolin for deep intramuscular injection. Every 15 days during the first month for three injections, so that it's at the start of the month, the middle of the month, and at the end of the month. Followed by every month during the following three months for another three injections. So over the course of four months, there's six perabolin administrations of one single ampoule containing 76 mg Tremblone hexahydro-benzocarbonates resulting in net 50 mg Tremblone per injection. Do not use under the age of 15 years old. Duh! Duh! Even though if you go to TikTok, you see plenty of 15-year-olds running Tremblone at much higher dosages than are recommended for medical purposes. Respect the prescribed doses. Yeah, right. 76 mg Tremblone every 15 days. Nobody does that. Not even me. Table C list two. Marketing authorization number. And then you see the contact details for NIGMA Laboratories. That was the front page. Now let's move over to the elusive back page of the insert. And again, all credit goes out to Anthony for hooking us up after all these years with complimentary Tremblone stains. And I wonder how many mg of perabolin can be extracted from this paper. Must be close to a hero's dose. Again, I did the translation for you guys. So I quote, You should never abuse medicines. You tell that to a bodybuilder and the rage quits right away. Medicines should only be used knowingly. I highly agree to that. But that's not what the Tremblone community usually does as we could see from the case reports highlighted a couple days ago. Use the medicines prescribed as your doctor tells you. Unfortunately, Tremblone can no longer be prescribed. Only be recommended by coaches or self-administered. Follow exactly the prescription on his instruction. Follow the prescribed treatment. Do not interrupt it. Do not resume it on your own initiative. It's going to be hard to do because the Tremblone sandwich is so appealing. Your pharmacist knows medicines. Follow his advice. It is not about taking a lot of medicines. It is about taking the medicines you need. Polypharmacy is bad. Okay. Unfortunately, there's no citations to be found here. I'm not entirely sure if at that time insert citations were even required by the French equivalent of the FDA called the French Agency for Food, Environmental, and Occupational Health and Safety, abbreviated to ANSES. Then again, the latest Bayer Testivirum or Bayer Remabolin medical inserts don't list any citations either. Other kinds of medications approved by the FDA in the United States go over various human clinical trials or other human studies where various adverse effects or beneficial effects at various dosage ranges are observed. But it seems that that's not included in various steroid-based medications. And to be perfectly honest, I'm a little bit disappointed. I expected a lot more from the back page. I guess I can now relate to all of those guys who swipe on Tinder. You only go by the front picture. And then as soon as you see the back, there's nothing to behold. I guess the joke's on me. I mean, it's just a list of warnings. Warnings that everybody's going to forego anyway. Anyway. And lastly, there's the back of the box which just contains similar information which you can already find in the medical insert, including Negma Laboratories contact information, parabolin composition, and general information on what the medical insert contains. Again, you can download the fully translated medical insert of Negma Laboratories parabolin as a PDF following the Dropbox link down below. And I'm still on the lookout for the medical insert of Mastrohn. Maybe there's some human scientific evidence that Mastrohn is actually anabolic and not just a cosmetic enhancing drug. I'll check in with Anthony to see what else he's got to share. And this is the end of the video. So you know what time it is. Do your blood work over at Merrick Health if you live in the United States and do your blood work elsewhere. If you don't live in the United States, if you take the Trimbalone sandwich, you should do blood work frequently. The best pre-workouts you can find over at Gorilla Mind. The best fragrances and other male beauty products you can find over at Intelligent Shop. For general over-the-counter health supplementation, go to iHerb. And if you can't find something specific, just go over to my website, vigorsteve.com, where all kinds of additional information is presented to you guys. All right. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A front double bicep for you guys. Any Trimbalone in this picture? I'm not entirely sure. No, it's just injectable YK-11. I mean, that's just pretty potent too. Please leave a like, leave a comment, share it with all your Trimbalone sandwich loving friends, so we can get into the algorithm and get this video up to a million views. Fingers crossed. I'll see you guys in the next one.

=== FILE: WADA Approved DOPING STACK Of 2025 ｜ SLU-PP-332, Methylene Blue, Retatrutide, Etc ｜ Prohibited Steve [2vAY1cyzfeg].txt ===

 looks like the world-endidoping-atc-adid-mod-c to the prohibit list of 2025. This means war. Vigorous thief here, as promised, here's your yearly updated WADA-approved doping stack, discussing all of the performance-synastic drugs and notable over-contour supplements, which are not included in next year's WADA prohibit list, that's the 2025 version, adhering to these guidelines, limiting yourself to these compounds, technically, allows you to call yourself a half-nady, because they're not prohibited, by WADA, albeit that I can't guarantee you that you're going to beat the drug test in any way, shape, or form. I mean, if WADA wants you to fail, they'll fail you, as there's so many loopholes and discrepancies within the system, allowing for the bending of the rules on both sides. I mean, trust me when I say this, athletes bend the rules of the WADA prohibit list all the time, but I'm sure you guys are already aware of athletes quote-a-quote cheating at the Olympics or other drug-tested sports. Before we get started, as a quick side note, if any of these WADA-approved performance-synastic drugs or over-contour supplements spark your interest, then have a look at my control of source list on my website, where many of these compounds are already indexed, so you can easily find whatever it is that you're looking for with discount codes, so you can sell yourself some money while staying WADA compliant. Now, there's a lot that we're going to discuss in this video, but in order to be respectful of your time, I'm not going to go into individual dosages of each single compound. I will explain what each compound does, but the dosages will just be on the screen for you guys to do additional research with, because otherwise this video is going to turn into a two-hour behemoth, and nobody has time for that. Now it is. Let's start with the 2025 monitoring program, where WADA lists compounds that are testing for in and out of competition to assess prevalence of use, but they're not filling athletes for these particular compounds just quite yet. Sometimes they list these compounds on a monitoring program and ban them the next year. Sometimes they stay on a monitoring program for many years, until they're removed, with WADA you never really know what they're going to do next. The monitoring program is basically the same as last year, with the latest additions being fentanyl and tramadol, which you're now checking for in and out of competition. I mean, I can't imagine using tramadol or fentanyl in another competition. If you're suffered from an injury, you should be resting and relaxing and recovering at home. I mean, these are not compounds that we generally use in health and fitness space or in the Olympics or other kinds of endurance sports, so I guess there's nothing new to report. Here, they're still monitoring for ectosterone, which is a naturally occurring ectosteroids that regulates and controls ectasis, which is molting and the menoporfosis of antropods. It has somewhat anabolic properties by stimulating potentiating protein synthesis and collagen synthesis through the estrogen beta receptor pathway. While ectosterone is being monitored for turkestrone, it's called counterpart, another phytoecosteroids extracted from the Ajuga-Turkestanica plant, is not being monitored by WADA yet. And let's see, they're still monitoring for the use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues in females under the age of 18 years old. In both men and adults in general, the use of GNRH analogues is completely prohibited. Hypoxion is still listed, which is an adaptogen to offset hypoxia in low oxygen environments. Imagine cycling at altitude or climbing a particular mountain. Very low oxygen environment, hypoxion helps with that. But if you use it at sea level, man, the stamina and the endurance boost that you get out of it, whether that's for long distance sports, short distance sprint sports, or even strength sports, very, very, very pronounced. We'll get into the hypoxion dosages a little bit later on when we get to the metabolic modulator part of this video. You see here that all the non-exciting stimulants are being monitored for with the only one that has a reasonably effect on fat loss and overall stimulatory properties being synophrine, albeit that nicotine not really being a great stimulant still has a great, tremendous, neutral pick properties and also acts as a aromatized inhibitor. So maybe we can use a little bit of nicotine patches, nicotine gum to increase our total testosterone levels. Yes, we'll get into that a little bit later on. Now smart people don't use narcotics. So let's forego that segment of the monitoring program. And the only one, the only listed glucagon like peptide one receptor agonist here that they're monitoring for is semi-glutide. Now again, that doesn't mean that semi-glutide is banned. They're just looking for it. I mean, semi-glutide also known as ozympic ribosis or white gophi is the only one listed. But there's many other alternatives on the menu. But this seems to be the most popular and the most commonly discussed in the entire world, right? So they're monitoring for that. Don't worry, we have plenty of alternatives. We'll get into that a little bit later on in this video. Next on the menu is a summary of major modifications and explanatory notes that the World Anti-Dopic Agency published alongside the pre-emptive list of 2025. But let's just stick to what we know because I have no idea where the compounds are listed under S0, non-approved substances. But S3, beta 2 agonists, I'm very well aware of. Here they go into detail about inhaled formatorol being a maximum delivery dose unchanged at 54 micrograms over 24 hours. We'll discuss the beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonists at length when we get to that segment of this video. And I already have an alternative in the form of a beta 3 adrenergic receptor agonist, namely Mirabekron, which I already have a deep dive you can find on my YouTube channel. Let's see. S4, hormone and metabolic modulators. Listing, mitochondrial open reading frame of the 12SR RNA-C, better known as Mod-C, was added as an example of AMP-activated protein kinase activators. Mostly helps with the mitochondria and their efficiency, but it's now listed, unfortunately, on the prohibit list. And that means we're going to go extra, extra, extra hard on this waterproof doping stack because for every compound that water includes in the prohibit list, I'll offer you guys 50 new compounds that you can choose from. Bet your left that there will be a thousand compounds as an alternative by the time I'm done with this video series that is updated yearly. Now, they also added a less astrant as an example of an anti-astrogen. They mentioned several insulin mimetics, which I never heard about. They discussed diuretics a little bit. Of course, the manipulation of blood and blood components as well as gene and cell doping is completely prohibited. That's not something that I'm specialized in. When it comes to the S6 stimulants, also something that I'm very well aware of. Here they added in hydrophenil, which is also known as fluronol, was changed from the S6B class to the S6A class as it's a little bit more potent than Modaphenil, purely because hydrophenil is a higher potency to pass the blood-brain barrier and thus offers more of a neutropic and stimulatory benefits than Modaphenil itself. Many of the Modaphenil variants are already listed on the prohibit list. I guess this is a new classification. They added Tessofensine to the prohibit list, so I had to remove that from the water-approved doping stack that I still included in 2024. Tessofensine off the list. Tessofensine is a selective serotonin norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitor. It's classically an antidepressant, but we use it off-labally to suppress our appetite at 250 micrograms daily or three times weekly. Here they specifically mentioned that guanphesine was classified as non-prohibited, which means it's allowed. We can actually include guanphesine in the water-approved doping stack of 2025. Guanphesine is very popular in the neutropic space. It's an oral alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist that is used in the treatment of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, but we use it off-labally to kind of enhance blood flow to the brain and help with our neutropic aspirations. So guanphesine is allowed, but Tessofensine is not allowed, unfortunately. And here they mentioned something about the use of beta blockers in particular sports. I highly doubt that anybody watching is practicing these particular sports in which the use of beta blockers are banned. So let's move over to the actual World Anti-Doping Code International Standards prohibit list of 2025, which is also known as the We're Going Out of Style and Business. Please compete in the enhanced games instead, where you can use all of these wonderful compounds and much, much more lists. We're using the water prohibit list as a guideline of what we can't use, and they were looking for stuff that we know about but isn't specifically listed in the water prohibit list of stuff we can use and still call ourselves a half-nady. Half-nady approved doping stack in case you're interested in retaining that title. Keep watching. Personally, I'm fully sourced, so this list is completely off the menu for me. I use whatever the f*** I want, like a real adult, and I don't lie about it. Okay, let's get started. Don't worry, we'll go through all of the segments. For each segment, a list, which compound isn't specifically mentioned, but it doesn't mean that you're guaranteed to beat the drug test. I mean, if water wants you to fill, they'll make you fill, which they actually have a clause at the start of the prohibit list, which falls under S0, non-approved substances, where they specifically mention prohibited at all times in and out of competition, all prohibited substances in this class are specified substances, and I quote, Any pharmacological substance which is not addressed by any of the subsequent sections of the list, and with no current approval by any governmental regulatory health authority for human therapeutic use, as in drugs under preclinical or clinical development or discontinued designer drugs, substances approved only for veterinary use, is prohibited at all times. So basically, 99% of the stuff that we're going to mention in this video prohibited at all times. But let's continue. This class covers many different substances, including but not limited to body protection compound 157, 2,4, denitrofinal, DNP, and then a couple other compounds which we generally don't use in the fitness space. So basically, what you're saying here is that if there's currently no FDA-approved medical application within the United States, or medical application approved by an FDA equivalent in other countries, then it's automatically not allowed. Now, if you're an American and you're going to be Kamala Harris about mentioning the FDA that it's only US based, here is a comprehensive list of FDA equivalent organizations by country regulating the food and drugs for that particular country or region, right? There's more than the FDA within the United States. Every country or every region has some sort of equivalent regulating foods and drugs. So please stop complaining about it. So if you can get yourself a script for a particular compound that's not listed through some Johnny Walker negotiated medical condition that you may or may not be suffering from, getting yourself a script in a country where this compound is medically recognized for this medical condition, they technically underwad us on guidelines, you should be able to get away with its use. And with that being said, the large majority of the compounds that we're going to discuss in this video are not FDA approved anywhere in the world. So keep this in mind. And while you might still be able to call yourself a half 90 if you follow the guidelines of this water doping stack of 2025, if they decide to pull you aside for doping tests under s zero, non approved substances, you might still fail if they watch you pee into the doping sample cup, which are pants down and your shirt lifted. That's probably the highlight of a doping officers day, right? Watching genitals your net. All right, moving over to s one, the anabolic agents. Long story short, all of the good stuff is already listed. Last year, they added trust alone meant to the anabolic agents list. And it means as of now, there's currently nothing really left anabolic, energetic, stardewise that you can get away with, or at least stuff that actually works. Unless, unless, unless you stick with the established detection times, which are scientifically proven and known anecdotally, which might be a little bit shorter than the scientifically established detection times are a little bit longer, because you use these anabolic and generic steroids for such a long time, whereas the scientifically proven detection times are usually established on the single administration, right? But we have services for that. Keep that in mind. That is a soft drone is on the list under one testosterone. VHA is under the list as prostrone. Stemblone is on the list. Trust alone meant is on the list. Even tetrahydrogestronone, better known as the clear is on the list. And even clambitrol and several SARMS and strotalsarm YK-11 are listed under s.to other anabolic agents. The only compounds not listed here are prognolone and progestrone, which its anabolic properties can be debated. Prognolone converts into DHA, testosterone, DHT and estradiol downstream and progestrone might have some collagen synthesis. Benefits will address that a little bit later on. But even if you're mega dosing prognolone at, let's say 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams daily, it doesn't really offer much of a performance enhancing benefit unless you're androgen deficient or elderly, which also means you're probably not competing at the absolute highest level or you're subject to drug testing. So let's leave the prognolone and progestrone off the list under anabolic agents for now. But progestrone will make it come back a little bit later on when we discuss optimizing collagen synthesis. Technically though, they forgot to include several selective antigen receptor modulators, pro hormones and ectosterones. So our guests were still in the green there with the half 90 approved SARMS AC262536. That's the only one that I actually know dosages of. You have several other oral SARMS. The numbers are on the screen, most notably rat 150, which is a modified version of rat 140, better known as test alone, which is listed. And there's even a transdermal serum called Ly305. Now, most of these oral SARMS aren't really, really used. I can't really find any anecdotal reports of people using these SARMS. I don't think that they're available anywhere besides AC262536, of which the dosages are on the screen, because people have anecdotal experience with it. And the animal models, I believe that there's some dosage extrapolation to the human equivalent dose. So take this as a guideline, but please do additional research if you're interested in this particular SARM. There are half 90 approved pro hormones a little bit fallen to the wayside. Pro hormones aren't really used anymore. The only pro hormone which is still being used is superdrol, which isn't really a pro hormone that just was a antibiotic androgenic steroid classified as a pro hormone falsely, right, when it was being sold back in the day. So there's an injectable pro hormone called Boulondiol, also known as anabio. There's several oral pro hormones, including cholesterol, pregnant alone, progesterone, and well, all these funky chemical names which are on the screen. And keep in mind that some of these pro hormones might actually metabolize into sterile compounds which are listed. I mean, this is the whole function of pro hormones. You're taking this orally or injectably in a benign quote unquote benign state, and then in the body it metabolizes into something with anabolic properties. Some of these metabolites of these pro hormones might actually be listed. Now, I didn't do the research. I just went through all of the pro hormones which aren't specifically listed themselves, but it doesn't guarantee that you're not going to fill for a particular compound as some of these pro hormones might convert into a compound that's actually listed. You couldn't find any anecdotal reports on all of these pro hormones, so I don't know the exact dosages. If you want to use these which I'm highly advising against, then well, you're going to have to do your own research going forward. I will say this before we continue. None of these are listed already, and since Zvada is pretty thorough with the listings of anabolic agents, I mean, how much of an anabolic effect do you expect to get from these pro hormones that aren't listed? Even provirins listed, and how much of an anabolic response you get from provirin? Well, that remains to be debated. So your mileage might very do additional research, but I don't think any of these pro hormones are suitable to be used to elicit an anabolic effect. Ecticerones though are still what are approved anabolic agents, while Ecticerone itself is currently on the monitoring program. You could combine the toerquestrone with ecticerone or use them solo, whatever you prefer. And these are the only two compounds that are non-suppressive that you can actually use alongside over-the-counter supplements and lifestyle practices to boost your testosterone levels naturally. And on the topic of boosting testosterone levels, what can we do for the maximum testosterone levels to boost the anabolic response in our body? Somewhat, keep in mind that selective anagenerum septal modulators and pro hormones have a suppressive effect on the hypotomic-padolytic characteristic axis and can actually lower testosterone levels and estradiol levels over time. So this is probably a worse combination to go for if you go with storms only or pro hormones only and throwing the kitchen sink of order-for-the-counter testosterone boosters at it. Your testosterone levels might still be low and your estradiol levels might still be low because now you're solely relying on these water-approved storms or pro hormones. So I would rather go with ecticerone and toerquestrone alongside an over-the-counter supplement stack to boost your testosterone levels and sleeping according to your circadian rhythm. That seems to be a more suitable approach and sustainable approach than going with oral storms or pro hormones. And since you can't use it to testosterone base or follow HCG monotherapy to sustain intertesticular sacrum bone production while using water-approved storms or pro hormones, that basically means that these compounds are completely off the menu unless you prefer to walk around in an androgen deficient and estrogen deficient state all the time. I mean even following a deannable only cycle sounds more appealing even though that's certainly not water-approved. Again, the only non-suppressive compounds you can actually use are the gastrone and ecticerone which you can use alongside over-the-counter supplements and lifestyle practices to boost testosterone levels because these compounds are non-suppressive and this would elicit the most the highest antibiotic response which is still compliant with the guidelines that water has set in this water prohibited list. Here's a list of over-the-counter supplements which are known to increase testosterone levels through several pathways. Here's KSM-66 as we're going to root extract which lowers cortisol levels and can thus increase testosterone secretion. Tonkot Alley is known to increase testosterone levels but Dusha Grecius is known to increase luteinizing hormone levels which downstream can increase testosterone levels. Tribulus terrestis, your mileage might vary on an increase of testosterone levels. Boron actually lowers SHBG and might actually promote conversion of testosterone into estradiol but it will certainly increase your free testosterone levels if taken twice per day but again depending on your dietary practices your mileage might vary. Vitamin C, vitamin D3, vitamin E, magnesium, zinc, selenium, fish oil, torene and carnitine all contribute to testosterone synthesis. Interestingly consider these building blocks in the process of testosterone synthesis. Derspartic acid and fenugreek might be able to increase testosterone levels but it's worked really well for me in the past was icing my testicles when I was off cycle and taking all of these over-the-counter supplements to boost my testosterone levels somewhat. Icing the testicles really works there's not so much scientific evidence to prove it but there's a lot of anecdotal reports of men doing this particular practice and noticing a significant boost in their libido and overall total testosterone levels proven with blood work. You put an ice pack in a towel strategically place that underneath your nuts for 20 minutes to bring the temperature down and when you remove the ice pack new blood rushes into the area assuming you don't have a terrible virical cell. New blood rushes into the area and if you take these over-the-counter supplements with the building blocks for testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis then this blood is full with nutrients going into the testicles and boosting testosterone levels and spermatogenesis if you do this three times daily it's a little bit cumbersome but it works. Some guys swear by red light therapy I never really done that some guys even swear by lifting their butt cheeks up and angling their scrotum to the sun right whatever you prefer I'll leave it entirely up to you and then sleep. Yes sleeping according to your circadian rhythm at least eight hours per night is probably the best testosterone boosting method you can incorporate right so if you want to bring your testosterone levels up beside all of your over-the-counter supplements just proper sleep will give you the most bang for your buck when you're spending all this money on supplements right and I see your nuts alongside of that upon waking sometime in the afternoon and before bed sweet freaking testosterone levels give it a try. Now again with some of these over-the-counter supplements and best practices your mileage might vary some people respond better to certain supplements than other people do and if you don't want to go through the trials and error process to figure out which of these supplements or best practices are actually working right trying one supplement or best practices for a week or two and then doing blood work in between to see what is actually working maybe in the beginning of boosting your testosterone levels you just stick with an over-the-counter testosterone booster like Gerylamide Sigma and you combine that so with Gerylamide Calm and AR which contains carnitine and perhaps ectiplex or dercplex for your intake of ecti-steroins solo or in combination personally I found that the combination of ecti-steroin and turquestrone works better than taking them so low so maybe you give that a trial run for one two or three months to see how much of a change you can get on your total testosterone levels and how much of an anabolic response you get by the addition of ecti-steroin and turquestrone it's worthy of a trial run you can find discount codes down below so you can save yourself some money while undergoing this process and if you're successful since elevated testosterone and astrogyl ultimately helps with collagen synthesis which is essential for muscle building and the recovery process especially when you combine that with a compound set stimulate protein synthesis and collagen synthesis namely turquestrone and ecti-steroin then why don't we try to optimize this entire process with several over-the-counter supplements to provide all of the building blocks needed for adequate protein synthesis and collagen synthesis so here's the half-nanny approved protein and collagen synthesis optimization stack containing vitamin A vitamin C vitamin E B vitamins copper zinc silica glycine and proline lucine HMB whether that's HMB calcium or free acids hydrolyzed collagen peptides type 1 and 3 hydrolyzed collagen peptides type 2 GHK GHK copper pulmitate GHK micronized progesterone and even medical interventions including microneedling and fractional laser therapy now combination of most of these over-the-counter supplements can be found in gorylamide collagen peptides it's linked down below obviously a GHK copper GHK pulmitate GHK those are injectable and topical formulas micronized progesterone is very potent for collagen synthesis and overall protein synthesis albeit that it might be hpta suppressive at higher dosages so if you go with micronized progesterone i would only take this when you're recovering from an injury when you're out of competition and you need the maximum amount of collagen synthesis to take place to recover from surgery or a terrible injury that you're now a better written from in which case you would also combine it with GHK or GHK copper to help with the incisions and to kind of slowly recover the connective tissue or the micro injuries that you might have sustained because GHK and GHK copper or pulmitate GHK is excellent for collagen synthesis all of the dosages of these supplements and peptides or progesterone are on the screen and with that out of the way part of the antibiotic response is having super histologic levels of growth factors and peptide hormones flowing around in the body at all times which you can actually stimulate with several water-approved compounds here you see that the rithupruetans EPL and similar compounds in mimetics are banned under S2 peptide hormones growth factors related substances antimimetics segments S.1.1 rithupruetan receptor agonists and then they go into the specifics but we can still boost the medical and root blood cell count using various methods and over the supplements we can provide the building blocks for the half 90 approved oxygen carrying capacity optimization stack in the form of vitamin B9, vitamin B12, vitamin C, iron, copper and then using altitude masks or living in high altitude or stimulating high altitude with hyperbaric oxygen chambers and then using myoenosital tripyrophosphate to increase the oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin allowing for more oxygen transport through the red blood cells without increasing red blood cell count so you can improve red blood cell count with these over the counter supplements right the vitamins the iron the copper then stimulating red blood cell production by reducing the oxygen in the environment obviously you don't want to combine that with the epoxy because that kind of defeats the purpose so maybe increase your red blood cell count using altitude masks living in high altitude or using the hyperbaric oxygen chamber while increasing the oxygen affinity with myoenosital tripyrophosphate using the loading phase and maintenance phase which is discussed on the screen you can go from the loading phase to the maintenance phase once the neutropic and in germs benefits are noticeable keep in mind that ITPP is actually banned in several sports federations but it not specifically mentioned in the water prohibit list of 2025 and then you can use a dipeptidyl peptidyl for inhibitor which are many of to prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and other growth factors but we'll get into the DPP for eyes when we get to the growth factor and growth factor modulator segment of the water prohibited list and discuss alternative options here you see under S2 peptide hormones and the releasing factor sub-segment 2.1.1 testosterone stimulating peptides in meals including but not limited to um chorionic gonadotropin that's human chorionic gonadotropin or luteinizing hormone or gonadotropin releasing hormone or chispeptin which doesn't really work so i don't know why they listed here but it's still listed right so if you use any of these you're automatically banned whether you're using urine purified or recombinant human chorionic gonadotropin a luteinizing hormone also banned but follicle stimulating hormone not banned now follicle stimulating hormone doesn't really offer any kind of performance enhancing benefits but if you like to coat your partner in glaze then FSH specifically a recombinant FSH but you could also use a human menopausal gonadotropin which contains FSH albeit with trace amounts of HCG which you can still fail the doping test with so stick with recombinant FSH Merck gonal F that is if you want to glaze your partner in a love and caring method then FSH is certainly a way to go unfortunately you don't get any performance enhancing benefits out of it but fertility boosting effects well you can bet both of your testicles and her ovaries that fertility will go up for you substantially and thus increasing the chances to get your partner pregnant completely water approved now besides the fidocia agrestus which we mentioned in the overcomper supplement stack fidocia agrestus being known to increase luteinizing hormone secretion and thus testosterone estrogen secretion production from the testicles you can also influence the hypatomic pituitary testicular axis raising luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels by reducing your estradiol levels which is the primary negative feedback of the HPTA right testosterone converts into estradiol and when estradiol is high the hypatomas and the pituitary down regulates their secretion of luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone reducing testosterone synthesis keeping estradiol in range right this is how the feedback works but if you somehow some way reduce your estradiol levels then LH and FSH secretion is absolutely maximized especially when you combine that with over the counter supplements that boost testosterone production so what can we do to bring our estradiol levels down and while all the commonly known and medically used aromatase inhibitors are already listed under S4.1 aromatase inhibitors don't worry we'll get to that segment a little bit later on in this video it seems that WADA has no clue that there's a boatload of compounds out there with known aromatase enzyme inhibiting effects or at least estradiol lowering effects and thus when all of these are combined like captain planets then we can  and actually get a very dramatic reduction in serum estradiolivels. So here's the half-90-approved estradioloverin-over-the-counter supplement and aromatized inhibitor. Superstack, vitamin C, berberine, calcium declucrate, dienomethane, dechyrionositol, glucophage, better known as mitformin, melatonin. To dilaphyl-Cialis, yes, I actually have an excellent deep dive about Cialis. Check that out, so you know exactly how and why Cialis lowers serum estradiolivels. Zinc, nicotine, and their metabolites, cotinine and anibacine, very potent aromatized inhibitors but are included in the 2005 monitoring program listed under four stimulants. And then there's several medical aromatized inhibitors which are not specifically mentioned, blood rosol, findrosol, lia rosol, and vorosol, and make sure if you do have access to these, which I can't find on any product list, anywhere that you confirm the usage of these particular aromatized inhibitors which are not specifically mentioned with frequent blood work, and the same goes for continuous or long-term nicotine use. Again, it's that potent. Make sure you keep track of your blood work to confirm and solidify that your estradiolivels are coming down and your LH and FSH and total testosterone-free testosterone levels are actually going up. And with the following compounds, your mileage might vary, but there are some indications that they might lower estradiolivels or at least inhibit the aromatized enzyme, usually stemming from breast cancer or ovarian cancer studies. Epigenin, chrysin, cumastrol, diazine, delfinidin, epigallochathrin, galates, fatty acids, and genistine, campferol, luto-lyn, norigenin, chrysinine, resveratrol, zodium-vill-proate, and medication, and terpenoids. And again, with these flavonoids, your mileage might vary. All of these results are stemming from in vitro studies performed on breast cancer cells or ovarian cancer cells or several animal models where they might have some anti-cancer properties by inhibiting the aromatized enzymes. If they were really good, if you have some tangible rearworld effects, you would expect these flavonoids to be contained in over-the-counter testosterone boosters or at least in estrogen balance formulations aimed towards women. I mean, a diomethane, calcium deglucrate, dechlorinositol, usually contained within estrogen balance supplements aimed towards women, but these flavonoids generally are not. So do additional research if you get some sort of aromatized inhibiting effects out of it by taking any of these accidentally by eating particular foods. Great, but I wouldn't search the world far and wide for supplements containing these flavonoids because again, your mileage might vary. I explain all of these in the videos discussing that aromatized inhibitors aren't devil and discussing several estradiol lowering over-the-counter supplements that might act as aromatized inhibitors. I'll link them at the end of this video. Now, as we all know, preventing the conversion of testosterone in the estradiol ultimately increases the risk of testosterone converting into diatotestosterone through the 5-alpha reductase enzymes front in the scalp and skin, working contribute to hair loss. So if you favor elevated testosterone levels over elevated diatotestosterone levels, then look into these half-90-approved 5-alpha reductase inhibitors. We have solpamental extract, pygium, richy-mushroom extract, which can actually be combined into a formula that is very potent in the reduction of DHT levels, albeit not to the point that they completely bottom out. And then there's medical 5-alpha reductase inhibitors in the form of anastratetestrat or episturite. But if you go that route, please do blood work before, during, and after to make sure that your DHT levels don't bottom out, start low, build your way up as needed. Because well, a post-vanastrat syndrome can be pretty brutal and longer-lasting, affecting your libido and cognition for weeks to months to years. And if you're currently suffering from post-vanastratet syndrome, please give this video a watch. Alright, let's skip over S2.2.2, the corticotropins and their releasing factors, because we generally don't use those in the fitness community. Anyway, let's move on onwards to S2.2.3, growth hormone, its analogs and fragments, including, but not limited to, growth hormone analogs, as in, lone apex, or metropin produced by Ascendus under the brand name Skytropha, Soma, Positon produced by Novonordix under the brand name Sogroia, and Soma Trojan produced by Pfizer under the brand name, and Genilla, which is hidden in the market now, and Chase Irons has the most experience within Genilla, but that doesn't make it waterproof. So growth hormone, whether that's pharmaceutical or genetics, is obviously listed here under growth hormone, aka Soma tropin. And growth hormone fragments, as in anti-obesity drug 9604 and growth hormone fragments 1762191, are also included in the prohibit list. So growth hormone, some of its variants that are longer acting because they're bound to obiumin or an HCG subunit, and some of the fragments which we know actually works completely banned. Now there's several other growth hormone fragments which actually have been investigated, that's growth hormone fragment 1243 and 32 to 46, which promotes glucose homeostasis but only in animal models, and then there's growth hormone fragment 44 to 191, which actually promotes glucose intolerance in animal models, and is about 10 times more potent in doing so than the full sequence of growth hormone being amino acid sequence 1 to 191. So these have been poorly investigated. I've never seen growth hormone fragment 1243 or 32 to 46 on any of the gray area peptide websites, very limited scientific evidence, and I would say zero practical applications for us as people in the fitness community aspiring to be as lean as possible and controlling our glucose levels through various different pathways because, well, when we get to the metabolic modulators, there's much better methods out there for improving glucose homeostasis in the bloodstream. So let's just focus on what we can actually use because it seems that everything, all the good stuff is already included. And for that, we also need to highlight what's listed under S2.2.4 growth hormone releasing factors, including but not limited to growth hormone releasing hormone and its analogs, growth hormone secretogogs and their memetics, and growth hormone releasing peptides with a launcher list of examples on what you can't use completely while up prohibited. And it means that basically all the good stuff is listed. All of the growth hormone secretogogs, which we know are actually working are listed here besides maybe a rela morelain, which I've never seen available anywhere as SM 130686, an early active agonist of the ghrelin growth hormone receptor, and that acts as a growth hormone secretogog similar to MK-677, which is listed, haven't seen that available anywhere. And then lastly, what you can look into is Uli Morelain, also known as TCP 101, which is an undergrowing receptor agonist, but in scientific evidence, it was shown that it's barely promotes growth hormone secretion. So unfortunately, under S2.2.3 and S2.2.4, all of the good stuff, all of the stuff that actually works by increasing your growth hormone levels, whether you take that through exogenous sources or you promote a production within the pituitary gland with a secretogog already listed, but don't you worry, there's a boatload of methods and over the counter supplements, which are actually known to increase growth hormone levels as long as you follow particular best practices. So let's get into the half 90 approved growth hormone secretion optimization stack, high quality sleep. Who would have thought at improving your testosterone levels also improves your growth hormone levels, high intensity aerobic and resistance training, and the growth hormone response is enhanced by pre-workout essential amino acids, creatin monohydrates, torene and caffeine, a balanced sex hormone and neuro steroid levels testosterone, estrogen, DHT and DHEA. If you have that balance following the over the counter supplement stack to boost your testosterone levels, and again, you're sleeping according to your circadian rhythm, then this balanced sex hormones and neuro steroid levels will contribute to enhanced growth hormone production in the pituitary glands. A glucagon contributes to growth hormone secretion, stress management by keeping your cortisol level low. And for that, we have as we're going to root extract or grill mind calm, hopefully in your over the counter supplement stack, right? Again, it's listed down below. We have amino acid supplementation, arginine, ornithine, lysine, glycine, glutamine and leucine. And it seems that ornithine and lysine works synergistically with arginine, which blunt somatostatin release the dosage ranges are on the screen. I would suggest you start low, built your way up and take all of these amino acids before bed alongside melatonin supplementation or GABA supplementation or both, right? It's entirely up to you. The amount of hydrate supplementation increases growth hormone secretion, intermittent fasting, one meal per day, fasting after four o'clock in the afternoon. So you're in a deep fasted state by the time you go to bed or full fasting, all minimize somatostatin release for the maximum amount of growth hormone secretion occurring at night and several pulses over the day. Adequate protein intake. I don't need to tell you guys that without adequate protein, you don't have adequate muscle mass. And well, you need to eat a bottle of protein for these cannons to fill out the screen as I'm sure you guys are well aware and that also contributes to growth hormone release being in a micronutrient sufficient state all the time. Make sure you hit your daily recommended intakes on all of your micronutrients. Low refined sugar intake, low glycemic index and loads foods for dinner. So you have minimal insulin release throughout the night. And again, if you go to bed in somewhat of a fasted state, maybe the last meal of the day is at four o'clock or no later than nine o'clock. If you go to bed at 12 o'clock, then at least most of the carbohydrates are already digested your insulin levels are low. You might get some glucose release overnight. Some of the statin levels are low and then the ghrelin levels are high, allowing for the highest possible growth hormone secretion. A minimal alcohol consumption. I think that's a no brainer. Healthy body weight. I also think that's a no brainer, even though my body weight is far from healthy. I'm close to 250 pounds right now. Proper hydration. Make sure you stay on top of that. Chloronidine and nicotine enhances the growth hormone releasing hormone pulses at night. Keep in mind that nicotine is included in the monitoring program under four stimulants and deep peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors prevent a growth hormone releasing hormone and a growth hormone secretion. Got peptide breakdown. Now growth hormone secretion. Got your can't use, but natural growth hormone releasing hormone being produced in the body. You can prevent the breakdown of with diet peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors and does the growth hormone pulse when growth hormone releasing hormone levels are high is also higher. But again, we'll get to the DPP for eyes a little bit later in this video. Now mention all of these water approved options and several water prohibited options, including the beta blocker pro panel. In a video titled the growth hormone optimization and security gawk cheat sheet. I'll link it at the end of this video in case you want to know more about these particular compounds. Moving on to S 2.3 growth factors and growth factor modulators. Or you can finally talk about diet peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors. And the list is very long because none of the DPP for eyes are actually included in the water prohibited list. So it's fair game to prevent the breakdown of growth factors by these growth factor modulators. Now, there's a boatload of compounds here, most notable, berberine, which is the DPP for eye, actually preventing the breakdown of insulin and other growth factors. And this is where some of the insulated insulin sensitizing effects of berberine are actually stemming from. You see here that linea glipton, also known as trigenta and sexa glipton or C. Toclipton, also known as genuvia are often combined with sodium glucose, called transporter to inhibitors. So keep this in mind, right? If you want to use these DPP for eyes separately, then make sure it's not combined with an S GL to inhibitor as well. I think the most notable and most commonly used DPP for eyes are linea glipton, sexa glipton, C. Toclipton and Vildaglipton. Those seems to be the most readily available as well on some of the source websites. I've always used genuvia C. Toclipton, 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams upon waking when I want to prevent the breakdown of insulin and or IGF one, whether I take that exotiously or being produced by exotinous growth hormone or growth hormone secretogogs. That seemed to get the job done very, very well. And genuvia C. Toclipton is also the most readily available from what I can piece together with the online sources. Now, before you ask, I already know that this question is going to come up. Steve, can I combine all of these amino acids, melatonin, GABA, and berberine and C. Toclipton, aka genuvia, all before bed to prevent the breakdown of the nighttime growth hormone releasing hormone pulse, stimulating the maximum amount of growth hormone release and downstream preventing the breakdown of IGF one, again, by this combination of berberine and genuvia being DPP for eyes. And yes, you can. I've done this already. And my growth hormone secretion and IGF one levels upon waking actually quite high to the point my growth hormone levels were still elevated. In the morning, I'm talking about 10 to 12 nanograms per milliliter with an IGF one creeping towards the top of the reference range, around 300 nanograms per milliliter as well. Right. Is it that potent as using growth hormone exorbitantly or growth hormone secretion dogs? Well, when you're not allowed to use those, and this is certainly the next best thing. So that's 500 milligrams berberine and 50 milligrams, maybe even 100 milligrams C. Toclipton, genuvia, alongside all these amino acids, melatonin and GABA before bed, getting you the highest growth hormone levels and highest IGF one levels upon waking. You might go slightly hypoglycemic during the night, which you probably won't notice because glucagon levels will come up, thus enhancing the growth hormone pulse, which occurs at night. Still, if you're a little bit worried to make sure you wear a continuous blood glucose monitor during the night, like a Dexcom seven, for example, to see if you have tremendous dips in your blood glucose levels. And then suddenly it shoots up because glucagon is being released. Right. Adequate tracking of your health parameters are always advised when stacking all of these kinds of medications and over the counter supplements. Together, keep in mind that dipeptidolpeptidase four inhibitors not only prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and growth hormone releasing hormone, but also several other growth factors which are on the screen, including angiopoietin, epidermal growth factor, erythropoietin, like I mentioned before, fibroblast growth factor one to 23, glyosaleline derived neurotropic factor, as well as brain derived neurotropic factor. So you can also prevent the breakdown of cerebral ison or similar products that have some sort of neurotropic benefits. Growth hormone releasing hormone, like I mentioned before, a parasite growth factor is good for liver health. insulin, insulin growth factor one and two, mechano growth factor, myostatin, GDF eight. So unfortunately, by taking berberine or other DPB four eyes, you also prevent the breakdown of myostatin. So all the more reason to increase my fall of statin levels later on at night through several pathways, which we're going to get into again, brain derived neurotropic factor, nerve growth factor, trauma, poietin, vascular, endothelial growth factor, and many, many, many more. So please do additional research. None of the side effects of a D peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors includes substantially elevated growth hormone levels to the point you get agromigli or substantially elevated erythropoietin to the point you get elevated hematocritin, real blood cell count to the point you need to start doing frequent blood donations. So again, we're just optimizing all of the pathways here to elicit an additional antibiotic response on top of the over the country supplements and just sleeping according to your circadian rhythm and using metabolic modulators, which are not specifically listed, which we'll get into. But again, your mileage might vary if you incorporate a D peptidol peptidol for inhibitor intelligently. You're literally optimizing all of these growth factors that you're producing naturally, and overall, you should have a performance enhancing effect. All right. That was a complete mouthful. So let's move over to S3, the Beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonists. And there's a boatload of options listed here, none of which we generally use in the fitness or bodybuilding community. Maybe if you compete in drug tested sports, you're trying to circumnavigate the broad list of Beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonists. And that's why they all included it here. Maybe the only one that we're actually using is Solbutamol or Butarol, which they have a small exemption up to 1600 micrograms over a 24 hour period. Don't worry, we'll get to that. But Clem Bittroll, the one that we actually use and is very popular in the fitness space, is actually listed under S1.2, the other anabolic agents, because Clem Bittroll actually has some anabolic effects from 40 micrograms per day onwards and weirdly enough, Solbutamol or Butarol also has some anabolic properties from four milligrams per day onwards. But that's listed here. Now, that means that the exemption dose of 600 micrograms per day is about, well, let's say two, two and a half times lower than the anabolic dose of Solbutamol being four milligrams per day. However, if you want to stay water compliant, you're not allowed to use over 600 micrograms Solbutamol or Butarol spaced out over a 24 hour period with the maximum serving of 800 micrograms per time, which I guess is the absolute cutoff between the non-performance enhancing bronchial dilation dose for people suffering from asthma and the minute anabolic effect that might help you perform slightly better in endurance sports or strength based events. Right. 600 micrograms versus four milligrams. Yeah, your mileage might vary if you limit yourself to only 600 micrograms. So that brings us to the half 90 approved, better to a three-nergic receptor, agonists that we can use again. Solbutamol, a maximum of 600 micrograms over 24 hours, four meterol, a maximum of 54 micrograms over 24 hours. Solbutamol, a maximum of 200 micrograms over 24 hours. Villon, to roll a maximum of only 25 micrograms over 24 hours. And keep in mind that a villon, to roll is often combined with flutacosone and umekledinium. And a better to a three-nergic receptor, agonists which are not listed on the one appropriate list of 2025. Yes, I already did research. So you don't have to, even though I don't know the effective dosages because I haven't tried these particular compounds myself. So I don't know how to compare to solbutamol or cli-butamol for that matter. There's live, all-buterol, pure buterol, and meta-paternal. And this is like my 20th take because it's completely impossible to pronounce. So let's move over to the beta three, adrenergic receptor agonists, because let's be honest here, beta two, adrenergic receptor agonists are kind of old news. They stimulate your heart rate. They're very annoying to use and certainly cli-buterol cost tremendous cramping unless you really manage your electrolyte and your tourney intake. I already made an extensive deep dive about the mirror background, also known as Mirabed Tric or Betmiga, which is a far superior fat burner compared to cli-buterol because it doesn't stimulate your heart rate like crazy and doesn't cause you cramps like crazy like cli-buterol does. So I already made a deep dive. I would highly suggest you give that one a watch. So here are the half-nadi approved, a beta three, adrenergic receptor agonists, mirror background, v-beckron, and then the following are still undergoing clinical investigation. Solar background, BRL 37344, CL 316243, and L796568. I'm not sure if those are available. I haven't seen them on the market anywhere, but mirror background and v-beckron are available in several pharmacies in certain parts of the world. I was finally able to find a source for mirror background. You can find that on my control-if source list. You're welcome in case you want to give that compound a try. And while we're on the topic of fat burners, have a look into yo-him-bine or revol-scene, which are both alpha two, adrenergic receptor antagonists, really promoting fat loss from the lower body, especially the lower back. And you can combine yo-him-bine or revol-scene with something like mirror-beckron, still stay water compliant because yo-him-bine, revol-scene and mirror-beckron are not included in the water prohibit list of 2025 and thus you're still half-nady approved. So the half-nady approved alpha two, adrenergic receptor antagonists are yo-him-bine, revol-scene and corey-nontin, which you usually find in yo-him-bine formulas. Again, these are all stereo isomers of each other. So the chemical structure, the molecule looks exactly the same, but it might be folded slightly differently. It seems that revol-scene gives most people the least amount of side effects. But we'll discuss these alpha two, adrenergic receptor antagonists a little bit more in depth when we get to the fat burning aids discussed under S6 stimulants. So let's go up and onwards to S4 hormone and metabolic modulators starting with S4.1 aromatase inhibitors. Again, all of the good stuff is already listed here besides two metabolites from PrimaBolin, which are produced by mushroom bio transformation with impronounceable chemical names. So put them on the screen. Those two are not specifically listed. So technically you could get away with biotransformed metabolites of PrimaBolin and use that as an aromatase inhibitor. Instead, I would highly suggest you to watch the PrimaBolin deep dive, which I'll link at the end of this video. So here's a complete list of compounds, both medications and over-contour supplements with known estradiol lowering or aromatase inhibiting effects. Keep in mind that some of these characteristics have only been established in vitro studies using human breast cancer cells or human ovarian cancer cells or several animal models, animals with cancer in most cases. And these compounds are still not specifically mentioned on the water prohibited list of 2025. So technically you can use them. Just keep in mind that some of the metabolites, again, I haven't undergone the specific metabolite screening to see if those metabolites actually show up on the water prohibited list of 2025. So if one of these compounds spark your interest, please look into the metabolic pathways to see if some of the metabolites still are not listed on the water prohibited list and make you fail on your next doping test. So I highlighted the compounds of interest in bolts. Here are the medical aromatase inhibitors or at least medications. You have Atamesthane, also known as meton, Droughtin, you have Phadrosol, Aphephema, Finrosol, Glucophage, Metformin, Ketaconazole, Nisralchampo, or there's also Oral Ketaconazole, Lyrosol, Nicotine, and their metabolites, Anabacin, and Cotinine, Primavalen metabolites like I highlighted earlier, Rogletamides, Pyridulaglutamides, and Vosol-Rizivore. I'm sure I butchered some of those names, but let's not spend too much time on these medications because otherwise the video is going to be way too long in the recording time even longer. And then there's several S-R-L lowering over-the-counter supplements and acylaries. Again, Vitamin C, Berberine, Calcium D-Glucorate, Decarinosatol, Dynolmethane, Phadde Acids, Glucophage, well, as over-the-counter in some countries, Melatonin, Cialis, also over-the-counter in some countries, Phoperoic Acid, Turpinoids like Retinolvitamin A or T-G Metabolites or Tritonone for that matter, and even thyroid hormones can lower serum ester-dial levels as well as zinc. So there's plenty of options for you to choose from to get your serum ester-dial levels under control, but we already highlighted the dosage ranges of the compounds which I feel are highly effective to lower serum ester-dial levels. In the segment when we discussed about how to prevent aromatization and does bring our testosterone levels up earlier in this video. So let's not go into detail again here. Instead, let's move over to S4.2, anti-estrogenic substances, anti-estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators. The only compound not specifically mentioned here is Enchloramphine. Now, Enchloramphine is a stereosomal part of Chloramphine, which also contains Zuclomphine. Chloramphine contains about 68 percent Enchloramphine and 32 percent Zuclomphine. So if you take Enchloramphine, even though it's not specifically listed, you will still fail for the exact same metabolites as Chloramphine, right? Because it's contained within this particular medication. So keep this in mind. Technically, you can call yourself a half-nady and get away with Enchloramphine use, but if they pull you aside for drug test, you will fail for Chloramphine 100 percent, also Fox-Sephine, which is not specifically mentioned, and also Saphine also not specifically mentioned. I believe that these last two are still undergoing clinical trials or are branded, but not really available anywhere. Haven't found them on any product list of any kind of gray area peptides or online source ever. And then there's several dietary phytoestrogens with known selective estrogen receptor modulating like effects. But that doesn't mean that these compounds found in several food sources, which is all listed on the screen, is going to impact your luteinizing hormone or follicle stimulating hormone levels and thus erase total testosterone and estrogen levels downstream. Right. If anything, I would avoid these dietary phytoestrogens for an estrogen like effect, not a selective estrogen like effect comparable to Enchloramphine or Chloramphine or some of the other serums listed. We're using these compounds to raise total testosterone levels downstream, not cry while watching the Titanic. Moving on to S4.3, agents preventing active in receptor 2B activation or they mentioned compounds that lower or inhibit myostatin levels or myostatin secretion in the body. I'm assuming that the mention of follicetin includes the three different isoforms and variants, so that's follicetin 288, follicetin 300, follicetin 315 and follicetin 344. And in case you're wondering what the number stands for, that's actually the amount of amino acids that this specific follicetin isoform variant contains. So follicetin 288 contains 288 amino acids and follicetin 344 contains 344 amino acids. I discussed decoy active in receptors ACE 031 and ACE 083 in great detail in the follicetin gene therapy video, which dropped in the beginning of this year. Give that a watch if you're interested in these kinds of compounds. And while ACE 031 is listed on the water prohibit list of 2025, ACE 083 isn't specifically mentioned. ACE 083 seems to be a little bit more favorable as all of the injections were performed intramuscularly and ACE 083 is rapidly metabolized in the blood stream where the ACE 031 studies were all performed with subcontinent administration, leading to a systemic effect, which is certainly not something that you want. So with ACE 083, there's a tremendous localized effect in the muscle that it's administered into, leading to localized muscle growth. ACE 083 is a recombinant protein comprised of a modified form of human follicetin 288 linked to the FC region of human immunoglobin and IGT2. It was designed as a decore receptor for myostatin, also known as GDF8, as well as GDF11, active in A and B that inhibit skeletal muscle growth and differentiation. ACE 083 is also known as follicetin 288 fusion protein, abbreviated to FST 288 slash FC. Again, you can find a lot more details about ACE 031 and ACE 083 in the deep type, which I'll link at the end of this video. And that brings us to the half 90 approved myostatin and active in inhibitors. Again, ACE 083, the problem is the monthly cost could range between $10,000 to $86,000 based on the medically approved and recognized and studied administration protocol of 240 milligrams, ACE 083 intramuscularly, bilaterally every three weeks. So that's 480 milligrams in total every three weeks. Even at the lowest effective dose of 50 milligrams intramuscularly, bilaterally every three weeks, that is a total of 100 milligrams based on the current Agri-Area Peptide website costs of ACE 083. That would be between, let's say, $2,000 to $9,000 per month. Well, you can run a bottle of Incral-X and then some for those costs. So it's completely unaffordable for anybody out there. And there's several other inhibitors listed here, which I don't know the dosages of. There's a slight explanation at the end of each listing. There's also a Prague trefo gruma.  mucop and geratosmup, all completely unavailable, haven't seen them on the gray area peptides website anywhere, and if they are available, they're probably completely unaffordable, just like ACE-083 or ACE-031. So if you want to improve your follistatin levels or reduce your myostatin levels or have active inhibiting effects in the body, strainer's resistance training gets the job done, prolonged fasting over 72 hours actually increases circulating follistatin levels, doesn't change myostatin levels, also increases growth hormone levels, partially by increasing ghrelin secretion, sleep regulates circulating follistatin levels, so sleep again increases testosterone levels, increases growth hormone levels, and improves regulating follistatin levels, which inhibits myostatin, so the more you sleep, the better you grow, who would have thought? Androgen deficiency modulates myostatin and follistatin levels and prevents sarcopenia, again, I look into the segment discussing the over-accounted supplements and what are approved compounds which are known to increase testosterone, estradiol, DHT, DHEA, etc. Vitamin D and several of its metabolites reduce myostatin levels, so good to supplement with that, besides the fact that vitamin D enhances testosterone production, epikethethane reduces myostatin levels and increases follistatin levels, if you take 1 milligram to 2 milligrams for 1 kilogram of body weight. Daily, so you have to make a dose that to a certain extent, SLAL16 found in garlic reduces myostatin levels, unfortunately I was not able to find how much SLAL16 you actually need to consume or how much garlic you actually need to consume for myostatin levels to be reduced, and again, if you eat a bottle of garlic, you're probably not making it pleasant for everybody else in your immediate surrounding, although garlic does contain compounds which prevent TMAO formation, but it's probably better to take those compounds in supplemental form, and then not only does leucine HMB free acid or HMB calcium and creatine monohydrates improve collagen synthesis and protein synthesis in the body, they also inhibit myostatin induced muscular atrophy, so why not supplement with leucine HMB and creatine monohydrate, and again, creatine monohydrates also good for sleep, so it's a no brainer to add all of these in at effective dosages mentioned on the screen, and I discussed all of these myostatin inhibiting compounds and follistatin increasing compounds in great detail in the video titled, is myostatin blocking your gains, I'll link it at the end of this one in case you're interested and you want to know more about these compounds, and it finally brings us to S4.4 metabolic modulators, which is one of my specialties, and here you clearly see that MOTC, meaning that it's war from this point onwards, because MOTC is one of my favorite compounds, is now listed under S4.4.1 alongside APK iCar Car Dreen SR 9009 and SR 9011. Luckily, since this is my specialty, I got a boatload of other metabolic modulators that are still widely compliant, not included in the prohibit list, and still allows you to be called a half-nady. Here is the half-nady approved metabolic modulator list of doom, 5-mini-1mq in combination with NED+, whether that's coming from nicotinamide mononucleotide supplementation or nicotinamide riboside supplementation or intravenous nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide administration, I'll leave that entirely up to you. Thyroxine we'll just add a little bit later on. Subaturum GC1 we'll discuss that a little bit later on as well when we get to the thyroid part of this video. Alcarnitine, whether that's oral or injectable, injectable methionine inocidal and choline blends, great for fat loss. SLU PP332, methylene blue, JBSNF 00000000088, probably too many zeros, but you get the idea. Aelamipretides, also known as Bendavia, mitochondria targeted peptides, SBT20 abbreviated to SS20, mitochondria targeted antioxidant SKQ1, mitochondria targeted antioxidant mito quinone, also known as mitoq, Bematil with a lot of different names including metaprot, and again make sure you take two weeks after after 8 250 milligram dosages, so whether you take Bematil 1000 milligrams for two days in a row, that's 2000 milligrams in total, or 8 servings of 250 milligrams, or you space all of those out, that's entirely up to you. I discussed this in the Optimus Injurance deep dive video series, I'll link them down below, right? There's a boatload of those videos in that series, discussing Bematil hypoxin, amoxapine, and a boatload of other compounds. So again, hypoxin is listed even though it's included in the 2005 monitoring program under three hypoxin, amoxapine, diasopropamine, dichloroacetate, which I'll make a deep dive about very very soon, because that's what I'm experimenting with, great compounds, next level pumps and stamina in the gym. Tro methamine abbreviated to TUM, myo inositol triper phosphate like we alluded to in the oxygen carry capacity segment of this video. Let's see metformin, again that could fall under S4.4.1 activators of the AMP activated protein kinase, or S4.4.2 insulins and insulin mimetics, but I don't know anybody out there that ever failed for metformin, so let's keep it in. There's several sodium glucose co-transporter two inhibitors, including impi glyphlosin better known as Giardions, and Dabaclyphlosin, Canaklyphlosin, Ertuklyphlosin, and Sortiaklyphlosin. The most commonly used and really available is Imbi glyphlosin, that's the one that I have the most experience with. And well BAM15, another mitochondrial coupler that you could use as an alternative to DMP, but DMP is sh** and I'm sure BAM15 after doing research will turn out to be sh**. Also, so we're not going to go into dosages here. Now don't you worry, we're not quite done with this segment of metabolic modulation just quite yet, but semi-glutide is included in the monitoring program, again you're not failing for semi-glutide if you're testing for it, you're just monitoring for it, but that would mean that semi-glutide as some of the glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonists would technically fall under S4.4.2 insulin and insulin mimetics, because glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonists are actually insulinotropic and promote the insulin secretion from the pancreas. So let's include them here under the half-nady-approved insulin mimetics and glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonists, which again could fall under S4.4.2 insulin and insulin mimetics, but so far nobody has ever failed for GLP-1 or some of the other compounds listed here, including venous sulfate, which actually is an insulin mimetic activates the insulin receptor, is included in many over-the-counter glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents, usually in combination with chromium and some sort of cinnamon bark extract and berberine. We have lyricalutide, dilaglutide, semi-glutide, which is included in the 2025 monitoring program under S6 semi-glutide. There's tersepidide, which interacts, agonizes both the glucagon like peptide 1 receptors, and the gas-sic and hematoric polypeptide receptors, also known as the glucose-dependent insulin tropic receptors. Retrotrotide, which activates the GLP-1 GIP and glucagon receptor, great combination medication, retrotrotide, is the shift net for appetite suppression. Glucagon obviously doesn't really mimic insulin-like effects, actually it opposes insulin effects, but since retrotrotide is listed here, we might as well list glucagon here as well. There's otlichsin, a GLP-1 receptor agonist, obiglutide, anergelp1, exynatides, GLP-1, mastutides activates the GLP-1 receptors, and the glucagon receptors, sorvidutides, GLP-1, tonsium, a GLP-1, and then there's cargalininatides, which is an amelon receptor agonist. Again, the classification of these compounds might be a little bit speculatory in dubious, but I felt that they were all applicable to be listed here because they all have appetite-suppressing effects. Now, I discuss all of these metabolic modulators, whether they are mitochondrial support age, or stimulants, or fat burners, or appetite suppressants, or insulin mimetics, or GLP1s, right, glucagon, etc. I discuss all of that in the ultimate no-stimulant fat burner stack, which you can already watch on my YouTube channel. I think I dropped it right before this one. In case you want to know more about all of these compounds individually, I go into great depth in that particular deep dive. Given a watch, you won't be disappointed. And here you see that they included meldonium and trimethicidine, but I think I offered plenty of alternatives regarding metabolic modulation in the segment we discussed previously. So let's move over to S5 diuretics and masking agents. We're often commonly known and really available diuretics are already listed. Lasix is included. Aldochton is included. Diozide, containing 100-core thiozide, and terametrine is included. You know what's not included? Mercury. But it's not the 90s anymore, and we've learned a lot since then, so we haven't used mercury since a long, long time ago in Galaxy, far, far away. Isn't that right, Mr. Nichols? Now, luckily, there are plenty of ways to promote. Diuresis, which are all water-approved. Just make sure you don't use murbicaron, which relaxes the bladder, resulting in more urine retention by activating the beta-3 adrener's receptors on the bladder, and that kind of defeats the purpose of having the maximum amount of diuresis. So here's the half-90-approved diuretic stack. High sodium intake and electrolyte management. Also make sure you have high water intake to make sure that you're always flushing, reducing aldosterone levels. Caffeine can promote diuresis, even though it's included in the monitoring program under four stimulants. Then there's green tea, hibiscus tea, natto leaf tea, alcohol, can't recommend it, but it does promote diuresis. Parsley, asparagus, celery, cranberries, and then various extracts, which are usually found in diuresis formulas. Way too long, way too many to mention all of them, but it's good to look into. Usually you have some sort of expel formula that contains a combination of most of these, usually also containing a little bit of tea extract, and that promotes the most amount of diuresis if you take a copy of tablets before bed when you're laying flat, or you're putting a bricks or well, books underneath the foot end of your bed, along the foot end of your bed to be raised slightly, and this way all of the water will easily pass through your kidneys, again, promoting diuresis overnight. Yeah, a combination of Thomas Sartre and Tom Sulosin and Pagolf Lozen before bed. Empty, you're welcome. The way this works is as follows. Thomas Sartre is an angiotensin receptor blocker. If you take that before bed, it modulates the Rhin and Angiotensin aldosterone system, promoting for a good amount of water and overall electrolyte excretion. Tom Sulosin is a benanprostate enlargement medication that relaxes the urethra and allows for more urine flow through the prostate, and then M. Bagolf Lozen is a, again, sodium glucose code transporter 2 inhibitor, preventing the reuptake of sodium and glucose in combination with Tom Sulosin modulating the Rhin and Angiotensin aldosterone system, promotes a good amount of diuresis, especially if you were on top of your electrolyte intake and your water intake, and you kept that consistently high up until the moment you slept in a sloped bed, again, with bricks or books underneath the foot end of your bed, allowing for proper water distribution through the kidneys, which is now being promoted with this combination of Tom Sartre and Tom Sulosin and Pagolf Lozen. It's literally magic, and it's all water compliant. Again, you're welcome. And then here are the prohibited methods, whether that's M1 manipulation of blood and blood components, M2 chemical and physical manipulation, even though they do specifically mention something under M2.1 tampering or tempting the tamper to alter the integrity or validity of the samples collected during dopant control, including but not limited to sample substitution or adulteration, like the addition of protases to the urine sample, and they don't specifically mention that you can't bribe your doping officer. Well, they're only human, so maybe with the donation of a bottle of wine, a good bottle of wine, at least $50 upwards, or Johnny Walker Double Black. Yes, that seems to be the going right here in Asia, but you didn't hear that from me. Bribing your doping officer is always a possibility. It depends on your skills and your ability to communicate, to maybe allow you to get away with tampering of the doping sample, making them look the other way while you pour the urine of your friend into the sample cup. There's always ways, right? It's not specifically mentioned that you can't bribe your doping officer, so this is always an option. If you're in the know, and you have great social skills, because you can only try it once, then you better make sure that it works. All right, moving over to S6 stimulants, as always, all the good stuff is already listed. MDMA is listed, amphetamines like Adderall is listed, bromantane, cocaine, listixamphetamine, vivans, modafinil, provigil, fenteramine, DMAA, I found in many a pre-workout formula back in the day, effadrine or pseudo-effadrine formulations, methylphenidate, retolin, subitramine, etc., etc., etc., even antidepressants like salagaline and tessophenzine are listed. Surprisingly, dextroamphetamines found in Adderall and dexadrine, it's not specifically mentioned unless they mention it under a different name. So I guess all your dexadrine junkies are still in the green. In my research of looking for what I approved of to Adrenergic Receptor Agonists and Antagonists while I was researching Jo-Himbine and Rewolfstein, I made a list of over-the-counter supplements and medications which are known to increase norepinephrine and epinephrine levels both systemically as well as in the brain. Norepinephrine and epinephrine are also known as noregernulin and adrenaline. These medications might offer a stimulatory effect, blunting your appetite, promoting fat loss and raising your overall energy levels throughout the day by raising norepinephrine and epinephrine levels throughout your waking hours. That obviously means that you can't take these medications or over-the-counter supplements too late in the day, so if you want to use something pre-workout besides caffeine if you train later in the day, most of these medications and over-the-counter supplements are kind of off the menu because otherwise you're probably going to interfere with your over-the-counter supplement stack to boost your total testosterone levels, boosting your growth hormone levels, your IGF-1 levels, your phallus titan levels and bring your myostatin levels. Done, right? So timing of these medications and over-the-counter supplements is essential but don't worry, we'll discuss all of that in the list coming on the screen shortly. Here we're specifically looking for compounds that are known to raise norepinephrine and epinephrine levels systemically within the whole body, stimulating the center nervous system which leads to an improvement in exercise capacity, endurance and overall strength. It boosts the metabolism leading to increased energy levels throughout the day and promotes a little bit of fat loss through lipolosis or direct fatty acid oxidation in metabolically active tissue. This is what we're after in this segment but it also included the compounds which are known to increase norepinephrine and adrenaline levels in the brain where it promotes appetite suppression but these are mostly antidepressants as well as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder medications which there's a little bit of caution to be advised because you need to taper up the dosages and need to taper down the dosages when you're ready to come off. So again, antidepressants and ADHD medication are probably the last feasible option if you want appetite suppression especially considering we have GLP-1s, GIP and glucagon combination medications which get the job done just as well. So here are the half-nady approved norepinephrine and epinephrine boosters, both yo-himbine and rhodosine increase norepinephrine and epinephrine levels by blocking the alpha-2 adrenergic receptors systemically but predominantly in the adipose tissue of the lower back. Guanfacine is now confirmed to be approved to increase norepinephrine and epinephrine levels both systemically as well as in the brain which was specified in the summary of major modifications and explanatory notes under the stimulant section and then there's atipomazole also known as antisedan which is actually being used as an alternative stimulant because it's not included in the water prohibited list up until now but atipomazole is primarily used as a veterinary medication to reverse the effects of sedative drugs like metatomidine or DEX metatomidine. Atipomazole is a selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor antagonist raising norepinephrine levels quite substantially to reverse the effects of these sedative drugs but if you don't take sedative drugs then the increase in norepinephrine is quite substantial. I'll tell you that but not talking for personal experience just talking or regurgitating from what I've heard of people using this stimulant as an alternative because it's not included in the prohibited list. Again there's synaphrine which is on the monitoring program which stimulates the adrenergic receptors and does increase the release of norepinephrine and epinephrine. Systemically you can also do vigorous exercise. Yeah great way to increase your norepinephrine and epinephrine levels cold exposure also a great way to do the same thing. Caffeine increases norepinephrine and epinephrine levels then there's phenyl ethyl amine for it's known mood enhancing and appetite suppressing properties due to an increase in norepinephrine and dopamine levels within the brain. Rodiola rosea an adoptogen that increases norepinephrine levels and serotonin levels in the brain which can contribute to potentially reducing appetite especially under stressful situations. There's ultaracine and al-dopa coming from mukana purines. Ultaracine and al-dopa both are the building blocks for norepinephrine and dopamine and which can be increased with supplementation but primarily in the brain and it's not really known to have a potent appetite suppressing or stimulatory properties but it may help it focus mental clarity under stress or when you're trying to get a boatload of work. Done so supplementing with ultaracine or al-dopa preferably ultaracine around workouts is something you can get away with for enhanced mental clarity while you're trying to get the job done. There are norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors the details are on the screen there are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors the details are on the screen. Tiestric click antidepressants also on the screen and monoamine oxidase inhibitors this one trinial C-promeine also known as parnate has a structure similar to amphetamine so based on my research I haven't tried it personally but trinial C-promeine also known as parnate might offer the most stimulatory effects of all of these water approved reuptake inhibitors that are or inhibitors that are on the screen right now just make sure that you do a little bit of additional research because some of them might be more stimulatory than others they're not included and usually compounds that are not included means that your mileage might vary and a little bit of caution is advised because well with these kinds of antidepressants or reuptake inhibitors you need to escalate the dosage upwards and taper them downwards because otherwise you get horrible withdrawal symptoms as I got by taking the fluvoxamine out at one point or another cold turkey can't recommend it don't do what I did it was brutal and with that out of the way all of these reuptake inhibitors or inhibitors or antidepressants increase norepinephrine epinephrine levels in the brain which might promote appetite suppression which prolonged use so the test of fencing is prohibited but again plenty of alternatives on the list pick what you like and do additional research now I also fully understand that you might have been after increasing norepinephrine or epinephrine levels whether that's systemically or within the brain you want some hardcore stimulants interacting with the same receptors whether they increase norepinephrine levels or epinephrine levels systemically in the brain or not so here are the half 90 approved stimulants effadrine and pseudo effadrine but only micro doses as is listed on the screen based on the clause of the water prohibited list of 2025 effadrine when detected in urine should be less than 10 micrograms per 1 milliliter and pseudo effadrine should be less than 150 micrograms per 1 milliliter so make sure you stay hydrated and dilute your urine as much as you can while supplementing with effadrine or pseudo effadrine kind of extract good stimulants found in many pre workouts and utropic formula produced by Grell amines linked down below and phenyl dimethyl amine citrate force colon extracts pyridoxine extract nicotine included in the 2025 monitoring program under 4 stimulants but still allowed to be used at whatever dosage you prefer whether those are cigarettes patches cigars or gum right it's entirely up to you green tea extract mileage might vary but it's not included so you're you have the green light to use it dimethyl ethanol amine abbreviated to DMEA not DMAA but DMEA is still approved again the the secret is in the abbreviations the ophthalene is approved isopropyl norcinephrine is approved it's a little bit more potent than cinnaphrine itself again cinnaphrine included on the monitoring program under 4 stimulants revolvecine yo himbine dihexa which has stimulatory properties if you take a little bit higher than recommended dosages so let's say 10 to 20 milligrams daily whereas usually we recommend to cycle through the dihexa whether that's with new peps or the band bromantane or modafinil or ritalin or aderol whatever you prefer dihexa is not listed so you can still get away with it it would continue with use it acts as a very potent stimulant yeah so um do additional research and then there's 9 MEBC which also can have a potent stimulatory properties so when you take it for longer periods of time which is generally not recommended and we're going to skip over the narcotics that kind of you know it's in the glucocorticoids because at least with the narcotics or the glucocorticoids i don't see a valid reason to use them in any way shape or form when you're into health and fitness because well the health implications can be quite deleterious especially with prolonged use and again if you suffer from some sort of inflammatory condition where you need glucocorticoids then you're probably better at recovering and resting at home and when it comes to cannabinoids we eat particularly um it probably lowers your performance lowers your libido and again if you want to smoke a joint here and there after a competition or you're no longer subject to drug testing go forth but in my opinion it has no place in sports but if you want to smoke some weeds or take some tea and cheese gummies recreationally then go for it unfortunately it's not water approved moving on to p1 the beta blockers which are prohibited in particular sports so in competition the use of beta blockers which are listed including but not limited to right archery automobile sports billiards darts golf mini golf shooting and underwater sports and this motorboarding count in competition the use of beta blockers in these particular sports is banned and out of competition it's also banned for archery shooting and again underwater sports so that includes the ones that we generally use here in the fitness community an ambivalent and propanal I don't really know any other beta blockers that people generally use in the body building or fitness space but since bodybuilding and you know strength sports and all the sports that we kind of group in the fitness community are not listed here the use of beta blockers is technically allowed so at least you can prevent left ventricular hypertrophy and also use these beta blockers to keep your heart rate and blood pressure under control but we're not done yet there's a lot more options for half 90 approved blood pressure management including daily fasted cardio yeah I'm sure you guys want to shoot me for mentioning the daily fasted cardio yet again there's these over the counter supplements that help with blood pressure management beetroot extract cardotone elcitrulline garlic extract heartthorn burry extract potassium magnesium melatonin and torene you can look into again the beta blockers in the bivvillal and propanal which are not prohibited for anything that falls under the bandwagon of what we consider health and fitness and then all of these angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are fully water approved still in 2025 that's benazepril cuptopril analapril lecinopril perindo pril quinnapril and rami pril all of these angiotensin to receptor blockers are completely water approved in 2025 azill seroton condes seroton arabicetan lozartan ulmus seroton tel mesartan that basically everybody runs in the fitness community nowadays even when they don't need it but we'll leave that story for another video volsartan and then there's these calcium channel blockers which are generally not used in the fitness community unless medically prescribed still water approved in 2025 let's see how many of these i'm going to butcher um load of pain till tia zem is rodentine fellow deepine nicardipine nifadipine and vira palmil but luckily everybody in the fitness community knows about and can pronounce these phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors that's sildenafil better known as viagra to dilaphyl better known as sealis or for denofil better known as lavitra right we use this for pumps in the gym pumps in the bedroom and potential blood pressure management as a warm and welcome side effect and it unfortunately brings the water approved prohibited list to a close but it doesn't mean that i'm done with my list so let's move over to the half night you prove dopamine receptor agonists cabra go line not listed bromo cryptine not listed perami pixel not listed and if you need to use these to bring your proacta levels down because you're smoking too much we taking too much credum and take l-tyrosine supplementations to bring your dopamine levels up which lowers your proacta levels especially if you take that in combination with vitamin b6 p5p which works synergistically to convert l-tyrosine into dopamine reducing your proacta levels if you don't know how to do that and well we have these have to have the approved dopamine receptor agonists which again make sure you do blood work because you don't want to use these for longer periods of time if your proacta levels are reduced enough for you to have killer boners and amazing sex whether that's in or out of competition right you don't need to overdo it and stimulate your hearts unnecessarily to the point no a beta blocker on the planet is going to keep your heart rates down half 90 approved thyroid medications yes thyroid seen T4 tri-auto-thyronine T3 35 di-odo-thyronine better known as t2 and then subaturum gs1 which interacts with the thyroid receptors and might be a better alternatives than T3 because subaturum doesn't stimulate your heart rate and again doesn't force you to rely on beta blockers to keep your heart rates down so subaturum probably in combination with mirbicron should be a great fat burner option half 90 approved melanocortin receptor agonists melanotide 2 and pt1 for one melanotide 2 obviously leads to tanning if you use it intelligently like i mentioned on the screen and pt1 for one might result in tanning also if you overdo it especially if you use it daily but it's a great way to boost your libido and enhance your intercourse session again in and out of competition doesn't really matter because both melanotin 2 and pt1 for one also known as vileci completely what i approved in 2025 here are the half 90 approved neuroplasticity and neurogenesis medications we have some max i have a deep dive on that we have some like i have a deep dive on that we have cerebral isin i have a deep dive on that and another deep dive dropping very very very soon because my cerebral isin experiment lasting two months five milliliters per day has finally concluded all i need to do is compare to cortex and and see one which one is better comparing cerebral isin to cortex and and again cortex and you can give a try for neuroplasticity and neurogenesis uh fluvoxamine or vortioxetine currently i'm running fluvoxamine i experimented with vortioxetine both are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and with prolonged use really promoted neurogenesis in the brain it is said based on scientific evidence that vortioxetine is a lot more potent than fluvox  voxamine, but, well, 2.5 milligrams to 500 grams, voxitine, destroyed my labido and prevented my penis from raising to its maximum capacity, even in combination with the dilaphyl-PT1 for one, and, well, all kinds of incentives from my wife. So, voxitine never again, not even once, but fluvoxamine doesn't seem to have any negative effect on my labido and erectile quality, so that's the one that I'm currently using, and make sure you incrementally build up the dosages of selective serotonin-reptake inhibitors and look into the drug interactions with all of the other compounds, because they might be cytochrome P450 inhibitors. Again, nupept potentiates neurogenesis, tyhexapotentiates neurogenesis, and even paracetam potentiates neurogenesis, but paracetam might be banned under four phenylparacetam, which is included in about a prohibited list of 2025, but we're only using the real, the tried-to-improven medical paracetam, not this variant of four phenylparacetam, so fingers crossed, technically, on paper, it's still allowed to potentiate neurogenesis and neuroplasticity, and then we have the half-native-approved leftovers of the medications, drugs, performance-enhancing drugs, over-the-counter supplements, compounds that I couldn't classify in previous segments mentioned earlier in this video. So we have RU-58841, sounds like a robot straight out of Star Wars, but actually it's a topical anti-androgen that men use to prevent hair loss alongside their monoxylochetic anisol, which are also not listed, and dutastrite or finasterite, applied topically, also not listed. Human menopausal gonadotropin, which you might feel for human chorionic gonadotropin, because HMG contains trace amounts of HCG, but you're primarily after the follicle-stimulating hormone, but I would rather go with recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone, Merck-Gonal-F, instead. Axytocin, a great way to enhance your leg day, but also a great way to improve your libido and enhance the bonding with your partner. Delta-sleep-inducing peptide, a great way to help you fall asleep and stay asleep and sleep longer at higher quality. Array 290, also known as SIBA-natite, which is an erythropoietic receptor agonist, but it doesn't have any erythropoietic effects. So even though it's derived from erythropoietin, and not specifically mentioned in the White-up Prohibited List, it's mostly effective in treating neuropatic conditions. So if you have some sort of nerve pain or nerve trauma, a combination of Array 290 and perhaps cerebral ison or cortexin, is a great way to attempt to recover nerve function in particular areas. Phenobot and Gabapentin also helps with sleep. Epithalon, a great way to increase the telomere length of your DNA and has some anti-aging properties. K-P-V, a peptide that helps with the health of your gut microbiome. LO-37, also known as Cathylacidin-antimicrobial peptides, which helps to, it's basically injectable antimicrobial and antibacterial agents. If you want to research your gut microbiome, then LO-37 is the way to go. I still try to know, and also known as Accutane, and try to know whether that's oral or topically a great way to get your acne under control. Injectable glutathione, probably the best antioxidant you can take to minimize the oxidative stress that you potentiate from high-level exercise, probably in combination with performance-syncytic drugs, which the combination of exercise and performance-syncytic drugs increases oxidative stress because you're training at such a higher capacity, and thus you might need some injectable glutathione, or at least an acetylcysteine, to provide the building blocks to produce glutathione within the liver and other parts of the body. Injectable glutathione is probably the second best antioxidant you can take after melatonin. As an amide, to keep your lipids under control by preventing the absorption of dietary cholesterol and promoting the excretion of cholesterol from the liver. If you can get the job done with azenomybe, then there's always statins. The details are on the screen, or retiestries. The details are on the screen. If you have digestive issues because you take too much oral steroids, or ancillaries, or over-contour supplements, and your digestive tract is kind of in-term, or maybe a temporary use of a proton pump inhibitor to reduce your stomach acids, and heal your intestinal lining and your stomach lining with oral glutamine. Petalsone, polysulfate, sodium injections to help with the lubrication of your joints. Or, instead, also known as Zinicol or ALI to act as a lipase inhibitor within the intestinal tract to prevent the breakdown of fats. We do go ham at the hotel buffet, eat way too much fat, then this prevents you from fat gain in combination with carcinic and nausea that helps to bind up all of the fat that you're now not absorbing, and thus you have some sort of fat specific super fiber that helps to excrete all of it the next day, making your bathroom experience a lot less messy. Botox, anybody? Also not included. BAM-15, a mitochondrial encoppler that can be used as an alternative for D&P, even though I'm not a fan. And then there's adipotide, fat target, it's pro-apoptotic peptides, which is a great way to get yourself into kidney failure, because if adipotide goes systemic, after subcutaneous injections straight into the fat that you want to dissolve, if that goes systemic, it will go to the heart, create apoptosis there, and then go into the kidneys, create apoptosis there. So if you're in a hurry to exit the game, then adipotide is probably the best way to do so. Now, I'm sure I forgot a compound here or there. Let me know if I forgot a water-approved drug medication over-the-counter supplement, performance-enhancing drugs, however you want to classify it. If I forgot something that's not included in the water prohibit list, and this does water-approved next year, let us know down below. Let us know the dosage ranges, as I let you guys know the dosage ranges and the ideal timing to use these particular compounds to get the maximum effect, things to pay attention to whether there's cytochrome B450 enzyme inhibitors or have some sort of other drug interactions. I would love to know about it. I spent hours and hours and hours researching and well three days to record this video. So the next time I make a water-approved doping stack of 2025, it's just going to be the changes, because this video, I wanted not to turn into a two-hour behemoth, but I think I accidentally did. Okay, I'll leave it here. If you're looking for sources for any of these over-the-counter supplements that I discussed on this video, head over to my website, virgersteve.com. You can also find the rates for consultations and personalized advice by emails or ebooks. All of my services are listed on my website. Follow some of my sponsors and affiliates, they're all linked down below, in case you want to save yourself some money while shopping online. All the supplements that I discussed in this video are already listed down below with discount codes. And if you're thinking about doing your blood work, which you should be doing frequently, especially if you use any of these over-the-counter supplements, compounds, drugs, or medications that we discussed in these videos, or if you're looking for mild health and hormone optimization, look no further than Merrick Health, they have excellent patient care coordinators and healthcare providers who can help you interpret your blood work results. I have two separate blood work panels over at Merrick Health, a short one and a very extensive long one. And if you're looking for, again, health optimization or hormone optimization, pick and choose, discuss the results with a healthcare provider, and see what kind of recommendations that it helps to optimize your blood work, optimize your health parameters, and get you feeling good again. Thank you guys so much for watching. You can find everything else that I'm associated with down below in the YouTube description section. Again, follow me on Instagram. I don't have a TikTok, so just follow me on Instagram. It's true. You guys know how to do a super anabolic water-approved front double bicep for you guys, using a little bit more than what is approved. But, well, don't expect to look this big, just sticking to the guidelines that water has set out for you. All right. Thank you guys so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: ＂Feeling＂ Trenbolone & Dienolone, Why Oral Steroids ＂Kick-In＂, Chinese Gear Quality & Tariff Updates [EIgxbxzD7qY].txt ===

 I remember Aeronomistolbac, it can be below 90 kilos, otherwise we can be friends. I don't know how you're squeezing that class, Dean, but you do classic NPCA, right? So I think those weight limits are a little bit higher or no? They're a bit higher. I mean, for when I done NPC, I just about dropped into 90.6 was my cutoff, which is 200 pounds. I was 90 kilos when it was natural, and I looked like a skeleton. Okay, I got a good X-frame, but it's zero muscle there, man. I don't know, this growth hormone, it's causing too much bone mineralization, it just makes you extra heavy. Oh, go to space. Yeah, go to space. Hahaha. Why don't you go faster though? Like your bone mineral density or your skeletal muscle mass? The whole thing, but then you grow the muscle back on a smaller frame, and then you do classic. That's the key. I wanna make weight for classic, I go to space for a year. I heard that's what Chris Bunstead does. He just spends the offseason in space. The way he can make weight. He can afford it. What's up, guys? Welcome to the Unabodded Ground Table with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Mart. This is episode 12. We survived this shit for an entire year, which is amazing. And Dean didn't get the memo. He's got a full beard and a full head of hair. So I'm not sure if the three bald musketeers can continue with this podcast now, because you know, startups were supposed to make you bald and you've left the chat, it seems. What's going on? Seems so, I've broken the trend. Although, like I said before, I liked the shaved head, but the hair has made a return to my youthful 20s, apparently so. So there you go. There you go. I know you. It's 17 weeks so far of hair growth. So not to give people hope, my hair grows very quick. So when people are like, oh, you didn't have hair, add a lot of hair, my hair grows really quick. So don't take it for like, if you go for a hair transplant, you're gonna have to take a set of hair within weeks. I've just got good hair genetics for growth. You know which compounds to take and when to take them obviously, so that might help a little bit. Like I have to trim this hair like four times a week to keep it short, because otherwise I have an afro, literally. It's insane. Yeah, that's like long curly, it's crazy. I'm past it. I'm called Gene's Bluff, I think that's a hair piece. Take a break. Yeah, this is a tattoo. We're past that awkward, what I call like the ugly duckling stage of the hair transplant. We have all the fluffy hair that has no density or nothing. So we're out the other side and apparently it just keeps getting better from here on in up until like a year and a half post transplant apparently. So it's just gonna keep getting ticker and ticker. Is it well worth it? I would have to trip to Turkey to get that done. Absolutely. Well, I mean, considering Morgan said to me last night, she looked at a photo of us on vacation last year and she said the difference in my hairline to back then it was a night and day. Yeah, yeah, it's a big difference. I can remember from the last podcast you're still a little bit of a stubble. And now it's, yeah, now you look 20 years younger than both of us. Thanks, good job. Thank you. Gord, your hair is growing back as well. A little bit. Finally. Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna let it grow out like a demon and then I gotta compensate. We'll see, we'll see. I don't know. I mean, I like having a shaved head. I just like the option of having hair if I can. Yeah, I prefer a shaved head. It's especially in Thailand where it's super hot. Yeah, it's easier, you know? And it's very aerodynamic and you don't have to go to the hairdresser like three times a week to stay there, keep the fade going. Yeah. That's the worst. Yeah, that's the worst. That has been the challenge again of before the shaved head. I literally just keep running the razor over your head every day. Now it's literally every two weeks, like you said, you have to go and get the sides tidied. You have to get hair tidied. Obviously that takes time out of your week, work, money, everything else. So if you're looking for a productivity tip, just go bald. Yeah, so it's a lot of time. It takes like five minutes to get this done instead of going to the hairdresser wedding, your turn, and then the obligatory chat with the guy, you know? And then small talk and then 30 minutes later, you're out the door, but if you do that like every week, I don't know, so I could spend my time a little bit better. This is like doing these podcasts, for example. Yeah. Any cycle updates you guys want to give? I mean, it's customary to talk about drugs, self-reported drug use at the start of the podcast. Mine, so 17 weeks post-transplant. We've 14 weeks to our vacation. This is the first week where I've had to take off training. I had a good run of 12 weeks. Last week, I set up my update with training on Instagram was that it was the first week where numbers and progressive overload were slowing down. And I knew it was sort of coming out the honeymoon phase of everything ramping up. And then I went into train legs on Monday. I've been doing the Arsenal Hacksquat with the two green bands. So that's been like standard. And I worked up to nine plates aside for the four reps. Went in this week, done one rep, and my knees were screaming at me. I was like, okay, that's the end of that set. And that's the end of this session. I just left the gym. Yeah, but it's the best way to approach it. Otherwise, you'd just hurt yourself and then the next day you can't walk. I mean, if I had have been maybe younger, I would have been stubborn. I would have just ground out the whole set of like trying to beat the four reps in the book. Literally the first rep trying to come out of bottom, you just feel like grinding over your knee joints, even with the bands trying to support. Nervous system was just telling me I've had enough. And obviously that's been ramping up to that point to one, two, five tests. So I think another three weeks, I'll give myself 10 weeks to get in good shape for our holiday. So I'll go to Ruta. I think I've made up my head of, we're just double up to 250. We need a small bit of estrogen control. And then we'll go and do our experiment with the controversy that kicked off last week with the whole 10 milligrams of training. What are you doing such a low dose for? Let's put it to the test again. Yeah, well, it worked for me last time I did 25 milligrams and at least mentally, you feel okay. You're gonna throw in the last valve of the anolone that you've still got laying around? I gave that away. Someone was in need of it and I gave away. It wasn't my way for a good cause. I was helping someone for a show and it was just sitting there and I thought, here you go, enjoy, enjoy as much as I did. So I've known of the elusive and how many DMs I get over our experience talking about it. If I had somewhere that had it, then you'd find out. I told a couple sources to put it on their list and they're like, we can't fucking find it anywhere. Start looking at how to synthesize it. I can't see it being as difficult as Trent. So it's probably a couple of steps in the census where we look at it. It's earlier. It's earlier. Yeah, you just don't add the turd. You can throw from estrogen. The turd double bond and the lion. So it's a die-in. So two double bonds might not be that difficult to make. If we get through, obviously, the political nature of what we're going to talk about probably in a while of manufacturers causing a drought in the world, to put it that way. Yeah, mm-hmm. Yeah, who knows? Maybe five years from now or two years from now, it's really on the market and then people actually enjoy it. But how many studies were on there on die-in alone? Like maybe five or six? And they're all old? Yeah. I mean, that was almost a synergy last year. If they go back and watch the early episodes where I put 10 milligrams of the Trent, 10 milligrams of the die-in alone, I didn't run it by itself. Where interior on paper, it looks like you can. It was more so adding it in and seeing what the one plus one effect created. But you see the my physique, I really enjoyed it. So the next die phase, just pumped to test, small bit of Trent, and then we'll see as we get closer, maybe we'll go back to our favorite A, S tier, I was going to say A tier, S tier, or two. Ah, Hannibal. Make things a bit interesting. Well, you put die-in alone in S tier, so you created some demands. Yeah. Yeah, we put the Hannibal in F tier and then we created some hate, so you can't win. Of course, what's your cycle? You still been cruising and just taking it easy? There you go, can't shut it on TV, man. And you make everybody jealous. No, HRT, that's it. HRT in a box is serious, dude. Well, technically that's part of my HRT, I'm prescribed it. Yeah, okay, so yeah. Yeah, hormonal replacement therapy, GHRT. It's amazing how well that works to preserve muscle, to keep your body composition better than, I'll say better than any steroid. Just in GH, just the... I've not lost, I've been trying to downsize, it is quite difficult to lose muscle. Yeah, you gotta stop eating. Go through a divorce. Yeah, no thank you. Or you can lose size. No, it's pretty amazing stuff. Cool, and nothing else added, that's probably where you're gonna leave it for the next foreseeable future, and you look solid. Honestly, yeah, I don't really have a need for it at the moment, so. I met one of your clients, Jose, in the gym a while back, and the progress he's made over the last one year, it's insane, dude. He's... And he finally added in with a little bit of mastodon, or Primo or something. Primo. Yeah, Primo after a year on testing GH, and you ramped up the GH a little bit. And I was hard on him, and Jim was like, fuck me, you're getting bigger than I am, it's not fair. Let me see how big, let me see how much progress he's made in the year. It's a lot, he's 220 now, 100 kilos. Strong as an ox. Yeah, he's got freakish genetics, and I think he quite grasps how well he responds to things. No, I told him, I said, hey, this is not normal, so you gotta roll with it now. See, I wanna see how far he can take it. So why not, you know? He was, let me grab it. You got the energy for it. Go do a show. He was 163 when I met him, and he's 220 now. Yeah, after one and a half years. Yep. Yeah. Yeah, it's in same progress what he's made. It's deadling the entire way through. I'll see if we can share some pictures. I'll ask him, and by the time this episode goes live, I'll put it over here at 10 minutes in. Because it's so funny, sometimes we discuss these kinds of cycles like test primoge age, reticent ge age, and people have no idea what to expect. Well, if you're in what, he's like mid 30s, close to 40 years old, Jose. Yeah, 30s. Came from a background of alcoholism, had some surgery done on his pancreas, and the same basically started from scratch. And that's why he came to me, his pancreas was not doing well. Yeah, and so we were just trying to fix that, and then he progressed into where he is now. And then in two years, he completely transformed. It's absolutely amazing. You should see the man eat. Yeah, yeah, and he's got his own restaurants, that helps. Yeah, he's quite successful outside of Bible. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you might open up another gym here in Thailand, that's I can't wait. He's one in Bali. Yeah, yeah, I went there. So that's undefeated gym that he's a partner in. It's an amazing gym, man. I went to Bali for a week, so I, it's like a little bit of a VIP gym, because Bali is overrun with a digital nomad, and it gets to you after a while. So you go to some of the gyms like Obsidian, or body factory, or whatever, I just fool with people, it's insane. So it's a little bit too much. You guys remember when you go to the expo, right? And then you go to the most popular gym in the area, and then it's full, and it's all tripod, and everybody's talking. So that's like the common occurrence in Bali, which is good if you like bodybuilding, but not so good if you like high level bodybuilding, because then you just wanna be left alone and actually use the equipment. So I went to Obsidian gym, I could not use anything. I could not use the equipment, which is all hoarded, all of it, and all the dumbbells you have to drag, and the plates. So yeah, it was a bit much. So there, they're opening up some good competition, will be a private gym, and that's, it's like going to a five star hotel, basically. Yeah, it's very, very high value. So if they can do something, we got Unreal Gym, that's something similar, if they can do something here in Bangkok, then I'm gonna make a move, go exclusive. So for me, I just finished the Injectable YK-11 experiment. I'm gonna write that in A tier, not S tier, A tier. It's something else, yeah, it's something else. It gives you different kinds of muscle contraction than Anavar, it makes you look like Superdrol, but it feels a little bit like Trinvalon. So I got the Night sweats, and a little bit of mood anger. My wife was like, are you sure you're taking YK-11? You sure you're not taking Trinvalon? But my estrogen actually went down, so it acts as an aromatizing, but otherwise Trinvalon would detect as an estrogen, obviously, a non-sensitive blood work. So my estrogen went down proportionately to the ratio of Injectable YK-11 that it took compared to my testosterone. So it took like three times, three portions to testosterone, one portion in YK-11. And my estradiol went down by about 17%. If you take a one-to-one ratio, let's say test the premode, test Bouldinone, test Mastro, and some people, it goes down by 50%. So let's say your estradiol is 100, it goes down to 50. So this time it was 220, I didn't use an AI for an entire year, on 600 tests, so my testosterone or estradiol was 220 pikigrants per milliliter, and then I went down to 180, 175, about 16, 70% reduction. So yeah, that also acts as an aromatizing in there, even though it's like 19-nor based, or 19-nor derivative. Yeah, and I checked my diet at testosterone levels because there was some scientific evidence that it also inhibits the Favhoff reductase type II isoenzyme, but my diet at testosterone levels on 600 tests was undetectably high, again, it's like an ELISA test. I don't have high sensitivity testing here, so I got the results back after three weeks, like, ah, great, over 2,500 pikigrants per milliliter out of the range, and so I tested it again, I'll have to wait another one or two weeks to get the results back. If it's any lower than the, beyond the detectable range, then I know that it also reduces DHT levels, but I have a feeling that they're both going to be undetectably high, because naturally my DHT levels are like 1,850, so it's already close to the top of the detectable range. So I did the work, but the labs are not very accommodating. Yeah, but it's a nice compound. After all, your joints feel kind of dry, like windstraw. It has characteristics of all the steroids, it seems. Bolton shit, though, if you take it pre-workout, split bilaterally, oh man, it's like injectable anodron. Interesting, it's a high- And actually, this compound is actually available, Dean. Have you used the oral form before? Or just the other way around? Yes, I went from oral YK-11 to sublingual to injectable. And from oral to sublingual, you notice a bit of a difference, because the bioavailability should increase slightly, you just have to keep it in your mouth, it's nasty foamy and disgusting. And then you go to the injectable one the first time, you're like, oh, this is a good workout. Second time, like holy shit, I gotta increase my weights. And this is where probably where the joint problems come from, because you get strong rapidly. But weirdly, with Superdrol or anodrol, you get strong fast also, and you don't get joint problems with that. You just feel a little bit compromised because the weights are so heavy. But with injectable YK-11, you're like, hmm, something is not feeling too great. So follow Southern 3 for Ford, oh, that swells you up like a bean spug. Yeah, that's weird shit. Like I did just today, and it swelled up like looking at it. Hmm. I wrote off the YK-11 oral, then I wrote it off too soon. Remember I said I tried like the low dose, whatever it was, 10 milligrams, and didn't see too much from it. I'm looking at the structure here because it's one of the ones where you don't really know the structure off by heart. When you look at the structure, it's very interesting because it has that like, furan ring that's like anivar, but on the complete off carbon 17, which is interesting instead of off carbon two on the other side, which is where it starts on anivar. Hmm. I must consider maybe a source. Give it a try, yeah, and do the injectable version. You could do it sub-Q or intramuscular if you want, the post injection pen is very doable if it's an MCT oil. And I liked it. Yeah, it's one of the compounds that I said, you know what, this is actually worth trying. Blood work didn't change much, liver enzymes went up slightly throughout that entire experiment, and lipids were, like my HDL is still 43. Minerograms were just so you don't know, good luck getting a 43 HDL on anivar or windstrawl or superdrol if you get 20 or 15. So yeah, I'm pretty surprised. Everybody was always raving about it. Steve, you should give it a try. I was like, ah, fuck, this is a sarm. But then you look at the chemical structure, it's just a steroid. So of course I don't like sarms. But yeah, by acting as a phallosatin secreticog, based on this limited scientific evidence of two animal studies, it does give you a little bit of a unique feeling regarding the recovery and the contraction. And now I switched to phallosatin 344, and that's pretty much what I'm talking about. I switched to phallosatin 344, and that's pretty potent shit. Yeah, but I mean with the term sarm, though I think people misunderstand, right? Tremdolinsisarm, dendrolinsisarm, pretty much like anything that's really just working through the AR is a sarm, right? So dose dependent, sarm. P-ball, windstrawl. Right, yeah, it's just dose dependent. You lose selectivity after a certain dose, which I did a deep dive on GC1 subaturon, and that's also like selective, up to a certain point, like a selective thyroid receptor, beta one agonist, not alpha one, or the other alpha and beta receptors, because there's three of each. So that's also selective, that video will be up next week. That increases bowel acid synthesis, improves lipid levels, so you could basically replace tatka, atka, and testosterone, because it also lowers lipoproteinol A levels, with 100 to 200 micrograms sobaturon. Just got discontinued, because one of its close variants, aproturon, was shown to impair cartilage and cause some sort of liver enzyme increase in animal models. You don't mean, just to clarify, you don't mean replacing testosterone fully, you're saying you could reduce the dose of testosterone and make up the rest? No, no, no, so sobaturon is a thyroid receptor, beta one agonist, and it's been clinically investigated. There's like two clinical trials in humans that got discontinued, you can't find those studies, but there's a boatload of animal models. So I reviewed everything, the deep dive will be up on Monday before this podcast releases. So fully replaced, you're saying? Yeah, so it lowers lipoproteinol A, but testosterone is also one of the compounds that lowers it, better than medications. So if you want a reduction in lipoproteinol A, because you're worried about cardiovascular disease, instead of going on TRT, you could use this compound, because in the 70s or 60s, they look at thyroid hormones and thyroid mimetics as a way to lower cholesterol levels, but they were found not to be suitable because of the thermic changes in the catabolism. So this is, yeah, it was one of those compounds that a lot of people slept on, and it's getting a little bit more popular now, so I decided to make a deep dive. I used it in the past, and it's actually quite promising. The scientific evidence is very promising. It was about 120 studies or something. So I made a direct comparison to T3 based on molecular weights, because the molecular weight is about double that T3 compared to subaturon, because it doesn't contain iodine. And so it's a lot of nitrogen, it doesn't contain that either. So yeah, it's actually quite promising. So give it a one-on-one if you guys have time. So those are my experiments, and then after this follow-satin experiment, I'm throwing in a towel, man, I need a deep dive. So bad, because this follow-satin stuff just makes you train extra freaking hard. And I'm ready to do loads and take a little vacation from this abuse. What are you weighing now? 105 kilos, so it's 230 pounds. You used a big boy? Yeah, still a big boy. I've been trying to dive all the way through, so I could really see where the results are coming from. So it's not from the food. It's not from the testosterone, 600 milligrams of tests. It's not that much. I had four somebody in my size, and training intensity, even though I don't know how you do it on one fourth of that dose, D. I don't fucking get it. I'm a little bit demented, maybe. Yeah, you like to torture yourself. So I was like, you know what, I'll do the cart to your T-dose. It's a little bit more reasonable for me. So yeah, 625 tests all the way through, two ampoules of baritestifirin, and then epicatogen, that was a failure. YK-11, various administration routes, and now follow-satin 344. I don't know what it is, but it'll fucking notch you up like crazy. The whole chest just feels like, you know, when you did too many sets, and it just feels like, I don't know, like it's super sore. So when I flex it, it just feels exhausted. But the next day, you feel super full. So it's interesting. I would not be able to afford this myself if the affiliates didn't sponsor this, because it's $70 a pop, basically. If all the satin is expensive, man. And I'm already know, like I'm a couple days in now, I already know that it's not going to be worth the money. Okay. Yeah, because the changes are fun. But if I extrapolate for three months of use, how much money that would cost, and how much my celebrity gain, no, it's not worth it. You can use GH. You can use GH, Incorlex, and take your wife on a nice holiday to pop. At the same time. At the same time. So those are my, that's my cycle. So far, so good. Might have to do some organ imaging to see if my heart is growing from all this fall of satin. Does GH in there as well? For you? No, so test and fall of satin. Oh, that's it. Okay. Yeah, I'm testing the Epic ATG and testing YK-11. The community was complaining that I run too much shit at the same time. So it's like, okay, fine. Tested Epic ATG results. I look in the before and after pictures. I look exactly the same. And in the YK-11 pictures, I look a little bit better. I think it's better if you run these compounds with more gear and GH and Incorlex, but. Is it everything? No. What I was going to say with Dean, I would be curious with the 10 milligram tremolo, if because you're running with a bunch of other stuff. So it's kind of hard to single out what that was doing or if there was synergy. Like you said, but you know, the other compound, I wonder if you'll get, if you just use test as a base and you just added the small amount of tremolo, what the result would be. That would be more fascinating to me than with, you know, because I know in prep you have to use a ton of other things. It would just be interesting if you could kind of isolate what the trend is actually doing at that dose. Well, yeah, that's, that's what my plan was. And even ahead of that, um, dia phase to speak for the last three or four weeks, three weeks at least, SLU and all those sort of mitochondrial things have been dropped out because I wanted to get a handling on, okay, let's reset back to like a blank slate. It's just TRT, not even GH, GH take that out. Follow just probably why I dug myself into a whole recovery because the GH was helping me sleep and everything else. And then set a time point like the start of June and now middle of August is the holiday and literally keep the test as the anchor, put the 10 milligrams of trend in like the four times per week. I believe even let's just settle here. We'll do two, my two lower days will do 10 milligrams of trend. So 20 milligrams will test Steve's theory. Won't even go near 40. Let's see what, let's see what changes in the pictures and let's give it three weeks because really trend A should pretty much give us results in 10 days. Um, and just see what happens with the logbook. Obviously what my plan is once I started to put the mitochondrial stuff back in is to try not change diet or like clastra where literally you just turbo charge everything and you keep up with the, cause at the moment my food is very high. Like I'd say on average I'm about 4,200 on training days. No, ma. And then back off and rest days to around 3,400. So let's see if, how high I can keep that food with the additions of those things that were used last year and obviously the, we'll do the 20 milligrams of trend. Like we said, only one year 40 and let's see what happens. And that way. So you should get some, like glucocorticoid receptor inhibition and just anabolic to androgenic disassociation where you only get anabolism and no androgenic effects. Not that the trombolone is that androgenic again based on the animal models, but I did that calculation with you then Dean for the trombolone deep type remember and then our body weight, it's like 20 to 25 milligrams a week. You get full glucocorticoid receptor inhibition and full anabolic to androgenic disassociation. So only gains basically. I mean, when I put up the post on Instagram, like the amount of molecules and 10 milligrams of Trenace, you only have to take a step back. Like can you even someone ask me about dbol and a few other orals in terms of low dose orals like is five milligrams of dbol like too low of a dose when you work out how many molecules is in five milligrams of dbol? It's millions of molecules. Trillions. Trillions even. Yeah. And you sort of then have to take a step back and go on paper to me. It's associated five milligrams very low. The actual number of molecules is telling you it's very, very high where those molecules have benefit is another story. Yeah. But being able to remove this bias of, you know, I had a great discussion in the the Tren post about like there's no arguing that a hundred milligrams of Tren is going to give more efficacy or more benefit to speak over 10 milligrams, but you're causing unnecessary like spillover to other receptors. Yeah. Yeah. Well, starting low and taking a taking a chance to speak on removing that bias of more is more start very low. See what happens if 10 milligrams does nothing and well, so be it start increased about the old way to speak the old school way of going straight to like a hundred milligrams of Tren A or the way I joke is like one male of a rip blend, which is like test the trend of masks. That's wrong. Every other day is like the typical grow cycle. Yeah. There's nothing wrong interior that you're it's like throwing like five darts at a dart board and hoping one of them is going to hit the bull's eye. It's going to work in theory without really any education behind it to speak, but taking the bias away and removing most of the dosage starting low and slow and working up. I think a lot of guys will get like what we observed a lot less of the mental side effects that carry over and all the positive benefits that are physique, which is why you're using the drug in the first place. Well, I was going to say, I think that the two interesting things. One is very specific. The trend that I never understood. It's the only steroid that everyone that takes it chases a feeling. Right. So I think part of the reason why the dose also increased over time is because for some no one that I'm aware of shoots masteron and they they're like, I'm going to keep increasing it till I feel it. Like how much masteron with the tic tac. You feel it. No one does it with primo like I'm going to check so much primo that I can't sleep. But you have a trend. You start someone on a low dose.  and they're in there for three days, and they're like, I'll feel it, can I go up? You give it 10, 15 days before you, like, once you feel it, it's not good. But it's, everyone just wants to chase that, like they're like looking for that feeling, right? And that feeling's no longer a positive thing anymore. But that's the only drug that you see that with, for steroids, right? You see that with Coke and heroin, like people obviously chasing high. You're chasing me here, O'Donnellson, yeah. I don't know if it's innate to the drug because of the calcium ion stuff it does, there's something about it that everyone wants to feel it. What's the mysticism around it? Like everybody talked about trend rage and trend sex, and so it's turned itself into a meme, and people want to experience that. Like, what is the fuss all about? And I'm gonna be honest, when I did trend in my second cycle, you know, and I was like, you know, I wanna see what this is all about. So I started with 200, and then I bumped it up to 350 within a month. That's when all the side effects came, and that's also when I made all the gains, but I think I could have made those gains on a much lower dose as well. Yeah, well, I think also with dosing, the vast majority of people seem to miss steroids, the dose isn't as important as your response, right? So your response is based on the enduroceptors. How many enduroceptors you have is gonna dictate your response. We see that in natural people, when they do blood samples across the board of naturally muscular people, it's not actually hormone levels, it's the amount of enduroceptors they have, they can use those hormones that they have. And so in steroids, the amount of classic enduroceptors someone have, they're going to respond to a much lower dose, right? They can also tolerate a much larger dose. That's why in probiotic builders, you see a vast range of dosing, right? From some of these guys use very small doses, and no one believes it, and other of these guys use 10,000 milligrams of stuff because they have those enduroceptors to actually deal with it properly, versus a poor responder, doesn't necessarily just get side effects right off the bat. So they can't even do a low dose, and then when they run a high dose, it's a disaster, right? Even with testosterone, right? These are guys that get anxious on 200 tests, right? That's not a positive thing. That means there's a lack of enduroceptors. There's a pile of hormones. And then they start, they've got to start at like 50 milligrams a week, and then slowly build it up over three months, and then they can tolerate 200 again, and actually go to the gym and train a little bit harder so they make themselves tired, and then reduce anxiety through the GABAergic effects. But I just, I think it's fascinating because somewhere it's a way people chase a feeling on trend, people chase doses, like that there's some magical number that you'll get to, that you'll just, right? With most things, three-in-a-thons, baby. Growth hormones, the three-in-a-thons of hormones, it's gonna respond in a dose-dependent matter. But I guess all drugs do to some extent, but I think with steroids, it's very individual what someone can do, right? So you both obviously have a lot of enduroceptors, so that's why some of my 10 milligrams would work, but it doesn't mean the average guy on the street using 10 milligrams of trend is gonna get anything out of it, right? You might just feel it immediately, which again, doesn't mean it's doing anything that's a sign of it, right? Yeah, or they need more trend to compensate for the lack of effort, like me, you, and Dean, like we've been doing this for decades now. But the guys that usually start trend, they're the beginners. It's a beginner drug on social media. But it's also the drug that needs to be the most respective. In reality, it's like the end stage drug, like Accutane or Finasteride or a hero's dose of LSD. That's end stage. You need some experience for that shit. But nowadays, it's so romanticized. And I was the same at the GH-15 forum and then get big and all that stuff. I'm like, I'm a second cycle, I use it. And then I went up to 1,000 milligrams a week because that's what everybody was doing. Stupid, you know? And then you look at the dope in me and like what Kurt was on about it. The calcium and when you're chasing that feeling, do you ever think that can come from, and I've seen this with even consults where the androgenicity because of its strong buoying affinity and then obviously how dopaminergic it is, you have guys then that are chasing this feeling of a very high libido. And then they're having intercourse, you know, multiple times per day. And then when it comes out, they're like something's wrong with my libido. And they're like, no, it's not healthy really to be having intercourse multiple times show today because of they then think that you have to pro-phylactically throw caber golly in on top of the trend, which then creates this, like we're laughing, but this happens all the time. Libido chasing the libido from coming off a trend cycle. Dude, and these guys will use anything. PT-141, Cialis, caber goline, Mansa Max, Cialang, Oxytocin, I had to get some sort of DHEA and then Oxytocin's response. And I made videos about this. And then of course, people use the entire stack then when I say it's options, don't do all the same time. I've had younger guys come to me as clients or consults. And I think the problem is they take it all literal, right? Like you look at the list of things they're on, they took the list that you made and they took it all. That wasn't the point of the list. These are options. You're 18 years old, you don't need 1,000 chemicals in your body. You need less masturbation and a little bit better food and better sleep and then you're probably okay. It's amazing how much just good sleep will do. Yeah, or just some nice food. I mean, when I was on holiday in Bali, well, I'm not gonna go into details, but I was sleeping like 10 hours a night and eating some good steaks and then every day, but to hear back home, yeah, I got responsibilities. And then it's a little bit less frequent. My cycle didn't change. It was the exact same dose with testosterone. Didn't take oxytocin with me or some Max or PT-141 or Cialis. Did take none of that. It was just chilling in a good mood. And you do it every day, you know? So that's bad for a 40 year old, I would say. Yeah, and you think most of these guys, wives or girlfriends unless they're 22 years old actually wanna have sex six times a day? Yeah. No, there must be under the, they're far babies. They're far Barbies themselves. That's also the girl when you go to work, she's out having sex with other people. And that's under the six of you. She's got five, five boyfriends on you. And then you come off the trend, what is she doing? Yeah, she's got the guy on trend. Yeah. That's fucking. Red flags galore. So talking about the Android receptors, right? Kurt, you brought this ARA topic up last time. People freaked the fuck out. This is the reason why I'm not responding. I have zero gack repeats. Okay, might be the case for 1% of the audience. Yeah, what Kennedy's disease is like super, super rare. Yeah, exactly. But Ian from Merrick Health reached out and he's like, I watched that podcast and we actually got that as a test for Kennedy's disease. So that's why I wanna discuss. They have it here in Thailand as well. I didn't have a chance to do it because now I'm curious as well. So maybe I can overlay what they have at Merrick Health. Sure, screen. It's our screen selects. If he's watching this, if he gives me just a code, I can send people there to test. Yeah, I'm sure. I'll work on that because you have got a lot of clients in the US. So it's not cheap, but it's $500 at Merrick Health. Hey, but you don't want. Yeah, you do it once. Right, you do it once. It's the same as your genetic test at 23andMe. If you still wanna do it after all the staff left. So basically it's an antigen receptor gacropit genetic test and it's done for a Kennedy's disease. There's not so much information here on the website. So I'll link this down below guys. And I think they offered it to people that are already on board with Merrick Health to kind of do a see how that goes and get some more experience with the results. But Manson, our Mawson, the guy that used to coach or help, I can't say coaching, used to help Samson Douda through Merrick Health. He made a good post about this right after a podcast. That was about a week, two weeks ago. So here we can see the pictures. Are you a hyporesponder? And there's actually a test for that. For the gactrile nucleotide sequence, the cytosine adenine and guanine, which is used for Kennedy's disease, SBMA. So he made a post about that. Didn't get so much discussion going because his profile is not that big yet. So I wanna bring it to Brian Johnson. Interesting, common name. So I just wanted to mention it here that actually we can test for this and it's not a cheap test obviously, but if you're wondering if you have less than 22 repeats or zero, like the ARA with zero gacropit, or in the favorable range of 22 to 26 or maybe a little bit higher, or a little bit lower, sorry, where it's high sensitivity. So if you have a lot of repeats or zero repeats, it's not good for you. And if you have over 35 repeats, then you have risk for Kennedy's disease. But this could also indicate if you have like zero repeats and then does you have an ARA, which is what Kurt mentioned. And there seems to be also some genetic factors. So if you have like average gacropit of 18 to 20, but you're white, maybe you're African-American. You know, or you have 20 to 23, maybe you're Latino, but you actually look like an Asian. So this will tell you a little bit more about your genetic makeup. I'll link at the Instagram post and where you can get this tested of American health down below. Did this stem from the discussion last time? No, so had this available, but not publicly. And then Ian reached out to say, yeah, we actually have this available. You can test this through Kennedy testing because we were kind of speculating on how to get this done. I wasn't aware that you could actually test for gacropit because I looked for genetic testing when I did the Androgen receptor deep dive and there was no genetic testing for that, but you can actually test it. And I think it's a swap test. Let me see what did they say. So they were looking if they could send it to me or I could do it here over in Thailand. Yeah, so I have a stabilization reagent and it's a collection test. And I think it's just a general swap test like a DNA analysis. So we're seeing if they could send it over here and I found a place here in Thailand where I can actually test it. I just didn't get a chance to do it yet. So I might find out that I have just average repeats. And somehow I doubt it. Yeah, I don't know. I think I have average response, man. Yeah. And easy to grow, but it- I deal with a general population. I mean, you're responding in average. Yeah, really? Okay, maybe I should have been a bodybuilder. Professional one. It's too late. Never know, it's too bad. Yeah, it's not too late. I did the gyno surgery and I got the leg surgery done. You know, it's fucked up. I don't think it'd be worth your time, I think is the issue. Not only. So I noticed in my progress pictures that I'm getting fucking atrophy in one calf. Human nerve issue? Where, in your spine? I think so. You have a disc? So, no, so, so, so, my lower back has been tight at times and I do the D-tipi-tipi massage therapy. I switch from intramuscular injections to sub-q to resolve it. I do my hyper extension, so I reverse hyper extensions to kind of decompress it. I think over the last six months or maybe one year that left calf is just slowly going away. And I noticed it in the pro, because I take a lot of progress pictures now for these follow-satonic experiments and every progress picture is smaller. What role does the intramuscular injection have? Oh, it creates scar tissue and it may be closer to the nerve. Yeah, and the nerve and it may be pressure on the nerve. And I remember doing leg press at muscle fight, tripadio on time, and I had lower back issues for like three months. You know? And then recently I did that leg surgery to get the plate removed and the screws. And then obviously I couldn't train for a while, so I didn't do reverse hyper extensions. And then I reintroduced it. Oh man, I was so tight. My lower back was like, I couldn't even do one plate. I just felt it like separate. And now I'm up to two and a half plates again. I used to do three plates per side and a little bit of momentum. Yeah, but that would really, and maybe that's the reason why one calf is fucked. But I saw, I looked at the pictures and like, fuck man, it's my time to, I got at least like with Dennis Wolff or Ian Vaillier or Wesley Fischer's, it's happening on both sides. But for me, it's happening on one side. So once, yeah. I didn't know that, they're getting atrophy in their calves. Yeah, Wesley Fischer's has no sweep anymore. Wow, I didn't know. And Ian Vaillier never had calves, but it's also a nerve issue. And then you started getting it in his chest and then obviously you can't compete. At least the calves you can hide away by the stage, right? Because the stage has a corner and then most of the judges can't even see your calves. And most of the time they don't have great calves. So you just stand next to me. But I used to have great calves, man. It was like me, Steve's got like 19-inch calves at times. So I had like freaky calves. And then now one of them is going away. So don't become a pro bodybuilder, become a roofer. Go up and down a ladder. Yeah. And get obese, get obese and climb a ladder all day. You have to master it. Yeah, I have genetics for being obese. That's for sure. Oh yeah, everybody in my family is fat as fuck. You see that there's now there's 941 known genes that affect BMI in humans, polymorphisms. 941 excuses. But they only account for 6% of obesity. So even with all these genetic factors, 94% is the lifestyle. That's probably the food. About 1000 genes that are not. Food is tasty, man. I can totally get it. I totally get it. So now everybody in my family is fat. So it's very easy to gain size for me, but staying lean, it's always a nightmare. Yeah, staying lean, getting lean, staying lean. It's after you leverage every angle and do two hours of cardio to get it done. Two hours a day? If I want to be really shredded, just two hours, no excuses. Wow. Yeah, I don't have time for that, man. It's, I try to. Who has time for that? Yeah, try to do consultations. Yeah, it was always fucked. Like when I was soft for some, 6% body fats, it's two hours of cardio. Even with the mitochondrial support, every, at one point I just get stuck. My body adapts metabolic wise. Doesn't matter how much fatigue management I do. I just need the two hours of cardio to really get shredded. So that's why I'm just comfortable, 8 to 10. It's better for mood. Yeah. Yeah, so yeah, so that was my bad news for my career. I looked at the cat and I'm like, what the, where's my, normally you have like a chunk of meat there, you know? You have like these two calves and it looks silly and you walk and it's touching. And then I wasn't touching for a while. So I was like, okay, I did surgery, my legs are a little bit smaller. And now I'm trying to get back to the previous size. And I want one side is just gone. It's weird. It's a shame. So what am I gonna do? Syntho, GHK copper, or stop training calves altogether so the right side can catch up. And it's the right side that had the leg injury, the breakage, that calf is freaky, big still. Inject silicone caulking in there. Yeah, yeah. Or do, deal with, what is his name? Flexwheeler did just jam needles in there until you get scar tissue. Oh, you look at his calves or one guy has got one calf now, but he had to get one lower leg removed. So yeah, so that, I don't think there's a solution for because Ian Viller didn't find a solution. I talked with Wesley Vissers about this. He couldn't really find a solution. He lost some electro stimulation on that area. And this is the other guy, Dennis Wolfe never got his fix. His calves just disappeared at one point. You know, so, well, career over. And I like to wear shorts. It makes it even more painful. Oh, well, it's maybe due to the high, the compression socks to kind of hide it or put a tattoo over it. Tattoo a calf on? Yeah, tattoo a calf on. Yeah, just, just make it look like the skin ripped off. Shading. Yeah, shading. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Make sure like that skin ripped off. So you see like the muscle underneath and then make it extra striated. So even though there's no muscle there, it just still looks C-straction. Shit, man. Yeah, so I did my gyno surgery and I can't even get on stage because I have no calf on one side. Maybe I didn't need to do side poses to hide it all the time. The good news is though, is that we finally found the Trimbalon insert. I'll share that on screen. Talking about Trimbalon. So the Parabola insert is finally fully translated. First, we got this front page. This is the translation using the same setup as the insert. Anthony sent it to me, one of the Avid Steroid collectors. So you had a box of Parabola with a used ampoule, obviously not an unopened. That would have been worth a fuckload of money if you had an unopened ampoule of Parabola. I'm sure somebody out there would have bought it from him and offered him copious amounts of money just to give it a try. So basically this is all known, right? We know that it contains hexhydrobenzochorbene Trimbalon at 76 milligrams, yielding net 50 milligrams Trimbalon base. Benzo alcohol, pharmaceutical grade ethyl alcohol and a neutralized arachazole, which is inflammatory in some people. And it was prescribed in elderly patients with catechia, sets of under nutrition, following major surgical interventions, extensive burns, bed sores and in treatment of senile or idiocereotrogic osteoporosis. Contrary indications, puberabital subjects in young women or women who are breastfeeding pregnant women or women who are likely to become pregnant. So all those studies performed that you... Yeah, they tested it first to make sure that it would kill the fetus. It would kill the fetus. Fuck man, I would love to read those studies though. Let me see if I can find my son and two. Oh, you actually have access to those studies now? Yeah, I have access to them. They're all watermarked and stuff. You can't really put them on the screen. I won't show them up, but I might have, I would like to summarize it because... This is what I do with the details. Yeah, you can summarize them. I just don't think you should place them on the screen. No, I won't post them. No, no, no, because it's... But if I could read them and summarize them, because again, there's no human studies available. Zero. Zero. So even if you have a little bit of an indication, even if it's in pregnant women, if I could read and summarize them and make a video about it, it would be so fucking beneficial. If I could make this video about the insert, it did 10,000 views. People are like, why did you make a video about the insert when there's no information? So, well, people would know, man. So let's see, contraindications, also prostatic hypertrophy, prostatococinoma, obviously, hepatic insufficiency. And apparently there's one study that looked into the hepatic stress of trimblone in humans on the case reports that's in the... Was the anabolic to androgenic steroids of the pharmacology from Charles de Coququian. It's a very old book. Okay, the injections, right? One ampoule every 15 days for the first month, for the first month, it started the month, middle of the month, end of the month, and then another injection every month for another three injections. So six ampoules per ball in over four months. Don't juice under the age of 15. And good luck, you know, tiktokers. And then this is the back. And there's literally nothing there. There's nothing there. This medicine is an active product. Keep out of the reach of children, no shit. Use medicine prescribed as your doctor tells you, well, nobody's going to prescribe trimblone anymore. And then, you know, the description of trimblone is a very low dosage. It's only me and Dean would be crazy enough to use those dosages. And this is it. This is all your pharmacist knows medicines. It's not about taking a lot of medicines. I kind of agree with that. It's about taking the medicines you need. So this is, I was looking forward to this so much and this is all we got. No references, no citations. Here's what's on the box. The composition again, you know. So it was kind of anticlimactic, I would say. A little bit disappointing, but I'm still happy that somebody kept the medical insert and scanned it and sent it to me and then I used Proplexity and ChatGPT to kind of translate it. I had the front page translated already with a former client of me, Noor, who lives in France. He translated for me at the front page. But yeah, so the elusive back page was found. And I asked him for, if he has more memorabilia, so maybe the master in medical insert or the old syntax, anodrol insert. All right, so I would like to put all those inserts online just for like completelets for the fitness industry. Like Ecycling, if somebody has that, I would love to get that online. I found the insert for PrimaBall and S-Tablets, those I got online. So yeah, if anybody has those hidden away somewhere or animal studies, I found a patent for Drostan alone. Yeah. I'm gonna do a video on this and it might actually show us that it's anabolic. Like we had some suspicion that we were discussing about it. Yeah, so I found some patent from 78 where Drostan alone might show animalism in an animal model that is regurgitated by the masteron junkies. So yeah, this animal model showed that it actually was more potent than tremelone. So I found that patent finally. Nobody was able to find it for me, but I finally found it myself. So I have to go through all 200 pages and then I'll make a video about it and then maybe it can reassess my conclusion that if you identify as a cow, if some people look like cows, then maybe masteron can be anabolic at a low dose. Of course, like if you compare the tremelone cattle pellets to the anabolic response after castration, it's quite dramatic. And the muscle that they gain is very dramatic. But at those doses, even if you extrapolate to the human equivalent dose, you don't observe that in humans at all, unless you maybe castrate yourself. Well, I think there's two things we're missing. One, although similar to humans, they have more anterior septic density than the average human, right? So you have that. And also when do they start the tremelone dosing? It's a day three of life. So not that you should start with your three day old child, Steve, but there is much more growth potential right there because of the stem cells. So it's not, once you've already reached adulthood, you start to train at 30 years old. Your growth potential is much more reduced than a three day old cow. Yeah, and you're already on testosterone base. Which Dean, what does testosterone supervisual logical levels do to your stem cells? Blocks half of them from infiltrating into your body. And that's what I was saying. That's what we learned about delivery. Yeah, so anyway. When you do stem cell treatment in South America, they all tell you, come off to juice. And that's even relatively speaking, like what I'm always talking about that with one to five tests. If your testosterone level is 800 nanograms per deslare and your natural level genetically, when you were a teenager, you had hypergonadism in your 20s, and you're at 300, 800 is still super physiological for where you developed genetically, naturally. So even then you can't cheat yourself and think, oh yeah, I'm still in a physiological range, or super physiological by being like three times what your natural level was. So that's still gonna have effects on your stem cell repair and infiltration. Yeah, and that's one of the reasons why it's okay to kind of come down to a physiological dose or come off completely. Maybe just to restore that stem cell effect and maybe remove the toxins that build up, because I think your detoxification processes get upregulated just like your anabolic processes, and maybe at one point it just cancels itself out when you've been running high gear, because nobody can run over a gram indefinitely. I mean, 500 tests, okay, but at one point you get diminishing returns and you actually go backwards. That's what I'm starting to notice now. Just even on 600 tests after three months, you're like, you know what, getting some diminishing returns is starting to come back again, you know? I mean, Kurt had something that we discussed offline that sort of ties him with this, with the liver of what you sort of observe or curb product. I was not even aware of it, with oral steroids and the increased production of creatine, and that you're utilizing the traminosacids, arginine, glycine, and then metionine is the third one. I had to look them up before you went online, and then you've got glutathione. That's why three of us come on a podcast, then. It's the only place we can still learn something new. That's it. I mean, and then glutathione, I know off by heart, with glycine, cysteine, and glutamic acid, that if you've got liver problems, you may be taken away from your amino acid pool to rebuild or recycle glutathione. But like Kurt said, with the oral steroids, you could be pulling glycine and metionine away from muscle protein synthesis based on our regulation of creatine production. Yeah, so the background, because people probably want to know what the background is, it's why certain oral steroids are going to produce much more strength gains, like immediately versus an injectable would produce more size gains. Even if the anabolic rating, and I know anabolic ratings, not everything, but even if the rating is very skewed, like the primobotan has a trash anabolic rating, and Winsor and Anivar have very high, but yet they don't really produce any tissue in men. And that's because of the root, right? When it's 17 alpha-alcoolated, it goes to the liver, it's going to take those three amino acids and commit them to creatine phosphate, which is going to make you immediately stronger versus when you inject something like primobon, it's not going directly to the liver immediately, so it's going to commit those same amino acids as part of the proteins synthesis process and lay on tissue, right? Because the confusing part before I looked into it was, well, why would Anivar cause strength gains? Everyone reports they get stronger than Anivar, doesn't have a ton of non-genomic effects, it's really, that's really like SARM, it really just works through the AR, where are those strength gains coming from? And it doesn't seem to be a placebo, but that's the reason why. So it's basically upping your creatine production immediately versus you don't get that same effect. That's one of the reasons why primobon might not produce crazy strength gains. I don't think anyone really gets a ton stronger on Primo or Nandrona. No, I mean, you get, I'm just going to say that you're natural, but you get more androgenic effects, obviously, but it seems to be over time. So after six weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, I'm not pretty much there. No, no, Anivar and some of the other oral steroids, you're like, oh, I took it and immediately get stronger. Right, but then the able test and, and the withdrawal of those that are strongly, they also have not crazy non-genomic effects that are going to produce other nerve stuff. So, so if these oral steroids produce more creatine, they don't, or creatine phosphate, right? So your energy levels and your strength goes up fullness comes with that. The intramuscular water retention can be explained that way. But unlike with creatine supplementation, it doesn't make you hold any water. So is this why naturals get better results with creatine than non-naturals? Because non-naturals increase their creatine phosphate production by taking oral steroids. Possibly. Because I noticed like active creatine in the past is natural, you get a dramatic effect. And then when you take creatine as a steroid user, you're like, I'll get his water retention. Yeah, maybe one extra rep. Well, you're already producing a ton more. And all steroids are gonna cause wrapping up a creatine, right, testosterone does that too. Yeah, so it's not necessarily anything wrong with creatine supplementation in enhanced athletes because it still has other effects that are healthy, but it might not be needed, at least for muscle gain. It's not gonna add anything to your muscle gain that you're not gonna get. I mean, the part of the reason in naturals it's gonna cause size gains is because it can increase your strength stronger. You get the more weight you can lift, the more mechanical tension you can. Yeah, it's an intramuscular water retention, obviously, which is good for leverage and that makes you stronger.  amyxantin, you don't produce that much creatine naturally on your natural testosterone levels. When the average person doesn't eat enough, with the average American, at least, their natural creatine levels are pretty low. People aren't eating as much meat as they once did. So you got to supplement that in. Yeah, so that kind of explains why anibor makes you stronger. So some of these oral shifts, protein synthesis from laying on tissue to protein synthesis is used for energy and does make you stronger acutely. So what can we do to optimize this process? Because I was told, I was told that all steroids potentiate the same amount of protein synthesis. That in and of itself is interesting. Everyone gets talking up on these silly little one thing, these one details, like protein synthesis. Protein synthesis is all the same. It's the only thing that stops growth. It's not the only thing that stops growth. I know exactly what you're talking about. Scott Stevens did an excellent video on Think Big. I'll link it down below if you don't forget. We analyzed all of the studies regarding adults' response curve and it's so different. Of course, it's all coming from different studies. Scott Stevens is an excellent researcher and he got upset. He said, you know what? I'm going to show you guys. You see, it's literally completely different all over the place. When you can see with a stronger drug, the tremolo is stronger than testosterone, it's going to bind to the endoreceptor at least three times the sperm, at least testosterone, but it's not necessarily gaining three times as much muscle mass. That's not necessarily a fault of the drug. There's other limiting factors there. You can't just grow and grow and grow and grow endlessly. The human body has a ton of stops there to prevent that from occurring. Yeah. Of course, if you keep growing, at one point you're going to pop. Whether that's your organs or something else. If your food wasn't abundant, why would your body just let you just ramp up muscle mass for no reason? Yeah. Beyond what's needed. Even the gorillas in the lion's egg, they cap out at one point. Yeah, most animals, that's it. They can't get me bigger. Yeah. So, where were we? I had a cretin. So, I explained a little bit more for the audience to understand. What would be a limiting factor of taking oral steroids that produce more cretin monophosphate compared to steroids that produce more protein synthesis like collagen, for example? What would be the difference and how can we get some sort of synergy between? Because, of course, a lot of people are going to be upset. Yeah, I take anivarine. That's why I'm not getting any size. This is the conclusion that the audience is going to draw. I mean, there's still going to be some level of size that comes from a drug like that. It's just not going to be as much as something that is subjective. I mean, you could leverage both, right? Take primo and an oral, if you want, right? To get some level of both, or you could use a slightly more androgenic steroid, or one that produces more strength gains, that you would get the best of both worlds. It doesn't mean you have to use anivar. If you take an injectable, would it be wise to supplement with glycine and methionine coming from collagen supplements? Would it be easier just to take creatine? Yeah, obviously. But the creatine is, of course, being produced with the oral steroids, right? Oh, you're saying if you took orals to then supplement with the precursors to creatine? No, you're saying... So with the orals, some of the orals would produce more creatine, what, monophosphate, right? So you would take some creatine to help with that process and the injectables. You would lay more tissue on with glycine and methionine as a backbone. So you would take collagen supplements or something collagen containing a good fucking steak. You could, but I think then it goes back to just the way the human body works, right? When you're just all protein, doesn't matter where necessary it's coming from, right? It gets bleived apart into dye and tripeptides, and then it gets applied to wherever the body needs it. Right? It's one of the reasons why collagen protein, per se, is not going to go to collagen production. No, no. You just create an environment where everything is equally available. If that's what I mean, people, it was brilliant idea to sell collagen supplements, right? People were like, oh, it makes your skin nicer. Most likely it doesn't. 25% of the amino acids in the human body are already as collagen peptides. Right. Right? We protein would produce just as much as taking collagen supplement, perhaps more because of the losing content. All right, yeah, from the proteins. Perhaps, I mean, it depends. Right? Again, there's limits there. Protein synthesis, I think, is again overrated. Most of the studies are showing whole body and not intramuscular, right? Because food doesn't, and that's one of the reasons why food itself is not ramping up growth on its own unless you're deficient in those things. You drink all the way, you sit on a couch, not exercise, no drugs, drink all the whey protein, the water you're not going to grow, just because your mTOR is ramped up all the time doesn't mean anything. Is that doing it? Yeah, and it's the same supplementing with BCAs or EEAs and then glycine and methione with every single meal. I tried that already. That doesn't make a difference. And there's a cap too, and it's not that it doesn't get used, right? Your body will use everything it's given if it's on its own diarrhea. That's undigested food. You absorb everything except some level of fiber, but it only applies so much to muscle, right? And a natural, I don't know what actually the drug using, drug using person it would be because it probably depends on the drugs and the amount of drugs and the genetics, but in a natural person, what 10% of amino acids are applied to muscle? Give or take? Is that right, team? Yeah. It's low. It's low. It's not anywhere near what people think of it. They get 50 grams in a meal. They're not getting 50 grams in their muscles. No. You know? No. The body has a lot more things that it deems more important than muscle that it's going to apply that stuff to. No. All these peptides and... 80 or 80p. Yeah, peptides, enzymes, basically all the machinery is all made out of proteins. Yeah. It's all proteins, all the amino acids folded in certain ways. So that's where most of the food goes. It goes to the machinery, not the tissue that's actually there. And even your organs, right? You have splinic extraction that increases with age. That's one of the reasons why sarcopenia occurs, right? Lower hormones, lower food intake is if you've got older, they eat less, right? And then the protein goes down and they have higher numbers, a much larger amount of splinic extraction. So like a little kid, the body's much more efficient at applying amino acids where it needs to go versus when you get old, your spleen is a hog. It pulls out the amino acids out of your gut because it's using them, that is fuel. Right. It's power itself. Yeah. Yeah. To keep you alive at the expense of muscle mass. Yeah. That's why building a good amount of tissue is good for longevity because you extend that process of sarcopenia later on in life. Or you take TRT and you prevent it. That too. You know, that helps. That helps. Yeah. So it's a very interesting that you told us that some of these oral steroids might shift, you know, amino acid utilization. Yeah. For energy production. And that's why it gets an acute effect because your creatine monophosphate concentrations are just going higher. That also means that oral steroids can increase your creatinine levels. Which we see, right? But that was probably more, previously thought it was like a liver stress issue. Perhaps it's not just liver stress. Right. No, it's just different. Yeah. And then the point is it also explains why something like Winstor, which is a 320 or something, is vibrating, which on paper should be three times as strong as test. It's just not. I don't know anyone who's taking Winstor on to grow, per se. No, it seems to be the cosmetic enhancing drug. And of course, the idea and you know, different. Yeah. Women, obviously. Maybe they get androgen, anablysm in the wrong places. Well, and women are going to respond estimate by eight times stronger to a dose than a man would respond just based on their natural. It goes back to what you told about baseline, like where you grew, like what your morphology is where you grow naturally, right? They're, they're anti-movements a lot less. So you, they'll respond to a 10 milligrams of anabar much more so than a man would respond to 10 milligrams of anabar. Yeah. And resurrective testosterone levels are maybe 50, 70 at maximum. That's why, you know, TNT for one is three and a half milligrams a test. Yeah. You're not giving them, they don't need huge amounts of it. No. No. It does do wonders though for women, TRT after a certain age. See a lot of women on TRT now and that is magic for them as well. Yeah. Interesting. We're working on, I won't, because it doesn't necessarily apply to bodybuilding, but we're working on something too where, so progesterone is produced backdoor through DHT as well. So it's one of those L6 body with women on replacement therapy, right? You're not supposed to give estrogen without progesterone generally. There's something else because you don't want to become estrogen dominant. But when, a lot of times we'll add testosterone to that mix as well, and you see the progesterone go up, we're going to see if we remove the progesterone, if there's enough backdoor conversion that's still occurring just to eliminate even giving the progesterone. Because you might just, once you increase testosterone, you might just produce enough on its own. Right. Indeed. Because you have that backdoor pathway. It's going to go vice versa. Yeah. It's going to go with allopregnenolone, right? So you produce allopregnenolone from testosterone through five alpha reduces to DHT and then the three alpha dial will become allopregnenolone. So in theory, if someone is on TRT, they don't necessarily need to supplement with pregnenolone to get that same neuro steroid sexual benefit, right? Because allopregnenolone and DHT seem to be the largest drivers of sexual behavior in men. Yeah. Not estrogen per se. Estrogen has a slight role there in sperm production, but it seems more of those two things. Right. The last time, I think you guys talked about last time, that the lack of the pregnenolone cause like sexual issues, even if the other hormones all look fine. It doesn't mean it has to be. Yeah. It could be a minor mitochondrial issue. So you have pregnenolone being produced in the mitochondria. And then of course, if your pregnenolone levels are low, which is hard to test, then everything there's a test now. LabCorp has a test in the United States for allopregnenolone. Yeah. For allopregnenolone, but the regular pregnenolone, it's not very accurate. In the U.S., it might not be accurate, but this is standard. It's not very accurate. Yeah. From all the doctors that I talked to, it's probably the least accurate test because it's fluctuate so much. And even with DHEA, pregnenolone sulfate, it's not that accurate. So that's why we usually check DHEA sulfate as an indicator and progesterone levels to see what is going on downstream. Yeah. Dean, I know you want to jump in. No, I was just saying the point that Kurt brought up, obviously, then with the creatine turnover, if you've got less glycine being pulled into creatine production, less glycine's going to affect your glutathione. You're going to have less glutathione. You're going to have less glycine as a potentiator of its own receptor in the brain and gab it as well. So then you might see anxiety issues and... Oh, fuck. That makes so much sense now. Yeah. That's what I was thinking in my head. And then you decided with denitglycine, the other amino acids in the chain is metionine. Metionine is a driver of methylation of SAM-E production, acidenosyl metionine. And then the kicker that comes from that denis, acidenosyl metionine becomes SA when it's reduced, so it gives off the metal group for methylation into your DNA. And it becomes homocysteine. So you might start seeing issues of homocysteine and cardiovascular issues. The metionine problem then could play over into gene transcription, where you then start seeing potential issues coming from non-responders and hyper-responders, depending on what happens with methylation of the genes themselves and then the acetylation with the histones of how your DNA unravels itself to open out the sequences to be read. So that was really interesting. My curb brought up before we came on where my head was just doing its usual of one of this and this and this and this. It does make sense though, because again, if you're shifting these amino acids for energy production and you're taking away from methylation and relaxation, it could explain why a lot of side effects manifest with longer term oral steridules. And I'm not even sure if then supplementing with these particular amino acids would circumvent that. Not necessarily. And the body doesn't absorb that. It doesn't like the free form amino acids. No. It likes things that are bound. So it knows what it's doing with them. But it could also explain that people who eat better have less of these side effects because they do get a more broader amino acid profile. Go figure. Food matters. And then the other thing coming back to our good friend, like the bile flow and the appetite that we covered in one of the old episodes, we always focus on odke and todke as the bile salts. You do have glycine conjugates of bile acids as well. So now your bile is being affected, which affects your appetite and you're in testing that we talked about if you want to improve appetite with orals, you want to improve bile flow and that transport. Yeah. So GC1 subaturum upregulates cytochrome P4507A1 enzymes, which converts C4. It's like C4 is a precursor for bile acids. It's not that it upregulates just like thyroid hormones, but it does that in, you know, based on the animal models in a much higher capacity than T3. So GC1 might actually help with detoxification and stool motility by increasing bile acid synthesis unless you combine that with catechonazole, which inhibits C7A1 and thus lowers bile acid production or anastrozole, which inhibits C27A1, which also provides precursors for bile acid synthesis. This is why I don't like anastrozole over aromasin for estrogen management because you see that at the end when people make a dose anastrozole, right, for bodybuilding contents, they get constipated. It's because they don't produce any bile acids anymore. Well, and also estrogen itself has effects on bile. So like, when I crush my estrogen before a show, even no matter how linear, I have trouble contracting my abs or my stomach will start to distend. And that could also be part of the bubble gut that you saw 20 years ago in bodybuilding. Yeah, shit gets left behind. Yeah. So I typically leave my stomach like low, but not so not crushed, right? Like 10 to 15 is probably good to get on stage versus zero. Right. And that was discovered in post-menopausal women. That's whether stomach starts to distend. Yeah. And it's part of that is bile acid secretion that's impaired. And of course, your entire cocktail, especially if you're on contest prep, you know, GC1 might be able to prevent that to a certain extent, but it will be better to supplement a little bit of ox bile, and, you know, just have a good amount of healthy fat, which also lubricate your stool, which then later on you're like, I gotta go low fat to get extra lean. And so it's a bit of a balancing act. But hey, man, it's like a good shit in the morning. I think it solves a lot of problems already. You know, at least you get off. It's better than fasting. Yeah, that's true. You lose more weight. Yeah, we get shit. The first part. You don't wait to start your day too. Yeah, coffee and a good shit. And then you can start. Yeah, one more. Do you want me? So funny how we discovered all these. Four pounds of not sweating. Four pounds, holy shit. After going to the U.S., I had a good shit. This is definitely four pounds. All that cheesecake, holy moly. So yeah, it's interesting how all these little things start to make sense, you know, as you guys discover stuff and I discover stuff, you see all this interconnection. That's why this podcast is so great, because you find all these metabolic pathways that finally get discovered. But no one looks into it. No one cares. Nobody's okay. Well, you need to read a lot of studies and understand biochemistry, you know, and I like you guys understand so much about this chemical composition, which I don't understand. So you put those three months together. Yeah, you discover something new every podcast. And these last 12 podcasts have been eye-opening to me and I spent like 60 hours a week to reading fucking studies. So it's great. Yeah, that's great. It's great too, because we all compliment each other with that stuff, right? Right. One throws an idea on the other one, complete it. Like I used to eat a lot for that stuff, like the creatine stuff. That's more his world, not mine. Like I'm going to learn, I don't remember half that stuff, but like you look at that stuff all the time. Yeah. Right? Like mine kind of stops at the end. I mean, even to go back to what you're talking about proteins being incorporated into muscle tissue, like hair, your nails, you know, keratin synthesis, that can be an insight into how well you're creating or utilizing amino acids towards protein synthesis for your body's own requirements. So like if you're trying to build muscle, but you have genetically evolved to grow hair and grow nails, your body's going to use the amino acids to build these natural proteins that it creates today and putting those amino acids into your muscle. So I think, you know, broadly speaking, you can almost assess how well protein metabolism is in your body by looking at your hair and skin or nail health, how well your nails and hair growing. Yeah. Besides the androgenic alopecia that occurs, obviously. It's like, yeah, but you can usually tell like the guys that have like better skin and they always complain about, you know, have to trim their hair that they do seem a little bit more anabolic than average. But is that is that food or, you know, well, I mean, if you're on GH for long periods of time, I've been on growth for three years, my nails are incredibly thick. Yeah. And all my flat bones grew as well. My wife is saying things about my hands. I mean, I like we taught like my hair grows really quick when my hair grows everywhere. Like if I don't shave on my hair, you can really. That's probably from Trent. So the food like I've been on a diet since I was like maybe 15, 16 years old because I was very interested in nutrition before I worked at steroids. I was like making my own meals, right? And then I had that motorcycle accident when I was 22, 23 years old and I was eating a boatload of protein and just not missing meals even here in Thailand when I had that motorcycle accident. So I had road rash, obviously in my arms. They put that gauze on there and then my skin was recovering through the gauze in a day. So that when they took it off to replace it, obviously for, you know, infection purposes, my skin was already in there. And that was without steroids. So I do think you can upregulate this protein since it's just by frequent eating protein meals. Because at one point that you use some sort of special gauze with a little bit of fat on it to remove it every day because my skin was really growing in that so fast by the time it was home a week later was already closed. It's insane. So I think if you keep feeding the body with adequate amounts of protein and you do that for a longer period of time, I do think that it increases protein to such an extent that the recovery of little bones is just twice as fast as regular people. That's why I have no scars either. There's no scars with normal people that would be wrecked for life. That's what you're saying about MTOR. It's not that it doesn't rep. Approaching said this is just whole body. It's not specifically in the muscle. Yeah. I lost a lot of size when I obviously had the more cycle accident in two weeks because all the protein was being utilized to recover from that accident. Well, if you're natural, you were natural at the time. If you're natural at the time, as soon as mechanical tension isn't there, it starts in four or eight hours. Yeah, exactly. You live two days later, the chest is atrophying. So that's normally if you're bedridden for two weeks, you're going to lose muscle. Much faster than in this previous thought. It occurs almost immediately. And it takes longer to get back to. Yeah, so when I had the surgery on the gyno and the lexicase surgery and the leg surgery, I thought, if you just shrink by the day, what the fuck is going on? And I'm on all the gear. So you use gear. Yeah, there's no mechanical tension. I didn't train for like four weeks, six weeks. Well, look at the space, even how fast do they lose, astronauts lose muscle incredibly quickly. Yeah. Yeah, that's the last thing I would want to do with your bodybuilder. Away to the distance. Yeah, maybe go to Jupiter, get some extra gravity and get more size. Imagine how big your calves would be on Jupiter. Only one calf. Yeah, just over earlier. Yeah. Even with space, that's a good discussion there. I'm horrible at names, but the female astronaut that was stuck up in the space station to change in her facial structure in the 10 or 11 months she was stuck in space, which would be like classical sort of calcium loss from the jaw. Like we'd see with some of their lives and where the job becomes more square and more protruded that when you're up in space with lack of mechanical tension on your body floating. Is there, now this is a woman, is there a change in there? There's sort of hormone profile to produce more testosterone to try and keep some level of muscle mass in space. Which is where we've seen a picture of that. Yeah, I was seeing that as a before and after where they're showing her jaw structure completely changed in the 10. Oh yeah, what was her name? Does her cholesterol get ramped up after months? I don't know. I've never looked at what affects space. Because I would think that would be a good sign to see what the body's trying to do, right? It starts ramping up cholesterol, most likely it's trying to make hormones. This was just something I see where it was a before and after comparison talking about them coming back from space and it was like the physical changes obviously of what was observed with being there, the jawline completely changed, which would be classic of a, yeah there it is there, very prominent jaw, the one on the right there. This one right, yeah. Yeah, crazy. I mean, look at this chin. She wasn't pretty to begin with, but this is some dramatic changes. Let's see if we can find some more before and after. Oh, they all point to her chin, poor lady. You know, there's one there for just a normal before going into space as a national. Or even there where her American flag behind her, you can see that. That went to the right. Yeah, literally you see a more feminine structure to speak and then you're always like what you might see with a very large woman with the bone mineral loss and then deposition. Collect all these pictures later on. Deposition into the jaw. That's a big difference. Look at this. Here before 2018 and this is later on. That's insane. That's a different kind of look maxing. A lot of young boys would be after this more pronounced chin. They're cleansing your jaws all night, all day, all night to get that and start doing this. They just need to have fun, the trip into space and stay there for 10 months. Crazy, no? Crazy. Yeah, I would not want to go into space if there's no gym and no artificial gravity. So if there's a spinning space station with 1.1 G's, I'm down, but zero gravity, no way. No way. That's osteoporosis waiting to happen. That's crazy. But also we have topics on. Let me see. Oh yeah, about the growth hormone changes in creatinine. So maybe we can show the blood work first. Let's see. Where's share screen? Tone screen. So this is one of your clients. So this is before growth hormone. You see this. That is C of 1.1 9. EG 468. And then this is after the GH. Oh, that's creatinine and cystic tendency. Is this both before and after or after? After. This is after. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Before while on the GH. While on the GH. So this is before the GH. No, he's on. He is on, let's say, three milligrams of GH there. During this. This is both on GH, right? So, yes, we've removed the GH now. To the reach. Yes, because that that started to trend up, which is never. We have historical labs going back like almost two years and he's never, it's never been elevated before. And he's not on anything else except low dose testosterone, like TRT. So. Yeah. So this creatinine is, is I mean, slightly elevated, but not super elevated for somebody who body builds. And I personally, I wouldn't worry about that, but this. We just started to trend up for no reason. Yeah, but this never even there. Like this is that and see being this high that that I would worry about. I know. Or at least going up. All those markers started to go up in his eGFR went down. So his eGFR was a 106 previously. Yeah. Yeah. That's a big difference, man. That's a big difference. And then what he did. Yeah. What he did was adding the growth hormone at what three milligrams that it's nine units, nine, nine, nine, I use per day. Did he start from zero to nine I use that he built it up slowly. So, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Three and then, you know, four or five, like up, up slow. And it didn't start to go until he hit about three milligrams for nine units. But he needs someone that's incredibly healthy and takes very good care of himself is meticulous with his diet. He doesn't do recreation drugs. There was nothing else going on. Except that. So we were looking at. So one of the assumptions that we, the three of us discussed before was that possibly Biloxone 188, which is a polymer that's used as a filler, reminder in the underground lab, G H. Of course, subsequently that no longer exists on search engines anymore. Yeah. And the other thing we tried to search for it before this episode, we can't find anything on this, this compound. So we're not sure if it's. Yeah. So we're not sure if that's muted on Google now. I use stock. It wasn't there. It was like, there was a little competing entry for it. There was, there was Google results. It was a PubMed search. When he searched PubMed, it's gone. It's off the internet for some reason. And it didn't seem to be the Biloxone 188 as a whole. It was like the, the, the quality of that Biloxone that was used. Right. The cheaper, more industrial grade Biloxone, what was added, it seemed to cause kidney stress. That's at least what the, the, the study showed. Yeah. So that's a manufacturing issue over in China, right? We're obviously the generic G H market is using un-pure ingredients to kind of stabilize G H. So you really have to be careful now from where you purchase your generics. Yeah. Well, that's, that was the purpose of this airston box. It was, they're just you, because you see the opposite. You might see some, Kratten and go up a little bit with G H. You don't see the other markers. They should improve over time with G H. Exactly. Yeah. And that's, we're seeing the opposite with the underground stuff. I mean, it's all the more, it's just a dependent matter. Seems more a quality, like impossible if it's really crappy quality stuff. You know, you might see the low dose. Yeah. I hear a lot more complaints now about low dose G H coming out of China and just generic, generic that are not branded, right? That are not part of like some reputable UGL that is not a UGL that has been doing this for years that has good connections. All these dodgy blue tops, yellow tops that people use or some new brand. They don't do the scrutinous third party testing or don't really know which of these peptide suppliers to source from. Yeah. They can issues make up a tunnel and three I use. I'm like, what the fuck dude? What are you talking about? You know, or just excessive water retention, a demon to I use for I use them. Yeah. If you take 10, I use a little bit of a DMA is to be expected. You might lose a little bit of veins. Yeah, but it goes away with time, right? You might lose a little bit of veins and then you take it out and your shred is fuck, but you get the same level of a DMA as creating supplementation. Right. So it's not the end of the world. But yeah, you're a lot more problems with like new brands, GH now or, and I don't know if that's the tariffs or the lockdowns, which we should also discuss the, the, the, the, the, you know, the more scrutinous production things they're trying to crack down on.  al emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions I'm working on this. This is the latest I've been in three years. It's like 201. Hey man, below 200 pounds is not a man. Slow down. I remember Erdogan was told this he can be below 90 kilos otherwise we can be friends with him. So I desperately try to keep over 90 kilos when I was off cycle. I'm just funny though. I'm still 15 pounds Yeah, you don't want to do classic man. It's your body but it's at heart. I don't know how you're squeezing that class Dean. Would you do classic in PCA? I think those weight limits are a little bit higher or not. They're a bit higher. I mean for when I done in PCA I just about dropped into, I think it was 90.6 was my cutoff. It was just 200 pounds. You've got no room to get excessively big as an open body better. That's your root of going. What's your height? 5'9"? 5'9", 176. He's a little bit taller than I am. Yeah, I'm 5'7". So I fell in class B, I think like tier two or whatever it is. I'm obviously at the top of the like between 5'8 and 5'9", I think is the cutoff in the MPC rule for that 90 kilo cutoff. Yeah, that's where I am. And I was 90 kilos when it was natural or on ATG monotherapy and I look like a skeleton. I was looking at some of the pictures and I was like, okay, I got a good X-frame but zero muscle there, man. I don't know, this is causing too much bone mineralization. Just make sure you're extra heavy. Yeah, yeah. So maybe I need to shave off a little bit. Maybe take some ribs out. Go to space. Yeah, go to space. Why don't you go faster though? Like your bone mineral density or your skeletal muscle mass? The whole thing, but then you grow the muscle back on a smaller frame and then make your classic. Yeah, I want to wait for classic. I go to space for a year. I heard that's what the monster does. He just spends a lot of space. He can afford it. I'm sure he can afford it. I didn't get that from him. I wonder where a classic is going to go now now that Mike Sommerfeld is kind of in the lead. It's such a different physique. It's bodybuilding. Mike Sommerfeld is a bodybuilder, you know, but he's got those classic lines. I mean, if you take the face away, it looks very close to door in yet. I don't know how he's so big at that weight. Again, he must have a super small frame. Yes, tiny waist. He's a tiny waist and he knows how to diet with Neil Hill. So, yeah, he wanted to go to Bali and he wanted to come to Thailand. Then I told him, don't do it, man. You'll sacrifice your place if you're coming. You have way too much fun. Yeah, I told him, just lock yourself somewhere in Dubai or Mexico, where you have access to all the stuff. Like here in Thailand, they've access to everything also. I told him, there's too much destruction here. You'll go nuts. So, hopefully, he can win the Mr. Olympia. And then when he retires, he can come to Thailand or Bali and enjoy himself. Because, you know, four or five years at the Olympia stage, I think then it's time to throw in the towel. This guy lives out of Airbnb. Can you believe it? He looks like that. He has no home. He lives out of Airbnb. He goes to Mexico for six months and then four months into Dubai. And he travels all over the place. It's insane. I wouldn't be able to do that. I go to Bali, I get fat and sloppy and, you know, getting in. Yeah, it's amazing. It's the nomadic life. And then look like that. It's not many people can do that. Well, not many people could do that, no matter what the environment was. So, I wouldn't be able to look like that even if I locked myself down in a home gym with a kitchen in a posing room. No way. I wouldn't be able to do it. Did you guys hear anything more about China and then the raw situation like mass strong, prima ball and stuff completely gone everywhere? All the under God lives that don't have it. There is some trickling into the United States. It's smaller, I guess. It's looked at differently, I guess, depending on the size of the whatever. Because I heard that production is just very, very low at the moment. Yes, Deca supposedly is not being produced. Why Deca? I don't know. Deca is specifically not MPP. Mast E, not Mast P, is gone. Anivar supposedly as well gone. Mast E might not be, I think people are speculating because Americans use mastino. It's trendy, so they just cut that out. There is some polymorphisms when Mastron's made. I don't know if you've seen this. There's like different isomers of Drostanolone that occur during the recrystallization process. Carbon 13 folds strangely, and so the molecule is different. So, even though it tests as Drostanolone, it's different. There's a hydrogen-hydrogen interaction. It's possible that during the enantiate process when they add that, that it causes that. It might be much more difficult to make. Perhaps it requires more reducing or something. Because when it's made, if you've ever seen mast E made versus mast P, when mast E is made, it turns jet black. It almost looks like Oh, you told us. It looks like thin motor oil versus mast P is like this really light yellow, like a beer. A mast E next to it is black in the container. And then when it's filtered, a lot of times the black goes away. You've never seen black mast E in a bottle. But it's when it's cleaned up for processing, it goes away. So there's something else occurring. It's possible that they either they've tried to cheapen the process and it didn't work or I'm just speculating on a chemistry point of view. I don't know why mast E. Could this isoform explain why some people get no estrogen suppression on mastro and some people do? It could be different. Yeah, I can send you stuff on it if you want to read about it. Please, yeah. Yeah. Interesting. So yeah, it seems that like all the undergird lives that I talked to that are reputable, they say that it's sourcing is really a problem and then they're looking in India, and none of them trust India producing for the rose. None of them to say that that's the last resort. You know, I'd rather not make anything than get my fucking rose from India. That's hilarious. The UK is pretty much dry it up. Well, so remember guys, when we told you to stock up? It took five months. It will never go away. It took five months, but I had a few consults where the question was proposed surrounding mast because Prima was next to impossible. And like I said, Prima Bowling, like even Rima Bowling, there's a lot of fakes and scornouts. Yeah, the wound down a production here, your left limited choice. We might see a renaissance of a test and deco come back from the 80s. Yeah, maybe Baldenon is making a comeback. You know, we want some aromatics and limiting effects. We want some estrogen lowering effects and still fullness and roundness and cosmetic benefits of test and Baldenon is what is going to discount all these studies on kidney problems. You know, then these kidney studies have never been reproduced in other steroids. So it's about a nose kidney toxic lack of evidence in the other steroids doesn't mean that those steroids are not kidney toxic. It just never been studied guys. Yeah, I mean, like what Kurt said, it was the crack name of the client that we looked at the bloods. Crack name. If you're looking at a blood like what you said, it's relatively useless marker not to put anything down on it, but it's increased with creating metabolism. And like we say with the oral steroids, potentially your increase in creating phosphate, which creates crack name. When you see an increase in crack name, the way I always view it is what is the baseline change. So like if if that guy's crack name was 1.3 and say that is with same standard diet, same standard cycle, same supplementation, creatine, protein, powders, whatever. And then he goes and gets blood work. And that baseline was say 1.01 and now it's at 1.3. Well, that's a big jump. You have to go by that big jump is telling you something. Whereas if you have raised crack name and I say it's 1.2 and then the next set of bloods was 1.22. But you're on your own creatine, you have excessive muscle mass, etc. You got stronger, you put on some size, then it's what happened to my blood work usually jumps up like a couple points. And that's why he also gets stronger. With the calculation of EGF4, the Crocsfort Geltz, as far as I remember, is what the normal. It really doesn't take into account muscle mass. It's just looking at a standardized linear excretion of creatine. That's why it's used. And so in a normal individual, they sort of have a known rate of clearance of crack and should be linear basically. But it's not as simple when you have somebody who has, 80 kilos of muscle mass on their frame and they're training excessively the day before raising creatine, kinase and creatine phosphate turnover and everything else that is where the cystatin C becomes more important. And then looking at DGF4 using creatine and cystatin C together. And it might be useful, you can put up on the screen, you can easily search for it. Crattening is a tiny molecule. Cystatin C is a big giant protein. You put them side by side, like pictorially. There's a huge difference between the structures that when you're measuring a small molecule, it's clearance and then a big protein that's part of the kidney. Yeah, so it's very small. Crattening, you look at cystatin C, it's huge. You put the terms up. I said, you get an understanding of why crattening versus cystatin C. If your cystatin C is raised, that is what you need to really action quickly. And then you can do calculations like there's several websites that will take into account. As much as I hate it, your BMI will give a relative understanding of how much muscle mass is on your frame relative to your height. So you can then work out what's the kidney filtration based off that. And it's more important to do that type of calculation because if you went to a hospital and you were given an intravenous drug, they'd do this more advanced calculation because they want to be sure of drug clearance rates based on your actual kidney health. Yeah, so all the pictures that I find are purchase pictures from stock image websites. So I'll overlay that here if you don't forget. So it's interesting. It's a big difference. It's huge. Let me see what the molecular weight is of cystatin C. It's a molecular weight. 13 kilodaltons. So that's 113 daltons of crattening versus 1300 or 13,000. Yeah, it's a big difference, right? A single polypeptide chain of 120 amino acids. It's like growth hormone. It's massive. And what you're looking with cystatin C is how much of it is being released from the kidneys into your bloodstream as a reflection of kidney damage. And then you're saying what you want to look at with blood towards kidney health is where where is albumin changed? If albumin drops, you're losing it through the kidneys as well. So you can check that with the urinalysis and your protein, right? You have a protein one or trace plus one plus two plus three and you can find those ranges of how much obiumin is in your urine, you know, how many milligrams per liter. And then you need to get alarmed. And then otherwise, you do a 24 hour urine collection test where you compare your serum cratin and serum urine or serum cystatin C to your urinary cratin and cystatin C. And then many times the real GFR, so without the E, the E stands for estimated, the true glomal effluxation rate is in the hundreds. You know, it's like 125. I've done this 24 hour urine collection test so many times and then you're your eGFR blood work is like 40. Fuck, I'm going to die. And then you do it at 24 hour urine collection test and then it's 127. You're like, oh, okay, it's totally fine then. You know, my my Cisatin C has never been under range, but cratinin is pretty high. Genetics. Have you guys ever noticed with clients that are on a high carbohydrate diet that their cratinin levels are generally lower than guys that follow a carnivore or ketogenic or more high carb or high protein diets? With less make sense. Yeah. You're using its protein as energy. Exactly. Yeah. So my creatinine is usually a little bit higher because my protein intake is higher. And then I have zero carbs to compensate for that. Yeah, carbs are low. So that's what I always notice that you know, just you're going to excrete amino acids. Yeah. And then instead of utilizing the carbohydrate for energy, you use the proteins, you know, so you got more right waste, right? Because it's going to be exactly the glucogenic amino acids out in the rest of going to come waste. Exactly. Exactly. Dean, you sound so clear. It's amazing. Morgan, the joke to me, she's like, when I was coming back from Southampton, when I messaged you and said, these are the mics, I'm looking at, I get her to courtesy like message of, I'm buying this for podcasts, and she didn't reply back. And then she looks at the bank statement and she goes, what's this true and you're found from Amazon? I told her I was buying a microphone and then she's like, it's one consultation. Yeah, well, and then she turns around and goes, well, if you got to spend 300 on a mic, I'm going up there. And then it's like, Morgan, you don't realize that this is a business expense. And she's like, well, such and such, what she was looking for, like a new pair of runners or something or shoes, she was like, that could be a business fence. I'm like, no, that's not how it works. Yeah, you've been on Nels podcast again, right? And another podcast recently, we're all with the new mic. So I was listening to those and like, fuck man, it's going to be a big difference. So yeah, good stuff. I mean, it was well, well needed. I mean, I even, like I said to you, I must send you a picture of God, a mini USB fan connected to the camera now, so we can't overheat of a dummy camera, a dummy battery running into this power pack, because the last few times, I didn't realize that over time, the battery in the ZV1 will actually discharge faster than USBs charging it. So you should run off a dummy battery. So right, yeah, so mine is mine is always connected. That doesn't have a battery attached anymore. So so with this pro setup, you got to do more content man, time to blow some light into your YouTube channel. Like I said before, once you get to this age of like four, five, six kids have activities every evening. And like you, that nine to five hour, you know, you want to stay in the office for that time and then you've got your evenings and your morning time. I'm doing, I'm only doing nine to five now. I'm, I'm, I think I did 60 hours a week, 70 hours a week since I was graduated to 21 years old. And even when I was at university, I would do studying and then do family stuff, because we had some family issues going on with divorces and stuff. So I'd help the family out and then find ways to go to the gym and work. So like last month or after Bali was like, I don't want to do this anymore. I really, I really do not want to spend my whole day working and then work from like, you go to the gym from nine to 11 and then 12 to three, I would still work. And I'm like, I can't do this. So now I'm playing oblivion, play video games in the middle of the night. It's great, man. When people look for consults from me, because I'm in the UK, I get a lot of activity from the US or from Australia of all places. And my errors don't change. Like, oh, I'm in Eastern time. I'm like nine hours behind you. I'm like, well, my last slots of the day are like four, four 30, five PM at a stretch. I try and be out here five. But if I need to, I might let a council go five PM, no later than five 30. And sometimes you get like, someone begging you for it later one. And I'd be like, well, if you want to cancel a five 30, it's going to be double the right. And I'm going to have to sort stuff up Morgan. And then what are times it's like, I've got guys who wake up at three 30 in the morning to have a concert with me. And I'm like, well, you're making a sacrifice when I meet me. These are my errors. Yep. But you don't know, we're the cream of the crop, man. You don't, you don't have to sacrifice shit. And people cringe at my rates, but I still get them. You know, why are you, why is it so? Supply demand. Yeah. And then said, do you know anybody cheaper? See, I have to mon every month. I go to Dino exact, if not even more on certain subjects than I do. And, and they're still affordable now. But for how long I can guarantee. For me, it's I'm just full. Like people buy, I'm like, well, I got a spot one spot two weeks from now. Take it. How fuck is the is it Debussy? I mean, I was, I will only work between 12 and five. That's it. Yeah. I've got many clients that I have. I can't get in any less than that. But I work on Monday through Friday. I'll respond like, depending on how much someone's paying me, I might respond to stuff outside of that like a text. I'm not working outside of that. Why there's zero. No, I know. But if you're both two weeks in advance, then that's another time to increase the rate. Yeah. But you guys get it. Like what? There's a certain amount of money that doesn't matter anymore. It's not going to prove my quality of life. No. So it's like, no, no, no, no. Yes. Yes. Yeah. You could make more money. But like, I'm not going to work more to do it. I would race my race to do it. I do it. Yeah. So that's what you've been doing. Yeah. For you. For other people. Hell no. No. Hell no. No, no. It's the best being self-employed and setting your own days. Like you literally like my wife fucking kills herself. My wife must work in yours. We choose the head web designer for a marketing company. She does that. She does the NF. So anything National Football League in the United States, their logo, their internal stuff, she does. Like the Super Bowl. She does all of that. She does just one of her projects that she has to work on. And she makes good money, but she's not paid for what she does. If she had the NFL on her own, she'd make 100,000 a month. I mean, I don't even know what charges them. But it's like, you don't get paid what you deserve when you work for someone else. No, but that's the same as when I was a business consultant. I'd charge like $5 to $7 per hour and you see a fraction of that. And you know, I go to the company. I know. I get every time. I made a joke last night because I'm taking my son on a fishing, like a charter fishing boat. Like, and it's not like we've been promising this and that, you know, and my wife was like, you know, it's a lot of money. And I said, well, hold on one second. Let me ask my boss for a raise. It's been a long time. Let me. Okay. Let's not worry about it. Please just enjoy it. That was the whole segue of Steve said about the mic. And when I was flying back from the UK, I texted more, it was like a buying this mic from Amazon. It's like 300 pounds sterling. She didn't reply. And then when she looks back at the bank state, she's like, what's this 300 pounds for an Amazon? The mic for podcasts. And then it turned into, well, you bought a mic. I'm going to have to spend money on like runners or something. Just let them just let them because in the end, the women are part of your success, right? Without them, you wouldn't be able to do it. So like my wife's on the payroll now, I give her like 5k a month just to help out. And that's only, yeah, of course I wanted to retire her. So I said, no more, no more PT. Just work for me now. Here's 5k a month, which is insane in Thailand. It's like 10k everywhere else. So, you know, and she just lives off that and spends her money and she's an expert now in giving birth. So I don't have to do any of that research. And then she keeps everything tidy, you know, regarding the operation. So it's a big thing. And if you guys can do the same, you know, I, my wife won't stop. She's, she always says, no, so my, my wife is very stubborn as well. But if you like, I think Chase finally got his wife on board. She was also very stubborn for two years, not to get on board. And he said, as soon as I did that, my income increased. So I got to wait for all the time. I think I get stuck doing, you'll see very soon, there's domestic things that have to be done, right? So like, I have to stop like every day, there's an hour that we have to go get the kids from school, right? That hour, I could be making hundreds of dollars if I wasn't getting the kids. So if she didn't work, she could handle that. I also at five, I stopped when I make dinner for everyone. If I didn't have to grocery shop in the morning and cook dinner and do all those other things, my income would double. I would make more. So this is, I finally got it through to her said, listen, I know these things are a little bit housewife. It's and but if I spend more time working, if I get like eight solid hours, and of course I was getting like 14 skies the limit for me. So I'd rather pay you to do all of that and delegate to more money working more. No, my wife's on salary. She doesn't get shit for working more. Yeah. So so slowly like inception it slowly. And then at one point when she starts working for you, she's like house operations manager. That's what I call my wife, CEO of the house. Everything runs smoothly, right? I don't have to do shit just to make money. So you pay her like a fat salary that's more than she would make herself. And then your salary will double. Of course, I know it's just kind of time for her to be convinced. It takes time. Yeah. And then money now she gives it to the kids. Like if I give her cash, she puts her in the safe for my son. That's for you. I give him money. Like you not just like to spend just just next time you go on a holiday. At the end of the holiday pitch it. That's what I did. Yeah. So why don't you just come work with me not for me because you know, I don't want to work. No, no, my wife gets it. I can't do any of the computer stuff without her. But I could do more computers. I can make more podcasts if she helped me. Exactly. So if she helps you make more money by doing the back end stuff that you can't do or don't want to do, that's what my wife does. She edits it. I mean, I'm a horrible recorder. But then in the final product, it's nice. I guess that her and stumble over my words and these medical jargons, it's fucked up. But if she does that for like a couple hours a video and then helps the house operations going, so all I have to do is work and earn money. And then when I earn money, it's so much that I can afford her salary and staff and nice holidays. And then still have money to save on the sides because the upside potential of what we do because we're on social media is just insane. Right. Yeah. I mean, even here at Delegate Morgan, we got a cleaner. And she pitched it to me and we have a lovely woman comes in once per week for four hours and does like deep cleaning things like if Morgan likes cleaning the house, but just takes time away from family activity that this woman was in deep cleans the bathrooms, like does benign things that you wouldn't want to spend time on that. Right. Then I'm like tomorrow and if that gives you more free time because I'm in here regardless, then you've got four hours on a Thursday to work more or go do other errands that you had a delegation or just do nothing. Yeah. You know. So, so yeah, that's the best decision I've ever made. Put the wife in the payroll fully and then she can do whatever she wants and then allows me to make more money and that making more money is literally double because then you have time for podcasts, you have time for content and the more you put yourself out there, the more you hoard yourself out on social media, even though it's terrible, the more money you make, it's a linear. It's a little linear. You know. So yeah, that will be my recommendation. Let's discuss one more topic before we close off this podcast. 10 if that's possible. 10. Yeah, yeah, we'll make it work. So the tariffs in the US, it's of course, it's a fear mongering tactic to, you know, manipulate the economy and now Trump wants to apply tariffs to movies. So that's putting some fear. But what I've been wondering since the tariffs came in, especially with the Chinese terrorist war, a lot of products that we use come from China. A lot of people don't even know that the peptides that they use are coming from China and that a little bit scary like, oh, it's coming from China. The Rosar coming from China with the pharmaceuticals company uses that like the growth hormone is all produced in China and then three packages in the United States, even the pharmaceutical ones. Read the, if you look at the Bayesian testosterone studies, look at the bottom under the conflict of interest stuff, we enlist all the vendors. The Ros, the testee was from China's labs. Yeah. So people have no idea that that's actually coming from China. But now with the terror for 30%, 50%, 100%, 150%. So I'm wondering if that's going to affect the stair prices, if that actually is going through, like everything that I know about economy eventually will affect our business. So that means that that stair prices and other stuff will go up, not because you have to pay tariffs upon importation in Thailand or in America or other parts of the world because it's all shipped stealthily, right, at least through the undergird labs, but it's simply a cascade downwards on production because they have to divert some of the legitimate, the legitimate products that they're now losing money on to the illegitimate products that go through a different supply chain. So I do think eventually it will go up the prices by how much will it go up 150%, 250%, it wouldn't surprise me. I guess you guys heard anything through your connections because I know that my connections just say that sourcing is a little bit more of an issue. Now whether that's those are peptides or Ros, those are predominant stuff that we use, and that some of the prices have gone up, but that's not directly the effect of tariffs. It's mostly due to the restrictions. So is it gear included in this? Yeah, everything. I understand that market better than the peptide stuff. I think that there was an initial shortage which drove out of the small, the small like home brewers that were doing small quantities, they basically dried out. They couldn't afford to buy, Rosr couldn't get them in. There's a couple, a handful of bigger ones, they were able to survive through, they raised their prices, perhaps prematurely or too much. Now that stuff's still trickling in, the prices are actually starting to come back down to some degree. A lot of those things, certain things like a Masty, which is nearly impossible to find, will stay high, Primo will stay high, even though there is Primo production going on. I just, I mean, I think they're going to come down short term as it was an overreaction, I think, to the shortage. Could be. But what's left in the US is a lot of, what I see is a lot of just junk, like just stuff that just shouldn't, like, and you, within the bodybuilding world, you have a lot of people that are very prey sensitive, and so they would use a $30 bottle of absolute garbage versus spending 50 on something that's going to be good, and then they complain about getting lumps and burns and. Did you guys notice that in the consultation request that problematic or injection side problems are more common? Trash is out there now because people are cutting right there. It's, it's like what happened in the other, like recreational drugs.  alfalfa-marco-roly-co-king, it's cut. Fourth and done, you'll do the same with steroids. So it's supposed to be 100 milligrams of putting less in. There's a more filler's, you know, a good example is also just manufacturing process. Like, if Primo's cooked over 205 degrees of gels, it needs more BA. So it's gonna burn. You're injecting more alcohol. If, you know, Tessif is cooked over 150, it's gonna gel. And it requires more solvent. Like all these things, there's a very exact way to do all these things. And the guy that's doing it in his bathtub doesn't know that. He's just putting it on a stove and letting it cook. And when it starts to smoke, he pulls it off. And then you have to make a liquid against it. You're getting a lot of that crap against it. So it's not filtered. You know, filters cost money. They're hundreds of dollars for the proper filters. Yeah. And if it's not filtered, you're injecting sediment in yourself that shouldn't be there. Certain drugs are filthy. The other is E.Q. is filthy. Deca is really filthy. Tessif is filthy. Tremblone has a lot of filth, especially acetate. Yeah. And if the guys aren't spending a couple hundred bucks on filters and they're just bottling stuff, it's going to hurt. That's what I see in my DMs and consultation requests is that the rate of post-injection problems are increasing. Yeah. Because it's junk that's left out there. The majority of the stuff out there is garbage. Yeah. That I think should level out as to supply slowly creeps back up to where it was. But it's wild. You think it's coming back though? Like I have heard in your reports that production is being for a ramp up. I guess in other areas of that country, there are factories still making stuff. It's just not in the region. Again, I don't know what goes on with the government there because they regulate all that stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So a lot of them in certain places are not others. I don't know what the underlying stuff is that's going on, but it seems that it's not, nonexistent just those compounds we listed before seem to not be, they're not produced right now. I don't know why. Yeah, and there's no ETA when it's coming back. So I just talked up on test primo, you know, my straw coat a bit, whatever I could find it in all the guys that I know that produce that are reputable, they'd say that we just can't do it. And we don't trust any of the suppliers that are out there right now that say that they have it. Because the last thing we want is to, you know, have problems with our customers and then don't come back because it's very competitive now the market. And the last thing you want is to do dirty on your customers and then give them junk and then sit out this brand is now, you know, going belly up and we were not coming back even when they start producing quality again. I had to, what have you heard so far? Well, I had a client send me a bottle of prima boleum from an underground lab in Europe and it was bright green, metanolone like so. I'm looking at it and it's like McDonald's shamrock green color. And we put some methylene blue in there. They put the Dr. Dean special and they made injectable methylene blue. That's more bio available now. And this client was like, I'm gonna take a guess that there's no metanolone or prima boleum in this vial. I'm like, unless you want like Hulk blood, I would not be putting that anywhere near you. Like was it really green green? Like really, really green. Like, you know the way when you can have like a touch of yellow from potential oxidation when the overcooked things, this was green. This was like copper green. I don't know what's going on where I was seeing experienced person would look at it and go, I'm not going near that, but you have maybe some newbies to speak that don't know these things or just get a bottle. And they're like, oh, it's green, okay. And then it goes. Yeah, trying to train it's orange and Primo's green and the master is black and, you know, I saw, I saw a bottle that was labeled Primo that when you flipped it over to where you would normally as the ingredients, it's a testosterone propanate on the back. To the reason being honest, they didn't bother changing the back. Yeah. So I used to get these questions on the Q and A or by DMC, I took Primo Steve, you said that Primo was an aromatasein, I better should bring our estrogen down but my estrogen doubled when I went to the test of Primo. Yes, your system more testosterone. Such a shame though that this like, and with less pharmaceuticals, like the pharmaceutical anivar is almost impossible to find only Iran produces that. So there is no, yeah, they took that off. But then, but I believe rematental and acetate tablets are making a comeback. It's not approved yet. And regarding the peptide stuff, like I know Curtis not really in touch with the peptide manufacturers, but Dean is, have you heard something similar that the prices of peptides might increase at one point also? Not yet, not yet. And obviously I'm very close to the owner of a company and nothing has been filtered through. I've heard some rumors that they're worried, not confirmation, but that eventually that the peptide might increase due to the tariffs or limited trade operations between the US and China. Now, of course the company you work with is not in America, but some of the, yeah, some of the affiliates that I work with are based in America and the source in China. And that means that through supply chain, either they have to find an intermediary company, a country where they store, so the Dubai trade free zone, for example, or another trade free zone in Singapore where they could just China, Singapore and then due to the tariffs there in the trade free zone, they should be able to circumvent it. But yeah, some of some companies are a little bit worried that direct shipping or even the compounding pharmacies in the US, some of them produce locally, they get the raw from China, so there's a way around that. But then if they buy the vials directly, like it's five milligram, 10 milligram, 15 milligrams vials directly from China, that the prices might increase eventually. But I think again, with the tariffs, I don't think it's going to last because it just affects the economy and I think it's just a scare tactic to manipulate the market. Do you okay signed off on a metals deal? I heard it earlier, so they've been not forced into but like an aluminium and a couple of other metals deals from tariffs from the US, so that's signed off. Supplement ingredients, obviously we get some from China because you have obviously all these botanical companies and dietary supplement manufacturers, like they make medications and peptides and whatever else. With Ireland and important into the UK and Ireland, where we have manufacturers, there's been no price increase on our side from that perspective. And then I asked about dietary whey protein as an insight. This is another heads up. Whey protein isolate has gone to town in terms of pricing. So if you're looking at whey protein isolate, it has gone up by about five British sterling per kilogram for one kilo of raw, which if you do some research, you'll start to see a drought to speak whey protein isolate. Me personally, I've stopped the air whey protein isolate powder for the time being because the cost price of it is astronomically higher. I just can't justify inflating a retail price to bring the product in with the global increase in the raw. No, Amino spiking? No, I'm not. That's a mortarine in there. This is probably like that. With Amino spiking the new, well, I won't say new, but again, I wouldn't do it as protein blends where you'll get companies blending whey isolate, hydrolyze whey, whey concentrate into a product. To try and create a whey protein isolate product that is a blend. So pay attention. You'll see all the big players move in this direction. And if you look at marketing trends analysis, even the big companies like bulk manufacturing companies that would hold the big share of stuff like whey protein and EAAsis that my type of business would produce, but wouldn't be an anchor or a flagship without giving away names of companies. They're gonna start increasing prices of their protein. So if it's not already happened, somebody is like big bulk companies, if you use a lot of whey protein isolate, I would suggest like what we gave the heads up with the raw situation, whey protein isolate is something to buy now at whatever price you're buying at before it really takes off. Because who like, if I was to release our whey, isolate again, and we buy a really high quality whey isolate rods 90%, so 27 grams per 30 gram serving. If I was to bring that in with that increase in raw, the price inflation brings like a kilo of whey isolate to about 49 to 50 pounds sterling that. Me as a consumer would not pay that. So that's about $30 for a pound? Yeah, roughly, yeah. Fuck. You're, you know. A pound of product for $40. With a bit of insight again on an education perspective, what classically happens, because obviously there's farms in Ireland and Dairy and whatever, farmers normally have a choice between beef manufacturing and dairy. So when beef is in high demand, they just slaughter the cows and keep making beef. And when there's dairy demand, they'll raise the cows to an older age, keep milking it, keep selling the milk. And obviously the dairy produce that come from the milk extraction. But they have now high beef demand and high dairy demand. So they're able to basically go, do I kill the cow early? Do I grow the cow quickly and kill it early? Do I get the meat demand? Or do I pasture it and keep getting the money out of dairy? That they have the run of the mill now where it's boucher in high demand. So that means that prices are going up, because you can choose. And the only way I can sort of see it from a smart perspective is you're trying to feed into that demand for a time period and see, does some of the price drop as a consequence of the lower demand. But it doesn't look like other people want to follow my strategy and they're just gonna start inflating. The price of whey is gonna inflate drastically, which isn't a good thing. Which isn't a good thing. Those who rely on low casein or low lactose whey isolates. Well, when you look at the bigger picture, this entire industry relies on whey protein. So when you go to the expos, how many of those companies there are just have whey protein on their product list? And when you extrapolate, let's say the price goes up 20% and the demand goes down, then the expos gets smaller, then there's less money in the sport, the price money goes down and this all trickles down then. Yeah, so fingers crossed it doesn't get that far, but it wouldn't surprise me. Maybe an economic recession is kind of brewing. So it wouldn't surprise me that prices of everything are going up and then the income is coming down. And then since bodybuilding is still a hobby for most, then the demand for everything regarding bodybuilding and fitness is going down also along with the recession. Well, well times ahead. To put into perspective, the price of whey isolate, raw whey isolate five years ago was about 120% lower than it is now. So that's how much it's inflated. And then creating obviously, what happened with the economic downturn of 2020, creating skyrocketed due to production being starved basically. At one point, like one kilo of creatine was around, like raw price was about four pound raw. And now it's nearly triple that. And it stayed there. And that's why creatine at one point in time was very, very cheap to buy as a supplement. And now you're spending like $30, $35 probably for 500 grams. It had to go up with that increase in price of raw. And that's sort of, you know, my transparency I've always said with our company that you let people know these things that I'm not, I'm not willing to put the price up because of the increase in the raw. So save up under. Yeah, it's better just, yeah, save up or just don't produce it. So why don't you produce creatine or whey isolate just because it's too expensive and it doesn't make sense for the end consumer. So, you know, or at least for the manufacturing process. I know Kurt's got to go. So let's wrap it up here. When your anniversary Annabelle Groundtable, we got many more years to discuss cool stuff. So thank you guys so much both of you for joining in and showing up every month consistently because doing this podcast consistently with other people. I possible dude, impossible. Kurt, Dean, any parting words for this one year anniversary? No, just thank you to everyone who's tuned in every month to listen to us ramble on for an hour and a half to two hours. They fucking love it, man. They can't live without it. Big names can't live without the Annabelle Groundtable. Trust me, you'll see when you get to the expose. Did you, Dean, did you go to Germany? No, right? You didn't go to the FIBO? No, no, the end. We ended up going to Poole for that Easter vacation. So I never went in the end. Probably a story for another time who I was helping out to pull out a show. Yeah, say that for the next podcast. Say the truth. Cool. Thanks guys so much for joining other social media links are down below as usual. And we'll see you next month with a boatload of new topics to break the internet yet again. Dean Kurt, I'll see you guys next month. Bye. Thank you.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.792746Z ===
