 Did you have any mental sides on 800Train Alex? How did you end up with it? It never makes me like aggressive. Like some of the things that I've heard from other people, I don't get it like that. If I'm dieting really hard, then the sleep will become an issue. But as long as I'm eating a lot and I'm keeping everything else in check, I feel pretty good, I feel fine. That's also why we left the Tesla, I found. Probably what you see now that's more common is guys run the huge amount of tests, they have a grammar test, and then they want a micro dose trend. It seems a little backwards because the trend is gonna do most of the work. It's gonna have a much higher affinity to the Android and receptor, right? The testosterone can't really act on anything favorable at that point. So they have it all backwards. Not that guys need to run a grammar trend, but typically I would just leave tests in there as a TRT or low TRT amount, just to support health, and let the stronger drugs do the work. Welcome to the antibiotic ground table, episode 18 with Kurt Havens, Dr. Dean St. Mart, and Alex Marlier, joining in the podcast because we wanna discuss his off-season gains, and that's what this podcast is all about, making so many gains during the off-season, because the last couple of podcasts discussing health, got no views, because nobody cares about being healthy. They just wanna make phenomenal gains. So we got Alex on board, he is under Kurt's guidance, and we saw some phenomenal progress on his part. So Alex, why don't you introduce yourself? No pressure, take it easy. Welcome to YouTube. Don't treat the comments. Oh. Hi everyone, I'm Alex Marlier. I've been working with Kurt for a couple months now, and we have been bodybuilding for the last year after a 10-year hiatus, and we had a productive off-season and continue to be productive going forward, so we're gonna go through that. Yeah, and I saw your broker's pictures, it's very, very good. Well, where did you end up at after 10 years or before your hiatus? Like what was your stats back in the day? So we know how much is muscle memory and how much you gained on top of that. Yeah, so I was about 200 pounds, so I'm five foot nine and a half, got at the half. And so when I finished 10 years ago, I mean you kinda overshoot and then the water comes off, right? So you take the compath, water comes off. When I dried out, I was like 195 to 200. Okay, that's still pretty good at five, nine. Yeah, that's good. So what is your weight now? 225. Okay, so that's solid 25 pounds on top of what your max was 10 years ago. Yeah, so that's serious muscle. That's serious muscle, that's good stuff. And then you've been working with Kurt for the last couple of months, and that was right, you basically got back called Turkey and then you signed up with Kurt, and then the gains were made. Yeah, I mean I was trying to figure things out for myself. I think we go through that, it's like how can I, and I've been watching your channel, I saw Kurt on there, I was watching Kurt's channels, and I'm like, this, I think this guy knows what he's doing. So yeah, I reached out to him, I was on the forum first, and we kinda chatted back and forth, and yeah. Hey Kurt, you went through something similar, right? You had a what, a nine year hiatus, and then you came back? Yeah, I stopped at 29, I got married, had my first kid, and I had a corporate job in the city. I didn't mean to stop lifting, it just, I was getting up at four in the morning to get on a bus or a train, to go to New York City, and just exercise just kinda fell out, and then at 39 I made my way back. And I'm still not, at that point, I think my max, in my 20s was like 185 or something, I'm shorter than Alex, but five, I don't know, you've seen me, one of my five seven, five eight, the most. Five four? Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Five four. Yeah, exactly, that's like two 12 size. And then I put on whatever, when I came back to the gym I was like 130, and I got to just under 240, and then I downsized similar to Chase, I put my birth on 215, that's kinda where I sit now. Okay, that's a pretty good point. Yeah. I'm still pretty big for what, five seven? You know, when I was 50, just seems like a better place. Yeah. I don't think it could be 240 at that. I know, I know, you take your shirt off, and then you look better than any other 50 year olds, and that's what the game's all about, right? I mean, I went to Costa Moya, I was the best looking dude until I went to the gym, and then Urskol since goes there. Fuck, fuck. I thought it was gonna be the wrong gym. Yeah, I picked the wrong gym, I should have gone to a CrossFit gym. Dean, what's up with you? You were looking lean in the face. Yeah, so you pointed out not by any, I guess deliberate means, just busy life, and most of it fell off when I was in Dubai, with all the activity you do in Dubai, walking around and the mall, and I guess not enough time to eat properly with all the meetings out there, so I came back three kilos lighter than the last time we spoke, so obviously it's showing in my face here. So you're also probably retired, like normally when you're in the offseason relaxing a little bit, you know, me is eating meals, but it sounds like you missed a couple meals in the way it suffered. It has, I mean, even when I said to my brother, obviously with kickboxing, my weight class for kickboxes under 90 kilos, and now I've just by chance fallen into under 85 or under 84, so like we said before we come on air, I don't think we can be friends yet, or at the moment because I'm a sub 200 pounds, I have to be in the 200 pound club to hang out with you guys. Yeah, yeah, you gotta be at least 200 pounds to be a part of the Annabelle Grand Table, so I gotta send you a care package with some injectable anodrol and the acrylics, and then you can jump right back on. So we'll see you for episode 20, okay? Episode 19, you're just gonna have to train harder. Yeah, I'm gonna have to step up. Obviously my birthday is in three weeks, so let's see what can go back on. I think, like we're obviously not eating as much as I would in the past, the way hasn't come back up to like 87, 88 kilos, so well, I'm happy for the fat loss. I have definitely lost some size with not training, and obviously I hadn't trained in the gym with my mother-in-law passing away and stuff like that, so personal circumstances have caught up, but I think let's see what I can do over the next three weeks before I turn 38. Well, we're going to discuss the offseason gains, so you got three weeks to put them in practice. It's only three weeks, only three weeks, so you can get up to 90 kilos, that's like 200 pounds, so you're gonna be a little bit watery, but at least it'll be full and dense. Alex came just because you asked, Alex came to me on 9, 29 September, 29th, and that first cycle ran from September 29th until 11, 30, so two months exactly. Okay, so what did you guys do at that time? What was the cycle? What was the training? What was the food? Did everything change? Like spilled beans? What did you do before, Alex? What did you talk about? So when I, so for a couple of weeks before, like I ran like a mini cut, so I did that mostly on TRT, and then I introduced, so TRT I was on 175, or 175 tests, E, and then I added in 200 milligrams of Tron, and then I started increasing my calories. And so I went from, I think at the low point, I was at like 2800 calories, went up to like 3200 and 3600 pretty quickly. So when I got to Kurt, I think I had revved it up at that point to 200 tests, 100 pre-mal, 300 TRON, and I don't remember what the food was at. I was eating like 650 grams of carbs. I remember that. When you came, when you came. But I was doing carb cycling, yeah. I was carb cycling, so I was doing, at that point I had a low day and medium day high day. So high day was probably 650, you know, I can't. We'd have to go back and look. Yeah, I got them here in front of me. So then when I got with Kurt, we didn't adjust so much of the PDs. At first we adjusted the growth hormone. I started taking more growth hormone and better quality growth hormone. So we got on the serostim. Oh wow. Which was, yeah. So big change, so that was a huge change. We got on half a bottle of serostim. We started moving the TRON higher and moving the food higher. So I don't remember exactly where we'd lead to. I think we ended up at like 600 TRON. Yup. You want me to take the higher one? And then, and then we would, I know when we finished we were on 800. So finished at 800 TRON. Oh wow. I don't think the test and the pre-mal moved. I think maybe it was 300 tests. Right, we started at 600 tests, 400 primo. Yeah. 600 TRON. Yes. And then we flipped it around, we brought the test down, brought the pre-mode down, right? Add a little bit of mass in there to make up some milligrams. So we brought the TRON up. Right, and the carbs went up to 975 at one point. And we ditched the three day carb cycling. We went to two. Yup. I have to do a whole lot of guys who have a lot more food. It becomes kind of pointless to do a low day. For these guys, they're really just getting an off day diet and a training day diet, which kind of follows more of a natural rhythm than three anyway. And it was basically, his training days, he was eating almost 1000 grams carbs. Yeah. Yeah, that's pretty standard for this weight. And then the fat intake was like 80 grams, 70 grams, pretty low. Low. Low. Let me see, growth. 50. 50 on 25 on training days. Low, yeah. So your appetite was probably ravenous. There's no fat buffer here. Intestinal tract, they're gonna slow down the carbs. So the carbs were passing through rapidly. And then of course with a good amount of training, was there any thyroid medications to kind of help speed everything up? No. No, his labs are fine. Okay. No, we just lever a bunch. Right, and T and T is normal. T4, T3 didn't really budge. Okay. Yeah, because with growth hormone, what I commonly see, and I think why it's misunderstood, is you'll see perhaps the T4 itself go down a little bit, right? TSH should stay normal in theory. And then T3 uptake will go up, which that's what actually matters. The T4 doesn't really matter much. As long as the T3 is fine, and the TSH is not going out of range, it doesn't warrant necessarily adding more T4, because the T3 is already super high. Right, and if the TSH doesn't go up, because you're deficient in T4 and T3, then there's no need to supplement with T4. Exactly, supertutor doesn't see any need to produce more. Were you guys supplementing with any iodized potassium salt or iodized sodium table salt? You used, which used the thorn multivitamin? Yeah, thorn. No, I used all thorn and all-nutri-bio. Yeah. I ate a ton of potassium through my diet. I incorporated a few things. I had coconut water, black-shrat molasses, spinach, all the good stuff there. All the good stuff, yeah. Okay, and then your weight kind of rapidly started shooting up, obviously. Did you have any issues with tendons and ligaments because you're strengthening up so much? Or that was pretty matched? Yeah. Pretty well managed. My elbows tend to get problematic. So I had to take out things like skull crushers, but I was fine with all the other pressing movements that I was doing. All right, right, right. So the cycle ended up being with pre-neutest, pre-neupremo, 400 mastron and 800 trim at the end after eight weeks? No, no, no. So we ended up dropping the mastron because my E2 shot up. So we replaced the mastron with pre-neutest. I think it was 300 tests, 200 pre-neupremo, 800 trend. We incorporated anodrol starting at 50 milligrams. And we tried, like we tried seeing what higher would be like. I got past 50, I just get sides. Yeah. And then we, for a period of time, I think it was like four weeks, three weeks, something we had, sorry, a bottle of serastim. Yep. Wow. And it went from 195 to 224 in two months. Any, yeah. Let me show you the pictures real quick. So these are the before pictures, right? Yeah. So you started at a very good lean position. I think that's a very good takeaway for most people that if you start your off-season lean, you enter off-season lean. So we're talking about this, what, 8% body fat? Maybe a little bit lower? Yeah, give or take. Yeah, give or take. So you started at a very good low body fat percentage. And I think that's very, very important for people to understand that your off-season is going to be so much more productive if you start lean, whereas a lot of people, they start a little bit fluffy and then they ended up fat as fuck, basically. They don't have the off-season. So there's eight weeks in between these pictures, right? Give or take? No, no, no. So the first picture was when I started the bodybuilding a bit a little over a year ago. So I wasn't even here in the first picture. Yeah. So there's about a year between the pictures. Yeah, yeah. And so... Oh, that's funny. I gotta get the picture. Yeah. We'll get the picture. What a transition. Yeah, so, yeah. So the overall, like, I think I got confused with the assignment when Kurt sounded to me. It's like, how much, how fast you put on size. So that was from 165 to 220. So that's about 60 pounds. Jesus. And yeah, most of it. And yeah, between August, 2024, was it? Yeah, 24 to, they'll guess, November, 2000. Yeah, it's a little bit over a year. Yeah. It looks like got leaner in the meantime as well. Yeah. So that's pretty good. And I think the compound selection too is not this, it's not a cookie cutter thing that I want people to take away from this video. It's like, that's the key to making this progress. I have guys doing the similar stuff, similar progress on Test and Primo. I have guys using Test and EQ. Guys who just test. The compound stuff comes down to that person's genetics, like what they need to get to that point. And I think people need to understand that, that's why you can't copy someone a cycle per se. Right? Most of it's already... It's already been a tolerated 800 trend. Right. Alex, it came to you on a certain cycle. So like, do you want to make rapid changes and put them on test only? Or do you want to just see where this cycle takes him and then progress from there and take it as a learning experience? Because that's probably what you were doing. Okay, it's already on this. You want eight weeks more progress. How much more changes can you really make? And of course, if you go from this cycle to something completely different, then there's so many variables that you need to manage as a coach. I'd rather just, I would do the same thing. Yeah, see how far you can take it. Yeah, it's already on trend. Yeah, might as well take a little bit more. Yeah. One thing too is, sorry, Kurt. Go ahead. No, I was just talking about the test. I was going to say, when we came to the cycle too, I have a genetic mutation with my blood cells. So I get very, very high red blood cell count. So for me, it's like, if I run high test, I run a high hematocrit. If I run EQ, I run a high hematocrit. Same with Prima. So the one thing I don't run into high hematocrit with is either DECA or TRN. And I don't tolerate DECA. Oddly enough, I tolerate TRN. I don't. Did you ever try Mint? No, I've never tried Mint. Okay, I can highly recommend it as a replacement for test. I've seen this where some people don't tolerate Nandralone like mentally, but tolerate trend is fine mentally. You just don't get along. Nandralone tends to create apatic changes and they have depressed moods. Whereas with TRN, well, with them reason, they tolerate TRN quite fine mentally, which is very interesting from a genetic perspective of how it's interacting within the brain, how it's, I guess, it's probably some level of the progestin activity of Nandralone, influencing estrogen signaling within the brain. That you didn't get along with DECA, but 800 milligrams of TRN overall, probably neurologically was fine. Yeah, well, it makes sense, right? Just because DECA or Nandralone and TRN are 19-nors, you can't judge that chemical just on the carbon 19, right? They're structurally, they're totally different. They're polar opposite drugs. I'd say like Dean was getting at the, Nandralone is gonna primarily leverage serotonin, things like that, which can cause depressive behavior and Tremblon's gonna be more of a dopamine driver. So they're totally like from a neurological point of view, they're totally different drugs. Right. You know, people love to group things, right? Like DHT derivatives are here, but it doesn't mean that, right? Winstraw is not necessarily the same as Anivar as Mastron. Right. Well, they're all, I mean, all these drugs have like overlapping characteristics, but also various characteristics. And even if they fall within the same classification of derivatives, they can still potentiate vastly different effects. And in the end, you just gotta use what your body likes. Right. And if you tried DECA in the past and it doesn't work, then just take it off the list. You can get joint lubrication from other compounds, you know? And that's primarily what we use DECA for. Like I use DECA 600 milligrams with 600 tests and 150 train and 150 mint. And people thought I would get Gaino the size of fembots and prolactin through the roof that I would not wanna have sex with my wife and nothing happened. Prolactin was normal. And Gaino was addressed because of data surgery. So I cheated a little bit on that front, but I had zero issues. And the weird thing is during the cycle, I didn't really notice much of the benefits of the DECA because my elbows and knees still hurt until I took the DECA out. And then my knees and elbows really hurt. So I had to reduce the training intensity a little bit now that I'm cruising. Because otherwise I can't function. So it's weird with these drugs. Sometimes you don't really notice the benefits until you take it out. Same as with train. Like you don't notice some people turn to complete dickheads to take the train out. Like, aha. That was kind of like acting like an asshole. But like, did you have any mental size on 800 train? Alex, how did you handle that much train? No, so I don't, man, I don't get a whole lot of, I mean, obviously there's a dose that I would probably get crazy side effects on. But one thing we do is we keep the estrogen on the lower end. So, for me, I've noticed if my E2 is high, like I'll be a little bit like short, I guess. It never makes me like aggressive. Like some of the things that I've heard from other people, I don't get it like that. If I don't have food in, like if I'm dieting really hard, then the sleep will become an issue. But as long as I'm eating a lot and I'm keeping everything else in check, I feel pretty good. I feel fine. I don't notice any different than taking anything else, really. That's also why we left the Tesla I found in a lot of guys. Probably what you see now that's more common is guys run the huge amount of tests, they have a grandma test, and then they want a micro dose trend. Well, it seems a little backwards because the trend is going to do most of the work. It's going to have a much higher affinity to the Android receptor. The testosterone can't really act on anything favorable at that point. So they have it all backwards. Not that guys need to run a grandma trend, but typically I would just leave tests in there as a TRT or low TRT amount just to support health and let the stronger drugs do the work. Right. Yeah, there's kind of like two trains of thought now. Like we know the trend can be a little bit toxic in some people, but in the mental side effects. So if you don't want any side effects, because you're prone to the side effects, then I would recommend people to keep the trend low, like 50 milligrams, 25 milligrams, 150 milligrams, kind of where you end up. Like usually 150 I can manage, but 350, even when my estrogen is low and I bring my testosterone down to TRT levels, just a point of diminishing returns where mentally I can't handle it physically. I'm fine. I can sleep, I can train. I don't really get out of breath because I do my daily fast cardio, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But it's just mentally for me that that's the point of no return basically. So I'd rather keep it low and then leverage the test in the pre-mode to minimize the side effects, but still get some of the benefits of TRT. But if you don't have any of the other side effects that the mental side effects or sleep quality or trend sweats or whatever, then yeah, bring the test down because it's just filling up the receptor with low or lower anablysm potential. Yeah. I've run those cycles in the past too, where you do like 700 TRT in 150 tests or 175 tests. So it's 100 TRT a day in 2500 milligrams of tests per day. Whether that's in the offseason or cutting phase, it works great. And you look better and you stay leaner because trends are so much more potent. It helps the IGF-1 sensitivity, it probably promotes insulin sensitivity to the stomach. Aromatizing. Yeah, that's not aromatizing, even though if you do conventional blood work it shows up as esertile. So do your sensitive testing, like a liquid chromatography tandem as per geometry to really get your esertile levels back, besides the classical chemiluminescence, esertile testing, then your esertile would be sky high because it's actually trained. And in that sense, it's way easier to grow or make progress because train is such more potent drug, milligram for milligram. Yeah, and if you can tolerate it by all means. How are your kidney parameters, blood pressure, all that thing when you were doing your offseason? Because with a lot of foods, obviously you would expect some blood pressure changes on this much train. Honestly, perfect. It's called Supremian. There was times it would get, like my systolic would get in the 130s, my diastolic never gets above 80, but we would adjust, we just add more potassium and then it come down. My kidney is my systatin C on the last test was a 0.8. Then even after my GFR was a 116 I think, and then our 109, something like that. And then after, because we pulled bloods, not the last blood work, but before that, the day after the cycle, and my systatin C was still a 0.8. If we're gonna love this podcast, I'm gonna put train like three times in the title. Yeah, and my blood pressure was as low as, when we started even bringing up doses, my blood pressure was as low as being under 120 over 80. So it moves. I mean, it's not like it was always completely perfect, but it never got to a point where there's ever concern. And we could always make a dietary change to bring things back to a better place. But I think that's important. My point of view on it is there's so much we could pull from the nutritional levers. And something like trend isn't very forgiving. So when you get to the trend, GHG seems they can add water and cause other complications with the nervous system. I think it's so much more important. That's what I found from working with Curt and him, he advised me through it. And I know how Curt operates. So you probably had minimal cheat meals and just ate clean the entire way through. Yeah, that's another big part of it too. I mean, of course, you're going out. How many people can adhere to that? I'm not sure. Most of the guys do. Well, yeah, okay. That's true. I mean, it depends on their goal. Alex wants to accomplish big things, right? You gotta work hard to get, if you just wanna look better than you did, you know, then you'd be 80% compliant. Well, I think it's also not as complicated as people make it. So I have a diet I really enjoy. That's another thing we've made sure to work on. And I have a family. So I still go out, I have social meals where I go out with my family. The thing is like, my family's pretty healthy, my wife's very healthy. We go out with my parents, you know, my dad's really big in longevity. So is my mom. So we don't, there's always a good option. You know, I can always eat on plan with what we're doing. Most people, they go through the same restaurants anyway. You know, you like to think we do things that are so different all the time. And like we need all this variety, but we really kind of go to things that we know are gonna be good. You know, so. Yeah, especially if you have a whole family that's into health and fitness. And you probably end up with a steak and a potato, right? Yeah. Or some sushi or something. And then that's pretty much similar to what you were eating anyway, which you have that variety where you don't have to clean up and you can tip somebody to prepare it for you. So yeah, that's, at least you feel somewhat normal. But yeah, I think a lot of people make that mistake in the offseason that they think they can get away with like a dirty bulk. And that's where a lot of the issues come from. The blood pressure and the indigestion and the weird sleep patterns. Yeah, because you just fold it saturated fats and simple sugars and then your body's digesting the whole night, you know, your sweating buckets. And that's where a lot of these misconceptions with trend comes from. Like, of course, if you eat a bucket of Ben and Jerry's before bed to gain size, and you're not gonna sleep that well, you know. And that's also the hardest part for most guys. You get up to 5,000, 6,000 calories and it's all clean. You know, then you really have to work on your digestion, your appetite, just to make sure that you can fit it all in. If you ended up at a thousand grams of carbs, you can lower your protein accordingly to make sure that everything was passing through, Alex. Yeah, so we, what do we have at 275 grams a day? Yeah, 270. Yeah, and we just, yeah, 270, sorry. And we just manage it, you know, if I start getting, if I were to get heartburn or something like that, I would bring it down. There's times in the beginning where I was eating a lot more. Before working with Kurt, I was eating a lot more protein, figuring it out. And that wasn't good. You know, you start to feel those effects in your digestion. And so you scale it back, you scale it back. And, you know, we found something that works. And then of course, adding in all the probiotics and, you know, through food, the food-based probiotics make a huge difference as well, I think. When two variables, sorry, two variables that Alex isn't mentioning, but that he follows is he attracts everything, right? I know he knows exactly what he's eating every day and he knows exactly how he's training. He posts that in my forum every day. He is like his log. So I can see every single thing he's doing, every weight, how many reps he's doing it for, what his diet is, and he communicates. Like Alex, we probably talk almost every day about something, whether it's just small talk or we're bouncing ideas off each other with something. But I think those are two key components that guys miss, it's just willy nilly, take these drugs, eat this amount of food and just do whatever all the variables are counted for. So it's easy to diagnose when, if Alex runs into an issue, we know exactly where we can look. Like he said, we can move these things around because everything is documented and it's right. Yeah, when once all issues start to manifest, you can probably catch them early on. So like you mentioned the digestion and acid reflux, you're like, today's a little bit off and then the next day it's probably worse. So that about a third data adjustment is already made and then the issue is resolved. And if you work very closely between the coach and the client and then there's no real issues and you can keep progressing without running into roadblocks or something like that. Yeah. You know? And we do loop of exercise too, right? If something's lagging or something's bothering, we just, we go over what he's starting to accomplish and what other options are, just gonna make it work. Rather than one point, your knees are screwed up, right? You're gonna change the split squats. Yeah. But I'm aware that a lot of clients don't communicate that to their coach, right? They'll just start changing things and not tell anyone, right? And you don't.  even know what they're really even doing. Yeah, but Alex, you're coaching yourself, right, also. So, you know how important it is to keep that coach-client relationship going and make sure that you communicate everything. Because, yeah, a lot of people, they're just used to getting a plan, and then they follow the plan without any feedback. But the plan is only as good as the feedback that you give it, so you can create a new plan and keep it dynamic. And that's it, because the body keeps changing. As you get bigger, your leverage is changing, your digestion changes, and obviously your digestion and all that stuff. So continuous feedback, I think, is very important during the off-season. If you coach yourself, then it's very important to keep a log and just be mindful of all the changes that are taking place. And sometimes you just got to coach yourself. You write it down, and then you don't look at it for a day, and then you read it back. You're like, hey, wait a minute. You analyze your own shit, and you pinpoint the problem the next day. Or you take the pictures and you crop it off from the neck down. You only look from the neck down so you know that it's a client and not yourself. It's pretty easy to do. You just take the emotion out of it. So would you guys do a similar approach going forward? Like would the off-season always contain trend, or would the next off-season be a little bit of a variation based on what you learned just off-season? We entered a second off-season, and we tried a similar approach. A lot of times I'll try. If we know something works, rather than just try to reinvent the wheel, we'll try to stick with it again and see what we can get. After cruise, labs, but we didn't have quite the same momentum. I mean, Alex, you want to talk about what the variables were that changed there that floated down because it wasn't necessarily the most obvious stuff. But it's probably mistakes a lot of guys make. Yeah, man. You know, when we started, when you're early on, you don't weigh a lot, and you don't have a lot of muscle mass, and you don't have a lot of strength. It's easy to want to live in the gym, and you can see progress, and you can push really hard. So I started with a six-day, a week push, pull, leg split, and then as we were moving along and I was getting stronger, it was like, okay, we'll scale up back the push, pull, legs, rest, and it was working. So it was like, what's not fixed, what isn't broken? Eventually my strength went up. I mean, it went up significantly. It's like 30 pounds of, you put on a lot of strength across all your lifts. So when we got to this cycle, I was already burnt out. I would wake up in the morning and feel like I got hit by a car, but I didn't realize, you know, sometimes you don't realize it until like, I just ignored it because I had this momentum behind me, right? So I'm like, I'm going to keep doing what I've been doing. It's working. It's just part of the game. I'm supposed to feel this way. And then it's like, for the first week, first two weeks, things were really, really good, and then it's like, it just crashed. And I would notice, I'm like, man, things just aren't moving along in the gym. But I would notice like my legs were still getting bigger, which my legs had the least amount of volume. And so my thought process was like, oh man, like I need to do more on my upper body. Like I tried such a leg, I need to do more. And I'm just getting more sore, more sore. And then finally like, you know, Kurt's like, Hey man, like I think you need to scale it back. And I'd already been thinking about it. And I'm like, you know, you're right. We should. We've now dialed it back quite a bit to what always worked even before. Like when I was in my 20s, you know, especially training as a natural, like I trained, you know, four days a week, upper, lower, or I do a full body. And I didn't have a lot of volume. I just focused on getting really strong at the exercise as good as much out of it as I could, you know, without completely thrashing my CNS. And then I could recover from that, you know, I have a 10 month old at home too. So that's a part of it. Even like if I can sleep perfectly, I can't always sleep perfectly. You know what I mean? So there's things that will impact my recovery capacity. And I think a lot of guys in their 30s will experience this where we just can't push like that. Not only because we're older, you know, we can say, okay, being older is part of it, but just having that family life, having some little things, responsibilities, you know, maybe you got some stress at work, we lose some of that. So trying to do what I was doing, trying to add more, trying to push every day in the gym, it just burnt me out. And so now it's like, okay, let's flush out that fatigue. And what's, what's bringing it back up from here. So Dean, Dean came up with the growth hormone replacement dose for parents. Those are dose again. For years, by the years. Yeah, I'm sure we're well past that in the discussion here, if the saw you go in. Have a bottle or a bottle of stairs. But I think we, you know, you've really touched on what I even learned when I talked about my prep of that, like minimal effective volume, or like you've got minimal effective volume and maximum recoverable volume. Yeah. If you're like in my 20s, I was doing that like balls, the walls, every set was total failure, your loading set back offset. Following, you know, dog crapper Dante's way of training. And then when I got to my 30s, it was like, I've talked about like iron case. They was like, you can't train this way. Your nervous system as you get older, just won't facilitate proper recovery. And he introduced like reps and reserve training, even from that perspective of like lowering total volume, but not taxing your, your body. And even like back then, I had that me head attitude of like, what you mean? You can't like train to failure. And when I was trying to even train that way in the gym, but reps and reserve, it was so hard not to do that last rep where you knew this is going to be the grinder, but this is the one you most enjoy. But then in terms of like what I gained, it was no difference to train and to failure by leaving that rep in the tank. You were able to give more efforts to the next set. And obviously what you've sort of seen where you accumulate that fatigue, you can bully yourself week on week to just ignore that fatigue and try and go into the gym and look what's in the logbook. But eventually it catches up with you where you have to do a D load. You have to stop training the gym for a week or you have to really significantly reduce the load for a week where you know, you've lost a week's progress this week by having to rest, where you can keep that momentum going week on week with your progressive overload. That's where the change occurs. When I was getting my head around that was it's it can look like a pussy way of training. If you can keep progressive overload going week on week on week on without this D load that you classically see where someone trottles themselves hard for eight to 10 weeks and then has to take a week off. Well, if the other person can keep the momentum going week on week, they're not going to have to stop at week 10. You know, at week 10 they're still making progress and that progress keeps accumulating. So yeah, it's a good lesson to learn that what works in our 20s as we get older might not work for us, you know, long term. Yeah. Yeah. I noticed over the years that I just keep producing the volume. The intensity is still always there. I might leave one rep and reserve that the one that you would either get buried or you get it. Um, and I also noticed that if I do less exercises per, um, or less sets per exercise that will recover better as well. So now I'm at a point where I do six exercises, six sets. That's it. So I do one set of exercise and just leave it there. No more backup sets, no drop sets, no bullshit fluff work. I might do a feeler set like in between the exercises. So you go from incline, dumble, press the flies. And of course flies is a bit of a stretch movement. So I would do like one to kind of prime the movement, six reps. And then I go to my working weight and I might leave one rep in a tank, which is like three reps beyond failure for most people. Yeah. For me, it would be true failure, but that's 27 years in the gym with no breaks, no real breaks. Um, so I'm pretty in tune with that. But I noticed that the best thing I've done over the last year or so is just to one set per exercise. And if I didn't get it, I'm not going to do, like, if I'm not happy with the set, like something that happened. So you're like, I kind of messed that one up, you know, like on rep three, my, my knees were not positioned correctly. And then you feel you're, you're angry with yourself to all see these starts to kickings and I got to do another set. No, it's done. You get to try out a three days later because I do push pull legs as well. Right. Um, and that was the biggest game changer for me. And then my central nervous system is way better. My elbow pain, knee pain is not a severe. It's still there, but 27 years of beating yourself up. And what do you expect? Uh, there's not enough deck in the world to get that away. Um, so, you know, things like this, the learning experience and just listening to your body, but it's very, very hard for bodybuilders to ease back. Cause you're on all these drugs and you're eating all this food and you want to put it to work. When in reality, the best thing you can do to put it to work is just to take one step back so we can continuously make progress. What, and I just want to talk about fatigue and, um, recovery. Cause I think they're misunderstood. So the mechanisms of fatigue from exercise or CNS fatigue, calcium, ion related fatigue and proximity to failure. Right. So you talked about, you know, ideally you want to be one rep from reserve from most of the studies is sometimes it's difficult. It's hard to tell when you're actually going to hit failure. Right. And a lot of guys don't go close enough to it. So they're probably five reps in reserve. That's wasting your time. Um, right. Where in calcium, I am fatigue can be from too much volume, too many sets. That sort of stuff more calcium ions will enter the muscle and they'll aggravate, um, the nervous system through that method. And then the CNS fatigue. And I think where we talk about recovery, we say things like steroids improve recovery. They technically don't, they were, they were up on protein synthesis. So at the muscle, they cause growth, but they're not technically improving recovery because recovery is in the nervous system. They don't do anything for that. And the fact, if you take too many drugs and you're not sleeping, your recovery is going to actually get worse. Even though you're getting stronger and bigger, your, your actual recovery is down. That's why most guys feel so beat up at the end of their cycle. Cause the muscle and the, and the progress in the gym is continuous. And at one point it kind of tabbers off after 12 weeks. And then the central nervous system is messed up. And that's why we got that term, the post contest blues, which a lot of guys experience out at the end of their offseason as well, because they're just fried, they were full of stimulants and sleeping pills. And then they take the drugs out and they're wondering, they're on the couch and they're just getting fatter and fatter and fatter and losing all their gains because they're completely burned out. Yeah. And something that I, the galaxy I talk about all the time with training is I advise most guys train like they're natural. Like the, the three pathways that cause muscle growth from steroids and the one pathway from exercise, which is mechanical tension are not related. They're totally separate things that occur independently. And there might be an additive effect if you take steroids and you lift, but they're not synergistic drugs don't magnify training. They're both occurring at the same time simultaneously. If you train like you're natural, you can do continuous progress. Like you're talking about instead of pushing too hard, masking with the drugs. And then you have to take a D load, right? And then now you've gone down and then you go back up and you see this in the guys that train like that. They make some progress when they do a cycle. And then when they cruise, they lose all this weight and then they make some progress and they literally stay the same. Right. They go from 262 40 to 260 240 260 240. They never get any better versus continually ramping up in size. Right. It's, it's now I can't maintain the strength here and there's a drug. Really? Right. Because it's all drug, drug related. Yeah. Let the drugs do their thing. You don't need to, you know, you don't need to intervene in that. The drugs work perfectly fine. Mm hmm. So next, next, next, like, well, what is the setup for the next offseason? Or is there a cutting like, I mean, you look super lean, Alex. So I don't think you need to do a cut. We were cruising for a little bit to kind of give this break and reevaluating, you know, giving this body a break and then we'll push again. What we use, I mean, it might not be those same compounds. Yeah. Like I would see before it doesn't, that's rare. I mean, two under guys, I might have less than five that are using trend. It's not. Right. Alex is just an example of someone who that, that seemed to work for. Right. You know, that's the majority of these guys are not using that stuff. I wouldn't be able to use it in the offseason. I got to be very selective when I use my trend and then it's a six week love affair at a low dose and I make tremendous progress if I'm already lean and turn into a freak and then my mental capacity is my mental bath with issues at the end of the road and I need to stop. Otherwise I'll end up single and 50% less. My capital. So, so now I got to be, be very, very careful. Yeah. But if you can run it, you can run it, but of course it's not something you can run all the time. So you can do training the offseason and then go into a contest prep, for example. So yeah. And then you're training, training the whole year. I'm sure that takes it stall. So let's say, is there a contest coming up at any time? And then how would you structure your, your offseason around a prep that's following the offseason? Like how, how would you guys address that? Do you have a show of mind, Alex? So I'm about to move to Florida the next sometime here in the next three or four months, um, probably get out there in two months or something in rent. Um, we're looking for a house. So we'll wrap this up. We'll cruise. And then I'll probably, we'll probably go from there, whether we want to run one more growth phase. Um, Florida, there's a show every weekend, basically. So I mean, you don't have to be silly. I live in Arizona right now. You'd have to be a little bit more planned. Florida, we could just say, Hey, let's go do this on, on this day. And if, if we're not ready, if we want to extend it out, something doesn't go according to plan, you know, a family thing comes up. It's like, okay, we'll do it this two weeks later. And it's, it's not going to make much of a difference. So it's a benefit of being there. Um, so we'll see, man, you know, we'll see. Right. Cause next year for sure, within the year. Yeah. I mean, he wants to be an open, he wants to go and open. So, okay, time again, bigger. Yeah. I just, just spend the time to get bigger. And then when you're ready to compete with the big guys, then you step on stage. There's no need to really step on stage earlier. I see a lot of guys that keep doing shows and then they mess up their offseason because they're doing all these shows and not really making any progress. I mean, it's hard to make progress at, at open bodybuilder level. If you don't do a full blown offseason. Yeah. You know, and, and you see what the guys that continuously compete, they barely make any progress unless they're genetic freaks. Yeah. And, uh, yeah, that's, that's only a select few. So the next offseason, what do you think? Well, what would excite you to do the next offseason with? And, and where do you end think end up food wise? Alex? Um, what excites me about it? I mean, who I love the journey of bodybuilding, man. Like I love the process. I love the lifestyle, like the train. Um, mostly I like that, you know, watching things change, you know, watching my body change. And for me, it was always a bucket list thing. Like I had put off for so long. So my twenties, it's something I had to table. Um, and I always thought I was like, I'll come back to it when I'm 30. And then I'm 30 and it's like, I just can't get, I couldn't get into it, you know, because there's a food and everything. It's not, it's not just something you can just pick up. Like you have to have your mind into the game. Um, and so like when my baby was coming, it was kind of like the shit or get off the pot moment. I'm either going to do this or I'm not. And I found myself falling in love with it again, getting into the process. Um, so yeah, man, like I'm not, you know, what excites me, um, seeing progress, putting on some more size, you know, I think, uh, in my head, it's like, let's get the 240. Um, let's get the 240, 250, you know, and then, and then go from there. Um, I don't know how long it would take, you know, what to see. Oh, it's probably going to take a couple of months. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, this last one, I was like, you know, we'll get the maybe, you know, maybe I'll get the two times ended up at 225. Yeah. I mean, if you're dialed in the progress is people don't realize if you're completely dialed in and you can set all the time aside that you need for body building and you have the finances, obviously, because well, Sarah's they make cheap. Um, you know, it's not free. Not for, not for most of us. So like that, that's also a factor over a lot of people. They kind of have a super productive offseason or contest preps because financially they're simply not there yet. And it costs quite a bit of money to ruin the best stuff. You can. Um, so, but when that is all in place, it can make dramatic progress. I noticed it to myself too. If I really set my mind to an offseason, I just get super freaky big and, and, and, and super strong. Okay. I get a little bit fluffy because that's how my body wants to be. Um, but I end up at two, two 65 to 70. No problem. And it's, it's not difficult to do like ours. Do you put one offseason? Now he's 132 kilos or or Samson Doughty does an offseason. He's 156 kilos. Of course, Samson is a bit of a different animal, you know, gorilla, obviously. Silverback, but it's, yeah, I think if you really put your mind to it, you can accomplish quite a bit. And I see that with Kurtz clients and my own clients and then with Dean, all the guys that he's helping, like for the guys that are really putting their minds to it, the progress is not what people realize is possible, but it is possible with, with the right attitude. Are there any, any particular compounds you would like to try or you're like, you know, what do you figure out the formula? I'm just going to stick with this. Maybe it's men. Um, yeah, maybe try that. Yeah, I don't know, man. Like I'm, I'm pretty dynamic with things when I've, I mean, I only ran, um, two cycles when I was in my, uh, 20s when I was doing bodybuilding, I didn't have a very big run with it, but I got to kind of experiment there. I was working with an older school coach. So we would, every four weeks to rotate compounds. You get to try them all. Those others and receptors, man, they burn out. It's right. Dean, yeah. I got to try a little bit of muscle confusion. Yeah. So I tried, you know, we tried everything in that four week rotation over 20 weeks and, um, so I, you know, I follow your black book today. I got 26 compounds. It just, I'm going to run all of them. Yeah. Yeah. And they're all good, man. There's not, you know, they're all, they're all good. I like them all. So I'll start to peek. He goes, something else. Yeah. It worked. They got the job done. So, um, yeah. I mean, whatever Kurt really, um, decides like I'm not an expert when it comes to PDs by any means, um, but I'm not attached to what I'm doing now. It's not like I have to do, oh, it's got to be trying. Like people get to where they're going. Um, when I look at different people and what they're doing, everyone's doing something different, you know, it's kind of like, I look at it kind of like any other medication, like if you go to, if you and I go to a doctor for the same exact problem, we're probably going to end up on two different protocols with different dosing schemes. But we'll both get to where we're trying to go. Right. So, so what I noticed in my last, well, 15 to 42, so that's 27 years. Um, everything works if you work. You can make the silliest drug combinations. Assuming you don't get unhealthy. Like the last cycle I did was silly, basically on paper, but it worked. And I got big and I got strong and I got lean, even on a quote, quote, with compounds for the offseason, right? 600 tests, 600 deca, no AI, high dose generic G H it all works. If you just, if you just work, so people always look for these magical cocktails. Um, I think the magical cocktails that you just eat on time and sleep well and train hard was boring as it sounds. Yeah. And it all works. You can die. You can fucking cycle on anything. It just, it's your body agrees with it. And for that, you got to experiment obviously a little bit to see what works and what doesn't and not be afraid to pull the plug because if, if Primo doesn't work, okay, just throw it in the trash or give it away. It's like you do item. Yeah. Yeah. Instead of keeping doing it, I need training masteron this cycle. Otherwise I'm not going to write, but if it works, obviously you keep it in, but some guys don't respond well to it. Okay. Just don't use it then. You know, like your offseason doesn't have to consist of tests, deca and the animal, just because it worked for some other guy. Um, could be just test. Could be just, I've made phenomenal progress. I made phenomenal progress in this test too. Just test G-H at insulin man. I got up to 260. No problem. Recently lean, full as a house, strong as an ox. And my blood work was the perfect. I was literally all in range. Yeah. Even HDL was like 45 and people like, how is that possible? I didn't run windstroll and, and training, you know, and all that shit. So you can actually make your offseason quite simple. If you just slowly ramp up the training intensity in the fold and the drugs to leverage or recovery all day. If, if it were just a drug thing, Jim's would be loaded with big monstrous guys, right? Jim's are loaded with guys on. Well, that's the thing. That's the sad reality that people are taking compounds and just fluffing about in the gym and expecting, okay, yes, we know you take, if you take trend, you're going to gain some level of lean body mass, regardless of what you do in the gym, but it's, it's training. And it's quite often hard for people to see that as a, a, a thing surrounding how they make progress in their offseason as they're training. Like Alex saying, if your training goes to shit, your growth phase is going to go to shit. And then the other side is if you don't know how to train properly, you're never going to create the mechanical tension stimulus to grow that muscle tissue outer. So it's, it really comes back to basics. And as boring as training is, you need to know how to train intensely. Yeah. I mean, I have a guy's come to be young kids that have watched stuff we've said and totally misinterpreted it. They're on three grams a gear and they weigh 160 pounds. You know, you basically have to say, do you look like you're on three grams a gear? It's not anything. You probably eating nothing at all either, right? Yeah, because I want to stay lean and they're on everything else too. They're on 20 different peptides. They're on thyroid medicine. They're on all this crap. Right. I've seen guys come to me with a list of stuff. There was one guy in particular and I told him, said, you're on more drugs than an 80 year old on with cancer. Like, well, I need all this shit. It's not doing anything for you. Yeah. And then you recommend them to cruise for a while so you can dial in their diet. And that's when they usually never hear. You're hitting them again. Yeah. We should disappear. They'll go find someone else to justify it. You know, that is the worst thing about it is that if you're not willing to entertain the PD conversation because of the basics like that, they'll just find someone who's going to lever and go, yep, here's your cycle away you go. And they're probably selling the drugs to them as well. Yeah. That is what it is, man. I mean, it takes time to grow. I mean, it doesn't have to take decades, but it does take a couple of years to really build a phenomenal physique, but it doesn't mean you can make crazy progress in the offseason or even during a contest prep or cutting phase. If you just put your mind to it, but it's rarely, it's really about the drugs. It's very boring. You have no life. I did it for many years until I kind of decided, you know, what I'm big enough and it's easy to maintain. And now I want to live a little bit, you know, skip a workout to drive motorcycle. But at least I put in the work, you know, in my younger years. And now it's just a matter of maintaining 230. It's, it's maintaining 230 or 200 pounds is super easy. You know, unless you do what Dean did and just walk and don't eat. And then it goes away. It's counterproductive. You know, at least he got a nice shredded face as a result of that. And some, you know, it's got a great head of hair too. Yeah. I forget it. Yeah. Um, um, de de aging. De aging. Yeah. I mean, like, I'm not saying, you know, looking back at it when I was competing, you, you obviously have to leverage PDs to an extent. But like Kurt said, the best thing you can learn is how to train as a natural. And then from there, obviously the PDs will facilitate more volume and then more volume means more mechanical tension. But as to come to a point, like what you say, and where six to eight working sets per body part, that's what the research seems to suggest is your sweet spot for growth and they're working sets. Like people get carried away with, well, I don't 12 sets or 15 sets for chests. I was like, well, how many of those were warm ups sets or feeder sets? Like how many were ones that actually created mechanical tension or a growth stimulus? It's not to say your feeder sets aren't contributing, but are they really the thing that's driving the stress that will create the muscle protein synthesis and elongation of the muscle tissue? So it's, it's really important that you understand again, where you're, you're, you're minimum effective volume or that like you're working sets in the gym of how effective they are. And you'll only learn that by training like a natural. Yeah, but natural's are hard to follow because they don't not so big. So it doesn't look exciting, but I got the most knowledge from the natural lifting community. I mean, luckily I was natural for 10 years. So I did learn something. And you just keep applying that as you, you know, how many extra sets can you do on steroids? One, two. That's about it. And then creatine gives you a couple of extra reps, you know, and the anodol gives you a couple of extra reps. But in the end, you're still going to listen to your body and just make sure that it's, you have a very productive workout. And that means that beyond a certain point, you just got to go home. Otherwise you're creating stress and cortisol and impairing sleep quality. And then it's counterproductive. And again, the steroids are just masking that. So I'm 30 grams a gear. Yeah, you can train for hours. Will you make progress? No. Not really. Well, right. There's, I mean, there's two kinds of people. There's process people, there's results people going to the gym as a process. Right. Yeah. Growing is the result. If you're not growing, who cares what the process is? You go to the gym for 12 hours a week. You're not getting any bigger. What are you doing? Yeah. Yeah, let's have a training addiction. And the training is the result. So do you guys think that you end up like a next offseason, like 6,000 calories, 7,000 calories and what will you guys do at that point where digestion becomes an issue? Like, do you stretch the offseason? Or do you like really maximize all the tools that we have to kind of keep progressing at that pace? It depends if it goes or not. I mean, sometimes I've guys use easier to digest stuff, dependent where their food is. You know, really depends. We could. Yeah, it's hard to talk. It's up to an IV. I'll be in plasma expanders. Let's go. I mean, I was trying to set the calories here. Usually I think that's that's usually the rate of like the limiting factor where digestion just becomes difficult. And that's usually six, 7,000 calories. Okay. You can speed up digestion by taking away a little bit of the bloodstream limitation by using insulin. Now I know you, I don't, you don't like insulin. Kurt. Um, but I always found that at that point where digestion becomes an issue, then you speed up the digestion slightly with thyroid hormones and using insulin just to create that pathway to the skeletal muscle. And at that point, the volume, the junk volume might need to increase a little bit to remove the carbohydrates from the skeletal muscle. So you can have this protein signaling.  so you create extra volume, it's junk volume, to kind of deplete the muscle tissue. Now you could say eat less and take less drugs, but from what I've noticed working with pretty big, yeah, so this is completely counterproductive and this only works with big guys, you leverage the drugs to facilitate the nutrient absorption and you burn some of those nutrients away with junk volume to help with the protein signal and that seems to only be necessary at higher body weights, that we're talking about 270 to 300 pounds. So that's why sometimes, or that might be an explanation why you see some of these bigger guys do so much volume and not really train the failure anymore, because it's more about nutrient signaling than it is about actual training intensity. Yeah, you just need to get the nutrients. Yeah, exactly, so the drugs and the food disgusting the growth and the training is just a formality. And yeah, and with insulin usually, the only time I'd implement it is if the A1c starts to trend up, right? So you see that the pancreas can't keep up, outside of that I wouldn't add it earlier because the risks associated with it. Yeah, and it's of course one of the more harder drugs to manage, you really need to live the lifestyle, of course you can use long-acty insulin and a little bit of fast acting pre or post-workout. But yeah, you need some years under your belt before that even becomes necessary. Usually you need to reach a point of food consumption where it actually starts to matter. Yeah, yeah, like I mean, he's approaching it, he was at, we ended at 5,000 calories. Yeah. You might need at least another thousand calories. But then I think the other important question is how efficient is the system and how well is absorbing at the gut, you know, if someone's, you know, looking back at my own historical career to speak, you know, a lot of that was unmanaged celiac disease where Cal and my coach was feeding me you know, 900 to 1000 grams of carbs, but it was because I was having to run to the bathroom multiple times per day because of the gluten and some of the foods. And like that historically, looking back, I remember within the first year of working with Cal, we put in bagels and I said to him, Cal, I don't think these bagels are agree with me. And he's like, why did you think that? And I was like, because my stomach seems to swell in the evening time when the bagels go in, you know, like blouts and you're thinking, all right, well, it's just bloating you, let's put in a different carbohydrate, like cocoa pops or rice Krispies, which still has glue, which still has gluten in it. But, you know, looking back all these signals of indigestion, running to the bathroom multiple times, but I'm eating 5000 calories, like people swing their dick around a little bit of a meat and all this food, but half it is being shit into the toilet. So, right, you know, if you can then say, I'm officially absorbing the food, I'm having like two solid stool movements morning, evening time that are like a type four, then you might have the conversation, okay, well, maybe more food is warranted. But if you are running to the bathroom multiple times throughout the day, maybe fix the absorption of food rather than adding more calories in. Yeah, or leveraging the insulin to facilitate the absorption, like you're not going to improve digestion with insulin, you know, you can speed up digestion, but you're not going to improve it. And for a time with thyroid hormones, you can improve the speed of digestion a little bit, but it's not improving. For that, you need to do, you know, really be mindful of what you're eating, you maybe need to do a stool analysis or food allergy test, or just go meal by meal, right, seeing how it digest and sits, can you still pull a vacuum at the end of the day, which if you're really up on top of your digestion, you should be able to do some sort of moderate vacuum, even if you're eating 1000 grams of carbs, because again, it's the proteins and the fats that slow down in the fiber. But if you're really changing your fiber sources to maybe some kimchi, sauerkraut or probiotic stuff, then yeah, you can get away with quite little fiber over the day and then, you know, 40 grams is easy to reach. Like if you want to eat a kilo of kale during cutting phase, sure. Yeah, I mean, that's what I do when I'm cutting to eat a kilo of kale. And you create great stools of that because there's zero carbs, you know, a little bit of fat. So you really have to like, just because you're eating so much during a cutting phase, doesn't mean you have to keep eating so much protein and fiber during your offseason, you can really bring them down. And that's, you know, that's a good point, like we're offseason, I'm bulking and dirty bulking and everything else that like fiber so neglected with an offseason to speak like, yes, your vegetable intake is going to be a little bit lower versus when you're trying to create, I guess, more volume to your meals if you have poor calories coating. That doesn't mean neglect fiber, you can use soluble fibers, you can use psyllium husk, apple fiber, pre hydrolyzed guar gum, you can use liquid sources of fibers that are very easy to drink first thing in the morning when you wake up and let them get to work through today is you're drinking more fluids. Right. Yeah, and they can create intestinal lubrication with things like magnesium, that ox bile. Yeah, aloe vera. Yeah, it's all these other things you can leverage before you add in the insulin. But eventually, there might be a point where the insulin comes into the picture. And that's when, yeah, the next level progress is going to be met in my opinion. I really, I like insulin. I like insulin. It works very well if you got everything dialed in. Yeah, you see, usually you like with the guys that run higher doses in the offseason, like maybe two grams of gear, that can actually reduce the gear dosage because the insulin helps with nutrient partitioning and should look. Yeah, that's not for everybody. Founded with the Grythoma one too. You don't know. Yeah, of course. Yeah, yeah, Grythoma on insulin and then you're on the gramma gear instead of two. But two grams of gear is cheaper than a gramma gear and a vial of serostim. What's the health tool? The health tool is going to be worse on two grams of gear probably. Yeah, that's for sure. Yeah, but that's an afterthought if you look at the financial drain for most guys. $200 or $700. And if you're not sleeping, you're probably not growing either. True. How is your sleep quality on a vial of serostim, Alex? I've never used it. I always ask, I want to know what the experiences are. I mean, it's good, really good. I mean, the hardest part about that is sometimes there's some carryover into the morning. So you wake up a little bit sleepy. That was one thing we actually had to dial back the serostim at the end of the last cycle because of, you know, carpal tunnel becomes a big issue on a bottle. So sleep quality is really good until your hands start getting really, really numb and then you wake up with numb hands in the middle of the night and it's like, okay, we've got to dial this back to improve sleep quality. But yeah, when things are going great, you sleep like a baby. Yeah. Yeah, I got to get some serostim too, dammit. Then again, I'm happy being 230 minutes. I always get excited from these kinds of conversations. I had a seizure but somebody makes so much progress and then I want to get my hands dirty again, but I don't know, maybe 290. Yeah, probably 270 at least and I'm snoring up a storm and sweating buckets. Did you end up using a CPAP machine? Or you're still CPAP free, Alex? No, I'm on CPAP. Yeah, yeah. I didn't, you know, once I started to get that, and I was like 190, I started to get a little bit of sleep apnea where I started snoring. And I didn't wait. I just right away, I went and did the sleep tests and, okay, yeah, they gave me the prescription for the PAP. And it's been a year or did you use a CPAP before you got back into the bodybuilding? No, no, no, I've only been on it for probably about a year. Maybe a little less, give or take. My wife's a lot happier. Yeah, the noise that a CPAP makes is minimal compared to how bodybuilders can snore and gas for air. Oh yeah. They're quiet. The CPAPs are really quiet now. It's not like the old, I remember I had a roommate back in college with a CPAP and man, that thing was loud. That's probably air sound like that. Or I just made one or something. Like you got the AirSense 11 that's the one I use with the nasal pillow. You barely hear it. I only use like one ear plug to kind of block the noise out and I'm so used to it now. Yeah, it made a huge difference for my sleep quality. Yeah, I still use it now at 230 and I started using it when I was 260, 265. And that's sleep quality really improved. But I still use it now because I'm kind of used to sleeping that way. And you just wake up feeling so much more refreshed to use it. Yeah. Yeah. I like it. I can recommend it to anybody, especially people that are undiagnosed, sleep apnea, sleep apnea and have elevated hematocrit. Did the CPAP improve heramatocrit or that wasn't the case? Oh yeah. No, it did. And that was one of the, so between the snoring, my wife was like, you got to do something about this. My hematocrit was getting high. And you start to notice inconsistencies with blood pressure. So it's not one of those things like I wanted to let go untreated. I knew it's like, okay, I'm just going to solve this. And then a lot of these problems will go away. And then I can start to look at how I can mitigate from here. But it's really hard to try to clean all these things up when you have this massive driver. And it's like, oh, I'll just eventually get it done. It's like, just get it done. Get it taken care of. It's so unbodybuilding of you. Most bodybuilders would just wait until there's a point of an hour and a half. Yeah. I mean, that's, you know, with sleep apnea, I had a recently in a liquid consult where it was someone on TRT and changes in their hematocrit over time. And what he actually came to me about the consult for was to improve their daily energy. I was looking at the blood work I see in hematocrit change and constantly sitting around like 53, 54%. Hemoglobin up at like 178, 179. And what then same guy in the consultation, you know, you know, so it went three, three blood works for blood works, and it goes from like 52 to 55.4. And it's changing over time. Yeah. And I mean, in terms of like, you got a double opinion. Well, exactly like I did. Well, I tell you, to be honest, this is, this is probably a lot of different people like having this same scenario. So it's probably coincidence. What sort of gave him, gave it away to us. He like anxiety, waking up feeling anxious, never waking up feeling rested. And then you start explaining, you know, and this was under the care of a TRT clinic in the UK that you're like, same guy, 100%. You're saying, you know, over time, what's going on here is the reality is there's apnea at current and then it sort of clicks on the head of, okay, now this makes sense to go and investigate it. So if people are listening to this, like even offices, you're waking up feeling anxious, you're waking up feeling tired, no matter how many hours rest you get. Snoring is not normal, you know, jaw structure, how your throat is relaxing in your sleep, you're doing everything in terms of like no strip, mouth tape lying on your side, knee pillow, blah, blah, blah, all these simple structural changes. You might just need a CPAP to make sure that the airways stay open regardless of where you move in the bed. And then all of a sudden your daily energy comes back, you don't need to think about NAD or MOTC or, you know, the simple solution is fix in the mechanical. We're going to have to set you up an affiliate with a CPAP company. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah, Rismuth, give me a call. No more second hand at the eBay. Let's get a fresh one. But it's very, very true and it's very easy to soft diagnose this CPAP, a sleep apnea. I made a video about this ages ago where you just record with the laptop, you record yourself at night, you use OBS or some sort of other recording software, use the built-in microphone and the built-in video camera, and you just look for these crazy peaks in the audio track. And then the audio track, if you see like a jump, that's usually you gasping for air. And then you could just listen back to it and count how many episodes you have. Okay, a sleep study would be more accurate, but it takes time to schedule sleep study, then it takes some time to analyze sleep study results, and then it takes them more time to write your prescription to get a CPAP machine, which you can now buy over the country in many countries. I got mine within one day. I guess I need a CPAP, I bought it online and it was there the next day. That's Thailand, you know. So I never did a sleep study, but I recorded myself and I just see these gasping for air in the crazy snoring episodes. It's like, ah, this can be good. You know, and of course my wife is complaining. So you just get the sleep, you know, the at-home sleep study done, with your laptop, and recording a one hour or one sleep session, and then you order it online. And it's a game changer for most of us. And then it's usually the turning point of the off-season where I wasn't making any gains, and now I'm making a lot of gains. Yeah, because you're sleeping, finally. You're recovering at night, and instead of throwing more drugs at it, you just get a CPAP machine. Like a thousand bucks. So how much does a kid of serostim go for nowadays? A thousand? 600, 600 to 700. Okay, so just a kid of serostim or a CPAP machine. You probably make better progress off the CPAP if you are not using it. Even if you're not sleeping, yeah. Yeah. You know, because again, it's not always throwing more drugs at it. It's fixing the digestion and the sleep and all that stuff. But yeah. Sleep is our most performance enhancing thing we have. Yeah. How many hours of sleep did you get? Eight, nine? Alex? I sleep seven to eight. Sometimes more. Like, you know, in my rest days, I'll get eight to nine. The most seven to eight. Yeah, usually in the off-season, I end up at nine, and then a half an hour and power nap in the afternoon. Yeah. Yeah. That seems to work best for me. And for most guys, I train and then during prep, it's a little bit more difficult because you're, you know, depleted and, you know, taking some stimulants to get the fat off. So you get about seven to eight hours in, but nevertheless, seven. No, no, I would say seven and a half to eight. And then the 30 minute nap has always been big for me in the afternoon. So yeah, you take a power nap also. Yeah. Oh yeah. I have been doing that for years now, man. It's just, my body loves it. So mandatory, man. It's, I can't go without it. I already know, I already feel it coming. And then my wife's like, you need to take it on an app. I say, yeah, I see, I see in 30. You know, I'm completely recharged. It's so weird. I'm so used to it now. Again, you can feel it coming like 30 minutes ahead of time. And you just fucking knock yourself out. And sometimes you're in the car and tell the wife said, Hey, just go have lunch or something. I'll see you in 30 minutes. Keep the air conditioning running and then recline all the way back. I did that on holiday too. Yeah, no issues, man. It's Dean, did you get any power naps in in Dubai or you had to skip? I wish. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Dubai, I even said to my wife, this trip to Dubai was just full on. I think I've seen this on for 30 minutes on the Friday morning. I didn't see you on social media either. It's like, man, he does not be having a good time. It was a very different trip for me and Lee, all the meetings we had, but productive. But one of those ones where you you're in the country, but you're not really in the country. Like I had people DM me saying, Oh, you want to meet up? I'm like, honestly, I wish I could. But we left you off the plane on the Saturday morning at 6am the morning. We were in a meeting then that afternoon at like 1pm till nine o'clock at night. And I just the whole week was set up that way. So yeah, no, no naps by the pool. Unfortunately, how many retropics and stimulants did you go through? More do you like to admit? Yes, it was it was a full on week. And then you wonder when you come home, you're a bit exhausted from from trolling things, but needs must I guess when you're when you're trying to keep up with the demands of like a four person, probably four person job. We have the knowledge to do it, but it's about the payback afterwards of like that having the downtime to let your brain just come back to reality. And they had a forced elote. So now you're like super motivated to get back into it. Let's see how quick I can put on six kilos before the next podcast. Yeah, you better disqualify. I got to get back into the 90 kilo club. I want to I want to hear what everybody's ideal offseason would look like. Like, you know, like your romanticize an offseason like 16 weeks, make phenomenal progress. Like, what would everybody's ideal offseason look like so we can take that as a learning experience? Of course, there's going to be fluctuations and variations and setbacks and that kind of stuff that you need to address. But like Alex, if you were to do your next offseason, you would do it without Kurt. So just romanticize it by yourself. Like, how would your next offseason look? And then I'll let Kurt comment on it. He fired me already. No, I just want to see I just want to see like, because he learned something. And then of course, you have your ideas like my offseason would be test, CH and insulin and a lot of food. Nothing else to stay as healthy as possible. But everybody has their own ideal offseason. So I just want to hear from Alex from Kurt from Dean and myself. I just build it. But Alex can go first because he's the new boy in town. I mean, honestly, like last offseason was really good. I've been bouncing around just doing the test, GH, insulin. I mean, it's simple, man. I don't think there's a lot of compounds you could throw in. Maybe end it the last three, four weeks, throw some anadrol at the end. Just to wrap things up. You know, GH, like nine I use minimum, I think with the insulin. It's interesting. I've never tried the two together. So now that we're talking about it, that would be interesting. I'm about to see how far we could take food. Ideally, I think the perfect offseason, I would get gut mapping done before, during the cleanup phase, see anything that I can clean up there, anything I can fix, optimize there. So then when I'm taking food up, I'm getting the most out of it. Because that to me, it's like more interesting than all the drugs and everything else. Because if I can get things really working there, my sleep will improve, all my health markers will improve, my training will go really well, my recovery would be great. And for me, it's all about how much progress can I get in the gym. Like that's the thing that motivates me the most. When I get in the gym and I see the weights go up, I see the reps go up. So just having that smooth weights and reps are going up. There's no injury. I'm feeling good. I'm sleeping good. And it's just steady progress, right? Yeah, digestion is intact. You don't have any lingering inflammation because your digestion is not optimal, which carries over into your performance in the gym. And if you're slightly inflamed, I mean, and the training can be inflammatory enough as it is, but that goes away. The food inflammation is just continuous and then you might actually get injured or just have a point where you can't control your stomach and then either explode up or downwards. That happens also. So Kurt, how does it sound to you? And how would your ideal offseason look like if you were to do an offseason again? Probably two options. If I were to just want to get back to where I was, I'd probably just use test and GH, gramma test, whatever. I think I could easily get back there just with that. If I needed to push past that. So your biggest was when we made a TOE olympia right around that time? Yeah, give or take. Yeah. Yeah. If I needed to get past that fucking unit, I would probably use on similar to what I'd probably leverage trend, anadrol at the end of it, and maybe something else in there to add milligrams, something more in the middle and EQ a primo a masteron it, something that's not really going to add a ton of size just to get more milligrams that I where I couldn't tolerate. Right. Cause you're going to use so much training, you can only use so much test, so much anadrol. So I would add something else in there if I needed it, but either one of those, you know, if you said I needed to be 240 again in the next three months, I could probably do that and just test and GH. Yeah. You know, muscle memory. What would be your food? Like what is an outliner? My friend's joke, I have a tapeworm. I couldn't do it clean. I don't think I could do it clean because even at that point I was running out of room with food. I would have to do, I'd probably keep it as 80% clean and then add garbage to it every day. What kind of garbage are we talking about? Cookies, ice cream, cheesecake, I think just better than fatty food. Yeah. But hamburgers, whatever I could get in my hands, I don't think it's that good. So that's okay. You know, depends if it's a McDonald's or like a Gourmet hamburger. Yeah, I would rather better quality food than McDonald's. Yeah. And keep an eye on blood work because you end up screwing your blood work up big time eating that. True. Yeah. That was honestly, that's probably the biggest limiting factor is just trying to be able to eat enough. Yeah, because you eat a ton for your size and you eat a disproportionate amount of food, I feel. My main thing seems to be around 5000 calories at my current size, at my current age. So at 50 years old, it's a lot of damn food. And you never thought about taking a bed of block or just to slow the heart rate down a little bit and end work. drostanolone is like in the high 40s. Oh yeah. Yeah, you don't want that. No, I'd probably be dead. Like I could use a heartbeat of like a like a like a whale, you know, like two beats a minute. I'm pulled most of the cardio out. Most days I'm sitting more now. Is it maybe because you're like living a very cold place and you just have to radiate? It's hot here in the summer. 200 degrees in the summer. I think a lot of it is just I'm naturally thin. Yeah. So my natural set points 130 pounds and I'm 100 pounds of muscle over that. What do you expect your metabolism to do? Yeah, right. Yeah. Yeah, that's weird. Everybody's so different. Like if I eat 5000 calories now, your maintenance, I would grow so fast. Yeah, well, you remember when we went out to that steakhouse? Yeah. I think I helped chase finishes food. Yeah, he was a red, he was a boatload of red. You're like, yeah, you know what that's take sure. Hand it over us that cheesecake. Yeah. Yeah, cheesecake was good. I went out with ours also to Cheesecake Factory. A couple days ago and he really get this huge portions right and he's like, I don't remember that cheesecake portions being this big because he in Europe, you don't have it only in Dubai and in Thailand, Shanghai and America, obviously. So he's like, man, it's a lot because he wanted to go to Shake Shack afterwards to get a hamburger, but he was pretty full. And then we had a fourth guy or massage therapist from Japan, who doesn't eat that much. So we had four cheesecakes and he was he had two bites and he was done. So we helped him fit his cheesecake too. Because yeah, I mean, I can eat a ton of food, even though I shouldn't. And then ours is obviously in the offseason. He's like, yeah, I have like three cheats a week. Because otherwise, just prep is like nine months. To really get that diced because you can't dye it down too fast now. Because he doesn't have to make white. So he was eating a boatload of food. But yeah, I can't imagine you have a living and needing to live off 5000 calories just to maintain. Wow. It's gross. Yeah, it's gross. Yeah. So you need a little bit of a, I bet you got like a whole case of Ben and Jerry's in the fridge just to keep you. And not the cheap one. Dean, if you were to make a comeback and you wanted to get up to 240 pounds, what would you do? Oh, the healthy way or the unhealthy way? I mean, I know you're the most health conscious guy on this podcast, I'm sure. So do the Dean one. If I was to do it my way, it'd probably be quite similar to what you said with test GH insulin. You know, I did leverage some insulin during my career with GH, obviously. If I wanted to do it on health, if you went to me, okay, I need you to be 235 or 240 in the next, I'd say 20 weeks, we might go Alex's route of like T or T plus a load of trend and then maybe some Anivar. But that is not, you know, yeah, and a lot of that's not advice though, but that would be if, if I had someone said, you have to be this size and this length of time, obviously a lot of a little bit. Six weeks or five weeks until you are not classic, you get a VIP ticket, but you got to be 240. What are you going to do? Yeah, muscle memory then. Yeah, I mean, I am, I am going into that gym and like we talked about recoverable volume those five weeks, reps and reserve and back offsets, whatever. We bullied away back on again. But again, that's, is that true growth? Like, and obviously that's me trying to put back on, you know, 30 or 40 pounds of maybe 20, 25 pounds of muscle. But again, it's muscle memory. It's glycogen and everything else on top. So if I was to go back and do things, you know, in a more intelligent way, everything we know about training and nutrition and yeah, tests, GH insulin, I've got high aromatization, you know, of high CYP-19 genetics. So I'd have to use an AI hair wise. If I didn't have like undiagnosed celiac and background thyroid problems, maybe, you know, topical finasteroid, if I was really worried about androgenic alopecia. Very simple. Just really put the effort and focus into training, training and eating and not ignoring that. Like I said, running to the bathroom four times a day, chronic heartburn and indigestion, you know, silly things that I look back in my like late 20s, early 30s and think, why don't you just like stop and critically think that none of this is normal to accept. Right. Yeah. You can't be bloated. I don't put on 5 kilos. Yeah, it doesn't count. That's not real life. That's a bubblegum baby. Why am I losing 10 pounds overnight? I look back at like when I was like 30, 31 and I can see the inflammation in my face. Like you can just you can spot that back then. Obviously, you're that engrossed with bodybuilding and you're like, I'm just going to do what it takes. I'm going to eat this food because it's what I need to eat. And then you're putting more food in because obviously the food that you're eating isn't being absorbed and digested. But I can look back at like 30, 31 and I don't really recognize myself like I see just this big bloated face that is coming from inflammation. It's a final boss. That's what you look like. Right. Yeah. So, you know, all the lessons that last prep and 2024, you know, that was putting all the digestive health and everything that I learned, you know, with the seed, like journey into practice that don't write off like your digestive health. Chronic carapurn isn't normal. It's probably a sign that you've got low stomach acidity or, you know, the foods that you're trying to digest are sitting in your stomach for too long of a time. Your bile is probably per so now you've got dysbiosis issues. And then that's going to cause bloating and distension and malabsorption. It's alongside training your digestive health to your next sort of anchor. And then the gear is just like the cherry on the top. Yeah. Yeah.  abaduslinly similar, just make sure that my digestion was absolutely optimal, and then slowly start ramping up the food as I got stronger. I would just slowly start ramping everything up, and then when I feel that I need like the last six weeks, I'll probably throw in the injectable YK-11, three weeks, 30 milligrams, three weeks, 50 milligrams, and then call it quits. And I probably started like 250 tests, I'm on 200 now, 250, 375, 550, one gram, one and a half, two grams, maybe two and a half grams, insulin as needed, growth hormone, probably 20 I use. Yeah, it'd be like 280 pounds or something. A cloud, a walking cloud. Yeah, Steve, you look so much bigger in your life, so you watched the videos from six months ago, now I'm a freak. I don't think I could, I don't think I could commit to all the eating though, like 7000 calories, it's been a while since I ended up there, but I think with the knowledge I have, I could do it, as long as I stick to the foods that really digest well for me. It's probably easier for you with the higher fat and lower carbs, right? No, so I would do a high fat diet, oh, high carb diet, sorry, high carb diet. It's just easier to get 7000 calories. Yeah, so last offseason I did, or when I wanted to gain like size and gain some fat to do the liposuction on my lower chest, so I just wanted to get fat as far as possible, so I could get the most out of the liposuction, but surely did, I mean my lower chest looks crazy right now, separated. It's just the fat that, you know, never went away during the cut, so it's like, okay, I'm gonna do the easy way around, I did 20 diets, and it never went away, without sacrificing my legs. So anyway, so the last offseason I did, like a ketogenic diet with 400 protein and 400 fats, something like that, and yeah, it's not the most productive offseason that I've done from a staying lean perspective. I think it's better just to do a lower protein, higher carbs, like 1200, and then keeping the fats maybe 70 to 80 grams, maybe 100 grams on some days, on quote unquote low days where you do 600 carbs, and then bring the fats up a little bit, because I do like high fats just for lipids and then skin quality and overall mental health, basically, you need a little bit higher fats, and to feel satiated, because on 1200 carbs I don't feel satiated, you're slamming rice the whole day with a little bit of vegetables on top, and you know, a little bit of easy digest, facial chicken or egg whites, to keep the fats low, and it passes through really easily, if you do it like that, maybe a little bit of chia seeds for fiber, and then some omega 3, some ALA, and that always suggests it very well for me, and I can eat that for hours, especially with a little bit of ketchup, I mean, oh my, goes down so easily, but yeah, I need a little bit of fats in the low days to kind of feel full, as word is that sounds, because I could just, if I don't take a red diet, I could just eat for days, yeah, I think we're eating, like you said, now I, people are going to think it's blasphemy, but some days I eat two meals, some days eat three, I don't think I could go back to six to seven, or even eight meals, like I could, I could, it's okay, if you've got, if you've got, if you can sit at your desk eating while working, and whatever, you know, you've got no stress on top of getting your food in whilst working at a laptop or a screen, but if you've got a busy demanding job, where you're eating on the go, and then that impacts your digestion, and you're, you're worried if I, if I miss a meal, I think that's one of the, the beauties of now that if I don't eat, you know, for a few hours upon wake, like normal fasting, and then I don't eat until evening time, I'm not worried about all my gains are going unless I end up like the position I am now post to do bodywear, I'm unintentionally dieted off quite a lot of fat from not eating, but you know, the eating aspect when offseason, you really have to be committed just like the gym to getting your meals in because it does matter. Yeah, no, the, and that's the biggest culprit of a lot of guys through the offseason, just skipping meals or not having the digestion to really match what they, what they need to consume. They don't digest the food that they're eating or they eating the wrong kind of stuff. And just because Kurt can eat, you know, a good amount of ice cream and cookies, just to maintain doesn't mean I can, like I would have to do the entire offseason clean, otherwise it just gets morbidly obese. It's just everybody's different. Guys like flip flop with their goals, right? They'll start growing for a little bit and then they don't like it. So then they'll diet for a little bit and then they never net anywhere. They kind of stay the same. Yeah. Oh, shit. I went from a six pack to a four pack. Oh, no, I got to do a mini cut. No, no, no, just got to keep going. Shut the fuck up. You know, like this, or is in his offseason end of offseason starting prep today, basically, he was not lean. He was not shredded at all. You know, was he morbidly obese fats like some of us at the end of the offseason? No, but he had a good amount of lower back fat and no separation in his quads and arms. It's just good offseason progress was made. But I mean, he jumped away to class, you know, and he wants to make an impact and open. And for that you need, you can't be afraid to get fat. The most progress I ever made was not worrying about putting on a little bit of body fat. Now, you don't have to get sloppy to 25% body fat, obviously, but 12% 15% at the end of the offseason is I think it's okay. You got so much metabolic fire that it's reasonably easy to go from 15 to eight. And then the rest is still a drag. But yeah, the main gaining. Fuck off. Yeah, for most people unless you're genetically lean, like Alex, he's stayed in pretty good shape, right? But are you genetically lean or are you fluffy? Yeah. So so for you, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, it runs in the family. My brother's very lean. Parents are lean. What would it take for you to get fat? I'd have to ever be fat. I've been fluffy. I've never been fat. And fuck you, man. Like I'd have to stop. I'd have to stop training. The biggest thing is like I would have to solve my but I started to stop training. And I'd probably have to crash myself down to like a meal a day for a little bit. And then just rev up the junk food. And then I'd get fat. A lot of pizza, a lot of pizza, a lot of ice cream. I can get fat and clean food. It's amazing. No, I did get fat one time. Sorry, my first bodybuilding bulk, first bulk ever. I went from lean and they're like, you're in a good place to grow, just eat. So I was probably 24 years old. And I ate everything. Every I was going to McDonald's every morning, McDonald's every night. I'd get pizza. I get everything. I was like, this is bodybuilding, man. I got fat. I got fat. Got a little milk a day. Yeah, you know, yeah, that was part of it. I'm not kidding. Yeah, I had like a bunch of whole milk in the fridge. I was eating like honeydine Cheerios for like a carb source with like putting dextrose and shakes and drinking those in the middle of the night and throughout the day. And just doing like eating as much as I could. And yeah, I don't even think I put on much muscle just a tough fat. Yeah, and especially when you're dieting it off, you realize that you didn't put any muscle on or you lost all the muscle that you gained because you need to diet so hard and so long. Yeah, yeah. But getting a little bit fluffy. Yeah, I think a little bit fluffy is okay. You don't have to stay super shredded. And then, you know, if you stay naturally lean, okay, good. Don't have to get fluffy on purpose. But for the guys, I think a lot of guys are holding their themselves back during the offseason because they're afraid to gain a little bit of body fat, which is just part of the process. Like if you're super strong and you're eating good, you get a little bit fluffy. And again, some of the offseason drugs like Desk, Deca and GH, they thicken your skin. You retain a lot of water, which you might mistake it as body fat. And your crews, like happened to me, I was on the offseason cycle while cutting. And then I got lean and you're still a bit watery, but you still look lean. So you're like, I'm in a good spot. And then it took the drugs out. I'm like, Oh, I didn't realize how lean I actually was. You know, I'm like, fuck, that's a big difference. You know, you start getting separated everywhere for free because you were on GH and Deca in the beginning. So high test. Yeah, and high test. So this is why I like in the offseason or even during a cutting phase, just to use the offseason compounds, because when you're lean, you're actually lean. And it's not the primo and the masteron the trend making you look leaner. And it always fucked with my head, because I would, I would do these preps on, you know, all the DHC is in trend. And then you look better than you actually look, because they have some sort of skin manipulating effect and they drive the water off. So you take the drugs out and you look smooth. And I'm like, fuck, all this, all this prepping for nothing, you know, because you can't stand the drugs forever. But now this time I did the offseason drugs and it took the drugs out and I look leaner. I'm like, yes. Finally, now this, this cruise on tour test, I looked be tready, you know, a little low back fat, but that's okay. I can get that off. So this is like the first time we're actually look better coming off cycle. First before you would just, you know, leverage the drugs. So next next cut, I'm going to do the exact same thing. But offseason would be test CH and insulin and YK-11 at the end. Good stuff. Like, yeah. So we basically came to the same conclusion in biomethical hormones with a cherry on top at the end and a lot of food. No, I don't know why people want to complicate their offseason. They caught this prep. Okay, I get it. There's a lot going on. But like an offseason, so easy, it's just boring. Because they don't want to put the work into stuff. So they think they're missing some magic. Yeah. But the magic in the offseason is the consistency. Am I right? Yeah. Okay, never done. Never done anything for health management. We're still the anabolic round table. So we can put some health management on top. During the offseason, the most common things we kind of addressed it is high blood pressure already. We did an entire podcast on that. We just discussed sleep quality again, which is, you know, common occurrence, especially when you're full CPAP machine helps with that digestion we addressed. Like what are the other issues that you usually face in the offseason? I think you've some cardio in. I wouldn't drop it. No, yeah, I agree. Helps with nutrient partitioning metabolism, insulin sensitivity, lipids, heart health. Matt, comes up if it's cardio, vascular fitness is done. Your basics, your supplements, vitamins, minerals, essential fatty acids, all the things that you need just to function. It shouldn't change your round. No, I do feel that if people mess up their blood work in the offseason, they're doing it wrong. Like you should reserve that for prep. So if you're like at the end of the offseason and everything's fucked up, yeah, not time to go into prep. No, exactly. And of course, you lose some size that you need to have a mass phase leading into prep, and that makes the prep longer and then you're on the drugs longer. Yeah. And how many times can you do that before you burn out? Not many. I think at the end of like the last four to six weeks of your offseason, you should be in a reasonably good state of health, just big, maybe a little bit fluffy, strong as fuck. And then, okay, if you want to run some anatrol or something else, fine. It's just four weeks. It's fine. You close your offseason off with a bang, PR is left and right. But I'm a little bit of an extort issue and then you throw in the towel, you cruise out, clean out for a bit. I think that's totally fine. But I see a lot of guys that don't address their health in the offseason and they are water attentive, bloated, high blood pressure, cardiovascular failure. I mean, all the bodybuilders that passed recently, was it your offseason or am I incorrect? I believe so. All right. I think there's just a lot of confounding things that occur with the offseason now. On one side, people think it's a healthier phase to a prep. But within a prep, being honest in a prep, probably the most detrimental thing that's going in is Tren and Anivar and the impact to HDL and the impact to sleep and everything else and neurological health to speak. Yeah, digestion, you know, in an offseason, you think, okay, well, I'm not taking potentially these toxic substances within reason. Obviously, we've talked about Tren and an offseason setting, but a lot of oxidative stress, like looking at loads, a lot of markers that might be suboptimal are ignored. You know, we start to see LDL go up a touch from eating a high fat diet or triglycerides start going up. Or you start to see issues with like hate, BnC, like Kurt said, you start to accept that it's still in the green and it's still normal, but it's not really normal. You're heading towards the outer end of the reference range and you've lost that suboptimal blood work that you're losing health to speak during your offseason, that you can get blindsided by your offseason supposed to be probably your healthiest position before you start pushing things with a prep, that things like even blood viscosity and hematocritic like we brought up. Yes, you can, and Terry, probably push hematocritic up to a certain higher point where you might see some physiological benefits, your training, your oxygenation and everything else. But beyond that, then you're heading into more viscous blood, you're heading into blood pressure issues, you're heading into potential clotting risks and microvascular traumas that you then end up with like a heart attack or an embolism or a stroke and you're supposed to be in a healthier phase of your bodybuilding career. Yeah, usually you see that the blood work is not as bad during contest prep compared to the offseason. So the offseason is a little bit better blood work, but then the blood pressure in the water retention is problematic because you're eating so much food and you're taking these conical wet compounds that just promote water retention. So I think that needs to be addressed mostly in the offseason. Like if you start getting pitting a DEMA and moon phase and blood pressure goes up and you start getting nosebleeds during your leg days, it's time to reel it back in. But again, a lot of these guys they eat for size, they want to get the 300 pounds, but their heart can't keep up. And again, it takes a little while and cardio, daily fastened cardio can only protect you that much. So yeah, there's a lot of things that people need to address during the offseason as well. So the blood work might be better, but the other stuff might be worse. And it's really how you manage your diet and the potassium and all the things we discussed during the blood pressure episode. Because blood pressure water retention, that seems to go hand in hand. So if you address the water retention, your blood pressure is probably also going to be a lot better. And then there's difference between water retention and fluffiness and you could see that in your ankles when you wear those high socks. But then you don't look as impressive if you're not carrying an extra 10 to 12 pounds of fluids. Hi, man. If you take your socks off and your socks are still there, it might be, is it a generic G.H. or is that heart failure? I'm not sure, you know, or some sort of inflammatory response. But yeah, if you have pitting edema, okay, a little bit, sure, but a lot. Not good. Yeah. I'm out of breath walking up the stairs. Your heart ejection fractions probably. Yeah. Not at the best spot. So again, guys, do your ultrasounds and your EKGs. You know, it can set you up for preventative measures early on. Okay, I think we can leave it there. It's been two hours. I think we address most of it offseason is simple, guys. You just got to be consistent. And it's not about a magical drug cocktail. Even though training the offseason is helpful for a lot of guys. Yeah, especially if you want to make games fast. Right, Alex? That's right. Alex, thanks for coming on and sharing your story, man. Your coach as well, where can people find you? Yeah, yeah. So you can find me at amarley27 on Instagram. And I have my website on there too. It's physiquephysiq-pro.com. Okay, cool. So amarley27. Yeah, amarley27 at proton.me. Okay, cool. You have a YouTube channel or not yet? Not yet, but you should. Something started. Yeah, you should. And I know these two guys got a YouTube channel as well, but they make a monthly appearance in the Anabolic Grown Table. It seems to be enough for your YouTube presence. Yeah. Hey, who knows, maybe we might have you on Malthy as well. Let's see what the comment section says. Yeah, let's see what the comment section says. And once again, man, I just want to say thank you so much for having me on. Such a pleasure. Good to meet you and Dean and get to be here. I watched your channel for a long time. And so, like I said before, I never wanted to pass the first. Just make sure you wanted to pass the first because just because it's on my YouTube channel doesn't mean you need to do it. It's just for wiser decisions if you do decide to do it. And then the dosing protocols are right there and all the potential health ramifications. I have one question for you, Alex. Did you ever go to Thailand and get that tattoo because it looks like it's where I got it. Thailand. My wife and I traveled through. Yeah, we were there for about a month and then we went to Vietnam. We went to Myanmar. We went all through there. We ended up getting married in Bali, actually. So a lot of our relationship formed out in Southeast Asia during that time. So you're well traveled. Why don't you come here? Which year? 2016. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Great, man. That was a good time. Yeah. Before everything went to social media route, you basically do whatever and not get caught. It's before everybody starts putting phones in your face and you got to be mindful. Well, we know where to find Kurt and Dean. Those details are always below. Alex, I'll put your details down below as well in the description section in the pinned comment. So people can find you. And thanks so much for sharing all of your information and knowledge. It's always how we appreciate it. We'll do this again in the end of February. Hopefully we don't get busy or shit happens. And then we'll do episode number 19. In the last words, we're good. Have a great week. Yeah. All right. Have a great week, everyone. Thanks, guys. I'll see you next month. Peace out.