 muscle nomads, first time we've done this from afar, since a very long time, since you moved out of China, because normally you sit here, I even bought an extra chair for you, so you can sit next to me, what do you do? You moved to Vegas. What the f***, bro? I don't do a chair. Yeah, we've done it since 2019. Yeah. Well, in 2021, I guess, until I moved, but... Yeah. So you went from the Communist land to the Freedom land in the meantime? Communism to ultra-freedom, to America-freedom. America-freedom, yeah. Yeah, and... It's just like a bigger and better form of freedom, but with some restrictions. But that's okay. It's livable. It's... I guess freedom, how to describe freedom here, it's different. Like, it feels different for, especially from a foreigner's perspective, I don't feel like a foreigner. I don't feel like a tourist, you know? So, freedom in Asia is like, okay, yeah, there's not too many rules as long as you're not an asshole, and if you get in trouble, you pay the right person, you should be all right. Exactly. Freedom here is just like, it feels like a land... Like, people talk about America like a land of opportunity. Coming from all corners of the world to start their new lives, get after it, you know, build better lives for their future and their kids and their family. It feels very much like that. It's such a diverse, cultural diversity is nuts. And it's usually like... Especially Vegas. Yeah, Vegas, especially Vegas. It's really cool when everyone has this very... Everyone seems to be on very much the same page, same understanding that we're in this little hub, middle of the desert, it's different than everywhere else. So, that's all just get along, have a good time, keep the place clean, tidy, and come fuck up. And it seems to be kind of on that page. And I was like, well, what do we compare that to? And then we just did a road trip down to LA for two days. So, I can go downtown LA and I'm like... I don't know what's coming. Let's go back to Vegas. So, how was LA compared to? Like, I've been to LA twice in Vegas, two times, three times? So, I have a couple of experiences. So, back in, when was it? 2018, I think I came here on a memory trip. And we went straight into Santa Monica area under the Vegas trip. So, we did Vegas for a week and then we did a few days down in Santa Monica. And that was beautiful, gorgeous place, really nice, sea front, all that great. But I never did downtown LA. Downtown LA is a dive. Sorry LA, but you're a shit hole. It's like Mumbai. It's rough, man. Like, there's a few cool little things. Like, when we walked down the street, we found this little area called Little Tokyo. And they have like this little, these little back streets, when it kind of looks a little bit like Tokyo, I guess. It's a good restaurant. So, you have these little spots hidden around. It was this really cool restaurant called... The Biker Cafe or something. And it was like this old classic bike showroom, but it was a restaurant and a bar and a barbershop and a tattoo shop all in one. Really good vibes, really nice vibes, good food. And that was it. The rest of LA was just dirty, loud, super busy, sirens all day long, gunshots and fireworks throughout the night. Just got crackheads riding around on bicycles every rest of the show and at each other. My wife didn't like it at all. It wasn't nice. And you live in like one nice area, you walk outside and you're like, okay, doesn't seem too bad here. And then you walk one block over and it's just like a whole street for tents and homeless people and so on. So yeah, LA, definitely not my favourite, it's funny. I ran into Branch Warren at the... Oh yeah? And he was like, oh, you're back. And I was like, I told you, I'll move here. Man in my word, I told you I'd make it happen. He was like, man, man, man. He's like, so you didn't move to here, right? LA. No, no, we moved to Vegas and we're also coming to visit you guys in it. He's in Texas and he's like, oh right, man. Yeah, this ain't America. This place ain't America. And it's just, when Branch says something, it's just like, just listen to that guy. Chances are... He's funny as well. He's so funny. But he's like... We're going to bring him some cigars when I come back. Yeah, I'll go and sell him the cup, I'll see. We're flying out there on the 7th, just for a few days. I think Jared's got some podcast stuff to do with Tony. Okay. So he said, come along, do a little mingling and networking. So I'll go with Andy and the crew, train at his gym. Then we'll do a session at Absolute Recomp, big giant gym out there in Fort Worth. And then we'll go and visit Destination Dallas, so I can link up with the Gas Better Bodies team and hang out with Branch and Aaron and all of those guys. So that'll be fun. Just to go over and have my first ever Texas experience. Tony's going to rent a big truck for a couple of days. You should. You should. No barbecue. No barbecue as though. No barbecue, man. No just truck, boots. Going to get me a hat. Yeah, he can smoke some cigars, that's about it. Pretty much. The Vegas is great for food. I don't think... Yeah. Like, yeah, I'm sure Texas barbecue is incredible. But you can get everything in Vegas. And it's fine. I know, I know, I love it there. It's a good thing. Vegas, dude, you would love the sushi buffets. Yeah, I know. Then next level gear. But yeah, there's like a big Hawaiian culture here as well. All right, yeah. So they have their own style of barbecue too, which looks amazing. Compiling a list of places I need to go and eat as soon as this prep is done. So does that Hawaiian barbecue have pineapple on it? Just like a Hawaiian? Yes, it does. I feel like it does. It will be... I'll just ask you. You're a fish and pineapple and rice and coconuts. I don't know what grows in Hawaii, stuff like that, right? Tropical, nice stuff. I know, little skimpy things around the world. Hopefully you get served like that. Yeah, that would be great. It's kind of like a Hawaiian Hooters theme. I'd definitely eat there. Hawaii Hooters, yeah, I'll eat there. Don't get Andrea dropped there. She's got some Hooters. That's a work. Where are you from? Hawaii? So you're not Hawaiian. So some of them have a bit of an Asian vibe too. Yeah, they have a little bit of an Asian vibe. Or an Asian kind of halfway thing. But yeah, it's a really cool, diverse culture here. I love it. It's just a really good vibe. It's probably the perfect fit coming from somewhere like Thailand to America, because Thailand is so culturally diverse, right? There's people from all over the world. So having that similarity is probably pretty cool. But yeah, you've been to Dubai, right? Dubai is pretty similar. Have you been to Hong Kong a couple of times? Tokyo, right? It's all these big cities with a big tourism industry, but also a good amount of entertainment. I mean, it just feels like everything that the world has to offer is in a single place. And then you decide to live there. That's why I decided to live in Bangkok, because you have everything that the world has to offer right here. Yeah, it's freaking... You know, and it's very convenient, exactly. Yeah, it's basically all of the pros from somewhere like Bangkok, plus you're in the desert surrounded by these mountains. It's really nice. There's a lot more space. So Bangkok's amazing, but it still can be a bit of a prostrate for a bit. Perhaps it is what it is. It's going to be like that. So many people. Whereas here, we've just got this giant open space in the desert. And there's no shortage of space. So nothing feels like it's on top of anything. It's all with everything's very open and spacious. That's why I probably why I didn't like LA as well for the same reasons, right? But yeah, the roads are smaller. There's way more traffic like coming from the airport to something like where Disneyland is. It took like over an hour with a taxi. And they're just across the city. You know, it should be like a 20 minute trip, but there's just terrible traffic. So it sucks. Yeah, Vegas is barely any traffic. Bangkok is always traffic. That's why we drive motorbikes, you know? Vegas is great. It's just straight roads. It's all like grid road systems here, right? I think there's I've seen one round about one random little roundabout of tiny side streets on there. And everything else is just straight roads, two or three lanes, never enough traffic to get you in a mood. So yeah, it's nice. Very convenient, easy to get around. I can drive to the gym all the way down south in Henderson. In like 20 minutes, less than that probably. And it's a nice drive. I can put my podcast on and just cruise on down, drink a coffee. And then I'm there. That same distance in LA would probably take me like three hours. Yeah. Yeah. It's just crazy. Yeah, I was staying at the Marriott, which is not too far from zoo culture, the bigger one, the newer one. And I think that's like a 10 minute walk. And that road was just fucking cramped the whole time. Yeah, that's crap. We went to the zoo culture. All those roads around there are just tiny, just traffic everywhere. Yeah, two ways both sides. And it's a lot of traffic. You would have went down there to see Niall, right? Yeah, because Niall lives close. Let's just say close. That's what we were there because Jared had a podcast with him as well. So we went to Niall. Oh, right. I was like, hi. And I was like, hi, my mate. He's like, oh, yeah, you're the guy. You're Steve's buddy. I was just like, yeah. Yeah, part of the wallpaper here now. Cool one. So yeah, Niall's a great guy though. He's a really cool dude. I like him. Niall's a good interviewer. Good show. But there's loads of really cool people. The people in the industry here have all been extremely welcoming. Everyone's really nice. It's just everyone's busy getting after it. No one's got time to be an asshole. No one's, it seems like no one's got time to be an asshole. No one's got time to cause drama. Everyone's too busy doing stuff. Yeah. Having a good time. So that's quite nice. It's a good motivational, like get shit done vibe. Right. And yeah, it's awesome. And then with the gym down the Koch Fitness down in the south, it's like a week after I got here, we went to one of Sandy's IFBB seminars where she talks about what we're looking for from each category, posing stuff, upcoming shows, blah, blah, blah. It's just like a bit of a intro to the year for athletes. And I met quite a few of the promoters and stuff there that are hosting all these different shows. All really nice people. And then we were sat next to this guy called Mike. And he leaned over. I saw a few people wearing like gym shirts. I've never heard of that gym. He leaned over. He's like, all right, guys. He's like, you living here? He's like, I've just opened up Koch Fitness down in Henderson. He said, swing through. I'll show you around. You know, we want to take care of all the local athletes and stuff. And I'm like, yeah, absolutely. We'll swing through because it's Vegas. You know, we're just jumping from gym to gym to gym on different things. Yeah, right. But because there's no really, there is like probably strength culture. I would say is the one is one of that and strength culture and Koch Fitness are the ones where you can get everything done. You wouldn't need to go to any other gyms apart from those two. My favorite as far as equipment and vibe. Dragons is great. Good vibe in there at the right times. It's a good vibe because there's a bunch of bodybuilders in there but at the right times. And then the rest of the gyms are just like, okay. And but some have like a few key pieces of equipment. So someone you might be doing your plan for the week and it's like, okay, on Monday we go to this gym, Tuesday this gym. Wednesday that gym. Right. Yeah. You just get a membership everywhere. And if everything is driving distance and there's no traffic then it doesn't matter. It's doable to do it that way. And it's fun doing it that way like when we visit. But after a couple of weeks, you're like, just pick a gym. Pick a gym, call it a home base. Right at that time is when Mike found us at that seminar and he's like come through the gym. So I went there the next day, met him there. And he's got this big blue, like neon, blue, purple, Cobb fitness kind of logo. And I was like, oh, don't cut it. That's my color. That's cool. I like the lighting. He's got this. He's got his Lamborghini painted to match the brand colors as well. Which looks epic parked outside. There you know, you've made it. You just put it in the outside, same color as your logo. It's dope. It's a nice logo. And so I walk in this and you would think, oh, this guy's just going to be like, check out my car money guys, you know, top of the opposite. It's family guy, humble as they come. Like, he's our kind of really nice. Got money doesn't flaunt it, but he's a car guy. He likes his cars, but he's not walking around splashing cash like an asshole. He's invested it into people and things. So he walks into this place and I'm like, holy shit, this is a big gym. I was expecting like a little small, like a torture gym kind of thing. Because they're all small little gyms, right? Way bigger. Really good selection of different equipment, different brands which I like. So you have that selection. I don't know. Yeah, a little bit of variety. Yeah, all uniform one brand is annoying. And he was just kind of explaining the plans basically for the year, what's moving forward, how they're going to eventually expand, blah, blah, blah. And he's just made this place happen fast. Like the whole decoration, the real, he didn't hang around. It's been pretty refreshing to see someone be so aggressive with getting a business up and running marketed with a team on board like no time. Yeah, if you want to go for it, you got to go for it. You know, not this hangout. Go home, go home, right? Yeah, that's usually with the gym, Joe, with the gym business that people think, I put a gym here and then it's going to sort itself out. That's not the case, man. You got to aggressively market it because there's so much competition on the gym space. Absolutely. I think if I think that's where a lot of gyms fall down everywhere in the world is that get a little bit lazy and complacent. They're like, well, we've got enough members, we'll chill now and the members will just keep coming. And whereas Mike's like, I'm not, I didn't open this gym to make money. Like it's not a consistent money thing for me. This is a passion project. He's like, I need people on board that equipment. I need people on board that athletes. I need people that know the industry. I'm building a team, blah, blah, blah. So I want you on the team. Okay, cool. And we just clicked. We just hit it off very much on the same page. And I was like, this is strange timing. I just moved here and then you just opened the gym and then we just happened to meet at the same random little seminar and then all these little things falling into place. Just clicks, clicks and then they make it happen, man. It's, it's sometimes things just, you know, meant to be you're in the right place at the right time and got to grab those opportunities by the balls. So that's exactly what I've done with pretty much every opportunity so far. I'm just like, yep, yep, I'll do that. Yep, yep, yeah. Put me in. I'm good. So we're doing video. Actually, correct. Away. I mean, it's just the backbone of it is me and Jared. We're both on there. We're like good trainer partners. You know, when you find the right trainer partner, okay, finally, someone who can hang, someone who can like, there's been no one since you really, we had a good, I had a good little stretch with Chris. But that's it. Like in the whole time I've been bodybuilding like two guys that can actually hang and have a good workout. Yeah, it doesn't help that you're fucking strong and big. And it's difficult to. I'm not even listening to that much more. Man, you'd laugh at the weights. So if it stimulates the muscle, like in beginning we get, we got our, you know, during gates and dark rap and stuff out of the way. And after all, you're going to slow down a little bit. Like I'm, I'm beating up. Also, you know, got to take it easy now. We got all the benefits out of those years of training and now we can be a little bit fine. But it was, it's been great training with Jared. We just click on the same page, easy work and it's moving really well. So having that sort of foundation of routine in prep, locked in a couple good people in my circle. And it's just, yeah, it's nice to smooth sailing. And yeah, we'll just keep it rocking and rolling and moving forward. Got the Arnold coming up in four weeks, which I'm excited about. Preps going great. Probably the leanest I've been looked pretty good on low food, low gear, but loads of new tropics, all the added little peptide extra stuff that are keeping things moving along nicely. The Retter is definitely helping out there as well with the food. Yeah. And is it easier to get those peptides over there compared to Thailand? Because in Thailand, we always struggled a little bit getting the stuff. I had Brandon stay in my spare room last week. He's like, I'm coming to the baby and I'm out to stay here, dude. How's it going? He's like, are you sure? I'm like, yeah, just bring me a handful of stuff. So he brought in a bunch of like new pets and five Amino, one MQ and stuff. But I mean, you know, we're sponsored by them anyway. So I just put him in my orders and he sent stuff out. It just shows up a few days later. Sure. So that's no problems. But yeah, I'll be doing a lot more work with them behind in the background stuff, educational stuff, tube series, like athletes perspective of these peptides. Jectical pre-workouts and all these other things. You have a lot of experience with that stuff. So it might as well contribute, you know, and it's good to get it from the guy that actually lives it, you know, the bodybuilding stuff. Yeah, I think it's just another good perspective. You know, we got a couple more people on the team here now as well. One person to really get priority to do the female perspective of things. Okay. You know, me doing as the athlete perspective side of things, Brendan, just the overall kind of educational stuff with his guy. So it should have quite a good little sort of back end educational portal being built onto the back of all of this. So that's always fun because it just keeps me, gives me a good excuse to actually sit down and do some reading and learn some stuff. I was keep expanding your arising, man. Just the more you get into it, the more you realize that you got to learn a lot more. And it's, you go down the rabbit hole and you're four days ahead. Then there's something else and then there's a combination with this one and that one and how that one is good though, it's fun. And, you know, it stops me from being complacent when it comes to the education side of stuff, especially when I'm very, very busy. I have a few hours at the end of every day to kind of get all of my work done and extra tasks and stuff. So I must have been pretty hard right now, but it's all paying off. It's good and I'm having a lot of fun and I definitely feel at home here. So it's nice to finally feel like at home settled somewhere, which is good. Yeah. So I just, okay, it's right out peeled. Get on stage at the Arnold. We get to go on the main stage as well this year or the main stage, which is pick. I will be on stage the same stage as Mr. Olympia, many others. It's going to be exciting. Yeah. So sorry I can't be there this year. I just got so busy. We're going to zoom call yet so we can hear that. A chicken from. Do you know what he's like? Yeah. So much stuff to do. I'm going to be visiting somewhere. Absolutely. But yeah, now it's the booth crew will all be there. I think most people are flying in a day early. So they can watch, which is nice. I've had a lot of messages from like just YouTube followers and Instagram people like, are you in the States? You're doing the Arnold. We're coming in a day early so we can watch your show. Yeah. You'll be surprised how many people will join in and that are happy to be there with the show. The support has been incredible. It's really, really nice. So yeah, I'm going to show up looking absolutely insane and give everyone a good show. Good. They might get a little warm up show here in Vegas in a couple of weeks as well. Just beforehand, which I'm thinking doing just to support the local Vegas sort of body building scene as it's the first one of the year. And also to get in front of a couple of the judges that would also be at the Arnold. Yeah, I might as well. All right. So I can have a look at you and then it's not a new look. So they already know what to look for and they can get some feedback. See what you can improve. What you got one or two weeks before the Arnold Classic to make the improvement. Yeah, two weeks in between. Two, yeah. Enough time to dial a few things in if necessary. And it also gives the guys Kurt and Jared a little bit of a chance to maybe tweak the peak and see how that goes because I will be a lot leaner than before. So again, the landscape changes straight away, right? Yeah, you don't have to deal with that tie humidity where you just slightly watery all the time. Yeah, the Vegas dry is good. Vegas dry look. I know, but we just arrived there. I'm like, fuck man, within three days you're fucking peeled. I didn't realize I was shredded, this shredded, but it's cold over there now, right? Yeah, it's a chilly. This is the first of all, like jogging pants and hoodies most of the time. In the midday, it warms up really nice. But yeah, in the morning up until about sort of 10, it's pretty chilly. And then from around sort of 6pm onwards, it's pretty chilly. So, but it is slowly warming up. I can feel it warming up like today I woke up. I would usually throw a hoodie on straight away as the heat comes on. But I'm good today. So I think it's heating up now. Yeah, cool. Yeah, the first time I was there was in December and then it was like freezing. My wife's like, what the fuck is this? We're supposed to be in the desert. So, well, it does have seasons like everywhere else. Yeah, there's snow. There's people skiing in the mountains. Like that's a half an hour drive away up into the mountains. There's, you know, a few little white tips up there. And I think there's some areas where they spray on a bit of the artificial snow on top just to make it good for the snowboard. Right. Do you think you can come out and ski in the desert? It's pretty cool. Come on, man. I just had lit surgery. I'm my leg is still hurting. I'm gonna have to text us next week. I think there's still a bit of snow there. So, I'll probably be there. Snowman. Make a little snowman, maybe ride a horse in the snow. That'll be cool. Yeah. Yeah, that would be cool. Especially the big horses over there. Yeah, branches like that. I got some horses. I'm like, is there any like, do the horses struggle when you pick? He's like, that's a myth. He's like, you know how strong a horse is? He's like, a horse will pull down that house there right now. That was a bad branch impression. I don't call it horsepower for no reason. I mean, I roll horse quite a bit. I think it's our real powerhouses. Like we were sitting there, right, with Bradsham Regan talking about like, you know, real horses. And so he's like, yeah, just come out, you know, spend some time on the ranch, ride some horses and stuff like that. And I'm like, hell yeah, that sounds like a good idea. Just don't fall off. Don't fall off. It's fucking high. I fell up a horse like twice in my life and it's not fun, dude. I'll wait until I've got a bit of cushion in the offseason, see what I have to do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that was not the time. So we're just going to go out for like three days, I think, hit the gyms, do a bunch of networking, podcasting and then head on back because the week after that will be the warm-up show then to reach the next. All right. So there's a lot of traveling going on, but I don't want to get out of a routine more than a couple of days at a time. No. No, but flying within the US is pretty straightforward, you know? I mean, the airport is closed and of course, like you have to really have to pick your airlines because half of them are kind of shit. Yeah. I think usually a fly Southwest seems to be pretty good and they have luggage included and stuff. I think the other one is United. I know everybody has their opinion. Like I said, I flew with Delta, Delta shit. I flew with all of them. Southwest Spirit, United Delta. I flew with all of them and every time I mentioned the airline people were complaining. So I'm like, well, it's probably all shit then. Everyone has their favorites. Everyone's got that. Like, I'm a United Platinum member or I've got Southwest Platinum cards. But here, if you are a bodybuilder or you travel a lot, it's worth getting one of those cards because a lot of these guys just fly free everywhere now. Or they have, they like Jared, if you fly with Jared, I think he's got like a thing where he's done so much traveling, he can take a passenger with him on a domestic flight anywhere for free. As long as they're on the same plane. So there's loads of rewards for everything actually. Flying over there is like taking the bus or taking the SkyTrain in other countries. You know, it's like taking a metro in Tokyo. Just fly over there. I'm going to Florida today, like four hours. Easy. Yeah, it's easy. You can get the cheap. I mean, for me, I don't really care if it's a shit cheap flight. It's like three hours or less. Yeah, it doesn't matter. And honestly, like the business class, like I flew a business class from Sydney to New Zealand, Wellington, and that was supposedly business. So you sit two chairs instead of three. So it's not that much more comfortable. And you can't even go all the way flat. So economy plus or. Yeah, the premium economy, right? That's just a lot of room. My flight from Thailand to here, there was an option to upgrade to premium economy with Japan Airlines, but it was only like extra 300 bucks. Most of the other places were airlines were like extra thousand, two thousand dollars. But this was like 300 bucks more. And I'm like, why not? It's a long flight. Why not? That was totally worth it. Japan Airlines. That's very good. Yeah, it's very good. Really, really nice. Yeah. Originally had a business class ticket with Korean Air, like the one that we flew with. And that was, yeah, that's the only one that does one stop to Vegas. You know, that's a decent business class because the other business classes are even 25% more expensive, but already canceled my ticket because, you know, if I got over two weeks, then I need two weeks to recover with the time zone difference. And after the Arnold Classic, you probably get sick. You know, you know, it goes and then I can't miss another month again. You know, I've been traveling so much last year. So I decided to know what just recovered from all of it. I just feel recovered. Yeah, I just feel like and now I had the surgery. So I'm still recovering from that. So I don't think I could fly like originally my flight would be like three weeks from now. Like a couple days before the classic within six within a few months. Like that's the most traveling you've done within six months ever. Right. Yeah. This is Mr. Olympia. Mr. Olympia, right? So we went to Vegas and then you and me and then two months later, I went to the UK and Holland. And then a week later, I went to New Zealand. And then six weeks later, I would go to Ohio. Fuck. I'm dead. You're a true little cook. You are a true little cook. You are a true little cook. Fucking cook. Where's Steve? He's on the road in some corner of the world somewhere doing a podcast with some Sheik or a guru on a mountainside. No, no, no. So now I was like, you know, where's Steve at the moment? I'm like, actually, legit in Mountain. Yeah. So Jared, your story, then like, how fucking cool is that picture with you and Nancy there? New Zealand is something else, man. It's beautiful over there. You need to read the car because everything is kind of far apart, but it's a beautiful country, man. Great food, a lot of great steak, a lot of great lamb, a lot of great wine. I was fucking drunk for a week straight, but all that good wine is too good to not drink. That's a whiskey also. Great food. Of course, you go to the local grocery store and then have like a muffin this size. Should I have it? Still had it though. Yep. You know, I'm a 40.  amens, the same issues that I had in the holiday mod, you just eat whatever. Yeah, and so that was good. Yeah, the holiday was good. And then after that, after two weeks, it's like, fuck, I'm still not recovered. I better stay home for a couple months. It's the kind of prepare. Yeah. Well, I mean, the time between that and all of the surgeries was pretty close as well. So, I mean, three weeks. Yeah. So I did it. I started mid-January. I had the gyno surgery and the liposuction at the same time. And then a couple of days later, I went for lacy eye surgery. Fuck, man, it was brutal. And then a couple of days later, I went in for leg surgery. So you're basically, what are they calling, what's the six billion dollar man? Yeah. Yeah, one million dollar baby. Yeah. Just fucking rebuild from it. I just, when I was watching you talk, I think of one of the messages we had in you, a list and all of the stuff that you just had done. Yeah. And I was like, fucking hell. And I just had this image in my head, you know, the new Robocop movie? Yeah. It's just there. It's just flying over you. There's nothing left. It's just lungs in the head. Yeah, yeah, I remember. Just like that. It's just about just completely rebuilt, biotic. Yeah. At least you got it all done. This stuff has been on your list for a long time. I've been procrastinating about all this stuff. Like the laser eye surgery I've been wanting to get done for five years. And then of course the kind of surgery I wanted to get done for a long time. But then I chickened out like two years ago because of all the clotting issues in the world. And then the leg surgery, I was a little earlier for laser eye surgery and I see, oh, orthopedics might as well go have a look. So go talk with the doctor. He's like, yeah, easy surgery, one hour. So, okay, sign me up. I booked it in. And then, but the legs are used the worst one, honestly, because there's so much inflammation in my ankle that it's like a little stuck in one position. So yeah, I keep it elevated most of the time. So I'm walking on the toes like I'm a velociraptor. Sorry. They twirl the bolts out so there is literally holes, right? Yeah. Oh, awesome. Nice. You need to get them on like a chain or something. Yeah, that's what I'm going to do. Yeah. I don't know if she can find me a jewelry because like this, this piece of surgical metal, I mean, I think if you add some silver to it, it should be a nice bracelet. It can make an ankle bracelet out of it. You can probably get that gold player easy. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, could be. Let's see. Let's see. I'll go talk to a jewelry. Yeah, let's make something with. We knew that that's your legs for a long time. So now there's all of those legs. And what was the recovery time on actual like holds in bones? Three months. But if you think about it, legit holds, which would look like if you were to shoot someone in the leg with a gun, a point blank, it's going to be a good dented hole in there. And I mean, all of that actual dense bone to regrow. Well, to me, that's pretty freaking quick for that kind of. Yeah, promise you still can train hard on it. It's not crack or a fracture, is it? So the whole that has to be reused. Yeah. So I need to do a few more x-rays. And the reason why procrastinated about getting it done is because you just have months out of the gym from proper training. So now walking is a little bit difficult, like it's been about 10 days or something. So there's some swelling in the ankle and around the incision site. It's annoying. And then hopefully next week or the week after, I can go back to the gym again. Sometimes still 110 kilos. I keep everything, man. It's I don't get it. You went here and you still look bigger than everyone. Yeah. I think I was like 92 almost lost the friendship. Almost. 2 kilos away from the total. Yeah. But it's good though. It's good that you've got it all done and a few months will fly by when you're as busy as you are a few months flies by, right? And then when that few months does fly by, you're fully recovered, you can move around, walk around and all of that. It's better to have it done now. So because you're going to be probably here there and everywhere once baby shows up, right? Yeah. So that's why I wanted to get it done now because I could do it now and fully recover by the time I was his birth or procrastinate and we're 18 years because I can't do this while the baby is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 years old because I need to be mobile, man. I can't. I can't have this down period again. It's definitely the perfect time to do it because you're not doing anything else. You're chilling, working and that's it. So you've got to go to the gym. I bet. So what are you taking? What's the recovery? The ultra Wolverine times 10. It's all the stuff. TRT to, well, let's say 300 tests, you know, those Bayer ampoules are overfilled. So let's say 310 tests per week, 20 milligrams anivar to a used growth hormone. I started with five, but because I can't do any cardio right now, I got so watery. Holy moly, dude. So I dropped it to two, two and a half and then TB-500, BPC-157, GHK copper, micronose progesterone, that's all of it. I just recorded the video about it will be on on Monday. I think Brendan will send you some, they just put all of that in one, the new product called Grail. Yeah, he told me about it, but I already have everything that he sent the last time. So everything, but at the time it arrives because I have to use that shipping for the right. So it takes four weeks and by the time, like, dude, there's gyno surgery is fully healed two weeks, fully. Yeah, kind of is a quick one. Over the morning healed, but pretty good. I think they left a little bit of scar tissue in this one. Yeah, scar tissue here on the lower chest. So this area is still a little bit numb, but yeah, just need to do some decline. Yeah. And last bit, so what about the eye surgery then? So that was like unpicturing like minority report surgery. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like minority report or a clockwork orange. So your like, your eyes are open like this, but they're numb from the anesthetic cream. And then they shine a laser in your eye. You don't see anything. Just see white. And then they cut the cornea open to make a corneal flop. And then they shine a laser in there. 11 seconds, you smell burned flesh. And then they put it back and while the corneal flop is open, it's just haze. It's haze. It's like, I immediately had an LSD flashback like where you took a little bit too much. And they're like, you know, you have that moment where you took a little bit too much and you're like, is this the rest of my life now? Right. Everything is like six hours in, you're like, this is going to be the rest of my life. I guess it's been going over so long in your perception of type side that the flap went off and like, I'm going to look like this the rest of my life. And you have the laser shining in the corneal flap, not in your eye, but in the flap. And then you smell burned flesh. They put it back and they see sharp. Do you have to be awake? Is it a bunch of us? No, I was awake for all of it. For the gynecology, for the lasex surgery and licks surgery. I was awake for all of it. Horrible. Yeah. And I can't even smoke a cigar now because it's oxidative stress. I can't even have a glass of whiskey or a smoke of cigar because it's oxidative stress. It cuts the wounds. So it prevents wound healing. So I'll be traumatized. So the flap that they cut the cornea, they open it up, they laser it, put the flap back over. Yeah. And that kind of heals together. Yeah. So they kind of press it close and align it. And they say, is everything good? And I said, yeah, I can see very sharp. And you see all this medical equipment, you know, like Captain Picard gets the Borga probe in his eye in first contact. So that's what you see. And then they move you, move the other eyes. You get the same treatment like where you don't see fuck all. And then the laser smells like burned flesh. And then they put these little goggles on you where you can't really see through. So you don't rub in your eye or touch your eye to the point the corneal flap comes off again. And then they send you home with Valium. So you take this Valium where you're home. So why? Yeah, you can sleep. I'm like, fuck this. I don't need to sleep. I'm going to get to work, man. It's only two o'clock or four o'clock in the afternoon. I got shit to do. And then the anesthetic eye drop wears off. Dude, it feels like you got punched in the face. Really? What? Like the pain for like inflammation pain or just like painful eyes? No, no, no. It's like this whole area is throbbing. So I took a Valium and then I slept seven hours and or I had a meal. Took a Valium slept seven hours and then I was awake for like two hours at a little meal. Slept for nine hours on the second Valium. And then the next day I looked and I'm like, oh, it's pretty good. And then you go in for the checkup. They remove the, you know, the goggles. And then you could see fucking clear. And now two weeks later, I see. I see perfect, man. It's everything. Yeah, I see everything. Yeah. It's crazy. It's child's horror glasses. At least the result is good. It's the worst and the best surgery I've ever done. Because I was thinking when you were first talking about it, I'm like, is he seeing LASER or laser? Because laser surgery is a quick like buzz in a laser and you're in and you're out and you're done. But yeah, I don't think that involves actually kind of open the cornea. So you see if the one where they shine the laser, when they remove the corneal flap and then PRK where you just remove the outer layer. But I wasn't good candidate based on my vision. So we went with FENTAL LASIK eye surgery where they use a laser to remove the cornea. They still have to use an incision manually to cut that open. So literally could see the the knife. And then make an incision. Oh, fuck. Fucked up. You say to the surgeon, you're like, you're not taking any. Good, I hope my fucking breath. I'm like, don't move your eyes. Don't move your eyes. Don't move your eyes. Yeah, yeah. It's like a better decision, but it'll be a little bit real. You're in like a head brace or something. The whole thing, dude, I was completely like a then, you know, you hold your hands like super tight against the table. It was fucked up, dude. Like the motorcycle accident that I've had was less traumatizing than this. I just keep picturing so many means that we can bring up on screen right now. You've got Wolverine in the surgery tank coming out of the tank. Like, yeah, I know. You were. Robo guy. And when I went to bed, I had like the first night or after the fentanyl is a guy surgery, I had the gyno brace on. And then, of course, I bought a CPAP and then I had these goggles on. So it literally looked like I was going to sleep in the back of the tank. And then posted a picture. What Steve, are you wearing, you know, a sports bra? Guys are not up to speed at all. So I try to sleep. Grab a sports bra. Yeah, she's got to she's got to break our orientation done, right? I'll go check up on her soon. She's been talking about it for a long time. And I'm like, well, you can't come out here right now. So you don't get yourself some new boobs. Hopefully that keeps her happy for a while. So it's just healing up now. Sweaters going down. I think she gets stitched. She's out in a couple of days. Now everything's all healed. She's the same. She's just want to go back to the gym. Now, I'm obviously going to do after my first breast augmentation, she was in the gym the second day. She went to the same surgeon. Yeah, she went to the best. At least we know they'll look. Only the best. Yeah, you'll have a lot of fun motorboating when she comes over. So I get all the shit done. I'm a little bit miserable, but I'm holding size and yeah, good excuse not to do any cardio. Yeah, well, at least you got it all done, you know, and these things, like I said, been on your list for a while. It's going to be now or not for a long time. It's been here for a long time. Yeah, you might as well get it all done in out of the way. It's probably a good move, you know, although it would be pretty cool to have you out here. But yeah, the reality of it is probably. Yeah, that's probably a little bit too much travel and fluctuations in blood pressure and food and all of that while you're still dealing. I wouldn't have done the surgeries if it decided to come over to the US because then I thought about doing the surgeries afterwards. And then I looked at the recovery process and then I'd be barely recovered by the time I was with his birth. So it just didn't make sense, you know, too much. Too much. Yeah. So what about the how I was going to say? Mr. Olympia. Olympia, you'll be out here for sure. Yeah, I will be there for a week or something. I shouldn't be in a shoot. No, it's only only Vegas so that then I don't have to do an onwards flight to Ohio. That's in the four hours, man, from Vegas to Ohio. It's like four and a half hours. Everyone keeps telling me, oh, you'll fit right in in Ohio. It's just like England, cold and miserable. I'm like, all right, sounds wonderful. It's really cold over there. Yeah, that's also one of the reasons like when I went through all the reasons of why not to come freezing in Ohio, I'm like, fuck no. I just went to the UK and it was freezing. Shit. Yeah, this is a cold time of year to visit as well. It's probably not ideal. But yeah, I mean, you'll manage. No, man, you got everybody else there. Everyone else is there. Everyone flies in the day early. We got a nice air B and B sorted out. I'm just excited, just excited to bring a good package and get on big stage with some serious super heavy's and see how I stand up against them. Then right after that is the Desert Classic, the J. Cutler show, which is hard to see. It's there. But that's is there broke or just local? No, just a national qualifier. So if I don't get the card at the Arnold, then I'm just going to keep competing as long as I feel good and there's no red flags and my body feels pretty solid. I feel better and better as this prep continues. Like usually is that first couple of weeks after traveling where you like your body's kind of go through shock and I'll get the pains and flare ups and things like that. And I'm like, just like, fuck T. And then you just get into a routine. Everything balances out and I feel awesome. So it's all good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it takes about two weeks, three weeks to really that. That flight is brutal, man, 24 hours. You can get right. So really don't really think about actually what kind of impact that does have on you if you're somewhat like we're not just coming here, sitting around on holiday by this room of all day. You know, it's in the gym six days a week. Yeah, two times a day. This meeting that we in grocery shopping, driving, banking, car in. Now, when we went to the when you went to the Miss Olympia together, we had three activities per day for two weeks straight. I was I was fried. Yeah, that's right. After that. There was no way I was getting through that week without like some cheese cake. That's for sure. Yeah. And then I've never drank so many. What is it? Energy drinks? Yeah, that's that's like something I've noticed here is energy drinks. And it's gone. All these different varieties of coffee and because you can get all of these zero calories, syrups and things. I have to. I'm like, well, that sounds interesting. This sounds good. And I'm like, no. You know, don't get carried away with all these little things they add up. You gotta be careful. Yeah. But there is a coffee that we bought, the coffee that we bought at Walmart or Max Oh, whoever is called death. Yeah, that's death. Death wish coffee, the strongest coffee. I wish I bought more of that. That was really good. And send some to you if you want. Yeah, well, yeah, maybe I have to send it to the shipping fore. You're not so easy. If I use USPS, it will show up easy, easy for a problem. USPS is how they sent stuff to me in Thailand. It was way quicker, way easier. So if you need stuff from, you know, who I don't know if we can say their name on YouTube, yeah, things like that abbreviations M.A. and A.A. That's yeah, just let me know. And I'll get a package out to you. USPS. Yeah, I already got something coming in through the shipping forwarder, so I'm good for a while. Yeah, yeah, this is another character. They got some Hanoi merch for you, so it's here. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's good. Did you ever get your clothes back from your left behind? Got it all day. Yeah, thank you. I don't know if that Jared's place. That's actually a driver. What a guy. That reminds me actually, I need to link up with him and give him a free transfer. Such a funny guy, right? So wherever this is a funny story. So me and Erie were checking out from our Airbnb in Vegas and we're driving back and the guy's drinking a grill of mind energy drink. And I say, do you like that energy drink? He said, yeah, man, I used to watch Derek all the time, but now he's, you know, he's kind of retired. I said, look back. Looked. So it's Steve from the Supervisualogical Man podcast. He never watched that. At least he was happy to hear that I was on board with grill of mind and you were at the time. And then you forgot your clothes at one, one or two shirts at the Airbnb and they were outside. Well, on the way to the airport, you were like, well, you like the gorilla mind products. Yeah. And he's like, yeah, I love buying all the time. And I'm like, go back to the apartment. You just picked this up from here's the door code. We left loads of shit behind. Free workout, EAAs, the whole works. I said, just go and pick it all up. Take it. Yeah. We couldn't bring it back. We were like fully, fully booked. 40 kilos per person. I said, this is also a bunch of half files of tests and master. And he's like, oh, all right, I'll go and pick up that as well. And graph the brief. Yeah. He was pretty happy. He was pretty happy. And then I get, and then it was a couple of days later, I realized, oh, shit, I left a bunch of clothes on the balcony and the owner of the landlord put them in the water. So how am I going to get them? Didn't want to bother Jared too much because I think he was traveling at the time. Yeah, he was also not there. And so I said, oh, that driver, maybe. Oh, he knows where it is. Yeah. So he got it picked up. No, I'll go back and pick him up for sure. And he went back two or three times trying to link up with the cleaner lady at the right time to pick it up. Yeah. And he came through, dude. He came through and I'm like, what a fucking legend. So I actually sent him some free diet plan stuff and all of that. And I said, oh, cool. Give you a session in the gym for free when you got some time. He said, yeah. Get this guy, like because the Uber drivers, they have to pay a certain percentage for every trip, right? So if you've got a long trip, but you don't want to drive your own car, just link up with him, you know, pay him cash. Yeah, I think that was his car as well. So he probably does a bit of private work. Yeah, it was a nice car, too. Big spacious. Yeah, one of those. What is it? Catalac or something? And one of those big giant actually. Yeah, I felt I felt the trip back to the airport. I felt very well taken care of. Let's put it that way. I felt very comfortable. Yeah, it's not true. Yeah, very premium. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'd have been on title. He is such a good representation of people here in general. I thought maybe we just got lucky with a few really nice polite people. Not most of them are super nice, man. Everyone here is so nice. So everyone's willing to help. I was set the story on one of my last drive and talk videos, but went to go buy coffee. Couldn't figure out the my Bank of America app. I hadn't figured it out yet. My wallet was in the car. I was like, shit, I can't pay. I'm going to run back to the car or grab my wallet. And the girl behind the counter at Starbucks was like, don't worry about it. I've got you. And I thought she just meant, OK, you know, I'll put your coffee to one side while you grab your wallet. And I ran on some guys laughing at me as I was running away. And like, what did I miss something now? I'm not sure. And then I came back with my wallet, like, OK, I'm going to pay for my coffee now. And she was like, I got you. I'm not really sure what that means. Like, what's the context here? She was like, I've paid for your coffee. Oh, and I'm like, what? She was like, yeah, I see you miss her. You get her number at least. I think she's probably a little too old. Did you ever tell that story of all the girls that were ogling all over you when we came out of the casino? What was it, the resort world? Well, we came out of the resort right before we met Norman, a friend of mine and what's his name? Flex Lewis's coach. I would came to back up her bags there. It was like a whole group of girls. Any buffers or the college kids? Yeah, and they're all like. I would do like what the fuck? I felt I felt so ugly in this moment. Like what the fuck? I was hoping that DC 10. So what about this? You were holding a pretty good blow. Of Joe. Yeah, yeah, that's true. Yeah, I was. Yeah, I wasn't objectifiable, unfortunately. You know, it's a better way than I did. At least three times a day. Yeah, John Cena. So I think people just think I'm John Cena. Just tell them so you didn't see me. Yeah, I was like, no, what do you know? Yeah, which. But it's all of that was. But it's all straight. All these interactions here with people are so good. And people will just do that. They'll be like, yeah, no worries. I'll see you again at some point. And I'm like, there's no way I'm letting you pay for my coffee. Like that's too. It's too nice. That's too kind. So I appreciate the offer. She's like, I've done it now. Yeah. Now you've got to come back there every time to buy coffees. Why? I just gave her like a twenty dollar tip. She's just like, no, no, no, no, you don't have to do that. And I was like, he deserved it. Like, that was a really nice thing to say. Let her motor about you. Say come pray it in. Yeah. Every time. Bring it in. Someone let me. Yeah. I just shaved. Take it. Take it. Take it. It's not spiky. Yeah, it's so fresh. I shaved my entire chest for the gyno surgery. I felt very sexy. He was great. They're cool. Every time I go to that Starbucks is the one right next to the gym. So there's like a little couple of old Spanish ladies that work there. They were all there as this interaction happened. So now every time I go there, there's always a little laugh and a bit of banter. Like, oh, you pay for your own coffee today. And I'm like, all right, all right, I've got my one. So you can get free coffees there for life. They probably think all these bodybuilders are such retards. Spent so much on coffee because they keep forgetting their money. Yeah. So I got my fanny pack with me, but there's no wallet in there. It's full of GH and 9GF. Yeah, three. Yeah. Hey, I didn't see a picture of your obnoxious car on your Instagram yet. What happened? You didn't see it or you did. No, I didn't. I'm wondering why. Like, I know what your car looks like. You've seen it though, right? Yeah, you sent me a picture. Yeah, I'm not proud of it. I'm not posting that all over the internet. It looks like a gay zebra driving around everywhere. It's a test of the zebra print. Yeah, like people look just there. I'm glad it's got tinted windows so they can't see me inside. It's pretty gay. But they didn't have anything else there. Well, they had other Teslas available, like regular plain colors and trucks. They sold Torah. There's like a car sharing that. I was looking through. There's loads of great options. In Texas, I'm going to rent out a giant Ford truck thing. Yeah. And it's pretty cheap. But if you book something for a month, you get big discounts. You get like, you book for two weeks, you get a bit of a discount. If you book for a month, you get a massive discount. This one just happened to have a huge discount. And it was probably an extra three or $400 more discounted than the other ones. Oh, okay. Oh, I know why. Because of the paint job, no one wants it. But for me, I'm like, hey, I don't care about no paint job. If I can save myself a few hundred bucks. So the actual total discount for a month was $1,000. So I saved a grand. So I'm like, I'll happily save a grand driver for a complete paint job. The car is lovely to drive. Inside is the Model 3 Tesla. So it's one of the newer ones. It's great. I love it. Just to find the parking lot. You're just like, there's the most ugly car in the parking lot. It's mine and nobody would ever steal it. No one will ever steal it. No, he's trolling though. The guy who owns it. There's a sound when you walk away from the car because it's all connected to your phone. So when you walk away from the car, automatically locks and usually would go to say it's locked. But he's changed that sound to like a squeaky dog toy. So it goes. This really gay little squeaky toy sound. So every time I get six feet away from the car, this noise happens from behind me and everyone looks like, what was that noise? And I'm just like, you got to get some matching flippers, man, or slippers. Like you're just coming here for two. Yeah, a zebra print onesie or a suit with a big pin pad. Yeah, you know, go with it. Hey, I'll save some money where I can. But next month when I rent a car, I'm going to pay a lecture and just get a regular car. It was good for the first month. But if I book in advance, like there's always good deals on there. And I think once my LLC is all finished up, I can just buy myself a company car. Right. Yeah. How much did it ended up costing for the people who are interested in moving? Like how much did it end up spending to move? So for a full month on the Model 3 Tesla, including insurance was $1300. No, not just the car, like the whole move. Like to get started again in the U.S., like 10K, 15K. If you're talking about, it depends what visa options you go for. I'm still going through that process now. Because it's not a quick process. It's going to take months and it's going to take thousands of dollars. So for instance, one of the quotes I got, if I was to do an investment visa, you'd need a hundred and a hundred or $150,000 investment money. Probably 20 grand in lawyer fees, another few grand in paperwork fees and stuff like that. So that option, you're going to blow a couple of hundred grand. Yeah. Basically. I'm not sure on the capital investment, whether that needs to be upfront available as investment, probably does. And there's athlete visas if you are a pro athlete. There's a couple of different options for those. They're probably going to be after all of the processing fees and all of that, probably somewhere around 10 grand lawyer fees, application, paperwork, things like that. If it's a setting up an LLC, you do it properly through the correct companies and stuff like that. Probably going to be a couple of grand there just for that thing. You can buy a nice second hand, use Tesla for probably 15 grand, something like that. And if you get that on a lease or a payment plan or something, you probably five or 600 bucks a month maybe. So renting, like I have now. Rent first, all the other expenses are high. You can always buy later. Yeah. Like it's something I'll do that when I can, when I have the correct documents, LLC documents, and then I'll do it. That's not a problem because that will help me build up a credit record as well. Because here you need a credit score for most things. So buying a car. Oh yeah. In the Western world, you need credit score. Yeah. So I'll do like a business bank account, hire someone, pay them a salary, buy a car, monthly payments on a car, utility bills. All of this kind of builds up a good credit score. And after about four, maybe three to six months, I'll have probably the minimum qualifying credit score to then apply for a mortgage or something. If I wanted to go down that road.  but yeah, all of the fees as far as like moving here, depending on what visa you get, can obviously really change the price, but let's just say you're, you're, let's just say you're gonna come here and just do six months, and then disappear again, and you don't have to apply for a visa, but you wanna live here, look at all, you know, you wanna get a lease on a house for six months, you wanna rent a car for six months, blah, blah, blah, then yeah, you're probably looking at, you know, you're gonna need to, 20 grand is gonna disappear real quick, and then after that, it's just general maintenance of living costs, which to be honest, is pretty much the same as Bangkok, believe it or not, like, yeah, the 20-found also, yeah, the bottom of the lifestyle is not expensive, and the phone, it's pretty affordable, it's just like the big things, you know, the deposit for the house, or getting a car, or doing the visa, that, you know, you had the clothes, and buying a new air fryer, and a rice cooker, that's not the expense, you know, that's a couple hundred bucks. That stuff is cheaper, if anything, like there's so many options, there's so much variety, the competition and prices, it's crazy, you know, you go to somewhere like Walmart, where you can just get everything all in one place, make a deals, great, you know, I built out this whole complete big L-shaped desk here, speakers, monitor, lights, microphones, cameras and stuff like that, did it all for, like, maybe 300-400 bucks, you know, Walmart is great, and my grocery shop in, as a bodybuilder in prep, I just did a big video on it, but I got a pretty big pool of groceries, that will last me easily a week, most of those things will last like a month, you know, like a big giant jar of kimchi or something, and I have a few couple of portions a day, you know, things like that, so yeah, if you're smart about your shopping, and you live like a bit of a bodybuilder, you're not blowing money on big restaurants, and you're not, if you go into the strip every day, or every week, Ah, you're broke, you're broke. Yeah, you're gonna spend some money, but if you're not, and you're living a regular lifestyle, that's totally fine, I think I spent like 150 bucks on grocery shopping, and got loads of stuff, and extra, and in with that bill, was the air fryer, $20 air fryer, or something like that, a little mini one just to keep me going, because when I move into a house, once this lease runs out, I'll move into a bigger house, so I don't want to buy anything that I can't just get rid of, because when I move into the house, I don't want to get the big double-sided air fryer, you know, and let's be honest, like these air fryer, they break down the $20 air fryer, breaks down as fast as a $100 air fryer, so like I got one on spare, at all times, I got one spare, one spare rice cooker, one spare air fryer, just in case they break down, I don't even need to go out to just grab it out of the closet, I'm like, okay, you can still make a meal, yeah, because it sucks, you know, if you're constantly cooking all the time, you know, that's what we do. Yeah, and the same as Thailand, you want to order out Uber Eats, there's loads of good prep-friendly options and stuff, I've done, I'm used to just doing my own meal prep, like we both do, right, we just cook all of our own stuff, but if you do like to order out and all of that, there's thousands and thousands of options. Yeah, you can easily get chunky over there if you want to. You can get pretty chunky, offseason's going to be filthy, it's going to be good, so I'm looking forward to that. But yeah, in the meantime, Vegas is this perfect little random, it's like its own thing, it seems to be very different from the way people describe it, it's this own little very different place, what, in the middle of a desert, surrounded by mountains, you seem very disconnected from the other woes of the world, everyone seems to be, no one really seems to be distracted by the non-suitable environment. It seems like very carefree, everybody's just doing their thing and the politics of the rest of the America doesn't really seem to affect. People are aware of it, but there's no one outside, there's no one getting emotional when protesting about it, you know, they're just like, I got busy, I've got things to do, you know, they'll just let things happen, whereas I think if you go to some of these more liberal cities, and there'll be a college, a whole college campus, you know, protesting, arguing with Charlie Kurt on a very regular basis, whereas here as you try, you want to go to the gym, do some cool stuff. Like Florida was pretty okay, I like Florida. Texas, Florida and Vegas, these are the three big goals you make, but everyone is just bust an ass, bustling and having a great time. Yeah, LA, Sacramento, Detroit, all right, it was okay, a bit boring, Columbus is okay, but yeah, most of the places that I've been to felt a bit dodged, to be honest. I think just the most like it in the most places in the world, right downtown cities, gonna have their rough parts, because I mean, even like Chase lives in Chicago, right? But the area he lives in, he really likes, it's really nice. Yeah. Then he goes downtown Chicago and everyone's never going to downtown. I think I've been to, well, I was only there for one day, so I saw his gym, and then we went out to dinner, and that was good. So you shielded me from all the, the downstown stuff. It's possible, yeah. And it went to go. I was in Sacramento for like one or two days to have the Mark Bell podcast, and where I stayed, it was also a little bit like, meh, and LA is just, I know, it's rowdy. It's very rowdy. Do you have any problems with the fires there, or that was non-existent? Just about dying down by the time we drove in. So just regular LA traffic. Apparently it was a little more chaotic than normal due to the fires, but I don't know that I can compare, so I can say. How is the LA Fit Expo compared to the Mr Olympia, because I do feel that it's like a different kind of crowd? About the same size, but the booths were not quite as extravagant and big. Everyone goes all in on the Olympia Expo, right? Because it's prestigious. The LA Fit Expo, apparently this is the best one few years, the last few years apparently crap since the flu. But this one apparently was much better. I thought it was all right, you know, walking around. It was okay to mingle, did a lot of sort of networking bumps into a good few people. The muscle contest show at the back of the area was pretty good. Not as big of an expo stage as the Olympia. But they had all that night fighting and stuff, you know, when they were dressed up in armor. Yeah, they had that there. They had boxing, Muay Thai, Jujitsu, Manchester. It had everything that the Olympia had. I think the Olympia actually, if I think about it, because there was two floors, Olympia was bigger and better and more extravagant. The LA Fit Expo was okay for an expo. It was okay. It's a little convention. Yeah, well. That was a little bit tight. You know, usually you walk around the expo and you can get a massive bag full of free energy drinks and protein bars and tested this. Only Olympia. Yeah, Olympia and the Arnold apparently are the only ones which really do that. Like these, they were given out like little shot glass tasters of stuff. And then it was like you and then like, okay, so you got to buy a case of 12 and I'm like, I just want a free drink. Like it's an expo. Like I'm not going to buy a whole bunch of this stuff and everyone here is affiliated with companies and stuff anyway. So the 90% like meeting Greek stuff, meeting, you know, things like that. Luckily we bought a lot of people on the way in. So we didn't understand that using their lines, bumps into Jay and Guy and Martin and they had a good chat with Hunter and the gas crew. So yeah, it was good. It was fun, but one day was enough. After one day we were like, do we really need to stay around for two days? Let's just drive back. Yeah. So we got some food, woke up early, drove back the next morning, skips out on a Sunday. Yeah. That was it? No, that's what I've heard. Yeah, I wouldn't fly from Thailand to go to the LA FedEx. Just the Mr. Olympia. Maybe someday the Arnold, but Olympia is easy, man. It's just the... Have you done the Arnold before? No, never been. I've been to Columbus when I was there with the Swiss Symposium. When I went there with Chicago and Alley, it was only a three-hour drive, I think, from Detroit. And then I went to Chicago to meet Chase and then I flew... Where the fuck did I go? Then I went to Vegas to pick up my wife and then I went to Florida and then we went to LA. It's all over the country. Yeah, I was at LA and then Sacramento and then we went home. Yeah. It was craziness. Big trip. But yeah, I think the Arnold, what I hear is the big, the big one. Right? As far as I suppose are concerned, it's like, they're like, it's going to be chaos. Be ready. It's going to be... That's like three days also. Yeah, I think it actually starts officially on the 27th, the same day as the amateur show. And it runs all the way through to, yeah, 27th, 28th, February's the 28th, right? And then the first, second. So yeah, four days total. Yeah. Yeah, I fly back on the second. But got a funny feeling. I might need to extend it by a day. I can see. You can see what the other boys are doing or go to a city close by that you want to see? Yeah, I think there's something going on the second. So I don't want to fly out too early and miss anything, but of course I might be exhausted by then after all the competing. And then the expo... You will be, man. It was two days at the Mr. Olympia. At the next day, we didn't do anything after the expo. I was like... We're linking up and doing dinners and stuff with the booth crew and then all the RP crew. And just being a fanboy at the expo, watching the main show, that's a big lineup. Who have you got? I think Samson's just going to walk in there with me. Samson, Samson, Samson, Robin. Yeah, Samson. Tough to be. Tough to be, but it's an impressive physique. Yeah, I wonder if Derek switched to Chris Ossito, but he doesn't look as crispy as he did before. His legs are bigger, but it looks not four weeks out based on pictures that I saw. But it's Chris. Yeah. A lot can happen in a week, right? He just knows how to do it. This is the matter of dioretics. He's going to, he'll get it right. So I'm sure that everyone will look awesome and it'll be an epic show. That's a good lineup. It's going to be good. Yeah, you got my ticket for Jared, right? Yeah, he was happy. So, yeah, now I still got Andrea's ticket. I don't know if she's going to make it over in time. Got her interviewers on tomorrow. So fingers crossed, she doesn't get the idea. If she does, she does, we'll deal with it. It sucks, but it's what it is. Me time, I'm in prep anyway, so she's not missing much apart from my ticket. Yeah, you'll find a way. Otherwise, you just wait until you got all your paperwork sorted for the business and then register your marriage and get her on that way, you know? Yeah, it'll be right. There's a couple of ground to get her over on that kind of visa side of things, but we'll see how it goes. In the meantime, stay focused, stay locked in, get peeled, get on stage as many times as I can before it's time to go hard and warm up. Get massive donuts. It's so easy to get fat in America, my God. It is, but it's also easy to stay fit and healthy. Yeah, because you have a lot of ground to get options. There's so many. There are so many good healthy alternatives, so there's no excuse. All those spices that I bought, they all were like riddled with sugar. I should have read the labels. Are they? So yeah, I had to throw them away, man. It's they were like five grams of sugar per seven grams. I'm like, what the hell? That probably didn't help you and got issues at the time. No, no, so I did a food allergy test and it turns out I'm allergic for a few foods, including egg whites. So I took those out. Like the best food in the planet, you know, egg whites. And every time I have breakfast anywhere in the world, it's eggs. So of course I've digested the issues the rest of the day. Doesn't matter what comes after that. It's fucked. So I took the egg whites and the whole eggs out and now it's perfect. I can pull vacuums at the end of the day again. Yeah, that's good. At least you got that one solved as well. You completely rebuilt yourself from the ground up in like four weeks. Well, yeah, that's what happens when I leave. Yeah, I leave and then I get out of here. And then I got a fresh start. No, I just needed to get it all done. It's like usually around the end of the year I do like full checkups. And yeah, so now I'm still waiting for my stool examination. Should come in soon also. Did a food allergy test, like stool examination, right? From the poop. So that was a lot of fun scoping your own shit in a container. And then I did all these surgeries. Yeah, I'm done with hospitals for a while, man. So I got it. Two weeks like every other day. When I was sick, I go out and celebrate and over here. I'll video call you. Sure. Join in online for the ceremonies. Mr. Cigar dates. And the wife always laughs. What are you doing? So I'm calling my friends and smoking cigar on the porch. The good stuff. Yeah, man. Keep me posted on your prep. Good luck. I will. Yeah. Enjoy holding down the fort for me when I'm not there. And then I'll join in soon. Soon enough. I'm wrapping the muscle nomads hard out here. They get one more. We will give them more. Now that I've got an actual place to sit down and record and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. We can get back into a bit more of a routine. There you go. Cool, man. I'll keep you. Maybe we'll do another one like a week out. So you can have a good luck. Yeah, sounds good. Don't forget. For Z Cup Day, a little prep update. And then again, after the show, hopefully, celebrating some decent placings. I hope so too, man. Keep me posted. We'll do. All right. Cool. I'll talk to you soon, yeah? Take it easy. We'll see you next time. Keep it fast. Yeah, I will. Take it easy. Ciao.