 so you like that massive masculine skin-splitting, make-up-up-superstack video I dropped a while back, but now you're so small and hypotensive that it's starting to affect your stamina and endurance during your strenuous high-volume sets to failure and beyond. Don't worry, vigorously, if your online stare daddy has a solution for that, welcome to the endless endurance, quick silver flash, Usain Bolt, Cheetah, Colibri, Kit, Attack Mode, Turbo Stack, Deep Dive Video, where I'll teach you exactly how to breathe through your workouts without gasping for air, not even once, right after the disclaimer. Vigor Steve here, you guys remember all of the Optimize and George Deep Dive videos I dropped a while back, right? Or the Ultimate Mixed Martial Arts Drugstack video, or the Cartering Deep Dive, or the Methylene Blue Deep Dive, or the Terinnable Deep Dive, or the Boldenone Versus Your Kidneys Deep Dives, or the Unconventional Pre-Workout Video. Yeah, I got a lot more where those came from, baby. In this video, I'll pre-select compounds which are known to increase endurance and stamina in strength athletes, whether you're a bodybuilder, a powerlifter, or a strongman, or a CrossFit athlete, you know, scrap that, CrossFit. If you're a beast and you want to breathe through your workouts, especially during high-volume strenuous hypertrophy sets, then this is the video you need to watch. First things first, nasal strips. You're welcome. And this could be a whole separate video just by itself, so here's a tool I didn't read. Nasal strips helps you open up the nasal passages, which increases the perception of oxygenation. You reduce the air resistance and allow for more airflow through the nostrils and through the lungs, and this allows for more oxygen delivery into the lungs, which could potentially enhance your athletic performance during strenuous exercise. You can give it a try right now. You open up your nostrils, you breathe in deeply, do it with me now. I mean, you see how nice that feels? Imagine if you have a nasal strip on top of your nose 24-7 along for this increased sense of oxygenation and potentially enhancing your stamina and endurance. During the workout, I can highly recommend it. I do it most of the day already. Like I mentioned in the Pumpage Protocols video, a carbohydrate-rich off-season diet is infinitely better for your pump as well as for endurance and stamina compared to a carbohydrate-restricted cutting-phase diet or a carbohydrate-excluded diet like a carnivore diet or ketogenic diet, even though a carnivore diet and a ketogenic diet might still enhance your endurance if you leverage the performance in anti-drugs and into workout nutrition intelligently. Now, if you're solely after methods to boost your endurance and stamina that a massive masculine super pump might be somewhat counterproductive as it prevents metabolite clearance to a certain extent, locking everything into the muscle, preventing the free flow from and to the bloodstream of oxygen-rich and nutrient-rich blood as well as the removal of stamina-blunting metabolites. So you might want to lower the pump to the minimum pleasurable amount for the maximum amount of endurance or vice versa, right? You can't have both. You're going to have to choose either or. I did you guys a solid and creative endurance stack for diets based around carbohydrates and diets based around fats as a primary energy source and these protocols can vary quite a bit between carbohydrate intake and fat intake. So make sure you use the timestamps to skip ahead to your favorite diet section and whip out your notepad and start doodling away as a spoon feeds you the details. Again, you'll have to design your endless endurance, insert your favorite speed runner here, turbo stack to your dietary needs and restrictions. There isn't a cookie cut away to optimize your endurance. Enjoy some oxygenating self experimentation in the process. As always, you need to know which compounds, drugs, medications and supplements you need to avoid as they might diminish your endurance quite dramatically, making everybody wonder if you're on trim-blown gasping for air as you're loading plates on a machine you haven't even done a working set on yet snoring while awake. No thanks. So these compounds you should avoid angiotensically reverting enzyme inhibitors, most notably anapryl as it lowers hematocrit and red blood cell count observed at dose just between 2.5 milligrams to 10 milligrams daily. So if you suffer from high hematocrit and red blood cell count, anapryl might be able to keep that in range, but they're fear after endurance, especially if you start stacking other erythropoietic compounds in this endurance enhancing super stack, then anapryl is an angiotensically reverting enzyme you should avoid. And the angiotensin receptor blocker, telmasarcten modulates hematocrit and red blood cell count. It might raise it at a low and effective dose of let's say 20 milligrams per day, but it might prevent it from getting too high at 80 milligrams daily. And again, if you're after endurance and you want to bring your hematocrit up to a little bit outside of the reference range, then a higher dose of telmasarcten is not recommended. And beta blockers I would avoid because it reduces maximal heart rate, cardiac output and impair VO2 max to a certain extent in usually a dose dependent fashion. Now besides the Nibivol, which selectively blocks the beta one, adrenergic receptors, but stimulates the beta three adrenergic receptors, resulting in some sort of potential performance enhancing benefit. We'll address that a little bit later on. Nibivol might be okay. The low and effective dose of let's say 2.5 milligrams to five milligrams daily should not impair your endurance in any way shape or form, but the other beta blockers I would generally avoid if you're after maximum endurance. Same goes for statins, right? They might cause muscle pain and weakness, aka myopathy and reduce mitochondrial function even impairing overall energy production within skeletal muscle. And then it includes red yeast rice, which is a naturally occurring statin found in mold fermented rice. I would avoid these two type two diabetic medications, including glucophage and PI glitazone, which reduce glucose production in the liver, impair glucose uptake within skeletal muscle, even though it is known to improve insulin sensitivity, right? You want the maximum amount of carbohydrates to end up in skeletal muscle. If you follow a carbohydrate rich diet, a metformin or PI glitazone might actually impair that process and have negative effect on the mitochondria as well. Obviously, I would avoid alcohol as it dehydrates the body, impairs glycogen storage, reduces motor coordination, chronic use even decreases testosterone levels, even though most of us will have a way around that testosterone impairing side effects of alcohol, especially the ones that contain a boatload of phytoestrogens, right? Beer included, unfortunately. So it impairs muscle recovery and growth. Alcohol is a no goal if you're after the maximum endurance in stamina, including the pump. Alcohol just avoided altogether unless it's your birthday. Smoking, cigarettes, cigars, pipe, vaking, marjuana, etc. Any kind of smoking, anything that you inhale in the lungs, whether that is a very high temperature from smoking, marjuana, cigars, etc. Or you're vaping or using a vaporizer, right? You're still getting all these particles in your lungs that might cause a vasoconstriction and then over time might impair your athletic performance quite dramatically. Depressed of recreational drugs like marjuana, again, creatam, opioids, painkillers, psychedelics, etc. Most of these acts as a sedative and impair alertness, reaction time and motor coordination. So if you're after endurance and you want to have good hand-eye coordination, especially if you do a lot of free weights or in the case of strong men, you have to throw all kinds of heavy objects all over the place. And obviously, depressive recreational drugs, not a good idea. Now caffeine, there's something to say for its vasodilating properties and a low and effective dose, let's say between 100 milligrams and 250 milligrams pre-workout taken occasionally for an acute effect. And the vasoconstrictive effects are usually observed beyond 400 milligrams in a single serving taken before a workout, but you build up a little bit of a tolerance over time. So maybe in the beginning, you can get away with 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams caffeine pre-workout. And then if you start to take that more often, then you might need to bump it up to 400 milligrams, 500 milligrams to get the same vasodilating effects, because you build up a tolerance, you don't get any kind of vasoconstriction. And vasoconstriction is not something that you're after if you want to optimize your endurance. And like I mentioned in the methylene blue deep dive, methylene blue induces vasoconstriction at dosages beyond one milligram per one kilogram of body weight when taken subcutaneously or intravenously, daily or beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight orally or sublingually, daily. So these are the dosages you don't have to worry about. People usually restrict themselves to five milligrams, 10 milligrams, 25 milligrams, methylene blue at maximum, in which case you should not get any vasoconstrictive effects. Methylene blue is known to increase erythropoiesis at dosages between 0.1 to one milligram per one kilogram of body weight taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily or 0.5 milligrams to two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when taken orally or sublingually. Now most of us take methylene blue orally, right, whether that's in a pill form or in a liquid form, reconstitute it to a certain extent. I'm drinking that beautiful blue liquid with a straw obviously, so it passes your teeth and your cheeks and your tongue, so you don't have a BJ joke for any kind of blue character in the sci-fi space. So at low and effective dosages, it might actually increase erythropoiesis and it inhibits erythropoiesis at, again, the dosages which are on the screen, so those dosage ranges you need to avoid. So again, a low and effective dose of let's say five milligrams, 10 milligrams, even 25 milligrams, methylene blue should not cause any vasoconstriction and might actually improve erythropoiesis, especially when you combine that with other erythropoietic compounds like anabolic energenic steroids or erythropoietin, EPO, for example, right, drug interactions do take place, make sure you do your research. So if you keep those moderates, I think you'll get a performance enhancing benefit, but if you start megadosing the methylene blue, which is something I don't recommend that you shouldn't be doing definitely, then your endurance and stamina will definitely be impaired and you'll notice that effect quite rapidly as your hematica drops, your red blood cell count drops, and the vasoconstriction is so severe that you start getting nosebleeds, just thinking about doing heavy squats. And with that out of the way, there are a few compounds, drugs, medications, and supplements that you might already be taking that offer a synergistic effect with the entire endurance stack that we're going to discuss in this video. Keep in mind that many of these lower blood pressure to a certain extent, some of them actually blood pressure medications after all, and many of the endurance enhancing performance enhancing drugs also lower blood pressure quite substantially in a dose dependent fashion. So there might be some drug interactions here. Make sure you do additional research, use your Omron 7 to keep track of your blood pressure frequently when you start stacking all these compounds together and then include alpha adrenergic antagonists, also known as alpha blockers. Many of these are actually benyprocid hyperplasia medications needed to improve urine flow. But you see here Robocene and Jo-Himbine are also alpha blockers and at higher doses, like I mentioned in the Pumpage Protocols videos, at doses beyond the nine milligrams in single serving might actually have vasoconstrictive effects. So if you want to use these or you're using these to stimulate fat loss, you might get vasodilation at three milligrams per serving. But if you start wrapping up the dose and you start stacking it with other compounds that we're going to discuss, you might actually get vasoconstrictive effects. And like I mentioned before, an abivalol, a beta blocker might actually enhance your endurance and stamina by acting as a selective beta adrenergic receptor modulator. It blocks the beta one adrenergic receptors, but it activates the beta three adrenergic receptors. This increases nitric oxide levels in the bloodstream, causing vasodilation. And this enhances nutrient and oxygen delivery to skeletal muscle, obviously, especially when you start stacking that with other compounds that have vasodilating effects. And by keeping your heart rate in an effective range, it prevents excessive blood flow and prevents your heart rate from reaching critically high heart rates. And this might have some potential performance enhancing benefit. Now personally, I only use an abivalol during the offseason, but my body weight reaches over 110 kilograms, 142 pounds, give or take. When I start to notice that my endurance and performance and stamina in the gym is somewhat reduced, also because the working weights and the volume is increased. So I need to use an abivalol to reduce the cardiac strain and conserve energy during the offseason, but my body weight generally is a little bit higher. And this way my performance is sustained or actually enhanced. You can have a synergistic effect with these angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. The details are on the screen, excluding a nalapril. You can have a synergistic effect with angiotensin receptor blockers, including telbasarctum. But again, at higher dosages, it modulates your hematocritin and ribosocount, preventing it from getting any higher. If that's something you're after, you can have a synergistic effect with these calcium channel blockers, modulating your blood pressure. You can have a synergistic effect with dipeptidylpeptidys4 inhibitors, preventing the breakdown of growth factors, neurotopic factors, especially erythropoietin. So if you're taking erythropoietin compounds or erythropoietin itself, which might have a little bit of a negative drug interaction, and now your hematocritin ribosocount is really, really too high, and now you need to donate every couple of days because it's running rampant, right? So practice some caution when combining dipeptidylpeptidys4 inhibitors with actual recombinant erythropoietin or a variant thereof. But dipeptidylpeptidys4 inhibitors, even though the medical inserts of these compounds don't specifically mention that an increased hematocrit or increased ribosocount is a side effect of these medications, they are known, they do prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and other growth factors, which should improve your endurance and stamina, especially in a cocktail like this. And then everybody's engorging favorites, the phosphatidys3 type 5 inhibitors, including veyagor, seales, and levitra, just avoid higher dosages. If you're after the pump, you're probably taking 5 to 10 milligram seales upon waking or a good dose of veyagor or levitra pre-workout, but I would recommend a much lower dose of seales, which again is longer lasting, let's say 2.5 milligrams, 5 milligrams per day at maximum, because otherwise the pump is so severe that it might actually have an hindering effect on your overall endurance by locking all of these stamina-impairing metabolites within skeletal muscle, and now your endurance is basically in the gutter. So a low and effective dose of seales, I would say is acceptable in this endless endurance stack, but I would avoid daily higher dose or more frequent administrations of these phosphatidys3 type 5 inhibitors, otherwise you might have diminishing effects on your endurance. And then you might get a synergistic effect with cardotone, hardthorn berry extract, garlic extract, or beetroot extract, or beetroot juice, which all are taken for cardiovascular health and have vasodilating properties contributing to blood pressure management by increasing mostly nitric oxide levels in the bloodstream. I don't take these to improve your endurance and stamina, but if you're already taking these, then these might offer synergistic effect with the entire endless endurance stack that we're going to discuss shortly. First, let's start optimizing rib blood cell production and increasing the oxygen-caron capacity of the hemoglobin contained within the red blood cells, increasing a matricrate to let's say the top of the reference range at around 54%, or maybe slightly over that up to 56%, depending on your individual risk tolerance, assuming your platelets stay within normal parameters and you're fully hydrated at all times. This should boost your endurance and stamina quite dramatically and substantially already. So here are the erythropoiesis stimulating and oxygen-caron capacity enhancing compounds. You could start using altitude masks, living at a high altitude, that's a little bit more difficult obviously, or using a hyperbaric altitude chamber to increase your rib blood cell count and raise your hematocrit over time. Vitamin A, whether that's beta-carotene or retinol, enhances iron mobilization in the corporation in the hemoglobin. Vitamin B9 is necessary for the production and maturation of red blood cells. Vitamin B12, like vitamin B9, is essential and necessary for the production and maturation of red blood cells. Vitamin C enhances the absorption of non-hemoiron found in plant sources. I would still stick with hemoiron coming from animal meat sources, particularly beef or beef liver, very rich in highly bioavailable iron, which is needed for the hemoglobin that carries the oxygen around. And vitamin C is a very potent antioxidant and should take care of the free radicals when you're boosting your endurance and stamina to the next level. Copper is an essential trace mineral that plays a vital role in the synthesis of hemoglobin and iron is a main active component of hemoglobin, allowing for oxygen to bind to hemoglobin to be transported through the bloodstream within the red blood cells. Grylamide, elite model of vitamin, contains most of these micronutrients and efficacious dosages, besides retinol, vitamin A and iron, which you can then get from Grylamide to beef liver capsules. But again, these kinds of supplements, whether that's a multivitamin or desiccated beef liver capsules, are not a replacement for a nutritious diet containing both a lot of micronutrients that help with erythropoiesis and bring a red blood cell count up to the maximum efficacious range as well as your hematocytes. You need to eat healthy first and then supplement a multivitamin and beef liver or eat actual liver on top of your diet to make sure that the synthesis of hemoglobin red blood cells, etc., is completely optimized. Don't rely on supplements. They're a supplement. That's why they're called a supplement. Get your diet sorted first and then enjoy the fruits of your labor by having a limited endurance and stamina in the gym. Look into Pico II as part of your pre-workout ritual, especially in combination with nasal strips and methylene blue, those three together. Nasal strips, Pico II, methylene blue, oxygenation, galore. You didn't even increase your hematocytes yet. Pico II is a proprietary blend of cordyceps, reishi, king trumpets, shiitake, limescane, and turkey tail. Mushroom extracts and it provides a unique oxygenating effect that might help with breathing and improve endurance and stamina to a certain extent, especially when you start stacking that with pre-workout or inter-workout formulations or nasal strips or methylene blue for that matter. Just keep in mind that most vanilla over-the-counter pre-workout formulations don't contain Pico II because apparently it ruins the flavor. That's not something I've noticed. While taking 4,000 milligrams Pico II alongside my Grylamote Nitric or another pre-workout that I like to take, some people find the taste to be appalling. There might be some tablets available of Pico II that you can dose that up to 2,000 milligrams or 4,000 milligrams pre-workout. I just mix it and do my shake and be about my business. Just keep in mind that when you start reading the ingredients of over-the-counter pre-workout formulations that it's very rare to see Pico II contained within, so you need to supplement that in yourself. I talk about methylene blue, right? The dosage range of the efficacious effects regarding erythropoiesis are on the screen. 5 milligrams, 10 milligrams, 25 milligrams even might increase erythropoiesis-raising red blood cell count in a matter cut to a certain extent when you start stacking methylene blue with the other compounds that are part of this segment of this video. Myoenosteal tri-pyrphosphate enhances the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin found within red blood cells. It offers some neutropic and endurance benefits. You might need to start with a loading phase of 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams daily for two to three weeks, and then you can drop it down to a maintenance phase because all of the hemoglobin within red blood cells are now saturated with myoenosteal tri-pyrphosphate. The oxygen-carrying capacity is enhanced, and thus you can drop down to a maintenance dose of let's say 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams three times weekly. This has very pronounced effects on your oxygenation. It doesn't increase red blood cell count or hematocytes, but the overall oxygen-carrying capacity, again, ITTP with Pico-2 nasal strips and methylene blue, it's amazing. This stack for endurance is already amazing, and we're not even halfway into this video. And then you have these erythropoietic anabolic anagenic steroids to choose from, which all increase erythropoietin production through the anagen receptor. And whether you go with the bouldinone and desanate aka aquepoise or methanol anethate aka primobolon or rheumabolon or oral methanol acetate, primobolon S or rheumabolon S, or oral or injectable oxymethylone aka anadrol, at least with primobolon S and anadrol, those are used medically at the efficacy dosages which are on the screen. These dosage ranges are used medically in the context of anemia where either primobolon S or anadrol are prescribed to increase red blood cell count by stimulating erythroporesis through the anagen receptor. And otherwise, the efficacy dosages for the injectables, including aquepoise and primobolon, are on the screen where you generally see that beyond, let's say, 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams weekly, especially at higher dosages, red blood cell count in the market, start to increase. Just keep in mind that when you start escalating the dose of anabolic anagenic steroids upwards to a pumpage dosage, just that the pump obviously can be diminishing on your overall endurance, the removal of metabolic waste products might be impaired. And like I mentioned in the Optimize Endurance Deep Dive videos and the Ultimate Mixed Martial Arts Drugstack video, more is not better when it comes to anabolic anagenic steroids. And whether that's aquepoise, primobolon, primobolon, and s-oranadrol, less is more if you're solely after endurance benefits in combination with a testosterone-based, obviously. But if you're really after endurance, I would just forgo these anabolic anagenic steroids and look for other methods to optimize erythroporesis like erythropoietin. For example, and personally, I don't really have any experience with the various versions of recombinant erythropoietin or methoxypolyethylene glycol, epoietin beta, better known as Mercera, or darbapoietin alpha, better known as RNS. The medical dosages are on the screen. Please do additional research if you use erythropoietic compounds, which are peptide-based derivatives of erythropoietin being produced indulgenously. If you can't get the job done regarding your hematocrit and robots account with the aforementioned compounds, and these are always alternatives. Personally, I don't have any experience. These are the medical dosages, and a medical dosages might be too high regarding what you're after because you get a synergistic effect with the other compounds you might be taking, and you're not sick. You don't suffer from chemotherapy or chronic kidney disease or anemia from surgery. Please make sure you do additional research if you're interested in using these compounds if you're a strength athlete, because there's not so many strength athletes who have actually got some experience with erythropoietin or variants. All I know is that you should avoid combining these kinds of compounds with dipeptidopeptides for inhibitors, because they actually prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and its variants. And thus, you might get a more heightened response regarding your hematocrit and robots account. Now, again, you're donating basically every couple of days because your hematocrit is like 62%, and that's not what you're after, trust me. And these two might offer a synergistic effect with the other compounds that we're discussing, because they might either increase erythropoiesis or enhance the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin. I don't have any personal experience with these two compounds, so the medical dosages are on the screen and some warnings are put in place wherever applicable. Metapivot is an allosteric activator of the peruvate kinase, an enzyme crucial for energy metabolism within red blood cells, by enhancing peruvate kinase activity and improves ATP production and red blood cell energy homeostasis, leading to an increased red blood cell lifespan and reduced hemolysis. So instead of having an average lifespan of, let's say, 80 to 100 days of red blood cells, it might be enhanced to 120 days, and then the erythropoietic effect of all the other compounds that you're taking is compounding, because the turnover of red blood cells is reduced. And since metapivot activates the peruvate kinase enzymes, it's probably best not to combine it with isopropamine dichloroacetate, abbreviated to DATA, more on that a little bit later on. It's one of my favorite injectable pre-workouts regarding endurance and stamina, because you might have a synergistic overlap, and then the ATP synthesis within red blood cells or systemically in the body might be heightened to an extent that you get tremendous side effects. I can't find much scientific evidence regarding this particular drug interaction of metapivot and DATA, so please proceed with caution, choose either or. And then there's Filgastrim, a synthetic analog of granulocyte colony stimulating factor, which stimulates the production of neutrophils primarily, but indirectly contributes to red blood cell production, as Filgastrim enhances bone marrow activity and improves overall hematopoiesis. Again, I have no experience with either of these compounds, so please do additional research in case this sparks your interest. Okay, great, we got the oxygen into the muscle. Now let's get the lactate out of the muscle, which would otherwise cause tremendous acidity within skeletal muscle and impair your endurance and stamina, making you tap out or gas out well within the first round. You have the following lactate removing compounds, including elcitriline, that also boosts nitric oxide production, helps with vasodilation, and allows for lactate to exit skeletal muscle and be excreted from the body. Curl them out to the OG pre-workout, and nitric and base and lightening all contain elcitriline at the efficacy dosages of 4,000 milligrams to 5,000 milligrams per one single scoop. Personally, if I were to go with endurance, I would rather go with grill mode base and then spike that with 4,000 milligrams peak O2, and then considering beta-alanine on top of all of that, which increases muscle carnesine stores. Carnesine acts as a lactate buffer and reduces the acidity of skeletal muscle. The problem with beta-alanine is it causes butthole itches and peristhesia to the point you literally want to tear all of your skin off because it's so itchy. Still, none of the grill mode pre-workouts contain beta-alanine, so you need to supplement that in accordingly. If you do so desire, whether you go with one single scoop or two scoops, a dose of 2,000 milligrams to 5,000 milligrams beta-alanine in a single serving or splitting that up, let's say 500 milligrams to 1,000 milligrams with meals daily, it doesn't really matter when you take your beta-alanine, but even at a low dose of 500 milligrams with every meal, you get peristhesia, butthole itches, and a full flush, nice in effect every single time. So I'd rather have it once per day, pre-workout or intra-workout, then multiple times per day in an attempt to increase muscle carnesine stores, or you can inject your carnesine instead and bypass the butthole itches altogether. Injectable carnesine is found in AA ultrar instinct at 200 milligrams per 1 milliliter, and MA focus also contains L-carnesine at 100 milligrams per 1 milliliter. Now regarding the other ingredients, AA ultrar instinct would probably give a lot of vasodilation because it contains adenosine triphosphate and adenosine monophosphate, whereas MA focus mostly contains carnitine and astheal L-carnitine, both contain choline, but I would say that MA focus is a little bit better for endurance if you follow a ketogenic diet, because carnitine and astheal L-carnitine obviously help with fatty acid mobilization and absorption into the mitochondria, and AA ultrar instinct would mostly help with vasodilation to the point you get a significant massive masculine super pump, which might actually hinder your endurance. So you can experiment with both and see which one you like the most. You can look into toriin, either split up at a thousand milligrams with meals, let's say four to five times daily, or a single serving of toriin pre-workout. Three thousand to five thousand milligrams toriin is known to diminish the pump as toriin regulates osmotic pressure between intercellar and exocellar space, so this allows for a lot of excretion diffusion of metabolic waste products that would otherwise impair your stamina, improves the regulation of electrolytes within the intercellar and exocellar space as well as the delivery of oxygen-rich and nutrient-rich blood into the cells itself. But again, if you overdo the toriin pre-workout, it diminishes the pump, but then as a result of that, it enhances the stamina quite substantially. So it really depends on what you're after. Personally, I take a thousand milligrams toriin with every single meal up to five thousand milligrams toriin over the day, because I found that it diminishes the pump too much if I take it all pre-workout. But if that's what you're after to boost your endurance, then go right ahead, five thousand milligrams toriin pre-workout, and you'll notice that the lactate removal, especially in combination with elcitrulline and beta-alanine, is significantly enhanced, but the pump might be diminished unless that's exactly what you're after. Antaurine stacks very well together with magnesium, which helps with lactate removal from skeletal muscle and other hydrogen ions out of skeletal muscle, so those two go hand in hand. Basically, if you're after endurance, the dosage range are on the screen. You can look at two branched chain amino acids or essential amino acids, which could potentially aid in lactate removal from skeletal muscle. A grilomote essential amino acid has about 12,000 milligrams of amino per one single scoop, with a general two-to-one-to-one branched chain amino acid formula of leucine, isoleucine, and valine, and half a scoop pre-workout or intra-workout should give you more than enough lactate removing benefits. They have sodium bicarbonate, the OG pre-workout well before any kind of vanilla over-the-counter pre-workout formula came to the market. Athletes were using sodium bicarbonate, aka big  acetic acid, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, pre-workout for this acid buffer in the bloodstream to go down for free-flowing lactate from skeletal muscle into the bloodstream, optimizing endurance overall. Timing is everything when it comes to baking soda and this is something you can't really do if you take intra-workout, whether that's carbohydrate-based or fatty acid-based. If you reduce the acidity of your stomach to the point you prevent the breakdown and the digestion of your intra-workout, then you end up vomiting everything out during the first set of anything that's considered high-volume or strenuous because it's literally sitting there in your stomach, irritating your stomach lining in your stomach wall and then it comes out through the esophagus, straight out projectiles, and it's completely undigested and it might be bubbling with CO2 from the sodium bicarbonate interaction with your stomach acidity. So, do some experimentation and if you do intra-workout and sodium bicarbonate, that's basically a recipe for projectile vomiting, don't do it, I've been there. I've learned the hard way so you don't have to. And if you absolutely must improve lactate removal from skeletal muscle but you don't want to sacrifice your intra-workout or you don't like the butthole itches from beta-alene and you don't want to inject carnicine, then well, you can always look into tromethamine but that's administered through intravenous administration, not for the faint of heart. Tromethamine is a buffering agent used to treat metabolic acidosis. It works by accepting excess hydrogen atoms and reducing the acidity of the bloodstream allowing for lactate to freely clear from skeletal muscle and thus improve endurance in stamina quite substantially through those pathways. But again, it's not commonly used in the bodybuilding space, it's usually reserved for endurance athletes like cyclists for example during the Tour de France but it's also something worth looking into. Again, if you absolutely must have the absolute maximum lactate clearance from skeletal muscle, you don't like beta-alene, injectable carnicine or taking baking soda because well, you prefer intra-workout. Instead, during your strenuous, endless endurance stamina workouts, you can either keep energy production going by taking carbohydrates or fatty acids pre-workout or intra-workout, skip to the section you're most interested in by using the time stamps down below. If you're interested in carbohydrates and metabolism-optimizing compounds, then obviously you can go with intra-workout carbohydrates either that's waxi-mase, cluxer dextrin, also known as high-branch cyclic dextrin, dextrose, fructrose or deribos. Grilla mode contains most of these besides waxi-mase. Again, waxi-mase always gives me some indigestion so I would avoid that. But a grill-of-mind intra contains cluxer dextrin, dextrose, fructose and deribos and then you can take that pre-workout or intra-workout. In case you didn't know, all of these carbohydrates forms contribute to ATP synthesis and make sure that your energy during the workout is longer lasting. Then you can combine that with glycerol, whether that's hydroprime or monosterite powder or liquid glycerol. Grilla-mind has liquid glycerol and grilla-mind hydroprime. I also found the grill-of-mind nitric but if you went with base or lightening or the OGP that doesn't contain glycerol powder, then you would obviously need to supplement glycerol in, whether that's liquid or powder, up to your preference. I would highly recommend you combine your carbohydrates or your glycerol with the hydration formula in the form of electrolytes to make sure that the blood volume and the delivery of nutrients to skeletal muscle that's highly metabolically active is just continuous. Then in combination with toriene, obviously, these electrolytes and the nutrients can all freeze and the nutrients can all freely diffuse into skeletal muscle and the metabolic waste products can freely be removed, especially if you reduce the acid buffer in the bloodstream with the aforementioned compound. Electrolyte is a no-brainer. Grilla-mold hydration contains everything at efficacious dosage ranges in the correct ratios. Whether you take one-sided pre-workout or one-sided pre-workout or one-sided inter-workout or maybe even two, depending on how much endurance you need and how much you sweat, you can decide that for yourself. I take one pre- and usually one intra, especially if I start sweating buckets with longer-lasting workouts in a gym without air conditioning. You can look into a Maldronate, assuming you have a carbohydrate-rich diet, you don't care about fat loss or fatty acid oxidation, and you don't really eat so much dietary fat because Maldronate modulates cellular energy metabolism by inhibiting carnitine-pulmitol-transferase-and-gamma-butyrobotane-dioxinase enzymes, which are responsible for carnitine synthesis. So by taking Maldronate, carnitine synthesis really goes down. That's why you shouldn't really combine Maldronate with supplemental carnitine. I mean, what is the body to do? You inhibit the synthesis of carnitine with Maldronate and these are supplementing with oral or injectable carnitine. I mean, it's mixed signals, right? Don't do that. You shouldn't really combine Maldronate with fat burners like carderine or Jo-him-bind or obiuterol, clonbuterol, or murebrychron because Maldronate shifts energy production to carbohydrates exclusively and then fatty acid oxidation is basically completely impaired because carnitine stores are non-existent. That's why it's advised to limit Maldronate cycles to up to 21 days and then you take some time off. Then you can start supplementing carnitine in to really restore your carnitine stores and shift carbohydrate metabolism to fatty acid oxidation for adequate ATP synthesis, obviously, but then the fatty acids don't accumulate within skeletal muscle and then you might have mitochondrial impairment for longer periods because it's really full with fatty acids. So limit your Maldronate exposure to a maximum of 21 days with the dosage protocols that are on the screen and then don't combine that with carnitine, carderine, Jo-him-bind, rossin, obiuterol, clonbuterol, murebrychron, or any kind of fat burner or any kind of light-politic agent because, again, fatty acid oxidation is completely non-existent during the time you take Maldronate. Then, well, if you follow a carbohydrate-rich diet, you could consider insulin or IGF-1 for that matter, but I leave that protocol entirely up to you because insulin and IGF-1 might enhance the pump and then you get diminishing returns on your endurance and stamina. Still, something like a long-acting insulin with a carbohydrate-rich diet is just to open up skeletal muscle and allow for continuous uptake of nutrients including glucose, especially in combination with Maldronate, which makes you burn through all of the glucose quite readily because, well, you shift energy production primarily to glucose. That's a very nice potent stack, but you might need to do additional research. It's not something I can cookie-cut for you because I don't know your diet. The insulin intake or IGF-1 intake is very diet-dependent. It brings us to optimizing fatty acid metabolism to improve your endurance and stamina, which obviously works better if you follow a ketogenic diet or carnivore diet, even if that's during the offseason in a steep caloric sharp loss and fat intake is somewhat elevated beyond baseline in order to make a good amount of progress. Or any kind of fat loss diet where carbohydrate intake is somewhat restricted and you're relying on these fatty acids coming from adipose tissue. And to bring it back a little bit, the aforementioned carbohydrate metabolism-optimizing compounds are obviously more practical during the offseason when you're literally inhaling carbs all day long. Duh! So let's discuss the fatty acid metabolism optimizing compounds going forward. You can go with medium-chain glygris slides, either oil or powdered MCT, either pre-workout or intra-workout, depending on what you prefer and how you digest that. Or you can look into beta-hydroxybutyrate salts, whether that's BHB sodium or BHB potassium, BHB magnesium, and calcium. It entirely depends on you. You have several formulations. We just use one of these BHB salts or a combination thereof. You can buy both powdered MCT or powdered beta-hydroxybutyrate salts on iHerb. I've linked a couple recommendations down below in case you want to give those a try. I would say that MCT, whether that's oil or powder, is a little bit better for energy levels. And beta-hydroxybutyrate is mostly for focus because these are ketone salts and they mostly go to the brain where they help with cognitive benefits, obviously, and it keeps you dialed in, laser-focused, even during strenuous sets when you're fully fat-adapted. So go with either or. I would not combine both, but if you want to do a combination of both, that's entirely up to you. Let us know down below how you feel regarding the benefits of your endurance and stamina. And whether you go with median-chain-track glycerides or beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts, you can mix both either or with glycerol, whether that's powdered glycerol coming from hydroprime or monostereate, glycerol powder or liquid glycerol. That's entirely up to you. Again, you can decide to go with pre-workout glycerol or intra-workout glycerol. And gorilla-mint has hydroprime, powdered glycerol, as well as liquid glycerol. The details are on the screen. Then you can go with one scoop pre- and one scoop intra if you do so. Prefer it. A combination of MCT and glycerol or beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts with glycerol should supply a good amount of energy because glycerol is a little bit of a metabolic intermediate between glucose and fatty acids. So you can take glycerol, whether you follow a carbohydrate, optimizing diet or a fatty acid optimizing diet with all of the compounds we're discussing. Now if you go with beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts, then you obviously need to adapt and modify your electrolyte formula, intra-workout or pre-workout a little bit because beta-hydroxybutyrate salts obviously contain, again, sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium either separately or a combination thereof. So make sure you stand on top of your electrolytes. You can do what I did. In the past, you take one sachet of gorilla-mint hydration pre-workout, which contains a good amount of electrolytes in the correct ratios, and then you take a beta-hydroxybutyrate ketone salts, a blend of the four different salts, intra-workout, because that helps with energy levels, mostly from a cognition perspective. So try a little bit of both. I feel that electrolyte formulas are very beneficial, whether that's a carbohydrate metabolism optimizing diet or a fatty acid optimizing metabolizing diet with all of the compounds that we're discussing. So I would always add those in, especially if you sweat buckets, because if you sweat buckets in a gym without air conditioning or your workouts are longer lasting, then while you obviously lose a boatload of electrolytes, you can look into supplemental carnitine, whether that's oral-alkarnitine L-tartrates or oral-acetyl-alkarnitine or my favorite, ejectable-alkarnitine, whether that's in combination with an injectable methionine-enosteal-choline blend to help with fatty acid mobilization from adipose tissue. I'll leave that entirely up to you. Carnitine helps with the absorption of medium-chain and long-chain chain L-strites into the mitochondria, and when you're fully fat-adapted, your requirement for carnitine, because your fatty acid intake is so high and you might also be losing a good amount of fatty acids from adipose tissue, so the turnover of fatty acids is increased and thus your carnitine requirement increases as well, especially when you throw, well, the kitchen sink of the fatty acid metabolism optimizing compounds at it. So I prefer a combination of injectable-carnitine with injectable-mik-blend, which I combined in several injectable pre-workout formulations. The details are on the screen. You can look at the carderine, aka GW-501516, also known as Enduro Bowl. Carderine is a PPR delta agonist, which helps with fatty acid metabolism and fatty acid oxidation within the mitochondria and skeletal muscle that's metabolically active very, very dramatically. Now there's a lot of scientific evidence that shows that carderine might cause cancer, and then there's also scientific evidence that shows that carderine prevents cancer. So please watch the deep dive if you're interested in carderine to optimize fatty acid metabolism, because a little bit of a warning is in place, obviously, so watch the deep dive first and then decide if you want to run carderine or not. You can look at the SLU-PP332, which helps with fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake quite tremendously, so it actually helps with insulin sensitivity to a certain extent. I have a deep dive on that. Give it a watch. You can look at the iCar, which isn't really commonly used in the bodybuilding or fitness community. I've induced it myself, and I don't really know anybody in the bodybuilding or fitness community who uses iCar frequently. It's heavily used in the endurance sports, like cycling, for example, where it's very, very popular, so it's something worth looking into, because it certainly works to boost your overall endurance and stamina, but I'm not entirely sure how much of an effect it might have on your strength performance. iCar is an analog intermediate in the generation of adenosine monophosphate, which stimulates adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase activity, which is an enzyme that regulates cellular energy metabolism, and this leads to several effects, including increased glucose uptake, so iCar is known to improve insulin sensitivity. A little bit of caution is advised when you combine iCar with insulin and perhaps mild drone it. Obviously, that's why you include it in this section, but it mostly enhances fatty acid metabolism and stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis. As a side effect or beneficial side effect, iCar stimulates angiogenesis and a combination potentially of iCar with TB-500 or BBC157 or growth hormone to a certain extent or cerebrolysin, even, which increases vascular and ultralight growth factor concentrations, all contributing to angiogenesis through different pathways. If you want to improve your endurance by increasing blood flow to very highly metabolically active tissues, if you take iCar frequently, you create new blood flow with oxygen-rich and nutrient-rich blood, also allowing for more CO2 removal through the lungs eventually, consider combining that with carnaesine or sodium bicarbonate, a.k.a. baking soda, and we're getting to the optimizations already. iCar has benefits through multiple different pathways, but it also means that iCar has a good amount of potential drug interactions. Personally, I would not combine iCar with diisopropamine, dichloroacetate, abbreviated data, or injectable adenosine triphosphate or adenosine monophosphate, for example, because if you start manipulating all of these ATP synthesis and AMP generation, then you might go high-potentative downstream, and then the drug interaction makes you hyperventilate on the floor, and that's not what we're after here. We're trying to improve our endurance and stamina, right? So a little bit of caution is advised. I don't have any personal experience with iCar, so please do additional research if you're thinking about adding iCar to your fatty acid metabolism-optimizing compound stack. And these following lipolytic compounds I would only consider during a cutting phase when caloric intake is restricted, and you want to get lean by promoting the release of fatty acids from adipose tissue, and it includes growth hormone anti-obesity drug 9604, which is a modified version of human growth hormone fragment 176 to 191. And you can go with either or. Both are basically small segments of bioidentical growth hormone, albeit that AOD-9604 is somewhat modified, that acts on the growth hormone receptor and initiates lab policies and no other side effects regarding insulin sensitivity through that particular pathway. Either go with growth hormone or AOD-9604 or HHFrag, whatever you prefer. And then you can look at the solbutamol and mirabicron, which I discussed at length in the mirabicron deep dive. If you haven't given that a watch, give it a watch now or when you're done with this video. I prefer not to use cling-material anymore during a cutting phase because it stimulates my heart rate way too much to the point it starts to affect my endurance and stamina, even though the central nervous system stimulation might enhance my strength overall. I prefer a low dose combination of solbutamol with mirabicron. Solbutamol works on the beta 2 receptors and mirabicron works on the beta 3 receptors. So there's no overlap here assuming that you give the dose low and moderate for its beneficial effects. Solbutamol is available as an inhalable oral and injectable, which you can find in various injectable pre-workout formulations. And mirabicron is only found as an oral medication for bladder incontinence. By activating the beta 3 adrenergic receptors, not only do you relax the bladder, but you also stimulate a good amount of lipolysis from adipose tissue. And then the solbutamol stimulates lipolysis to the beta 2 adrenergic receptors and has a beneficial effect regarding bronchodilation in the lungs. Solbutamol is an asthma medication after all. By allowing you to inhale more oxygen, especially if you combine that with nasal strips or methylene blue or some of the other things that we're discussing here, the oxygenation of tissue is so enhanced that you can literally take a couple breaths, hold your breaths and then breathe through your sets. It's very dramatic. Honestly, those particular drug combinations, very dramatic regarding oxygenation, because all of the oxygen can go through your open nose using nasal strips into your lungs, which are also opened from solbutamol. And then the oxygen delivery to tissues is completely optimized because your hematocritin and red blood cell count is basically borderline high. Yeah, stamina galore. I will tell you that. All right, we got the carbohydrates and fatty acids into skeletal muscle. Now let's look into ways to optimize mitochondrial function and efficiency and maximize ATP production and ATP recycling for the least amount of inter-workout or pre-workout nutrition as we can get away with. Because otherwise it turns into a pre-workout or inter-workout shake buffet. And that's the last thing you want because you might end up projectile vomiting all over the squad track after a high volume widowmaker set. And we're going to go through these a little bit faster than usual because I already have a good amount of mitochondrial function and biogenesis videos on this YouTube channel. And I have the updated version of the mitochondrial support stack in the pipeline. So subscribe now so you don't miss that video, which will drop a couple weeks from now and that will go a lot more in depth. Trust me, you can look at two vitamin B complex, whether that's a B50 or B100 complex daily vitamin C, astaxanthin, carnitine again, whether it's oral, carnitine or injectable, carnitine, good old creatine monohydrate helps with mitochondrial function and as does to ring supplementation. You can look to glutathione, whether that's coming from NSDL-16 in combination or solo S-adenosyl methionine abbreviated to SAME, which helps with glutathione production systemically and the SAME predominantly produces glutathione within the liver. You can look at the reduced glutathione or S-acetyl glutathione, but my favorite obviously is injectable glutathione. You get net glutathione injected directly intramuscularly or intravenously if you do so prefer, which all helps with mitochondrial function by increasing antioxidant status in the body. Because when you up-regulate mitochondrial function and biogenesis, you produce a lot more ATP, but also additional reactive oxygen species. So by increasing ATP synthesis and mitochondrial function, you also need to increase your antioxidant status and that's what the glutathione or the vitamin C or the torene is there for. And then as an additional electron donor, which also helps with mitochondrial function, you can look into nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, whether that's coming from supplemental oral nicotinamide mononucleotide NMN or nicotinamide riboside, NR, there's something to say for both of these. Experiment a little bit which one you prefer. I prefer NMN over NR. I tried both and NMN gave me better energy levels, but if you prefer NR, then by all means go with NR or do direct injectable nicotinamide and anantinucleotide NAD plus injections, intravenously or subcutaneously, which is also found in various injectable pre-workout formulations. There's a lot of ways to increase NAD plus levels, including taking B vitamins, which is a building block for NAD plus downstream. Ubiqunol, very well documented regarding its beneficial effects for endurance and stamina in endurance athletes, also has its place for strength athletes to support heart function. You could take oral ubiqunol, which I've done for many years and now injectable coenzyme Q10 is also available through MA. That's something else. The energy level and the cardiac support that I get out of injectable coenzyme Q10, it's amazing. Honestly, the problem is that it's incredibly red, so if you don't like injecting red compounds, whether that's vitamin B12 or injectable coenzyme Q10, they might be a little bit turned off, but it disperses quite rapidly. You don't have any red injection sites or lumps or bumps from injectable coenzyme Q10. So give it a look into it and see if you want to enhance your coenzyme Q10 levels in the body besides oral ubiqunol supplementation. Ubiqunol starts very well together for mitochondrial function with parallel, quinoline, quinone, PQQ. Quercetin helps with mitochondrial function as does curcumin C3 complex or berberine or megathree fatty acids coming from fish oil. Methylene blue is obviously amazing for mitochondrial function and overall energy levels improving your stamina and endurance. This is well reported, albeit not scientifically. This is anecdotal reports. Methylene blue acts as an electron donor and increases antioxidant status in the body, especially when you start stacking methylene blue with glutathione, vitamin C, and torene, which I all do. That's why my antioxidant status is absolutely maximized and my mitochondrial function is also maximized. Hence, I'm talking so freakishly fast. If you want to know more about methylene blue, give the deep dive a watch. And I also have a deep dive on SLUPP332, so let's not waste too much time on that. This is also very good for mitochondrial biogenesis and overall fatty acid oxidation, especially if you start stacking that with methylene blue and motC, the good old Dr. Dean, super stack, works very well for fat loss and to increase your energy levels. So motC is actually a peptide that's being produced by the mitochondria that's slowly being released, but by supplementing motC, you get this additional nutrient signaling that the mitochondria would otherwise ask of you. So by taking motC, you provide more building blocks, more energy for the mitochondria to function, and then ATP synthesis. Next level. It might also cause a little bit of irritation at the injection site, so a little bit of caution is advised. Start low, build your way up, see if you need to switch between subcure intramuscular injections, but I'll make a separate deep dive about motC where everything will be explained. So again, subscribe now so you don't miss it. Look into 5-amino 1MQ, which indirectly helps with mitochondrial function by preventing the breakdown of nicotinoid adenine dinucleotide in adipose tissue. 5-amino 1MQ tremendously helps with fat metabolism in adipose tissue, especially when you've been dieting for longer periods of time, so this is not really an off-season compound or a compound that you should use. Over 6-8% body fat. If you've been dieting for longer periods of time, 5-amino 1MQ can help you improve fat metabolism and keep fat loss going, and thus improve mitochondrial function indirectly. It works by inhibiting the nicotinamide N-methyltransferase enzymes predominantly found in adipose tissue. Thus, adipose tissue NAD plus content goes up, and fat metabolism is sustained. In order to improve mitochondrial function, you can look into Tomasartan or Carderine, but we discussed that a little bit earlier on. But it would really improve mitochondrial function and overall energy levels. I mean, this is a complete hack when you start stacking diisopropamine dichloroacetate with motC. It's the next level energy. It's freaking insane. Unlimited stamina. You should give it a try, albeit you should also proceed with caution and do your blood work frequently, obviously. Diisopropamine dichloroacetate is a peruvate dehydrogenous kinase IV inhibitor, which allows the body to convert peruvate into acetylcoenzyme A at a higher rate. Peruvate dehydrogenous kinase is a mitochondrial enzyme that plays a key role in glucose metabolism and ATP production in cells. Data works a little bit better on a carbohydrate-rich diet compared to the fatty acids. But if you have elevated protein intake, you get a lot of gluconeuginases of this protein in the glucose, then data actually prevents glucose from being depleted too much as you get a recycling of ATP continuously. And now you get a bottle out of ATP out of this single glucose molecule, where cellar energy levels tremendously increase. Keep in mind that data does help with insulin sensitivity, so you shouldn't go completely carnivore and exclude all of your carbohydrates unless, again, your protein intake is high enough for a sufficient amount of gluconeuginases to occur. As an added benefit, data sits in a paddock detoxification of heavy metals, nitrites and organophosphates through the formation of chelate-like compounds, which are then excreted through the kidneys. So data has detoxifying effects as well as performance enhancing benefits regarding your endurance and stamina. And it's taxed very well with MOTC and some of the other compounds we're discussing. Just keep in mind by increasing your ATP synthesis, data acts as a very potent vasodilator. So a little bit of caution is advised when you start stacking data with some of the other vasodilating compounds, whether those are direct blood pressure medications or not, because in the production of ATP, A&P goes up, A&P causes vasodilation. And before you know it, you're hypotensive on the floor, gasping for air. So start a little bit of your way up and introduce one compound at a time. Please guys, can't emphasize this enough. Hypoxion is something you can link into another compound coming from Mother Russia. Enhances the production of adenosine triphosphates. Again, it helps with energy levels and as an added benefit. Hypoxion also improves tissue respiration and mitochondrial aerobic respiration. So this negates symptoms of hypoxia. So if you hold your breath, you're doing high volume widowmaker sets of squats underwater without a breather or rebreather. Then hypoxion is the compound for you or you train at high altitude. Again, hypoxion is very potent. But if you train at sea level and you don't want to hold your breath, then there's not so much practical application for hypoxion, when compared to the other mitochondrial support stack compounds. And the following, I will say for the mitochondrial support stack updated video, Part 2, basically, or a redo dropping in the near future. There's LIMIPRTide, also known as Bindava or SS-31. There's mitochondrial targeted peptide SBT-20, abbreviated to SS-20, mitochondrial targeted antioxidant SQ-1, mitochondrial targeted antioxidant Mytoquinone, abbreviated to MytoQ, which all improve mitochondrial function by reducing the production of reactive oxygen species, offering beneficial antioxidant effects. And the following two compounds I'm not very familiar with, but in my research, I always feel to be all-inclusive. So here they are. Anyway, there's Ticaglor, also known as Bralynta, which primarily an anti-platelet agent. But Ticaglor also preserves ATP synthesis by improving mitochondrial membrane potential and reducing the production of reactive oxygen species and enhancing overall cellular energy metabolism. And there's BezaVibrate, also known as BezaLyp, which activates the peroxazone proliferator, activated receptor gamma co-activator 1-alpha pathway to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative phosphorylation. It's actually used medically or exponentially for mitochondrial disorders. So if you have healthy mitochondria, this is probably not a compound you should look into. But if you have a mitochondrial disorder, just like Methylene Blue, has been shown to help with mitochondrial disorders, then this might be worth exploring. It might have performance enhancing benefits. And they were left with the left-over, the performance enhancing drugs that didn't get any love or respect or appreciation, yet what Terenobol gets, their honorable mention, right here. Many a drug-tested athlete have failed for the following, endurance-enhancing enhancements. There's Terenobol Chloro-Hydro-Methyl testosterone, which was actually developed for athletes back in the East German doping scandals where athletes were administered to Terenobol without their knowledge. This is something worth looking into. Many people swear that Terenobol is the only oral steroid that actually enhances and improves their endurance, whether they follow any kind of strength sports that requires some level of endurance. People swear by Terenobol, they really love Terenobol. Just keep in mind that Terenobol is a potent testosterone synthesis inhibitor and might cause severe cramping. So make sure you stand top of your electrolytes, particularly sodium, when you start stacking Terenobol with the other compounds we're discussing. You can look into Bematil, which is a synthetic adaptogen along your body to adapt to stressors like physical exertion, whether that's for endurance or strength performance, but also to a hypoxic state. So if you're unsure which one to go with, should I go with Bematil or Hypoxin? Hypoxin mostly helps with mitochondrial function and increases energy levels, improving endurance and stamina through that pathway. But Bematil also has some Neutropic and Centrum Nervous System Stimulating effect. So Bematil, I feel you can't take too often, especially when you start stacking them with other Neutropics that are stimulatory. Bematil is like a couple times a week, but Hypoxin you can use a little bit more frequently. Still a little bit of caution is advised, I wouldn't stack these together, you choose either Bematil or Hypoxin. Personally, I prefer Hypoxin over Bematil, because Bematil makes me train so hard that I'm on the floor brain fogged for days. You can look into Amoxapine, another compound from Mother Russia. Amoxapine is mostly an antioxidant, reducing the production of reactive oxygen species and improving antioxidant status. I would consider Amoxapine to be like a supercharged injectable Consecute 10, albeit that you take it orally. It has a little bit of a Neutropic effects, enhances your cognition and it most...  linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, lifting or lift weights over your head for a strongman for example, then amoxapine is one of those compounds that really might offer a beneficial effect improving your endurance and stamina during these kinds of events. Look at the Tramentasidine, it's also a little bit more of a hardcore medication, it's been shown to improve cell energy metabolism particularly in the heart. So again, Tramentasidine is mostly used in the endurance sports like cycling by improving cardiac function, I would stick to a Bicunol and just use that for what it is maybe in combination with Namibolol. Tramentasidine improves the oxidation of glucose caused by inhibiting fatty acid metabolism so you can't stack that with the fatty acid metabolism optimizing compounds obviously, it works well in the offseason in combination with carbohydrates, miljonate and insulin allegedly and you should not combine Tramentasidine with other potent vasodilators like oral injectable ATP, AMP, iCar and even caution is advised when combining it with miljonate, bimetal, hypoxia, namoxapine and Namibolol because they all work on the heart and have some sort of vasodilating effects to a certain extent. Do additional research, I've never used it which I know is being used heavily in the long distance endurance sports. You can look into the following endurance enhancing over the counter adoptogens, again adoptogens allow your body to adapt to stressors and whether that's by reducing cortisol levels or by even increasing testosterone levels preventing hypoxic states similar to bimetal for example, these are all over the counter and have various effects on improving your overall stamina and endurance mostly by causing vasodilating effects by increasing nitric oxide levels in the body and reducing cortisol to a certain extent. The ones that increase testosterone are not in the list, that's as we're going to root extract but that has not really been shown to have very noticeable performance enhancing benefits besides increasing your testosterone levels which you're probably supplementing with. So you can look at the cordyceps that's what I take alongside my Pico2 before leg days, it's a key ingredient of Pico2 albeit that Pico2 is a proprietary blend so you don't know how much cordyceps you actually get within Pico2 so I supplement on top, I get the best effects of cordyceps out of all the adoptogens, I take that twice per week as part of my pre-workout leg day stack. You can look into rhodiola rosea or pycnogenal extract or panachynsin or quercetin or cystant extract or epigenin, I discuss all of these in part one and part two of the Optimized Injurance Deep Dive video where I discuss over-the-counter supplements so if you want to know more just give those two videos a watch everything is explained within and it brings us to Steve's personal endless endurance speedster turbo stack, this is just what I do, don't do what I do, this is not a recommendation just this is an insight of how you stack all these compounds together if you follow a diet that's completely optimized for fatty acid metabolism not a diet when you eat a bottle of carbohydrates and obviously you're completely dependent on a copious amount of glucose coming into the bloodstream and facilitating ATP synthesis in the mitochondria so again this is what I do, don't do what I do but if you take some information from this or your stack is similar let us know down below in the comment section I would love to hear about it, Daily Fasted Cardio, I know you guys hate it but I still do it to improve my endurance and stamina during those strenuous leg days because I increase my heart rate stably for 20 to 30 minutes, six times a week at least but preferably daily and let's say 135 beats per minute and thus those strenuous leg workouts with 12 to 15 reps, high volume, high intensity, if I don't do Daily Fasted Cardio I would not be able to do that so it makes a world of difference for me if you don't like Daily Fasted Cardio then shame on you, I think everybody should be doing it and I'm sure you guys are going to debate me in the comment section feel free to post it, everything helps with the algorithm, this is what I do if you don't want to do it, shame on you. Nasal strips all day every day except for when I'm recording because it looks kind of silly and then sitting here blasting in the air conditioning so I get plenty of oxygenation while I'm recording videos for you guys, nasal strips make a world of difference especially when you train in a gym without air conditioning and allow you all of this oxygenation into your nostrils for enhanced effect regarding your endurance and stamina. Then I take vitamin A whether that's a beta carotene or retinol, vitamin B9, vitamin B12, vitamin C, copper and iron this is all coming from my diet in combination with the gorilla mind elite multivitamin so this is just an approximation because my diet changes a little bit changing food sources around so this is pretty much an average of this contributes to rib blood cell production and increase in my amaticus to let's say 50 to 56 percent usually 54 percent where I keep it but 56 percent is not unheard of with me depending on my hydration levels and which other performance enhancing drugs that are erythropoietic that I'm taking and if it goes any higher than that then well I have methods to keep that under control obviously so I feel that this stack of micronutrients daily facet cardio and nasal strips already improves my endurance and stamina substantially and we didn't even discuss the performance enhancing drugs yet my total electrolyte intake is on the screen of course a supplement with torene I keep my blood pressure arranged with tomasartan depending on what other peds I'm taking that might be a low dose or a moderate dose upon waking journey offseason when I'm over 110 kilograms and I feel that the strain on my heart is a little bit higher because I'm lifting so much heavier weights and my body is also heavier I take the bevelol to block the beta adrenergic receptors and keep my heart rate modulated under control this improves my endurance and stamina during those strenuous crazy leg workouts at 120 kilograms body weight I take oral ubicunol a couple types of week and then injectable coins of Q10 maybe twice per week before leg days or when I really want to go ham probably a quinoline quinone obviously I take in combination with ubicunol then occasionally I take grill mode nitric and even though I just recommend you guys to take grill mode base I still prefer grill mode nitric because I follow ketogenic diet even though my electrolyte intake is reasonably high it kind of diminishes the pump so I need to take nitric to compensate for lack of pump that I get by restricting carbohydrates so I feel I found the middle ground but if you take a bottle of carbohydrates or you're in an offseason state where you're eating a both lot of fat and your pumps are enhanced if this might diminish your endurance and stamina then switch to grill mode base which it doesn't seem to give you a terrible pumps but it just improves your endurance and stamina and personally I don't like better adrenine because it gives me the butthole itches that I can't walk away from it doesn't matter how many laps I do in the gym walking in between sets those butthole itches follow me everywhere so no beta adrenine for me I do a supplement in a little bit of creatine essential amino acids a gorilla hydration or the beta hydroxybutyrate salts I take a glycerol here and there I always take pico two that's a staple of my pre-workout shake and then I take quarter steps let's say twice a week on leg day then I might take MA carved containing carnitine and methionine and nostril and choline the mick blend to help with fatty acid mobilization and absorption into the mitochondria and this one also contains nicotinamide mononucleotide nAD plus energy galore so that's if I take two milliliters of that that's 500 milligrams of carnitine 220 milligrams mick blend and 40 milligrams nAD plus pre-workout yes please I take my own nostril trap aerophosphate I had a loading phase in the past and so I just on a maintenance phase to keep the oxygen carrying capacity of a mehema globe and elevated to the point I'm never out of breath it's absolutely fantastic then of course the good old metronome blue SLU PP332 and motC stack we discussed this a thousand times on this youtube channel already so I'm sure you guys are well aware and probably are taking that yourself and noticing an improvement regarding your endurance and stamina and exercise performance occasionally I take diastropropamine that chloracetate pre-workout especially in strenuous days or when I'm on a set some PRs and it's super hot in the gym because again it promotes ATP recycling and then you literally have energy for days in combination with motC total hack but hey that's what vigor steve does pre-workout and then only during a cutting phase I might consider adding in these lip-letic agents to help it fat loss and keep my energy levels sustained even though my caloric intake is so freakishly low right in order to get shredded so butamol before fasted cardio mirabee grown a couple times per day carderine before fasted cardio in pre-workout and then pre-workout I would take a super shredder containing carnitine the mick blend adenosine triphosphate which increases the pump quite dramatically but not to the point that it starts to inhibit my endurance and stamina even when I combine that with grill mode nitric and albuterol so I take oral solbutamol aka albuterol in the morning before cardio and ejectable albuterol pre-workout so this is basically what I do albeit not all at the same time as phase compounds in and out depending on what I'm after regarding my endurance and stamina and sometimes I go ham and I'm really after the pump I include some compounds discussed in the skin plitting pumpage protocol video which you should have watched a couple days ago and if you didn't watch it well it's linked at the end of this one don't you worry so I might rotate some compounds in and out because I'm very well aware of how my body reacts and the potential drug interactions I'm not stupid I don't start stacking compounds together that might have a potential negative drug interactions only positive ones and then I keep the dosages moderate because a positive drug interaction might turn into a negative drug interaction depending on how much you're taking if you do a lot of self experimentation you guys know what to do do your blood work it doesn't matter where you do it just make sure you do your blood work if you live in the united states make sure you do your blood work over at Merck Health they have excellent healthcare providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results and give you solid advice regarding your own health parameters to make sure that you stay as healthy as possible whether you're on TRT or there above and if you still can't figure it out and well I have consultations always you can do a consultation call or personalized advice by email send me your protocol pay the fee and I'll gladly help you on your way to make sure that everything is completely optimized all of the pre workouts and grow my products which we just discussed they're linked down below for easy access all of my fillets and sponsors are there and if you can't figure something out from this video go to vigorsteve.com where everything is discussed into great detail all right no question is left unanswered when you go to vigorsteve.com you should bookmark that site and use it for future reference vigor's crew you guys know what to do a endless endurance front double biker for you guys imagine how much stamina and endurance you can find in these cannons even though most of my endurance and stamina is actually coming from my hips just ask your girl with that we're out thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video