 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl from the gynecomastia surgery in the liposuction that I did at the exact same time removing some stubborn adibals tissue on the lower chest so Phil it's time for an update and give you guys some insights and how my recovery is going be forewarned this video will contain graphic content from the surgery so I wouldn't watch this video if you just finished a meal or you're right before a meal we are in a hefty dose of a GLP-1 receptor agonist I had some caution is advised now I've explained my reasoning for growing my gynecomastia tissue to the nth degree in the previous operation gynecomastia videos which I've also linked down below this is part 4 and there might even be a part 5 when I give you guys a full update a couple months down the line when everything is nicely healed and we can do a proper before and after as a quick reminder I developed gynecomastia shortly after my motorcycle accident when I was up and running and going back to the gym again at that time I didn't take any performance enhancing drugs I didn't smoke any weed I abstained from alcohol so that can be the underlying cause for developing gynecomastia and again I wasn't taking kinds of medications like SSRIs or beta blockers that are also known to grow gynecomastia so I suspect that I was undergoing some sort of hormonal roller coaster going from peak 90 shape to bedridden to slowly making my way back up to the gym again and then at one point a couple months into going back to the gym I touched my right nipple because it was a little bit sore and a little bit tender and I had developed full-blown gynecomastia which I actually got diagnosed at the hospital with an ultrasound where they asked me if I was taking steroids which again at the time I was not I developed gynecomastia when I was 24 years old and I first took steroids when I was 26 years old during my first cycle the gynecomastia actually got smaller because I was controlling my serum estradiol levels with anastrozole and then over the years when I started experimenting with other anabolic endogenic steroids and performance enhancing drugs nandrolone particularly the gyno on the right side got bigger and bigger and I even developed it on the left side until I learned how to control that a little bit more properly in the last couple of years I tried to shrink the gynecomastia with rooxifene taking dosages up to 120 milligrams daily I even made a video about that it's linked down below in case you're interested but the rooxifene therapy only shrank the gynecomastia by about 50 percent and that effect went away meaning that the gynecomastia came back to its original size a couple months after I discontinued the rooxifene so that was only a temporary effect and I got the similar effect from taking mastrone or primobolin at reasonably higher dosages beyond 300 milligrams weekly which would also shrink the gynecomastia tissue by approximately 50 percent so I would always take that on cycle when I was trying to get lean and get this entire the pectoral area looking nice and juicy and details without gyno or minimal gyno and minimal body fat levels now in my case my gynecomastia tissue was never visible not in pictures not through a shirt during your offseason or cutting phases it didn't really protrude luckily but that's also because I always had a little bit of adipose tissue in the lower chest that never ever ever went away no matter how much selective estrogen receptor modulators I took no much no matter how low I crushed my serum estradiol levels or how many DHT derivatives I took right at one point it would get a little bit less and a little bit flabby and watery but still blurry hiding the definition underneath of the chest muscle still hiding the gynecomastia tissue which was present and noticeable by the touch but not clearly visible and then up until one point when I got below six percent body fat all my body parts started to disappear and the fat didn't really go away so yeah I took the easy way out and decided for liposuction after dieting multiple times between the age of 15 and 41 years old now for the gynecomastia surgery in the liposuction there's an expected two-week recovery process where you can go back to the gym I mean I'm now two weeks post operation and I feel large in charge ready to go back to the gym but since I knew I was going to be incapacitated for a couple weeks and not training at the highest training capacity I mean still feels a little bit tender I wouldn't be able to do PRs on chest or shoulder day or tricep day for that matter I figured I might as well do LASIK eye surgery at the same time because I was getting really tired of wearing glasses and I wanted to get the plate in my leg removed which has been there since May 2007 since the motorcycle accident that's close to 18 years and the added downtime wouldn't be that much longer also because I'm about to be a father in the middle of this year and I wouldn't be able to have this level of downtime during the time when my wife is taking care of me and my child that it wouldn't be responsible as a parent so I'm just getting it done now and then by the time my kid is born I'm fully operational so after doing a lot of research speaking to my friends in the bodybuilding community here in Thailand who have also done gynecomastia surgery and some recommendations of my wife's personal training clients I decided to do the gynecomastia surgery at Rutinan Medical Center with Dr. Aniwat Nilakarn the femtolasic eye surgery at Parham 9 Hospital with Dr. Chayata Liam-Sierajarun and the tibia orthopedic plate and screw removal surgery also at Parham 9 Hospital with Dr. Nathavut Paisinzong Boon you can find the links down below my sincere apologies if I butchered your names I've been in Thailand for a very long time but pronouncing the names here in Thailand still a little bit tricky anyway the links for all of these doctors and hospitals are down below I'm very happy with the services and aftercare so far so if you're thinking about medical tourism to Thailand or you live in Thailand thinking about similar surgeries operations or medical procedures my recommendations are down below so I ended up doing four medical procedures in ten days with additional hospital visits for checkups so I've been in and out of the hospital for the last two weeks doing liposuction and gynecomastia surgery and femtolasic eye surgery and orthopedic leg surgery with a total of seven incisions one two three four five six seven the one on my leg with a combined length of about 19 centimeters or seven and a half inches and those are not the inches that you're looking for so it's been one hell of a roller coaster and I'm happy to say that I probably don't have to go to the hospital anytime soon unless I decide to go with veneers so here's the steroid cycle that I ended up with while eating around 4600 to 5,000 calories daily in an attempt to grow the gynecomastia tissue and add additional body fat in the adipose tissue on my lower chest for the maximum amount of liposuction and make it all look tidy post up so I was taking a testosterone anidrate 500 milligrams weekly nandrol and the canoate 500 milligrams weekly tristalone acetate 150 milligrams weekly then I took 200 milligrams anadrol 50 milligrams pre-workout combined with YK-11 let's say 30 milligrams daily so that's 210 milligrams weekly and I would take the anadrol and YK-11 sublingually only spitting out the remainder to initiate the minimal amount of liver stress now YK-11 might have acted as an aromatized inhibitor no scientific evidence to back that up but anecdotally based on my blood work and what I read on the steroid cycle reports that serum esterial dial levels are a little bit lower while using YK-11 so my total weekly steroid intake was 15 or 16 milligrams per week and then I would take DHEA and HCG which could have also contributed to the gynecomastia formation but during this entire cycle my serum esterial dial levels was only 100 to 110 micrograms per milliliter and at that time was also using 10 IUs to 20 IUs growth hormone the generic growth hormone being a few times per week and even a thousand micrograms pharmaceutical IGF-1 branded as Incrolex pre-workout and it might have also contributed to the growth of the gynecomastia tissue now keep in mind that growth hormone is a similar amino acid structure as prolactin albeit with a very low relative binding affinity compared to prolactin for the prolactin receptor but when growth hormone intake is 10 to 20 IUs per day combined with IGF-1 not using an aromatized inhibitor serum esterial dial levels being run allowed to run rampant and then a good amount of progestogenic 19 or testosterone derivatives ideal scenario for gynecomastia tissue growth especially considering I was also in a steep caloric surplus so needless to say on that protocol my nipples ended up being pretty sensitive and then around one month before the scheduled surgeries I switched to the following protocol testosterone NF-A 300 milligrams per week and testosterone propion A 200 milligrams per week so I dropped the nandrol and the trislo and the YK-11 and the anagrol not using an aromatized inhibitor still and the weekly steroid intake ended up being 500 milligrams per week also taking DHEA but I didn't take Ovitreal HCG I didn't take generic GH or Incrlex IGF-1 and without the YK-11 in that context this cycle of only 500 milligrams a test plus DHEA on top of that without the aromatized inhibitor serum esterial was 135 grams per milliliter but I did not notice that my gynecomastia tissue grew much more beyond the operation gyno cycle that I was on for let's say two to three months so as soon as I finished the gyno surgery in preparation for the femtolasic eye surgery and the orthopedic leg surgery I dropped down to a generous TRT plus dose for bodybuilders with anavir on top obviously for collagen synthesis so my operation gyno recovery protocol was as follows Bayard test of iron I had one ampoule per week so that's a total of let's say 312.5 milligrams per week because the Bayard test of iron ampoules are generally overfilled at a concentration of 250 milligrams per one milliliter so that's let's say 0.6 milliliters intermuscularly Monday Friday and body research Bonivar good old Oxandrolone close to pharmaceutical grades and that's probably the last body research Bonivar that's in existence because when it was close to selling out I bought the remainder of the stock don't ask me that's all mine my sincere apologies not okay taking 10 milligrams sublingually upon morning and evening and it's a total of 20 milligrams daily or 140 milligrams weekly for total weekly steroid intake of 452.5 milligrams quite a lot for somebody who's not actually going to the gym and probably won't go to the gym for a while because the leg surgery is still a bit wishy-washy a lot of inflammation and I don't feel comfortable to walk we'll get into that a little bit later on but yeah it's tremendously helping with recovery I will tell you that and besides that is the same DHA intake that I always take 37.5 milligrams daily bringing me to the top of the reference range now during this time of recovery since estradiol contributes to wound healing and collagen synthesis I'm still not taking an aromatized inhibitor so based on this cycle I would say that my serum estradiol levels are about 75 to 80 pikograms per milliliter let's say close than half compared to the previous blood work results but I'll confirm that let's say at the end of March when I expect to conclude this entire recovery protocol and maybe proceed and do some YK-11 experiments or at least folistatin experiments I'll do blood work before and after don't worry but right now I suspect that my serum estradiol is still let's say 50 percent over the reference range besides that I'm also taking micronized progesterone 100 milligrams before bed three times weekly and I might increase that to 100 milligrams every single day but for now 300 milligrams weekly based on the last two weeks that my wounds are recovering and healing I would say this is enough I couldn't find any conclusive evidence for the ideal dose of microdosporgesterone which helps to regulate inflammation enhances fibroblast activity and promotes the deposition of collagen which are all essential for wound healing after all so again I started with 100 milligrams micronized progesterone three times weekly to see how wound healing would progress which again I'm happy with so I didn't see a reason to increase to 100 milligrams daily oral micronized progesterone is commonly prescribed at 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams per day usually before bed because at these doses it can make you a little bit sleepy and lethargic and even drowsy close to a GHB like effect right my sleep quality right now is absolutely superb I will tell you but at these doses of 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams daily that's prescribed for hormonal therapy or postmenopausal women or pregnancy protocols which again I have a pending video about stay tuned for the peptides that I was using for the operation gyne recovery protocol I switched from generic GH to pharmaceutical GH I got a little bit excited and started with five IU sub-Q before bed which after four days as you will see from the day-by-day update videos following the gynecomastia surgery I got increasingly bloated and my ankles were covered in edema so I dropped down to two and a half I use sub-Q before bed and I've remained at the dosage ever since using pharmaceutical Merck-Sorano Cisen recombinant growth hormone besides that MA abbreviations galore because well YouTube is not too keen on peptide websites but you guys can figure it out I'm sure about it let's see 500 micrograms TB-500 morning and evening subcutaneous for total of a thousand micrograms daily the files are 10 milligrams so I reconstitute two milliliters of bacterial static water in there so the injection volume is the same across all healing peptides MA BPC-157 again 500 micrograms sub-Q in the morning and evening and I'm zippering all of those injections around the nipple site which recovered incredibly fast I'm just doing the injections around this TB-500 here in the morning and then in the evening on the other side and a BPC-157 in the morning and then the evening on the other side right just zippering all in down and just spacing the injections out for the maximum coverage of these healing peptides besides that I take MA GHK copper for a synthetic or systemic collagen synthesis five milligrams sub-q morning and evening for a total of 10 milligrams daily I'm switching that all around my body because every time I inject GHK copper I get a little bit of adhesion and the post-injection pain is absolutely horrendous but it's well worth it right even my skin texture has improved a little bit I feel that my hair quality has improved so I'm getting systemic collagen synthesis including at the incision sites where all the procedures took place and I feel that the collagen the GHK copper has really promoted the wound healing through collagen synthesis increase and then I take MSD Genuvia 50 milligrams Cetagliptin morning and evening to prevent the breakdown of TB-500 and BPC-157 Cetagliptin aka Genuvia is a dipeptanol peptidase 4 inhibitor these enzymes the DPP 4 enzymes breakdown growth factors like insulin erythropoietin erythropoietin IGF-1 insulin like growth factor growth hormone releasing hormone but not the actual growth hormone and other growth factors including TB-500 and BPC-157 when I was researching TB-500 times and beta 4 and BBC 157 I realized they were being broken down by the DPP 4 enzymes so technically based on basic human biology by combining a dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitor with these healing peptides you should be able to extend their half-life and their active life now the half-life and the active life hasn't really been established in humans at least not for TB-500 and BPC-157 even though the times and beta 4 literature is very extensive but we're not entirely sure how much of that translates into the active life and half-life of TB-500 because there's only five studies whereas there's about 190 studies on the BPC-157 so I'm combining these healing peptides with the DPP 4 enzyme inhibitor and I would say that the recovery process so far right with the micronized progesterone the anivar and the GHK copper absolutely stellar for collagen synthesis I'm taking the following supplements grillamide collagen peptides right the details on the screen I take one scoop with meals four times daily so there's a total of 360 milligrams vitamin c 480 milligrams heralic acid almost 50 grams of collagen type 1 and 2 and 320 milligrams collagen type 2 daily right for collagen synthesis performance enhancing drugs to work you need the building blocks and even though the large majority of this breaks down the intestinal tract you'll still have adequate amounts of glycine at the same time coming in compared to all of the amino acids and maybe to try peptides that are not being broken down fully for collagen synthesis to be completely optimized especially when you combine that with vitamin c which helps with collagen deposition so besides the 360 milligrams of vitamin c that I get from the grillamide collagen peptides supplement spaced out over four servings of the day I take an additional 1,000 milligrams vitamin c five times per day for total of 5,000 milligrams vitamin c from supplements so there's a total of 5,360 milligrams vitamin c over the day excluding dietary vitamin c intake should be more than enough and again antioxidants help with wound healing tremendously and I choose American Health vitamin c esterose because it also contains calcium and the calcium helps with bone mineralization for the leg surgery we'll get into that a little bit later on so while we're at it I also added these supplements to help with the recovery from the lasik eye surgery and the orthopedic leg surgery for the lasik eye surgery I added in california gold nutrition lutein and xiancetin one capsule in the morning or with breakfast and dinner for a total of 40 milligrams lutein and 2 milligrams xiancetin daily so I'll keep that in for the next couple months let's see if that improves my eyesight even further and for the orthopedic leg surgery I doubled my gyroformulus k right which contains 2,000 ios vitamin d3 500 micrograms vitamin k1 1500 micrograms vitamin k2 mk4 and 180 micrograms vitamin k mk7 so I take one capsule with breakfast and now also with dinner for total of 4,000 ios vitamin d3 and 4,360 micrograms vitamin k daily on top of that I also doubled my vitamin d3 intake from 5,000 ios to 10,000 ios daily so I get a total of 14,000 ios vitamin d3 daily and I will continue that until I'm fully recovered from the leg surgery so this is basically just a doubling of my regular supplementation that I was already on to help with mineral deposition in bones I already get more than enough calcium and magnesium and phosphorus from my diet to help with bone mineralization and I get more than enough antioxidants and omega-3s for wound healing in case you're wondering this is my entire supplementation stack let's take a few moments to let that scroll right gorilla mind elite multivitamin now foods b50 complex american health vitamin c which I already mentioned earlier California gold nutrition vitamin d3 life extension vitamin e gyro's formulas k right which also mentioned California gold nutrition magnesium glycinate um up to a thousand milligrams daily California gold nutrition zinc l-carnisine complex to help with digestion because I'm still dealing with some digestive issues now foods taurine double strength with every single meal garylamine calcium beta hydroxy beta methyl butyrate which also contains calcium so that's additional calcium intake alongside the vitamin c ester c and whatever I get from my diet and that really helped to prevent muscle loss while I'm not going to the gym alongside the well the steroids that I'm taking obviously uh taking nicotinamide mononucleotide and acetyl cysteine I occasionally take injectable glutathione but I haven't been really on top of that because I wanted to see how the wound healing would progress without the injectable glutathione because well the post injection pain is kind of brutal uh gorilla mine like omega-3 elixir fish oil right serving with every meal again the lutein and zeathin from California gold nutrition I take citrus bergamot from gorilla mine to keep my lipids in range I take berberine once weekly on Sundays to help with the cheat meals that I'm having which are now severely limited because I did a food allergy test and basically all the good stuff I can't eat um so I might skip the berberine on Sunday because I'm eating a little bit more cleanly uh the curcumin c3 complex I will reintroduce soon uh because again curcumin c3 complex is known to lower IGF-1 levels and since I'm not supplementing with that I decided to bring IGF-1 levels as high as possible by taking the curcumin c3 complex out and taking a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor which prevents the breakdown of IGF-1 so once I'm off that healing stack I'll reintroduce the curcumin c3 complex grelamide estrogalus root extract for kidney health blackcurrant oil double strength morning and evening for overall um skin texture and hair growth and youthful appearance so to say ubiquinol uh let's see praliquanil quanylene pqq tatka oregano oil to help with digestion and let's see gorilla mode dream or now foods melatonin as needed which I haven't really needed since I started the oral micronized progesterone I mean you sleep like a baby and you're drooling a little bit so cute all right after leg surgery I also added in more healing peptides to heal or help heal this gigantic let's say 15 centimeter six inch incision that I have on my right shin so I doubled the TB-500 and the BPC-157 I'm injecting there locally as well to help with wound healing I only had a little bit leakage for one day and now it seems that it's completely closed but I have a follow-up appointment another week from now when they're going to remove all the bandages and clean it up so we can see what the incision actually looks like it's now completely covered with a surgical uh bandage basically so I went from uh after the leg surgery I went from a thousand micrograms TB-500 daily to 2,000 micrograms and the same for BBC157 administering it here around the gynecomastia site as well as on my leg site okay enough about the protocols in the overall drug talk let's move over to how things were looking before and after the surgery because I took videos day by day discussing the preparation of the surgery the actual gynecomastia surgery in the liposuction which took place at the exact same time and how the recovery was going day by day give or take right I also took a good amount of progress pictures so you could see how the bruising and the inflammation is slowly getting worse and then going away right it's going to be a fun segment just keep in mind that I didn't use these high quality sure mic because it's getting away of these juicy pecs so instead I used the directional road video NTG microphone which I used in the past so the audio quality might be a little bit off you're just going to have to deal with it while all this graphic imagery is being served to you on a silver platter all right so this is a quick before the gynecomastia surgery gyno chick my sincere apologies for the dead bod I've been going on a holiday eating whenever I want and haven't really been training since then because I wanted to save recovery capability for the surgery that's taking place a couple hours from now so this on the left side I have a good amount of body fat same as on the right side good amount of body fat I never got that really away while I was dieting unless I really wanted to sacrifice my quad and my back size so I never really got to a point where I was shredded completely top to bottom I always had a little bit of stubborn body fat here and on the other side as well now this is the actual gynecomastia tissue I would say that the growing of the gynecomastia tissue on both sides albeit more on the right side and then on the left side was a success letting my estrogen levels run rampant with testosterone and trastalone etc etc etc without the use of an aromatized inhibitor so it's I would say about 50 percent bigger than it was before so I would say mission accomplished this is what we have now they're going to go in through the armpits here to do some liposuction on this area and as well in this area obviously to make it nice and symmetrical so hopefully they can get it to about a thickness as this I mean this is the normal body fat on my chest you still can see some striations but obviously here on the bottom as well as here on the bottom there's a good amount of fat that I want to remove with liposuction so I'll do the liposuction first going through the armpits remove this entire area and then go underneath the nipple to remove the breast tissue right both sides and get that removed then I'll wear a gigantic corset for the next couple of days to kind of get the inflammation down and make sure that all the skin retracts so this is what my chest looks like before the gynecomastia surgery let's do a quick last front double bicep for you guys you can see what it looks like before the surgery with the gynecomastia tissue and with all of the fat mass at my lower chest and then hopefully fingers crossed or double fingers crossed it's going to look nice and aesthetic after surgery let's check in in a couple days and then in a couple weeks to see how the recovery process is going so I wanted to record this video yesterday right after surgery but it turns out they gave me a systemic painkiller in the form of fentanyl so I was a little bit out of it I didn't have any pain obviously but I was not really in the right moods and the right mindset the right capacity to record a youtube video right after surgery so here we are about 20 hours after surgery took place we finished about 6 p.m yesterday and now I'm going to kind of guide you through the process of what happened with my gynecomastia tissue surgery even though it looks like I got a breast augmentation so maybe this was not the gynecomastia surgery I was looking for all in all everything was great it was a great success I would say when I arrived at the clinic we first discussed with the doctor what the strategy was going to be while doing a little bit of additional ultrasound to see if the gynecomastia tissue or the fat tissue had any changes between the intake conversation we had a couple weeks ago and yesterday where the surgery took place so we did an ultrasound to kind of see how the tissue the gynecomastia tissue and the adipose tissue looked to make a strategy they highlighted everything with a marker just to make sure that that was going to be the area where they performed liposuction on and then additional marker where the incision for the actual gynecomastia tissue surgery was going to be when I arrived in the surgery room I had to lay down with my arms white which I can't do right now because I have stitches on the side of my chest so arms went out white like a t-shape I had a localized um port for the anesthesia placed in and then basically everything was taped off with medical sheets so I couldn't really see what was going on the only thing that was really exposed was my chest so they could perform surgery there so I couldn't see what was going on so based on what I could hear and what I could feel um first I got the the systemic anesthesia again fentanyl and I told them don't give me too much I'd rather take a lower dose than a higher dose best of my body weight I'd rather feel the pain than go away sleeping I wanted to be present for the surgery then they applied localized anesthesia with I suspect insulin syringes zippering up and down basically where the liposuction was going to take place then they made an incision here right at my armpit on both sides and then they went in with another needle which was significantly longer again I'm suspecting this based on what I could feel and hear translating the thai into english with my limited understanding of thai language very scary it sounds right now but I felt I was in good hands so they went in with another needle to kind of put localized anesthesia at the fat tissue and surrounding the gynecomastia tissue again on both sides they let that sit for about five to ten minutes then that area was completely numb very numb right you can still feel pressure to the touch but pain nothing whatsoever right I felt zero pain the entire way through then later they went in through the armpit with the liposuction machine which well basically sounded like a jackhammer that was quite intense I'm gonna I'm not going to lie I'm like what the hell are you doing inside so um yeah it makes a quite a substantial noise I would say I'm not entirely sure how this machine works but I'll see if I can overlay some medical equipment assuming this is the exact same medical equipment that they used for the liposuction so they did that twice that went in the first time to kind of clean it up from a bulk perspective and then later on I'm not sure again if this is the same tool or a different tool even though it sounded exactly the same to kind of make sure that everything was uniform they really put extra special time to kind of make sure that all of the the adipose tissue and the fat and the the skin was all the same  aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin aromasin, aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromas the right tissue first because it was bigger. So it took them a little bit extra time, and then they went in to remove potential gynecomastia gland tissue to make sure that there was no possibility of the gynecomastia returning in the future. They did that on the left side as well. Then they stitched all of that up, and I got this beautiful garment with a lot of gauze and padding just to make sure that the inflammation wasn't unexisted. Now, you see here that, of course, this is where the incisions are. These are not underneath the garment. So there's a little bit of inflammation and water tension there on both sides. Obviously, wearing something like this when you had surgery in this entire chest area makes it impossible to sleep. So it took me quite a long time to fall asleep last night, but I was able to get about six, seven hours in over the night, which I think is enough. And then today, actually about an hour from now, I'm going to go to the clinic again to have this removed, see what the damage is or how good it looks after removing all of that fat and gynecomastia tissue, and then see what the next step is going to be. So I'll probably get a replacement garment of this, which is super tight and very uncomfortable. But, well, that's what it's going to be to get everything retracted nice and tight once I'm fully recovered from the surgery. So we're going to clean that up today, see if there's any mishaps, see if everything is going well, just a routine checkup. So for now, because I've got incisions on both sides of my chest, I can't really raise my arms more than this, just to make sure that the stitches are not coming loose and that the wound is opening up again, right? I need about a week or two weeks, maybe a little bit faster because I'm on the full stack of peptides, obviously. I need at least a couple days for all of this to heal up and kind of tighten back and grow back together. All right, so this is day number two after the gynecomastia surgery. Yesterday, I went back to the clinic to remove all of the gauze and the bandages and clean up all the incisions in the armpits and below the nipples and make sure that the inflammation and the bruising wasn't too severe. Everything is going according to plan as of now. So they removed the crazy packaging that I had yesterday to apply extra compression going from a D-cup to a C-cup now. So instead of bandages, I have a little bit of sponge tissue, which is a little bit easier to maneuver. So that applies extra pressure underneath this compression garment to make sure that the inflammation and the swelling stays minimal and that all of the skin can reattach. Because again, I did quite extensive liposuction all around the lower breast area. So this is what it looks like now. This is a lot more comfortable and a little bit less intrusive than what it looked like yesterday. Still, it looks a little bit weird. Like from the side, you can see that there's a significant amount of chest tissue in the arm of this chair. You see, the chest is like twice the size. And if I wear a T-shirt over this, it's very clear that I'm wearing something underneath because it's sticking out, let's say, half an inch close. Well, a little bit over a centimeter. And this is what it looks like without decompression garment. You can see here on my lower chest, I have a little bit of black and blue, some hematomas. I mean, it's meant to be expected after major surgery. The incisions underneath both nipples are about close to an inch, let's say two centimeters on both sides. So they did a great job keeping the incision size very small for the amount of gynecomastia tissue that they removed. Again, on the right side, it was a lot bigger than on the left side. And the incisions in my armpits, I would say, are half an inch, let's say close to one half centimeters on both sides. Again, from the point where they did liposuction. So I would say that the incisions, again, very, very small. I expect minimal scarring once everything is healed up nice and dandy with my extensive healing protocol that I'm on, obviously. I just took a shower. I was able to cut my own hair, shave a little bit, so I don't feel too immobile. I can completely shower my entire body using these waterproof bandages. I removed the waterproof bandages after the shower to make them a little bit easier to be removed because, again, the adhesive is quite strong, I would say. So a little bit of water allows you to pull these waterproof bandages off a little bit easier on both sides. And then I washed that area with normal Ceylon solution, applied a little bit of Benadine, and then now there are new bandages, which, again, I will remove tomorrow, and then clean up again. I believe that the stitches are going to be removed at the seventh day after the surgery. So that's, let's say, five days from now. And then I can show you what it looks like, hopefully, by the time all of this inflammation and swelling will be significantly less. By the time I can show you what the incisions look like and give you guys a little bit of a close-up in case you're interested, right? Close-up of the nipples. Might as well go for that in this video series as well. So for now, the swelling is a lot less than yesterday, I would say, but it's still quite present. So if I flex my chest lightly, you see that there's no separation in the bottom chest. Fingers crossed. They'll slowly return over the next couple of weeks. I remember from my wife's breast augmentations that it took her, let's say, three to four weeks before all of the swelling and the water retention dissipated. And then you can see a clear, nice outline of the chest muscle and the silicone, which was placed within. So I didn't get any silicone, obviously, but the swelling is pretty brutal, just the same. Some hematomas underneath. Hopefully, over the next couple of weeks, it goes away. But for now, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to do daily update videos for you guys. So you can see how the swelling kind of shrinks. Again, fingers crossed over the next couple of days. And then once the stitches are removed, we'll go a little bit more in depth. And this is day 13 after the operation. As you can see, I have full mobility and most of the bruising and the hematomas and all that black and blue and purple and whatever color comes after the surgery. That's mostly gone. I still have a little bit here on my upper abs, lower chest, and in my armpits. It's, well, mostly gone, luckily. The waterproof bandages were giving me a little bit of issue, not here around the nipple area, but definitely in the armpits. So here it's a little bit red and tender and that kind of stuff. So that was a little bit annoying, something you have to deal with, obviously, after surgery, using waterproof bandages to prevent a tap water to get into the surgery site and potentially cause an infection. So, so far, so good. No infections took place. Everything is healing nice and properly. I don't have any mobility issues. I should be able to go back to the gym, but I want to just give you guys a little bit of an update before I start training again. So you see how much this chest muscle deflated over the last two weeks that I didn't train. Actually, I haven't trained for six weeks now. So that's why the dad bod is still going strong, but we're working on that. Don't worry. We're going to look progressively better going forward. So there's a little bit of scar tissue on this lower area. There were some adhesions on this side. Maybe you can see here, there's an adhesion here that is scar tissue. So I'm not entirely sure if that's a keloid or that's just something that's going to dissolve over time. I'll give that a week or two. And otherwise, I'll do some microneedling and grafton technique on that area. I'll give this a week or two as well. And then I might do some grafton technique to remove the scar tissue on my lower chest. Again, it has nothing to do with the gynecomastial surgery, but that's mostly from the liposuction. So right now, when I flex my chest, you still don't see so much definition on my lower chest, unfortunately. I got a little bit more definition here on this side, but here on the lower chest and definitely here on this side, again, where most of the liposuction took place, I still can't see the definition because there's scar tissue. That injury side is still healing. So I'm going to give that some time. The nipples are all going well. This right nipple turned a little bit black the first couple of days, but then that progressively started to get better. I read on Reddit many other gynecomastial surgery reports that initially one of the nipples or maybe even two nipples might turn black from a little bit of the fluid from the surgery and a little bit of blood from the surgery is just leaking through the nipples, turning it black, and had a little bit of discharge the first couple of days. Now that's resolved. So all these funny things you don't really think about until they happen to you after the surgery. And I was in full contact with my clinic just every single day to give them a little bit of an update. And then every couple of days, I would go in there to kind of see if everything is going according to plan. And right now, it looks absolutely good. So this nipple was a little bit black for the first couple of days. And now at day 13, it's finally turning a normal color again, even though I have a little bit of scabbing and stuff. But that could also be from the discharge coming from the fluids underneath the nipples, right? Making their way out somehow, some way. So I'm cleaning everything every single day, right? My wife is helping me a lot with that, applying a normal saline solution to clean the area on both nipples and the incision sites here. And then we take the pictures, which you just saw the progress pictures from day 5 to 13. And then we apply a little bit of editing on the incision sites and put waterproof bandages on it for the next 24 hours. During the time that I was going in for LASIK eye surgery and the leg surgery, removing the orthopedic plate, obviously, I couldn't remove the bandages and clean the incision sites of the gynecomastia and the liposuction every single day. But at least every 36 hours, I cleaned the area and applied to new bandages. So it's nice and fresh and there's no fluid building up within the bandages that are contained within these waterproof bandages, basically. So I kept everything super, super sterile. No infections, no problems, no complications, etc. And then I hope that this scar tissue, this little bit denser tissue underneath where the liposuction took place, will slowly be removed over the next couple of months. Again, that's from liposuction that takes a little bit longer than the gynecomastia surgery that took place. But I think this is pretty much healed and I feel that I'm ready to go to the gym. Unfortunately, my leg is still a bit swollen after the removal of the orthopedic plate. So I'm not really 100% comfortable walking around, especially lifting heavy dumbbells and barbells and that kind of stuff. So I'm just going to take it day by day for now. And then when I feel ready to go to the gym, I'll start with training chest, obviously. And this is what it looks like without the bandages exactly two weeks after the operation. You can see here my armpits that the incision site is almost unnoticeable. I would say it's maybe three to five millimeters across. It's already fully healed. I can see more of the irritation from the waterproof bandages than I can see the incision. So I'm just going to leave it as is at both sides. Here on the left side, that's also fully healed. Very small incision site that's fully healed. So no need for metadine or additional waterproof bandages. I think I can shower without them. But here in the nipple tissue, since I have a little bit of discharge still on the right side, I'm going to bandage that up as soon as we're done here. And then continue that for as long as I need until the discharge on this right side is resolved. And it feels a little bit safer wearing these protective waterproof bandages so I don't risk getting an infection later down the line. You'll see here that the incision underneath the nipple is very small, also fully healed. I might apply a little bit additional betadine here just to keep it sterile, especially now after touching it with my fingers, obviously, right? I've been washing my hands thoroughly, don't worry. And you'll see here on my lower chest that all the inflammation and the water tension in the scar tissue is just getting less by the day. You can probably see that also from the day-by-day progress pictures following the gynecomastia surgery and the liposuction that took place. So hopefully with time, this will just slowly get better. So you can compare what it looks like right before the surgery and two weeks after the surgery. I don't think this is bad at all. I mean, considering I haven't gone to the gym for six weeks, not bad at all. Let's overlay this with the before front double bicep taken here on YouTube. And then I guess I'll figure out in the post-editing process if there's any clear difference at all. For now, I'm pretty happy with the result. Again, the detail on my lower chest is still not where I want it to be. But hopefully over time, the scar tissue and the inflammation and the adhesions and all the kind of stuff with some active massage therapy and grass stone technique will slowly be resolved. So there will be a follow-up video a couple months down the line when everything is nice and healed and my body fat levels are a little bit lower. And then we can clearly see what the major differences is between previous diets where I got down to, let's say, 6-8% body fat and then the follow-up diet a couple months from now where I'm similar body fat levels. And we can do some actual comparison. Okay, I'm going to put these waterproof bandages on because it feels a little bit safer. And then I'm going to record the rest of this video. So I ended up wearing this compression garment full-time for five whole days, 24 hours per day. They initially recommended me to wear it just for three full days and then wear it only at night, let's say, 12 hours out of the day. But I felt a little bit more comfortable keeping those sponges, which are already in the trash because I couldn't really wash those. So they were getting a little bit smelly. So I wore this for five days with the sponges 24-7, basically, when I was going out and driving around on my motorcycle getting shit done. And I even wear it during the LASIK eye surgery as well as the orthopedic leg surgery. And then I switched to wearing this at night. And now I think two weeks post-op, I don't need to wear it again. So this one is basically ready for donation. I'll give it a good rinse and a wash. I have a spare one in case you're coming to Thailand or you live in Thailand and you're large and in charge around 100 to 110 kilos. Again, this is the biggest size and the other one is the biggest size that they have here in Asia. It's very tight, but that's what's required. It's very hard after gynecomastical surgery combined with liposuction. It needs to be tight for everything to kind of heal up. So if you're undergoing surgery in the near future, first come, first served, just shoot me a message on Instagram. And I'm glad to send you over my compression garments because I don't think I'm going to need it in the near foreseeable future, basically, ever. So today I'm exactly two weeks post-operation from the gynecomastical surgery and the liposuction. From a chest perspective, I'm eager and so ready to start training again. I have full range of motion. Here I feel a little bit stretching in the lower chest, right, where the liposuction took place, which again isn't a bad thing because I don't think I'm going to be doing dumbbell pullovers anytime soon because, well, look at these freaking lats. No need to do dumbbell pullovers. I should be able to do chest flies with the dumbbells, some sort of stretching movement, right, full range of motion. I don't feel the incisions pulling on both sides. So it's not really an issue. I should be able to go back to the gym and start training upper body again. But regarding the leg surgery, there's a little bit of inflammation and tightness and immobility that is currently taking place. So I'm just going to keep it, take it day by day and see how the leg is recovering, right? I can walk on it, no problem. They just removed the screws and the plates, but the bone is still fully healed. So I should be able to put some pressure on it while walking. I'm not allowed to train lower body for a month, and then I should take it really, really easy for the next two months. So it's about a three-month recovery process. Again, by the time my daughter is born, the middle of this year, I should be fully healed from the leg surgery. But until that time, I just need to take it easy. And even while wearing a compression sock, the water that accumulates the inflammation is a little bit too much sometimes when I keep my leg vertical. So most of the day, I keep my leg elevated unless I do a consultation or a recording video for you guys. When I sleep at night, I keep my leg elevated on an extra pillow, so all the water tension is slowly going away. And I remember from my motorcycle accident a long, long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, that the edema and the water tension in the inflammation was absolutely terrible. I mean, my leg really looked like an elephant's foot, and it was elevated in one of those slings. So at this time, it's not that severe. The surgery wasn't as lengthy as that leg surgery following the motorcycle accident. But still, there's a good amount of edema, even when I wear a compression sock, which I have to put on very, very, very carefully to make sure that I don't rip open the incision site. So I think it's just an overworking of the lymphatic system. Again, I'm not being as mobile as before, right? I got a little bit bad reaction to high-dose growth hormone because I wasn't really able to do cardio on the elliptical because of the surgery from the liposuction and the gyno surgery. And then, well, by the time I could do the elliptical, again, basically the next day it was leg surgery, and then I couldn't do anything. So now I'm a complete dad bod being mobile, not doing much, keeping my legs elevated, playing video games when I have some time. So I decided to reduce the growth hormone and just keep the water tension to a minimal so I can deal with the edema and then do some mobility work of my ankle just moving it around while I'm watching TV or when it's elevated. So here are the before and after x-rays for my leg surgery. On the left side of the screen, showing my right leg, on January 17th, you see the surgical plate and seven screws, and my bone looks completely mangled because I had a compound fracture, so they did the best they could. If you look at the top of the surgical plate, you see slightly that a little bit of bone is growing over that, so they needed to remove the bone from the surgical plate and then make that, grind that down, basically, to make it look cosmetically appealing again. And then on the right side, again, of this picture, showing my right leg on January the 23rd, so that's five days after the previous x-ray, the surgical plate and the screws are removed, leaving behind a little bit of an indentation and obviously seven holes. So with those seven holes, I shouldn't really be training. Fingers crossed, that will kind of heal and the bone will come back together, strengthening the entire bone over the next month. And then as I start training again, obviously, the bone mineralization and the density and the strength of the bone should progressively improve. Here's another angle where you can see how mangled everything is, right? You can clearly see the holes on the right side of my right leg and seven holes drilled to my bone. And that's what I'm going to have to work with for the next, well, for the rest of my life. So fingers crossed, this is all going to heal very, very nice. As you can see, the orthopedic plate is still in prime condition. Let me give you guys a close-up. So this has been with me for 18 years. It's got a couple scratches from removing the, I probably can't see that, from removing the screws. I have seven screws. This is high-quality steel, well, high-quality surgical steel. So I think I'm going to make some jewelry out of that, maybe a bracelet or something like that, because, well, it's been with me for 18 years, which is longer than most things in my life. So I might as well continue to wear it, right? I'll give you guys updated what I do with this, because I think it was about $200 in total at the time, back in 2007. And if I drop another couple hundred dollars, I'm sure I can turn this into something nice worth wearing. Regarding the LASIK eye surgery, that was reasonably straightforward. First, I applied several eye drops to my eyes to measure the structure of the cornea and the eye and the tissue underneath to see if I was a candidate for LASIK eye surgery, or if FENTOLASIK eye surgery was a better idea, or compare that to PRK surgery. We decided on FENTOLASIK eye surgery. Then they applied several anesthetic eye drops to kind of help numb the eyes and prepare me for surgery. The actual surgery was pretty brutal. I'm not going to lie, slightly mildly traumatic. First, they shined the FENTOLASIK laser in your eye to separate the cornea from the eye, following an incision around the cornea to kind of make a corneal flap. But when that happens, all you see is a hazy white. And then when they make the incision around the cornea and flap that over, all you see is blurriness. It's basically like an in real life 100% blurriness filter. And then for a couple seconds, you're wondering, is this going to be the rest of my life where I don't see anything? And then the XMR laser removes a microscopic layer from the corneal flap to help correct your vision and make it the best it can be. During that procedure, 11 seconds in my case, it literally smelled like burnt flesh, which is way worse than smelling burnt hair. After that procedure, lasting only 11 seconds, they placed the corneal flap back on my eye. No need for stitches because apparently that heals and settles right away. You just need to position it in the correct posture. And then in that split microsecond before they switch over to the other eye, you can see 100% clear. But all you see is medical equipment. So I didn't really get a chance to enjoy it. All in all, the entire procedure took maybe 15 to 20 minutes for both eyes. But I was at the hospital the entire day to do the eye examination and provide aftercare after the surgery, which included some transparent shell-like protective shields, which I placed on my eye like this for an entire 24 hours. So you couldn't rub in your eyes. This is very annoying. So I saw very clear for a brief microsecond after the surgery. And then they put these protective shields on, and then you can't see anything again. Yeah, for 24 hours, luckily. Now, they put this on your eyes so you don't rub your eyes while you're sleeping. They gave me some diazepam, aka Valium, to take home, 5-milligram tablets. And they told me, just take this when you're home and then go to sleep. Now, I'm a little bit stubborn. Since the femtolasic eye surgery didn't really hurt at all because of the anesthetic eye drops, I was like, you know what? I'm just going to chill for the rest of the day, wear these goggles, and maybe do a little bit of work while looking. To the corners because, well, work is always a plenty. And then once the anesthetic eye drops started to wear off, my eyes started to hurt really, really badly. Yeah. Yeah, you really feel like you got punched in the eye just continuously, basically. So I took 5-milligrams diazepam and went to sleep for about 7 hours. Then I woke up to get another meal in. And then I took another 5-milligrams diazepam to sleep for another 9 hours. And then the pain was gone. But while I was waking up, going to the bathroom, yeah, the pain was pretty bad. Yeah. So the surgery is slightly traumatic, getting laser shined in your eyes and then having the surgical knife basically cut the cornea for the corneal flap. And then the pain that followed for 24 hours, nasty. But once I came back to the clinic and they removed this, you see like a hawk. It's honestly amazing. And what you hear worldwide for the large majority of people who do LASIK surgery, whether that's femtolasic surgery, regular LASIK surgery, or PRK, for the large majority of the people that don't have any complications afterwards, which again does happen. So please do your research. For people who don't experience complication, they say it's the best decision they ever made. And I can highly agree with that statement. So the next day after the procedure, I could basically see sharper than I could ever do with glasses. And then six days after the procedure, which was the day after the orthopedic leg surgery, I went for another checkup, which is basically a day earlier, but I was in the hospital anyway, because I both did these procedures at Param9 Hospital. Six days afterwards, she said, you don't need these protective goggles anymore, these protective shields, because the cornea is completely closed and healed. And you don't have to use the antibiotic eye drops anymore, but feel free to use the artificial tears, regular eye drops, just to help lubricate everything, which again, I don't really do because I don't have any dry eyes currently. So sometimes you read online that people have long-term dry eyes. That's not the case for me. Maybe the lutein and the zeathin or zeaxanthin is helping with that as well, or I'm just a greasy bastard and my eyes are always moist. Okay. So right now it's 12 days after the LASIK eye surgery. Everything is healed. I can see like a hawk. I can highly recommend it. It's probably the best surgery I've ever done, even though also the worst surgery at the same time. So to close off the gynecomastia segment of this video, I'll make a follow-up video at part five in the Operation Guide-out video series to keep you guys updated on how the surgery went and once all the scar tissue and the inflammation and the adhesions and the bruising and everything is nice and healed and dandy. And my body fat levels are nice and low again so we can see a difference. And then do some comparison pictures between previous good shapes where my body fat levels were low. And you could see a tad hint, a slight indication of gynecomastia, but mostly having significant anabose tissue on my lower chest, blurring the definition and the separation and stuff compared to now. Well, in the future now, basically. So stay tuned for that. Subscribe now if you haven't already so you don't have to miss that video. All of the supplements I discussed, whether those are from Gorillamide or you can buy them over at iHerb. I have direct links for all of them down below so you can save yourself 10% over at Gorillamide or 5% over at iHerb. Before I did all of these medical procedures, obviously I did extensive blood work, including checking my clotting factors just to make sure that I wouldn't have any abnormal clotting or bleeding following the surgery. Especially the leg surgery, it's a little bit more extensive than the gyne surgery, but the liposuction surgery, I mean, it's a pretty big area as well. So I did extensive blood work before the surgery, as you should you, where you do any kinds of surgery. If you live in the United States, you can check all of your blood work parameters over at Merrick Health. And if you don't know how to interpret your blood work results, you can either schedule a consultation with me or use one of their healthcare providers, patient care coordinators, to help you stay healthy and get ready for these kinds of surgical procedures. Gyne surgery and liposuction, I did that Rotenon Medical Center in the Fento-Lessic Eye Surgery and Orthopedic Leg Surgery, removing the plates and the screws. I did the Param9 Hospital. You can find their links down below. I'm very happy with the service so far. I can highly recommend it if you have similar surgeries. And again, look for the same doctors, which is the doctors that I got the pleasure to work with. I'll keep you guys updated during the vigorous Q&A. Fingers crossed, do a little prayer for me that everything is going to turn out fine. And for now, for the vigorous crew, a no gyno from the West for you guys, much love, much appreciation, much thanks to your support. Over the last couple of weeks, I was going in and out of the hospitals. Some of you guys were pretty worried because you weren't aware that I was going in for all these medical procedures willingly. So I highly appreciate all of your get well soon and best wishes messages. You guys are freaking awesome. And with that, I'm going to leave it here. Again, hit that like button if you have it already. And we'll see you guys in the next video dropping soon. Peace out.