 well, if you want to spew a hate, what about my kind of growth factor? I mean, if you think IGF on LR3 is kind of meh. Yeah, MGF is pretty junky. I've never heard anybody get out of anything out of it besides a lighter wallet, you know, even when they use a credit card, their wallet is lighter. I've never heard anybody place another order for MGF. The only thing that made me go was Hypo one time, and then that just, that completely then put into question what was actually inside of my... Is that even ever true? Welcome to the Anabolic Groundtable with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Martz. This is episode seven. We're recording this a little bit earlier than expected, but we're still going to drop it mid-December or early December, because the holiday season is coming up. And so we try to squeeze in as many anabolic ground tables as we can. This podcast, we're going to discuss the tier list for the anabolic peptides. We're going to classify the growth hormones and the insulins and the IGF ones and et cetera to the S tier to the F tier. Then we have one more special request from the audience, classifying all the ancillaries or basically the fat burners. Oh. Yeah. So I think we'll do that in two months from now in February. What I think is a better idea next month, so not this podcast, but the next one is where we design cycles, training, nutrition, supplementation from starts to the Olympia stage. So maybe we break that down in a couple of phases. We have the beginner phase and how to start training, how to start dieting, how to start supplementing. Then first cycle advice, first couple of cycles and a second phase or a third phase in your cycle design, evolving peptides, how to turn pro on those cycles. Then we should have a guest appearance from an IFB pro who's very knowledgeable and open about their stereotypes, actively educating, named to be disclosed at a later date to kind of help us with the last part about what it actually takes on the pro circuit cycle-wise and training-wise and supplementation-wise. I'm really looking forward to that. So we got three podcast plans well ahead. So up until February, you guys are entertained and they were open for suggestions down below. First we got to start with a little bit of a public service announcement. There are some rumors in the grapevine that there might be a supply coming or a shortage in supply of steroids. So for the guys looking to treat themselves for an early Christmas present, now is the time to do so without going into the details. Do you guys want to contribute anything to that or should we leave it there? I mean starting in December it looks like it might start to slow down. So why is it to stock up if you need stuff? Yeah, if you need stuff for Christmas and New Year's and running until next year summer, your summer cycle should be ready in stock. That's our public service announcement. I think a caveat there is heading into the new year, blood work is going to be imperative to ensure what you're taking is actually what is present. Just put it that way. So if you know your batches and you know the quality of the batches then go right ahead. But yeah, there might be a shortage of supply for a while. And that also happened with Bayer, Test of Irons. They were out of stock for like one and a half years. Not my fault. Not my fault. Or Bayer Reba Ballot, they were gone for like one year straight. It was also not my fault. And then we kind of knew also that that was coming. So I stocked up and many people stocked up. But so guys, this is your first, last and only warning. If you care about performance and nothing drugs then now is a good time to treat yourself to an early Christmas present. Now, Dean, I'm going to meet you in London for the Enhanced Games seminar. We are invited to be speakers in this very small seminar. And we're going to meet other doctors. I think I'm the only non-doctor there. So you have a doctorate, but I don't. So it's kind of interesting. We can give you an honorary one for the weekend. Can I call like some Indian university to give me an honorary doctorate? Just a borrow one. But I guess the caveat there is the invitation was to the top 40 in the world, which was quite a statement to be in their invitation and to be recognized amongst, you know, there's some people there in the list that I see and that would be well known in terms like harm reduction. So it's a very interesting seminar, I guess. I'm on a panel. You're on a panel. I think I'm talking about what do we consider sort of natural enhancement versus exogenous somewhat sort of a peak of natural enhancement and where do we draw the lion. So it's going to be an interesting talk. I think we're all keen to see can we get the Enhanced Games going and what records can be beaten. Yeah. Yeah. So it's going to be going to be called here. Kurt. Yeah, I'll meet you guys at the next one. I couldn't make this. Yeah, I'll let you know it goes. I'm not sure if we can record anything or turn it into a vlog, but I'll write they got their own camera crew and that kind of stuff. So at least we'll keep you guys entertained and posted on how it's going, what the results are of the meeting, depending if unless we have to sign some sort of NDA, which I didn't see come by yet, but you never know. So I'm excited for that. So then me and Dean, I guess we're going to do another workout somewhere in Birmingham. Yeah, we'll catch somewhere on the way back. I know a couple of the gyms around and the guys who run them. So we were spoiled for choice out there and where we decided to go. All right. You find me a nice place where we can both eat and then we use the anabolic round table at sense fund to a paper that bill. Okay. So guys, super thanks down below so we can get ourselves some desserts. So this week we have on the menu the anabolic growth hormone or the anabolic peptides that we should list. So let's just get right into it. I started with growth hormone on a scale from S tier to F tier, how anabolic is growth hormone and we have to differentiate a little bit between growth hormone by itself and growth hormone in combination with other performance and that's a good because there's a bit of a difference there. Kurt take it away. You're you're a high-gold serocin. I'll give it a yes for both for both solo. Yeah, super for both solo use and combined with steroids. I think the biggest difference that we're aware of is when it's used on its own, it looks like six milligrams is required for any sort of permanent tissue growth when it was used in smaller amounts. The growth wasn't permanent, right? But in combination with steroids, we don't really know what the actual doses to cause hyperplasia. I will be looking into that. So I started a medical journal with another doctor that we're going to start publishing steroid studies that would not be normally funded by pharmaceutical companies because they don't care. And we'll start looking into some of these things to see what amounts and what drugs interact appropriately with growth hormone and what causes some level hyperplasia. I would guess based on my own experiences, again, N equals one that seems like nine units or three milligrams seems to be about appropriate when combined with an adequate amount of steroids. But growth hormone to me is after testosterone on par with testosterone, probably the best thing out there. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Okay, so we're starting off right with Esther growth hormone way overpowered. Dean, what do you think? Yeah, like Kurt said, we have that study obviously where they done, I think it was 250 milligrams a test and then they added tria use a growth hormone with the 250 tests. And then obviously, there was a control with nothing. And like Kurt said, when the growth hormone was added alongside the testosterone, there was a massive increase in terms of like recovery, which then played into lean mass gain. So yeah, I'd be in agreement with Esther, I guess, one of the caveats is in recent years, we have these influencers advocating, you know, one unit of growth hormone or two units of growth hormone as being solo, which I have a benefit for some level of like policies, but as a PD for muscle enhancement solo, I don't think you're going to get anything out of two units of growth hormone for muscle build. No, no, I think I think it's good as a sleep aid and maybe as a cosmetic appearance, eight if you're a woman, you run to I use growth hormone, maybe three. I mean, something that my wife would run right before bed. Before bed. Yeah, exactly. So you sleep better, look better, look younger, fill in those wrinkles, grow the nails a little bit faster, more excuses to go for pedicures and manicures. So good with me. So I would say that like cosmetic anti aging not true anti aging for that you need to wrap a mice and then you know, topical flaws and then back to flaws and that kind of stuff. But I think for bodybuilding, if you have to go through all the compounds that we have, we have 500 to choose from growth hormone will be second after testosterone. It's that simple. And I always tell people growth hormone is part of the tri force of anabolism, testosterone growth hormone insulin, which we'll get to Kurt's, don't worry. They will revisit the insulin again. But I think testosterone growth hormone insulin is kind of the tri force of anabolism. And I would put it in S tier also. What I would recommend people now that I've experienced with higher dosages is to slowly ramp up your dosages over time, make sure that you manage your electrolyte intake, the magnesium potassium to prevent corpotonous syndrome, right? The pressure on the nerves in the arms that's now resolved for me. And make sure that you're on top of your touring because it seems to like with two or three I you jumps, you seem to be able to kind of tolerate that, right? But if you go straight from two, I use the 18 I use besides the financial drain, your body might not be able to handle it. So yeah, if you want to go if you're financially capable to ramp it up that high. And again, in the offseason, you can say if you run generics, even though the efficacy might not be on par, which yeah, well, we should get into also. Because I don't think that that generic sure is there. No, no, I want it's all over the place could be F depends on what it could be F right? Yeah. So let's let's say good generics, where will we rank that instead of the tier then or say about the average amount in the middle somewhere. See, right? So they're about 50 because the binders and fillers about 50% absorbed compared to a pharmaceutical. So you know, you could you could double the dose in theory. But again, that's not been studied. So it's hard to say. I've not personally gotten a whole ton out of generics. And it's weird because like we discussed this offer with generics, like I've run two decently dose generics up until now, right? Testing about 32 to 36 and under grass for middle later on the serum test, both give me good results. It's not quite the same as a pharmaceutical like a neurodietropin or genotropin. And every time I use a high dose generic, I get some irritation at the injection sites. And I don't know what that is. Boloxone 188. So it's a polymer that's used as a stabilizer. And that generally cause that lumping that stays there for a while. The other thing that's interesting to do is the mannitol that's used as well. So I think that was misunderstood for a while. The mannitol that's placed in the generics and not used in the pharmaceutical is not to control water. It is to speed up the freeze drying process. So in growth, after growth, when it's produced, it needs to be freeze dried, and then packaged and shipped. The underground labs, I like to use the term underground, but not generic because the medical term for generic means it's made to the same standard as a pharmaceutical just off label, which as we know, the underground lab GH is not made to the same standard. So they add mannitol to it, just speed up the drying process so they can make large batches of it and get it out really fast. And then a lot of guys will get, you know, they'll almost get some muscle pain from it. Like it's almost too drying versus the pharmaceutical stuff you look much fuller and bigger. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Because the mannitol, of course, acts as a diuretic to a certain extent. So when it's not in there on purpose as a diuretic for you and I, it's in there as diuretic to speed up the process of manufacturing. Okay. So the other, I was just going to give some general tips because I get hundreds of DMs about usage and growth hormone. And again, people could do whatever they want, it's their body, their drugs, their wallet. Really the proper way to use this stuff and no pro in Gold's Gym is going to outsmart Pfizer or, you know, Merck, AG. Really the dose should be taken at night in one bolus regardless of dose. It does not need to be split up because you're not really timing it for anything. It takes four hours to absorb. So you take it in the morning, you're not even seeing it for four hours. You're going to mess up your glucose metabolism by doing that. Right. You run the risk of becoming diabetic. It and really most of the effects are through IGF. You're looking for that gigantic bolus response. IGF has fat loss effects as well. So it's not like, you know, I know years ago Derek made that video about, you know, the 1.7 cut off for fat burning. But as you ramp the doses up, you still see increased fat loss. It's not just their GH. True. And then based on nutrient timing and what kind of other metabolic age you have in place, you know, it's the food also doesn't really matter. So if you take it at night, it doesn't matter if you eat it or not because one, it doesn't matter because IGF is going to modulate most of the response anyway. And with the four hour window, even if you've eaten human transutant in the gut, it's like three hours. So the food is not really there anymore. So it's not like, it's not like you need to fast to this. When we get into the secretogogs, that's some of the problems with those is you have to time the food around them, right? Because if you have insulin present, because you're trying to just make your pituitary work better, right? With growth hormone, you're forcing a situation doesn't matter if it's food or not. So the guys who are obsessing about fasting before the growth, that stuff doesn't matter. If you get a box of pharmaceutical growth hormone, you read the instructions, it literally says subq, aped, whole dose, you know what I mean? And the only other way to bypass the side effects is every other day, it doesn't have you reduce things. And the other one that, you know, controversial again, but from a medical point of view, you want to inject it subcutaneously. IM is not causing any sort of localized growth, it's just enter circulation, and you lose almost 20% of the growth hormone by injecting IM. So it's because it metabolizes faster and it doesn't bind to the trunk erect growth hormone receptor. Okay. So it's and this has been studied because again, when they design, like when Sarastom was designed, they spent billions of dollars looking into how to make this the most efficient way. It wasn't like, if there was a better way to take it, like the way bodybuilders tend to use it, that's how they would administer it. It's not like they're doing it for convenience, right? Someone's diabetic, they're using insulin all the time. So it's not like the pharmaceutical companies are concerned with putting you in an inconvenient place with dosing, they don't really give a shit. It's more maybe maybe the case for Nabilo, I won't shot every 12 weeks, but yeah, most of it, most of it again, that's when we get into that, that's a whole different drug. That's another, you know, the old defounder relief remaking. Yeah. So I mean, I would use a subq, I'd use it at bed, regardless of the dose, you know, I wouldn't be concerned with food right before it. And I would just move on with that. That way, if you're doing fast, according to the morning, it's still in your system, right? And the pituitary doesn't experience any sort of long term shutdown. So if you inject it at night, by the next afternoon, your pituitary is back online producing GH again. So it's not like, you know, the antidem receptor that's going to cause HBTA shutdown for months, years. Yeah, I think it's so much the statin levels were increased for about 24 to 36 hours. And IGF levels are elevated for about 36 hours. So within one and a half days, there's zero negative feedback. And that's why maybe sometimes it's good to like during your offseason, when you're running higher dosages of 12, 18, I use to only use it on workout days like what Dean was doing during his last cutting cycle. Because that's what I started doing myself. And now most of my carpal tunnel syndrome and water retention is actually significantly less, even though the weekly intake is still pretty much the same. So so, you know, I would still not recommend growth hormone on the night you had a cheat meal. But during the week when you're eating healthily, you know, that I'm okay. So if you're eating a pizza, which has been shown to increase your insulin secretion for like 12 hours after then I've probably skipped the growth hormone. But if you want to take some Incolex after your pizza, that might be a better option because that actually helps with nutrient partitioning. So yeah, I agree that pharmaceutical growth hormone is certified as tier generics, I'm willing to place in the seat here and that's good generics. I will say that the quality of generics have increased tremendously and the prices come down tremendously over the last couple of years. And I would only consider now, even with you know, one of the better hookups for generics that I would only consider them during the offseason. Because the water retention is a little bit more severe, the fullness is a little bit less comparatively dose wise. But you can compensate for that with a little bit more food, a little bit more electrolytes. And since you're going to be a little bit fluffy anyway, that will be the perfect time to run it because right now I don't care about my cosmetic appearance that much. I'm stocking up my pharmaceuticals for pharmaceutical GH for the next time I do a cutting cycle and to save a little bit of money because the price is so good on these generics, I'd rather run them. But then we're talking not in IE, we're talking in vials. Yep. And the only other thing I was going to address because I get DMs about this too is how to dilute it properly with one solution. So if you're not using a whole bottle, you want to use bacteria static water, you do not want to use saline and you do not want to use sterile water. Sterile water is like what comes in serastim or when you buy in a bottle is only if you're using it at one dose, the whole bottle. Because bacteria will grow and you'll get sick. Bacteria saline will screw up the absorption of it as well. So you don't want to mix, grow up one more saline per se. So just to, you know, so you don't unfortunately have the time to answer all those DMs. So hopefully that solves some confusion. Don't worry, those questions will still come. All right, so let's move on from growth hormone being A tier and generics and C tier. Next one on the list is, well, the close cousin of the growth hormone, the growth hormone secretion dogs. And there's many of them. I've experienced all of them at the CGC with the Without DAC, the G-JRP2, G-JRP6, hypermeramid, thermorelum, etc, etc, etc. And they're all pretty much the same. Now, if you go into the scientific evidence, there might be some unique studies where hypermeramid was shown to have reduction in visceral fat or non-alcoholic fat delivery disease because they set up a study like that. So you could say that based on the single study, this one has more benefits over the other ones, but the other ones have not been studied in the similar context. So does that make a different comparison? I'm not entirely sure. I think it's mostly dosing related and age related. So if you're young, you don't have so much money, and you don't have so much accessibility to pharmaceutical growth hormone, you go to the peptide website, you can use your parent's credit card to source this kind of stuff. Then you might get something out of it, two, three, four, I use comparatively to pharmaceutical growth hormone, and you get the different molecular weights, right? You get the 22 kilodaltons, 23, 24, the several isoforms of growth hormone. So that might be a benefit, especially in the context of healing injuries. I think that's better than just megadosone kilodalton isoform of growth hormone. But besides that, I'm going to have to put it alongside generics and maybe even lower because you can't escalate those upwards. And like you said earlier, the timing of foods to keep your stethoscope levels low and your ghrelin levels high is very nuanced because you have this negative feedback with insulin present. And the rate limit on all of these is your pituitary, right? Just like a testosterone booster. Sure, testosterone booster will boost your natural production testosterone, but the rate limit is your testicles, right? Versus when you inject testosterone, you bypass the whole loop, right? When you inject growth hormone, the rate limit is your wallet. When you inject CJC, the rate limit is how well your pituitary works. MK-677 is interesting because it's actually on its way to becoming a pharmaceutical drug in the United States. So it's in stage three of FDA approval. There's a company, a company, a smaller pharmaceutical company, purchased the right suit. So it's not going to be sold soon on the black market or be illegal. It'd be like generic growth hormone. And the use seems to be just like you said in young children who are growth hormone efficient or in the elderly. So my father's been using MK-677 for almost two years now. And it fixes arthritis in his knuckles. He produces body fat to some degree, but he's in his 70s. So you're going to get some benefit there, right? Because his pituitary has just decreased its output. For guys in our age group that want to be bigger, MK-677 is probably a waste unless your appetite is the rate limit in your, you know, at least in my case, it did nothing for me except make me hungry and have weird dreams. Yeah. So that's most of the common side effects. Of course, it might be beneficial in offseason scenario where you can't eat enough, but then you usually eat yourself into an insulin resistant state. Yeah. And we could, we should do a whole video on that too, as food is a rate limit of growth. Yeah. So that's misunderstood as well. Hold that thought. Not this podcast. Dean, what do you think? I'm sure you've experimented with some of these growth hormones secretogogs. I haven't done the ariduous calculations from the literature on exactly how much growth hormone you actually get out of, let's say 125 micrograms of hypermerellin. And it was quite, I wouldn't say shocking, but for 125 micrograms of hypermerellin on average, it's between 0.5 to 0.7 I use of growth hormone secreted. Holy moly. Side me up. And I took that. That took a good amount of trying to do the accurate calculations from the studies to get an exact amount of what was being produced. So what the growth hormone response was and then work your way back to what would that be equivalent in terms of like milligrams of growth hormone produced from the pituitary and then working it back into IU. So it's 0.5 to 0.7 for 125 micrograms of hypermerellin. Because someone thought it'd be a clever question on SN education's forum of how much growth hormones you get out of a secretogog. Well, that's a good question. That's working out. Yeah, lock yourself up for a week and find the dance, right? So, but that's only hypermerellin that they said compared to amongst the other growth hormone secretogogs. I didn't do the calculations on the others, but assuming they all work off the same sort of ghrelin mechanism of, you know, that feedback loop to get the pituitary to secrete, you know, I can't see it being any more than one IU of growth hormone really. Like, I mean, hypermerellin tends to be the one that we all favor because it doesn't have any of the prolactin effects that the others have. And we know roughly the saturation dose, like what we talked about there, peptides tends to be somewhere around 125 to 150 micrograms taken, taking any more, doesn't really give you any more benefit because it's not like taking more growth hormone is the active, you're giving the body a stimulus to output from the pituitary. So you can circumnavigate it a little bit if you have it in a facet state, obviously, when insulin levels are low, you time that with low IGF on levels, which is a negative feedback and so much the starting levels. So that basically means that you're limited to one or two injections per day, not three injections like some people recommend. And then combining that with a growth hormone receptor, or growth hormone releasing hormone receptor agonist, to get an additional pulse, and then maybe you can increase the dose of the ghrelin receptor agonist also. So you see it anecdotally, the dosage range between 150, 200, sometimes 300 micrograms, depending on the compounds and purity has to do with that, right? I noticed a better effect of 300 micrograms, but in reality is actually 150 because it's falsely labeled 10 milligrams when it's reality five, right? I mean, that happens in the gray area peptide market. So I made a video about the growth hormone secreticog cheat sheet, but all these methods to optimize your growth hormone levels, you know, it's funny. The highest growth hormone levels I ever got in the morning were from melatonin and megadositis way higher than any growth hormone secreticog. We're talking about 10 nanogasperometer liter upon waking from melatonin in combination with 30. So that's that's the dose where you get depressed, you feel old and tired because it doesn't metabolize the next day. So I can't recommend it. You know, some guys that don't have a problem with the melatonin metabolism. So they feel energetic the next day, but it seems that the higher you go in melatonin, the more growth hormone secretion you get overnight and you don't even need to use growth hormone secreticogs because again, when you do the calculation, let's say you run 300 micrograms hypermurellin and you compare the price of hypermurellin to an expected growth hormone pulse of let's say one to two I use, you're paying three times the price by taking a growth hormone secreticog for the same amount of growth hormone that you're getting. So I would rank the growth hormone secreticogs actually quite low besides MK-677 which is affordable and does work and is passing through clinical trials, we might have some practical applications. So I would rank MK-677 as the growth hormone secreticog as the best option, even though it comes with a little bit of a manual as a C tier and the other ones that E. They're not completely useless. They're not completely useless, but let's say you have five dollars to spend per day, you can get one I use a growth hormone pharmaceutical to I use generics or maybe 30 milligrams MK-677 and that's all pretty much comparable. But for that five dollars you might not get a whole unit of growth hormone production in the pituitary from the other growth hormone secreticog and money still wins in this equation because if you're combining a GHRH receptor agonist and a ghrelin receptor agonist that you're spending 10-12 dollars per day on these secreticogs but you're not getting any growth hormone out of it or not much, what's the fucking point? The way I view these is as an additive like what I do with my prep where you have growth hormone before bed so you're going to get potential growth hormone in deep sleep then to treat the four-hour peak like Kurt said where the growth hormone you've injected peaks and you wake up the next morning before you go do fast to cardio if you're going to stay fast like what I do on prep, taking your secreticog upon wake and then do you know, Ipum, ghrelin, CJC and growth hormone fragment before your fast to cardio knowing that all you're getting out of it is 0.5 an IU so you're not expecting much out of it but in the bigger picture we're every little bit as up towards that fat loss in theory but as something as a standalone when you're weighing up everything of where am I going to place my money I guess it's one of those ones that we have to view like you said where's your budget going to stand what's sort of the most economic but I will caveat that there are a lot of anti-aging doctors who go more for peptides over growth hormone isn't it a prescription limitation yeah I mean the US it is that's why they were pitching it they just can't write for gh anymore yeah so it's not even the doctor it's the the pharmacist will flag it here but if that's not a problem because you're in the bodybuilding circle then gh yeah so that's what I think yeah I mean and it depends in America at least it depends on the state so that's governed by the state laws so in where I live the only use is for delayed growth in children hiv wasting or chronic kidney disease anything outside of that is considered not legal to write for right California and Florida I believe can still be used for anti-aging to some degree yeah it's that remains to be debated because I think it's cosmic topical cosmetic anti-aging not actually true anti-aging which is okay that's what most people are after when they say anti-aging they just want to look and feel better you're not actually age backwards so that brings us kind of to the growth hormone fragments which are are known not to have any antibiotic properties but I do feel that they have some merit recording fat loss the anti-obesity drug 9604 and HH frag 1762191 there's several other growth hormone fragments but they they were shown not to be really effective I would rather use those in a context of fat loss and maybe we can revisit that when we get to the fat burning aids at tier list but I would rather spend the money on those compared to the growth hormone serrativogs because I think they still have a lot of it yeah but  they still aren't ranked with the GH. No, we're not going to classify them here, but purely from a money perspective, I would rather run AOD, HHFRAG, over growth hormone screening drugs, because I know they create a little bit of light policies, and it would be a nice addition to already using growth hormone to stimulate a little bit more fat loss around activity. So maybe take growth hormone before bed, and then some AOD before facet cardio, before the workout, to stimulate some fat loss through hormone-sensitive light base. I know that's what you were doing, right, Dean, in your last prep. I was. So I was using both AOD and GHFRAG. So normally what I was doing in terms of morning set up, HHFRAG before 20 minutes facet cardio, waiting an hour and a half, and then I'd walk the two boys to school, which is a 20-minute walk up and back. So I'd take oral AOD before doing that walk. So again, the oral AOD is then in your system, stimulating light policies while you're out on that walk. Like the thing where? Orally bioavailable, because it is the reason we want peptide chain. Yeah, well, apparently there is studies for oral AOD or Lycopotropin. So they were 100 microgram caps. So again, with these, I guess, growth hormone fragments, you have to do, as soon as you're sort of in your system, and you're sort of stimulating light policies, doing activities where you're going to continue releasing these free fatty acids from your tissues and utilizing them for energy. So yeah, I think out of them all, I'd lean into those as fat loss agents, as opposed to muscle building. So classify them in the next video. If you were to pick between like Eipan, Rellin, CJC, growth hormone frag, I'd be going more towards growth hormone frag because that might be like, like, like, like, like, like, yeah, I agree. The funny thing, one thing that I want to mention, when you look at the molecular weight of AOD and HHFrag, and compare that to the molecular weight of growth hormone, I think it's, what was it, 12%? So 1 seventh. And then when you convert that, this off the top of my head, I recently did it in another video, or I think I overlaid it in one of the videos here. When you convert that, the same amount of growth hormone receptor binding that you get out of 250 micrograms of AOD or HHFrag equals like 12 or 18 I use growth hormone. But you don't get the same amount of fat loss. So there must be a rate limiting factor there also. Well, conversion IGF. Yeah, of course. Right. Yeah, but you don't get any IGF. Yeah, it doesn't increase IGF levels. Yeah, so IGF is more indirect fat loss, but it has a strong effect on it. Yeah, yeah, through nutrient partitioning and just when binding to the receptor. Yeah, putting the calories in the right places. All right, so let's revisit those, but I just wanted to highlight them here. And that brings it to one of my favorite, insulin. Now, there's a million different insulin formulas. So let's just keep it broad. From an antibiotic perspective, I think it's in the triforce. But, but, but, but I might have to revisit that, because now that I have experience with Inkrelex, which is next recombinant IGF one, I have not used insulin since I found Inkrelex, because the water retention is less and the fullness is 10 times better. The burden on your health is less. Agreed, yeah. But again, you can only use what you have access to. So, so I do think that insulin is a good way to kind of support your pancreas when you're going in higher calories. Of course, Kurt, you have a little bit of a different idea, but I would say that this is like end stage, glucose management, obviously. All right, and most guys don't need it. But if you want to push 250, 260 pounds to 180 pounds, then yeah, I think there's a place for it. Kurt, let's, let's revisit this a little bit. Have you, have you changed your stance on insulin since we last talked? This is an antibiotic roundtable episode one. I mean, I still think if you need it, then fine. But I don't think most guys that are using it probably need it, right? When you get, when you get guys, even the big guys, when you get them lean enough to get on stage, they generally don't need it. Yeah. It tends to be a body fat issue. And then the guys that are newer at this sport probably don't eat enough to justify it. So, I mean, I think when it's needed, sure. When it's not needed, no. And it's not so wild beyond a ball of connet zone that it's going to take this guy, you got to the next level, right? Like you said, it works synergistically with other things. Yeah. insulin kind of comes when you reach that point where you can't possibly eat. And you need to get bigger and there's already a good amount of tests and growth hormone or whatever else in place. And maybe you even need to throw the thyroid medication at it to kind of help with the nutrient partitioning because it seems that testosterone or any kind of antibiotic stock growth hormone, a little bit of thyroid, whether that's T4 or T3, it'll all replacement dose, split that over the day. And then insulin, I mean, it works very well, I must say. And it also allows you to keep the steroid dosages reasonably low, which is, you know, for your health parameters, of course, your insulin, like we're not talking about 50 IU's, 80 IU's of life. That was not my style, right? That's other educators and other bottom-end coaches that recommend that I never went that high. But I have recommended 25 to 50 IU's, but careful tracking of the health parameters, lipase, amylase, pancreatic markers, that kind of stuff. And it seems that even with careful use, health parameters stay sustained for one to two years with the occasional mini diet to kind of restore insulin sensitivity. But of course, this is the highest of the highest level of guys that live this lifestyle 24 seven. And I don't think that insulin is for anybody unless you live this 24 seven. I think you gotta be a full-time meathead. You know, I was three risks, right? I mean, you guys go like, but we've all seen it in gyms. So just you gotta be careful with it. Yeah. Now that is a very high list of disclaimers. When I wrote my insulin ebook, it was 70 pages of disclaimers and how to use and what to pay attention to. And then, you know, 30 more pages of what to do when you use it. Yeah. Of course, everybody skipped over the first 70 pages. That's how it is. Dean, what do you think insulin? Where would you rank it? What's your opinion? I would, I'm gonna be controversial maybe and say like low C high D in terms of like the overall benefit from a muscle building perspective that you get from it. Like you said, there is some merits when we're trying to perhaps force appetite or force nutrient partitioning. But then again, like rapid acting insulin or mealtime insulins, you've probably only got about three opportunities during the day to utilize it. Cause you're more like, I don't wanna mean is from, let's say 9 a.m. up until, let's say bed times 10 p.m. Up until about 5 p.m. That's your window of using this because once you go beyond that, if you get caught out with that secondary peak later in the night and you've gone to sleep, well, it's gonna disturb your sleep or you're gonna wake up hypo. And you're gonna be having to rush to try and correct the hypoglycemic second peak from the insulin you shot with your last meal. So yeah, I don't see it being hugely anabolic as a peptide by itself versus Crotormone, but it does have some additive benefit. Like you said, I'm on the same sort of side of if you need to help support pancreatic beta cell health using a basal insulin in the backgrounds, replacement dose, like what you do at maybe tired medication. I mean, on average, we make about 20, I use a basal insulin from morning to night. Other than that, meal time insulins, again, we definitely don't wanna be doing what we joked about where you shoot like 50 and 20, I use a meal time insulin just eat. And eat to try and keep the hype away. Oh man. You know, it's strategic. And even then, like I said, you'd be pretty stupid to do rapid actin insulin before like a heavy leg or heavy deadlift session. So again, that decreases the number of days when you can actually use them body parts. Yeah, you always use a post-workout, obviously. So I do think there's something to say for a long acting basal insulin upon waking, maybe a second dose later in the evening if you can feel comfortable pushing past 25 I use. So you maybe do 25 I use upon waking, 10 I use before bed to kind of have a more consistent level over the day. And then five I use post workouts of human lung. And that seems to be pretty reasonable. But now we're talking about a 260 pound guy, 275 pound guy. I'm still not against recommending insulin to guys that really wanna live their lifestyle and they prove themselves. So you stick to test CH in insulin and just leverage that to the maximum degree. But you really have to earn it. You really need to do that under guidance. So I would say for most guys, it's F tier. But if you need it and you know how to use it, I would say it's B tier. Okay, I agree. Dean, what do you think? Yeah, I'd be pretty much in agreement there if we're looking at someone in the top end it'll probably fall into B. But for the majority, soap 190 pounds, there's much better things to be doing as opposed to worrying about timings and amounts of insulin. Yeah, so what I'm gonna do is not to give everybody the wrong idea, even though I just said it's B tier. I'm gonna put it in D tier right in between, between A and F, so people don't get the wrong idea. So I'm putting insulin below generic growth hormone in MK-677. But if you're highly advanced, you can read in between the lines. And you're like, you know what? If I can put insulin S tier, but then that's up to you. Still, if you have access to IncralX, you probably don't need insulin. It's that simple. So that brings us to IncralX. Who has experience with IncralX? Not firsthand. Me, me, me. No, but pretty amazing stuff. Yeah, it is very amazing stuff. So, Garth, have you coached a few people that use IncralX? Yeah, and we see it in hospitals, which is very rarely, if there's liver issues or something and child isn't producing IGF from growth hormone. But it's just, I've not even seen it on the black market here. I know in Europe, it makes its way. Yeah. Yeah, seems like really great stuff. But again, for an advanced user, I don't know if it has much of a place. Like I would leverage growth hormone for a while before you even got into that stuff. Yeah, since the availability is so low and it's difficult to source, and even when you source it, it's kind of expensive. Now you can somewhat justify that by taking, let's say you spent the full price, right? Let's say you spent $700 for the 40 milligrams IncralX, and you use 500 micrograms per day, which seems to be a pretty effective dose. So you have 80 servings for a $700 bottle, right? 80 servings up until 500 micrograms is 40 milligrams. So you do 700 divided by 80 is $8.75. That's two A, use growth hormone. So instead of running 18 I use pharma, you run 16, you break even, you shuttle at $9 to the IncralX, and I think you get better results. So financially you are breaking even, but from a muscle enhancement, muscle fullness, nutrient partitioning hyperplasia perspective, it makes the world of difference. Really, it makes the world of difference. Now sourcing is always an issue, pricing is always an issue. You can get a cheaper than $700 per box, if you know a guy, right? So in the cyro-stim you can get it way cheaper than most people do. So in that context I think it's S tier, but most people just will never have access to it. And I got guys begging me in my inbox. Oh come on. Oh come on. Oh come on. Oh come on. Oh come on. Tina, can I fly you with IncralX to the UK? Yeah, you should be okay. Well, hypothetically, hypothetically, hypothetically. Yeah, it's not like Kurt said, it's not something I've really seen prescribed. I've wanted to British national form the trees, I don't even think it's in that book, I'd have to go and check as a licensed medication. Okay. So I mean, Ipsen produces it in France. And it's one of those compounds that you hear through the grapevine is shit. And it, I think it's really magic, honestly, but you have to ramp up the dose just pretty high. So before we would talk about 25 micrograms to 100 micrograms. I'm talking about 500 micrograms to one milligram per day is where it really starts to shine in combination with the other drugs. And this is a similar protocol to what I heard people talk about at the Mr. Olympia, who also ran in Krolaks, and it was both in open and in classic physique. And they say that at those dosages, it's almost like magic. Yeah. So I'm solo from my own personal experience and anecdotal reports, I'm going to put it in S tier. I mean, you guys are just going to have to believe me. I've heard, I've heard all the same stuff you've said. Yeah. Incrolex, IGF one, and it brings us to the next best thing. Those are the IGF one alert three and this, if you use plenty of IGF one alert three, got some decent results out of it. Seems to go well and less well from brand to brand batch to batch. I don't know if that's a shipping thing. I don't know if that's a production thing. I don't know if that's a sourcing thing. But I still got more old things considering of the like the 12 different brands of IGF one alert three that I've tried. I always got some sort of results compared to IGF one desk, which every time I tried that, I got nothing. Yep. And I but I do know people that swear by it. What is your experience been? Yep. That's same thing. Right. But even LR three is not, I don't know, it's hit or miss. Yeah. Most guys don't really, they get a bottle and then they don't ever buy another bottle of it. Yeah. It's because in the US, it's doctors can loosely prescribe it kind of that might have changed with the recent peptide laws. But again, it was doctors could prescribe it for wellness where they could not prescribe in collux. So it was one of those ways to work around the GH IGF thing. Have you ever heard a bodybuilder say in the through the grapevine like, you know what really made a difference to my physique? No. Or MK-677 for that matter. I never heard it. No, but like I've heard plenty of bodybuilders say like, dude, when I ramped up the growth from one from six, I used to 12. I use holy fucking dog shit. I will mutate. Yeah. That's that to me was the most dramatic thing ever was just ramping up the growth one and using it. Exactly. So Dean, did you have some experience without your own or three or desk or clients that use it? Okay. Clients have used LR three and like Kurt said, you know, really depends on the source. Now, the source that I'd be associated or affiliated with, I've seen it produce some good results. So I guess, you know, it's one of those ones like why it was created was because of that long release. So you only take a small dose. You got that extended IGF one and obviously then that's reliant on well, how high is IGF one binding protein going to go for because this thing is hanging around your system for quite a period of time. So it's not something like in correct IGF one days or LR three have not used them myself. So I can't say this is how I've experienced what I've seen, you know, 50 micrograms of LR three bilaterally used and cut guys have coached to have seen, you know, marginal results in terms of like localized growth to biceps or quads where it's been been placed. But again, it comes down to the source, I guess, and the cost. So I'm on blood work. I've tested IGF one LR three days in Rolex all the one milligram servings two and a half hours before testing only in Rolex increases serums levels of IGF one and binding protein. So you run it for a week, right? One milligram per day for a week and see what happens only in Rolex really raises serums levels and exogenous growth from one and exogenous melatonin. But IGF one LR three or death, it doesn't make a difference on your blood work. And when you look at the medical insert of in Rolex, like the recommendations for kids are in the milligram servings. That's why the micrograms two and 250 micrograms twice a kilogram per kilogram body weight. So if you're 40 kilos, this brings it to milligram dosages. And in order to raise serum levels significantly, you need to use milligrams of the shit. And anybody that has access to in Rolex contested his home, you do, you know, you take a decent dose of growth hormone where I just want levels to go up, then take one milligram in collection, test it two and a half hours later, it goes up with a couple points. But it's not that much substantially. It's maybe a hundred to 200 points. Well, we found an HIV that when compared head to head in Colox versus GH Sarstin, the Sarstin was more effective at raising IGF and systemic growth than, you know, than IGF was. So again, I would just go back to the growth hormone. Yeah. And what I honestly think with the peptide websites is that most of the IGF one LR three and deaths labeled as one milligram is actually a hundred micrograms. That's why when I say I got good results, that's a valid day. And he said a hundred micrograms or one milligram. I'm not entirely sure, but if it doesn't really raise levels on blood work, because I just want to know or three or this can be detected, we should get some sort of receptor, you know, interaction. You know, I ran, I recently got a batch of one hour three through one of my sources, one milligram per day. So I'm like, you know what, I'll take this on rest days. That's, I took it a day after leg day, Wednesday, Saturday, one milligram subq in the morning. And you do feel fuller at the end of the day. Now, would I spend $70 per day to feel fuller? No, no. So I think your mileage might vary a lot. But I have no problem putting both of these in F tier. Yep. I'm with you. I hate to say but you know, if you have access to other stuff, I think you get better results from high dose growth hormone. Yeah, I mean, test, if you can't grow on test and growth, real growth hormone, ain't the sport for you. Yeah. LR3, G1, desks. I'm biting myself in your foot here because many of my affiliates have had G1, LR3 and desks, but no Increlix. So I'm cutting into my own sales. Shit. Yeah, well, it is what it is. That's the cost of honesty. Exactly. Yeah. Could IGF-1, LR3 be better than injectable secretion gox though? Probably not. Not if the secretion gox used correctly. Because the secretion gox raise IGF-1 levels more than I see anecdotally on IGF-1, LR3 or desks. I would go with the secretion gox in my case. And it's also significantly cheaper. I think MK-677 beats out LR3 and desks. Which is sad, right? Yeah, it's sad. Yeah. All the kids are rejoicing. All the storm problems are rejoicing. I've said this about other things and I guess you can apply it here. If a lot of these things were effective or efficient to use, there'd be pharmaceutical drugs like Trome. The big pharmaceutical giants are very aware of everything that's on the market that bodybuilders use. If they found that one of these random Psalms or something actually was worth using, they would have bought the rights to it already. They wouldn't be selling it at a supplement store. They'd be keeping the shit out of it. Yeah. So it's, you know, similar to Govormon. If there was an effective, cheaper way to make it, you could throw all these other fillers in it and that was effective, they would do that too, because it's cheaper to manufacture. You think, you know, you think Sarastrum wants to spend that much money manufacturing it? They don't have a choice. It's the only way to make it effective. Right. Yeah, there's a certain finesse in the delivery mechanism, which can be replicated by generics. And again, I see, you know, saving yourself some money on pharma in the offseason by using generics and then going by vows and not by IUs. Okay, it's fine. We're talking about big boy cycles here. We're all into big boy cycles. Well, maybe not Dean. Dean is still a little bit risk averse, but you're a big boy nonetheless. So, so I'm running a vial of generics on chest day and two vials on leg day, and it seems to be working. But yeah, I'd probably get away with five IUs pharma and 10 IUs pharma on leg day, you know. Yeah, I get more online. I use Sarastrum than I ever done. I have 18 units of known generics. I should make that switch soon. Going from 20 IUs generic to like 18 IUs Sarastrum. See what happens. Big difference. And like every day, you look different every day. That was, I mean, that was the thing that Chase was totally right about when he first did this stuff. Yeah. You wake up in the morning, look different every day, look different. What are many vials of generics you would need to get that effect? I don't know. It's probably because absorption is the rate limit. So, this probably where it's just not getting absorbed, right? So, you're just wasting it at that point. And how many lumps do you want on your stomach? Exactly. I mean, how many, like how many, how many lumps you want to love your body? Yeah. Did you get a lot of shit for that, Kurt? About the sip you know, it's not even. I didn't publish it yet. So, it just, but I mean, that's the original data that we're, we have so far shows that the peaks are an antihist material. People get upset, man. I, the idea of motion science, it is what it is. I know, I know. Do you see people get upset for classifying a iGivon LR3 and F tier? People get upset about what I said about halo testing. I'm sure there's all sorts of hateful videos about me now. I just don't like it. Oh yeah. Yeah. Well, if you want to spew hate, what about my kind of growth factor? Whether that's bi-gelated. Okay. I mean, if you think iGivon LR3 is kind of meh. Yeah. MGF is pretty junky. I mean, not the stuff that your body produces, right? So you have some places, right? If you have A, E, A, blast and cruise, the one, you know, the MGF your body produces is needed for muscle growth, but the injectable stuff is. The protocol is basically you do it directly post-workout, right? Because it disperses and immatables so rapidly. I've never heard anybody get out of anything out of it besides a lighter wallet. No. You know, even when they use a credit card, their wallet is lighter. That's it. I've never heard anybody place another order for MGF. Again. So certified F tier? Yep. The only thing that made me go was hypo one time. And then that just that completely then put into question what was actually inside. Even MGF. I took one milligram of it by mistake. Accidentally, the whole vowel. And within about 20 minutes, my blood sugar was 2.9. So there was something in there. Just not MGF. What's not MGF? Put it that way. We are because like high dosages of foliastatin can make you go hypoglycemic as well. I will get to the foliastatin. I might be running a foliastatin experiment now that this is I'm running this YK-11, which I'm still not convinced is doing anything. Supplingly orally. And I don't want to take the injectable form because it's all improperly glycol. I had a lot of guys contributed about YK-11 on the last podcast. I just don't want to take the injectable form. And I asked somebody to private brew it for me. He's like, I can do it in MGT, man. She just crashes. So I think YK-11 is off the menu. But foliastatin might be an option. Actually, that's right on the list. So have you guys done any research on foliastatin 288 315 344? Some of these different isoforms? Yeah, but it does it actually work in humans? Yeah. I mean, some of the scientific evidence looks compelling, but it's all in the elderly and in mobile. It's similar to this stuff with we were talking about before with IGF-des, right? Like if you look at the research, it's like, wow, it's 10 times stronger than IncoLux. It's not. So it just sometimes the research doesn't line up with what's actually happening. And again, if it were a good drug, it wouldn't be something we'd be buying on the black market. True. True. Yeah, foliastatin is not FDA approved. Yeah, it's not. We're not even sure if myostatin is really the whole story, right? You don't know. And it's active in and then, you know, there's some stuff. There's a whole cascaded things that go on to stop your body from growing. Yeah. Yeah, I got a protocol from one of my clients who has a stem cell and peptide company in the United States. So he sent me a protocol, foliastatin in combination with quercetin and some dosing protocol. So I might run that after I'm done with the YK-11 to kind of see how it compares. And then again, we're talking about like a milligram of starts and then 200 micrograms to keep it elevated for a maximum of five weeks, all administered locally in the area where you would want myostatin inhibition. So that will be my legs in my case, which have come up quite a bit. I can tell from my pants not being able to fit. Sucks. So it's going well. Deanna Joe is helping a lot. So let's see, let's see how that compares if it can push past this plateau because I seem to be topping out at 115 kilos. So yeah, I'm excited for that. But again, scientific evidence looks compelling, but I've never heard anybody really get any kind of result out of any kind of foliastatin unless they were also selling it. Correct. Follow me. Not something I've ever couched or told someone, you know, any sort of science behind. So I guess, you know, like you said, the theory is great, but we all know that whatever you want to call it, rumors that myostatin inhibitors were what sort of top to runny out the difference between the Olympia is that it was the secret university study and myostatin inhibition. Have we seen anything come about, you know, order bodybuilders that have become guinea pigs at order universities? So I take that rumor with a pinch of salt. Yeah, I agree. I think they tested what was his name? Flexiuler. Yeah, the only one to be having some sort of deficiency in myostatin. That wasn't even a legitimate study. Didn't Balco fake that to justify something? I don't know. I thought the outcome was not. It turns out that they were making that up. That could be wrong. You're saying that they're making up results in some ways? No, definitely not. Not what not. While legitimate organization like Balco. Smooth the numbers around to fit the narrative. Yeah. Yeah. Funded by Syntex. All right. So we're going to put a follow satin in F tier up until further notice. I made a deep dive about a 031 and a 083. Again, it looks very promising on paper. A 08, a 031 works systemically. Subcontinent  ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, based on the research that I've done, A083 is more compelling because it gets rapidly deactivated in the bloodstream. It's a follow-start in 288 variant, to put it simple, bound to immunoglobulin IgG2, I believe. Very rapid muscle gain in the muscle that it was injected into by blocking myostatin or was an activating receptor blocker. It's a decoy receptor basically. So all the myostatin goes and then doesn't activate the myostatin pathway. So you basically remove the rate limiting factor of muscle growth and then with resistance training the muscle growth was quite substantial. Now the effective dose is 240 milligrams, which brings you to a market price of several thousand dollars. So nobody will ever be able to run this experiment because all the files of A083 that I see online are either 1, 2, or 5 milligrams and then it's already like a hundred bucks. So you're spending thousands on an injection. If you have thousands to spend, I mean you might as well inject stem cells into your quads. You know, that's point. Well that's and with your point that's the rate limit on muscle growth. It's not myostatin, it's how many stem cells you have, how many nuclei can you add to a muscle cell. That's what growth hormone works. I'm surprised it hasn't been investigated to use stem cells to increase muscle size. I think it's probably ethical things at least here. Yeah, it's probably very expensive and the guys that can afford it would probably not be interested in muscle mass. They're probably more interested in looking young. Yeah, or healing models. Thousands and thousands of dollars. Yeah, you know and doctors can't mark up at least the United States doctors cannot mark up a drug that's against the law but they can they can charge for the procedure which the procedure in that case involves them sticking a needle in you. So then you get a couple grand to stick a needle in you. You're looking at eight thousand dollars for a shot. Yeah, who's doing that? I was doing that right. Even if you could get the bottle of it. I mean you're probably four or five grand. I would have to guess for a bottle. Yeah. No, it's even then you've got cross activity and immunological responses that come from it. I'm not sure about you guys but I've read quite a few horror case studies of guys getting stem cell therapy and there's been mass rejection because of the alignment of their body to the stem cell donor. Again, unless you are getting stem cells from your direct sort of genetic lineage, you're taking a big risk taking stem cells that have come from another genetic source to put it easy. Yeah, I think there's some procedures with anti-rejection drugs that are being put in place until the stem cells kind of solidify. But yeah, I haven't really looked much into it. But again, for most of us, it's one heck of a procedure to grow muscle. Yeah, exactly. But it would be cheaper than A0A3. It would be, but it would be even cheaper to use serastim. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah. So all roads lead back to STR pharmaceutical serastim. And we'll put those two in FTR also simply because it's just unaffordable for everybody. Orthroporheter, EPO. Now, this is even more of a nuanced use compared to insulin. I've talked to cyclists who've used it. I've heard bodybuilders use it. Alas, one of the coaches that has now been retired was recommending EPO, again, allegedly. But I haven't really talked about it, but there's, you know, that really talked about dosages and protocols and that kind of stuff. Even though on paper, it doesn't make sense to run a little bit of EPO for blood building effect to supply oxygen and remove the metabolic waste products, carbon dioxide. Now, Kurt, I believe one of your family members was very knowledgeable about EPO. Yes, my father was one of the developers of something called bloodless medicine. So it eliminates the need for blood transfusions. So he invented the machine that basically cleans your blood and gives it back to you. So it was not, so it can't be used in an emergency surgery, but it can be used for plan surgery. So instead of taking, you know, a bag of blood from donor that matches, you would take your own blood, they would use EPO first. He would administer EPO first and then build your blood supply. Then they would take your own blood, spin it in this machine that looks similar to like a bone marrow machine and administer it back. But yeah, but outside of that kind of stuff, I don't have any first hand experience of that as a performance drug. I do know endurance athletes use it. You know, you could just use, you could use EQ would probably accomplish something similar. Yeah, but of course, the blood building effect of EPO would go up or of EQ and it usually brings you to 56. And the most bodybuilders kind of panic, right? They see 54, 56, like I got to donate. Whereas the cyclists, they feel perfectly comfortable having a hematocrit of 58 to 60. What the proper way to look at it, at least to how I was taught, was you look at your platelet count. So platelet count is normal, regardless of the hemoglobin and hematocrit. You don't need to be as concerned again. I'm not giving random medical advice to people, I don't know. But if it doesn't mean just because you're setting over the range with those numbers that you need to all of a sudden get blood, it's the platelet count that matters. If your platelet count goes up, that's a big deal. Obviously, your platelet count is low. That's indicative of other diseases. But that's really the metric. I think most doctors, again, in the United States, when they see that, it's just an immediate reaction because they're protecting their own ass. So they just want you to draw blood, but you're kind of losing the performance and enhancing benefits of the cell. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, nowadays with the use of like an anapyloid, thomasarctin, grapefruit extract, methylene blue, most bodybuilders keep their hematocrit in range, maybe more so than is required. Since we're using lower dosages nowadays because we're switching to the peptides, we're missing out on this blood building effect. I do think that there's a place for EPO in bodybuilding. But how and if and the nuances, I'm not really sure. Again, based on anecdotal reports of bodybuilders that have used EPO, they say it's a game changer. Stamina-wise, like high-replica dates, and that really allowed them for more strain use activity and then just really putting a next level of hypertrophy response. So if that's the needle mover between having small legs and bigger legs, and you've seen that, right, in the offseason, some guys, some pro goes to work with a coach, and then the next offseason, their body part just mutated. Is that a drug thing, a training thing, an EPO thing? I guess you never really know. Probably not a training thing. No. Yeah, time under tension. Yeah, probably a drug thing. Yeah, probably a drug thing. So I'm gonna put EPO and to be determined. It's risky. Yeah, it's very risky. Do you have anything to contribute? Like what Kurt said when we're looking at hematocritz, we always sort of pay attention to the platelet count for clotting risk. And then obviously there's a whole other bunch of other markers we should be looking for clotting assessment. But I guess the higher hematocritz goes, the higher the potential for blood pressure to increase. And then obviously vascular resistance and sharing of the endothelium and the endothelial wall. I mean, yeah, I can see the benefits of rich opresis, but most guys will experience some level of rich opresis from anabolic steroids anyway. And then like you said, most people are always very cautious on looking at that number. I mean, 54, 55 isn't very uncommon. And if someone's platelet count is 180, 200, and their blood pressure is, you know, 150 and over 80. And the big scheme of things, what is that hematocritz saying, just develop more cells. And then you go one step further and look at the hemoglobin. And then the next level down from that then is the serum iron and transferrin and ferritin lever. And then you're sort of looking at, okay, well, is there issues here with iron dumping? Is the iron actually going into hemoglobin to give you that performance enhancing benefit? So I have a few guys asked my opinion on it, you know, I'm going to run EPO, I'm sort of like, well, I can't see why not, but I can see it being a huge game changer than what you said there. You have more oxygen carrying capabilities. So if you're somebody who has issues with, you know, having to use high rep sort of working sets in order to stimulate muscle fibers, and you're getting gassed very easily, where your respiratory system is what is letting you down as opposed to muscular strength. Yeah, my might have some benefit there. But like you said, I think to be determined, I've never personally utilized it. No, I've never used it. I would like to give it a try. But this late in my career, I'm like, always like, ah, this other stuff, saver stuff to experiment with, that is a little bit more accessible. Because I've talked to several endurance guys, right? And they the difference between endurance runners, obviously the time during the race is different, right? We train one and a half hours on the bike for eight hours of time. But our blood pressure, the blood pressure that increases during strenuous sets, I'm putting all that pressure on the heart is vastly different compared to what you would expect during a short spout of, you know, sprinting during an endurance race is vastly different. So these guys can get away with blood thinners, fish oil, vitamin E, maybe baby aspirin, you know, making sure to stay hydrated, have a completely different metabolic pathway because they mostly work on carbs, right? Or they use some sort of lipoletic age. So I feel that it's very risky in bodybuilding to use EPO simply because we utilize the metabolic pathways a little bit differently and the blood pressure like like Dean alluded to. So if there's a lot of shearing, again, on the arterial walls, then how much damage are you creating, you know, with this high blood pressure and blood full with red blood cells? I would rather look into myosatol tripyrophosphate, which increases the oxygen carrying capacity of the hemoglobin. It's quite a popular new tropic increases endurance quite a bit. So without increasing your hematocrit, you just allow your hemoglobin to carry a little bit more oxygen. And you should get a performance enhancing benefit out of that as well, without actually increasing your risk. So that's something I'll experiment with shortly that becomes available through one of my affiliates ITPP. And it seems to be a basically no brainer. And if I notice a tremendous boost out of that, then I might drink an X-Cruise or something experiment with some EPO. But it's again, it's very low on the priority list. Just all the guys that I talked about it, or I heard talk about EPO said that there was a game changer for them. And these were all pretty big guys. So look at what we've all done our research and reading into how it was utilized with cyclists and a team who are basically at different points throughout even the night taking blood samples to see where the RBC count is and whether it's a go or no go for the next day's event to utilize it. So it's all these teams got their own private doctor, man. We might be able to meet some of them at the seminar. And no respectful sort of amateur bodybuilders can have a medical team coming in and doing a blood draw every few hours. Maybe one nurse one nurse on standby at one of the shows. That's about it with some paramedics with oxygen. That's about it. I remember like if you want to use EPO, you need to do a CT scan. It's if you have a coronary artery disease or black belt up, you need to do an MRI to make sure that the blood flow through your arteries is normal, preferably both with contrast. And then you need to make sure that you check your hemoglobin and the matriculate every two weeks. You have one of those at home hemoglobin meters. Stay hydrated all the time. There's so much nuance that goes into it and how many guys are willing to do that. So let's put it into be determined. TB to be determined. TBD, EPO. All right. Then the next one is GHK copper and GHK is a little bit of an anti-aging drug. Might help with hair growth. Might help with gray hairs. I found that it works for spiking weaker body parts regarding site enhancement, but the post injection pain. My fucking God. Like I was able to grow my tricep. I got like a severe sweep. This used to be flat. Then I started micro dosing GHK copper in there for localized collagen synthesis. I had to do a boatload of deep tissue massage therapy and I actually got a sweep. I tried to do the same on my tear drop on my legs, but that wasn't really effective. So was it worth the pain? In hindsight, probably not. But that's the only real practical application I see for it for localized collagen synthesis at the site of administration, which does work. Which does work. Is it worth the pain? Probably not. What is your experience, guys, GHK copper? I used to topically for hair. Didn't do anything for me. I can tell. My drug use outdid the GHK copper. I mean, when it's a work through the thalamus, right? It's just supporting that organ that just ages. No, that's TB-500. I thought the GHK did as well. Really? Okay. Yeah, that's right. I could be wrong. Okay. That was my understanding. That's the only way I've ever used it as a topical thing from a compound pharmacy. Did you notice a skin-thinning effect or skin-thickening effect? There's nothing except a thinning of my wallet. Yeah, okay. So that's after your certified. If it lowers your wallet without any results, it's after you. I mean, that was for me. Perhaps. I mean, you got right. You grew two inches on your triceps from using it. Yeah. Well, two inches is a little bit generous. But I would say I got more. It's sweeping. Yeah, it's sweeping. But I grew the sweep of mine from growth hormone. So you can just go back to growth hormone. Exactly. Which also stimulates collagen. Exactly. It's a drug. Obviously. It's kind of amazing all the things that growth hormone does on its own. It is. All roads lead back to growth hormone. And it's that simple. Yeah. Dean. I've never used it from a muscle-baling perspective. Like I do say as a good source of copper for a... And most bodybuilders are copper deficient when we sort of look at the balance of their minerals versus iron and zinc. So yeah, it can be a useful way of getting in. Bioactive copper. Is that from too much zinc intake in bodybuilders? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So there's a nice... I guess there's when you look at the metalloproteins that carry the metals, zinc, iron and copper all sort of work off the same sort of toyo protein that carries them through the body to quite similar sort of molecular shape. GHK-2. Topically I found it's very useful for skin health. Like topical collagen synthesis where you apply it on your forehead or wherever. I did put it into... I had a callus on my knee for years that wouldn't go away. And I started to put GHK-2 with an insulin pin into the callus. And I started to dissolve the callus from the inside out. Now, it was like you said with your choice up. Quite painful when you put it into like the cap of your knee into the skin there. But it must have... The callus skin must have regenerated obviously the lower dermal layers to push the callus out because it was able to basically pump us away. The sort of hardened skin off the knee. So that's something I found very useful at the GHK-2. So it seems like you can find some sort of obscure use for it. And that's the only use for it. So we can do site enhancement and removing calluses. Yeah. Equally as painful, you can use like an angle grinder on your callus. It will probably take it off too. Yeah. You've got to weaken it up first. Use some DMSO. Well, anyone who has calluses, another good thing. And I tried it, but it helped. But what sort of push the callus over the edge was the GHK-2. Well, glycolic acid and urea cream basically dissolve your skin. So you just peed on it. All right. Yeah. Well, I'm not going to suggest this. But when I don't kick box and grown up, that was one of the things that's tough for the skin on your feet. Yeah. Well, thank God we have pharmacology for that. All right. OK, so GHK copper, I'm going to put it to eat here. It's not entirely useless. I think for site enhancement in the arms, maybe shoulders, it works. I tried it on the quads. You would have to inject copious amounts. But the pain that you're undergoing almost makes it not worth it. Yeah, I'm still happy with my sweep. That's great. Yeah. That's a big absolute. You know, I'm pretty happy with this. This is where is it? Like this used to be not there. This thing. So I shaped that. Yes, like a BBL for your tricep. Brazilian butt lift with GHK copper. You could just put soap on in there. You have a filler in there. Yeah, I do the PPM a thing. That's permanent. You know, it was worse like because the GHK copper from the collagen synthesis, it's quite potent, but it creates all these filaments. So it's kind of bound up and then you have to use grassland technique. A deep tissue massage therapy to break it up. I don't know what's worse, the injections or the grassland technique. And then my massage therapist is like, what are you putting in there? So I put a GHK copperies like this is like the roughest tissue to work through. And then over the course of a year, I would get these shots like after arm day and the day after because it's one. Most of the, you know, a virtual response in the protein synthesis occurs, right? So you kind of boost that. And then the third day I would do deep tissue massage therapy. And after a year of doing that, I gained quite a bit of size and I still got separation and stuff. But yeah, it was a very painful process. I'm happy I did it, but I wouldn't do it again. It's that same. Yeah, it's that simple. OK, so I'm going to put an ETER not completely useless. But not as good as insulin or generic GH. That's definitely for sure. So just as good as growth hormone secretion. Brings us to the healing peptides, BPC-157 and TB-500. I think both are eight here. I think they're good. Of the peptides, they're probably the two that actually do something. I agree. Yeah. Of the peptides and you could consider them anabolic because they tremendously heal. I hope in the healing process. Now, I've heard guys run this year round. I don't know if you guys know anybody that run TB-500 or BPC-157 year round to help with angiogenesis, reduce inflammation, maybe promote a little bit of recovery and at least tendon and connective tissue health. And guys, if you have experience with running TB-500 or BPC-157 year round, let us know down below. I'd love to hear about it. On paper, it does make sense. And I reviewed all of the studies for BPC-157 or 190 studies. And all five for TB-500. Yeah, because it's extracted from thymus and beta-4. And on thymus and beta-4, there's thousands. So that will be a whole job in itself. But yeah, basically the results of those five studies of TB-500 concluded that they had the same healing capacity as thymus and beta-4. That's why a lot of these compounding pharmacies that are hosts thymus and beta-4 instead of the fragment. But apparently milligram for milligram is exactly the same, even though it's a fragment. So I think they're very promising in the context of healing injuries. What was your experience? I've taken, I'll have it there in the shelf. I've taken oral BPC-157 over the last 15 months straight. Holy moly. So I'll probably see that's with celiac and... So your intestinal tract is a little bit front double bicep when you give it some food. Hell yeah. In combination with lorazotide, and I've done a GI 360 stool analysis there last month, three weeks after the show. And my GI 360 was spotless. So no inflammation. Do anything that I flagged on my GI 360 was a slightly raised beta-glucoronidase, which... Okay. For the most part, can be a good and a bad thing. So I just started to address how obviously feeding my gut more prebiotics, more calcium declucrate to try and overcome that. Were you at the Roman levels elevated? No. No, no. And then I mean even a nuance thing that I started to trial was L-aspatic acid was what I found in the literature to be a beta-glucoronidase inhibitor. Okay. So you can get L-aspatic acid as a dietary supplement. As inhibiting properties on beta-glucoronidase activity in the gut. So we'll see what results come from that. But I've taken oral BPC-157, between 400 to 800 micrograms now since last July. Wow. Without the... Completely reverse aceliacs and all the issues that you had. Yeah, well my gut, the inflammation of my gut. Anytime I've had trace gluten exposure, I've had swelling of my abdomen, but I've had no pain. I had it the two times I've had exposure since last year. Like the one I have on my Instagram, I think it was from January this year. It was just a trace. We got a takeaway from an Indian restaurant. And within a couple of hours, my belly was like, I was nine months pregnant. But I had no pain. And I mean, when I put that down to us, the integrity of the gut was sort of kept intact from taking the peptide. My immune system responded, but I didn't have the same excruciating pain as what I had with other exposures prior to that. So oral BPC-157, very good for intestinal health. I'm running it down myself because I have some intestinal issues of my own. So I will continue that then, because it's good to hear that it just has a building up effect. I'm running 500 micrograms per day with about 500 micrograms of KPV. And it also helps with intestinal health. So I'll continue to run that for a little bit longer because I didn't really notice much of an effect, but I guess it's a slow, right, transitory effect over time. It's one of those ones, I think, like that gluten challenge where you can sort of see whether it's doing the job or not. But I guess maybe at some point, I should do a stop and give myself six or eight weeks break. And if there was ever an exposure during that time, what would be the difference? And touch what I don't get an exposure. But I mean, I've seen nothing but positive benefit from running it last year. Yeah, of course, we've all done the injectable stack of the two of them together for tendonitis or very minor muscle tears. But I guess the caveat here is we're gonna, all roads lead back to growth hormone, BPC-157's main mechanism is up-regulation of growth hormone receptor density. Yeah, true. And you take, when you do injectable BPC-157, part of your protocol should be with growth hormone. Especially if you've got a tendon injury or tendon repair that you're trying to facilitate. Again, putting these things locally, you get some marginal effect locally, but it goes systemic because it's an aqueous based solution that diffuses into your bloodstream. So you don't necessarily have to put it locally. Putting it locally will allow some of it to act there first before diffusing, but the very first protocols of, oh, you have to inject as close to the tendon as possible. You know, not necessarily. Now, the fusion. Do you know useful thing, I guess, from reading into the mechanism of both of them is they both up-regulate and down-regulate angiogenesis. So they're able to put the halt on angiogenesis to certain parts of the body and up-regulate angiogenesis to orders. So when we're looking at, you know, people caveatting potential cancer risk from this angiogenesis, BPC-157 tends to know where to up-regulate blood flow delivery to and where to direct it away from. Ah, hmm. So maybe it has some anti-cancer properties. I remember reading something about this, but it was not very well researched. I made that deep dive. No, it's not. Well, obviously we're looking at animal-based study and the facilities to... There's one retrospective human study on BPC. That's it. But I think eventually we're going to have enough anecdotal and hopefully someone will do a case report, like publish a case report on these peptides when it comes to, you know, we've probably all recommended deutilization of these two peptides alongside growth hormone for post-surgery, post-muscle tear, tendon rupture, et cetera, alongside some other useful things. And we've seen pretty dramatic recovery times where I've had people from consoles come back to me and say, oh, well, the orthopedic surgeon was quite baffled that I was able to move my elbow six months after the surgery, let alone six weeks after the surgery. Yeah, and we hear these stories over and over again. Yeah, we heard it over and over again. Yeah, so I would say that BPC and TB-500 both are A-tier. And again, not as good as growth hormone, but stacked very well together with growth hormone. I still think that they're used as contextual to kind of heal injuries or you have some tendonitis or some inflammation or some gut problems, which is the case that BPC-157 can actually heal that over time. So I can't put it in S-tier, but definitely A-tier. And I know that if I put it any lower than that, we'll get a huge rejection and unfollows. Because like with G-scarper, I think everybody can agree. And growth hormone screed-a-gargles, everybody can agree for us to put it in E-tier. But BPC-157 and TB-500, it healed millions of injuries worldwide. And I think the anecdotal evidence is vast, because when they put that on the article 303A and B, where they limited the compounding pharmacies from prescribing TB-500 to BPC-157, that's what everybody pointed the finger to, like, what the fuck? We need this. It was even on Joe Rogan. And he's been a very big advocate of these kinds of peptides. So what do you guys think? A-tier, higher, lower? A. No, A. I mean, even like you said, the fact that water have now started to place as a banned substance, they know how useful these two compounds are. So again, yeah, I'd agree A. Which is a shame, because it has no shown performance enhancing benefits, but it shortens the time between getting an injury and being back on the field. So if anything, you're handicapping the athletes, not to play more. So you're literally taking good athletes off the competition. Which is, well, that's why the stupid decisions. Don't worry, I made a water prohibit list or a water-approved doping stack as well.  one hour and 40 minutes long, because I put MOTC in the prohibit list, so it got upset, so now I showed them one hour and 40 minutes of options that are not included. Fucking assholes. I think those are all the peptides. I know that Dean had a couple other ones, and we have some time left, but I don't have any experience or real experience with these. So we have epithelon, Fox04, MOTC, I have experience with that, SS31, the bioregulators, Ogens, Allens, Immunoregulators, so maybe we can do the top four at epithelon, Fox04, MOTC and SS31, and then the bioregulators, I think that's more of a discussion point rather than a classification. Yeah. Dean, what's your opinion on epithelon? To be honest, it's one of those ones that it's a bit of a leap of fate when we use it. I'm taking this out, I feel good about my NTAG. I mean, I've personally so far done five courses of the Ukrainian protocol, which is 50 milligrams every six months, and someone said to me, well, is it work? I'm like, I won't know until, you know, 15, 20 years time, and maybe if you do like a telomerase check because you can do one of those where you can see obviously how much telomerase you're expressing and in theory, you can look at the glycolated age of your genetics, which gives you an insight into potential biological age. It's one of those ones that from the research in terms like how it improves circadian rhythm, how it improves pituitary health, improves telomerase, a lot of it is theoretical. It's been utilized by the Russians for at least 30 years now from Cavinson's research, so there must be something thereof. I mean, we only have to look at how old Cavinson was when he died as well. So there's some level of evidence anecdotally towards it being anti-age. But is there a direct study comparing the effects of epithalon versus alcohol poisoning? Because it seems that vodka is like the favorite pastime of people in Russia, which I get. It's cold. There's that's what you do when there's a lot of snow. So I wonder if some of the benefits of epithalon is the kind of offsetting like a terrible lifestyle because it does seem that Russians do enjoy their alcohol. That's why a lot of these new tropics like Srebrolycin, Mildrone, Type-Oxin, Bematel, they've all been studied for alcohol withdrawal and they all have been shown to be effective for alcohol withdrawal. So I'm wondering if there's some overlap with the apithalon studies. I would dive into it myself, but did you notice something like that, Dean, by any chance? I didn't personally look at that sort of level of what you're saying, but I will now and I will have a check. I mean, you know, is it something that you're going to recommend to everyone? Probably not. But I guess for those who are looking at anti-age and how we understand the cell division and you know, your hay flick limit of when you run out of cell divisions, epithalon slowing that down by improving your telomeres. You know, like what we always talk about, the monetary costs to do like either the Ukrainian protocol, which is 50 milligrams or the Russian, which is 100. You're looking at like 280 to maybe $400 every six to eight months. You're banking that investment that in 50 and you know, when you're in your like late 50s, 60s, 65 that all this anti-age and protocol that you've done in your, you know, 30s, 40s, 50s has paid off. It's kind of like a government, government regulated pension. Yeah, you know, it's got to put all my money in a fingers crossed fingers crossed actually payouts by the time I turned 75. You know, it's one of those ones that you can't tell if it's going to work or not. It's just, this is what the research shows. Check your telomeres if you want to sort of a sanity check, maybe after do a baseline 10 more is now and then five years do it again and see what the difference is. And what you're sort of hoping for is to hold maybe your telomeres level as it was five years ago without it sort of declining. It does make sense to do it on paper because we use compounds that induce hyperplasia, right? So division and in the process of hyperplasia, your telomere, telomere shorten. So it does make sense to have some sort of telomeres activity up regulation in place. Whether that's from epithelon or astrochondorut extract or not astragalus extract. Yeah. Astragalus has been shown to upregulate telomeres. I think either or, but then astragalus has the added benefits of helping you with your kidneys. And if you use maybe two, three grams per day, you don't have to make a dose it. But that's also an insurance policy because I still see people have elevated gratin levels, albeit that Cisthenes is in range, although they take astragalus root extract. Now I haven't seen a direct comparison, but from a cost to benefit perspective, I think $800 on epithelon versus maybe $200 on astragalus root extract over the years. Is it the same? Would it be advisable to do both? What do you think? So the part of astragalus that they sort of see the telomere come from is the straggly side four or IV, which from my understanding is in a very, very small amount. Like when we use the actual whole root extract, astragalus I had four, you can obtain by itself, but it is like epithelon. It's very expensive. So yeah, it's I like personally on paper. And like I said, it's not something I say to someone, Oh yeah, you need to do this for anti-age. And because as it stands, like you said, I'm not going to know for 10 years whether what I've done now or not has paid off. If you do have to budget and like an anti-age and stack to do it, then yeah, great. On paper looks great. You're not potentially going to regret spending that money running your Ukraine and our Russian protocol. But if, you know, budget is tight and money is something has to be considered. There's other things on top of it. And growth wrong probably. Yeah. Yeah. And I don't think that has any antibiotic potential that epithelon is purely anti-aging, kind of like taking a rep amycin occasionally. Yeah. When it increases, glue the ion to which you could just take glue the ion. Oh, glue the found. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, so I don't think we can classify epithelon because it's so obscure. Yeah. It's very new. But it is, it is promising to look into if you're financially secure and you're trying to save, get a couple extra life points. Let's see what's next. Fox zero four. I never heard about that until you brought it up. So, Dean, take it away. Fox zero four. You know, it's another one of these anti-age and peptides. But it's more down to cells in essence. So it's one of the mechanisms I'm sure you read is it's able to basically hunt out senescent cells and I never heard about it until you said me. Yes. And your name with so you're sort of going around and killing off the zombie cells, which, you know, from an anti-age and perspective can be useful because what we sort of understand from even the oxidative stress models is once a cell becomes senescent. So basically senescence is where you reach the end of cellular division for a particular cell. So it's basically it's not either it is alive, but it's not technically alive and it's not technically dead. So the best example would be a gray hair. You've lost the melanin producing cells of the hair, but the hair still able to grow. So what we find then is the senescent cells can produce sasps, which are like these signaling molecules that trigger off senescence in neighboring cells. And that's sort of why when you have one gray hair in your beard, you end up with a patch because tuner cells around a start to age as a consequence of the sasps being produced. So when we look at, you know, how can we reverse potential age in other cell, we can allow the body to determine that that cell has senesced and to remove or eliminate it from the body and encourage a new cell to grow in its place. So it's some sort of apoptotic instructor? That would be pretty much a basic way of explaining it. So Foxo is one of those ones that can instruct senescent cells to undergo apoptosis and die basically. Well, the PEPTA we're talking about it's not actually Foxo 4, it's an antagonist of Foxo 4, correct? Correct. Is the fork head box, which is the group of those genes, do what he's saying they basically kill cells, you see them in HIV, they get elevated and they cause cell mass loss. So this is a drug that basically stops Foxo 4 from working because you see it, at least I know with testosterone. So it's basically you find Foxo 4 present in the nucleus of cells in the testicles of men who are hyperglomadal, right? And it's in the cytoplasm of men who are not hyperglomadal. So you're preventing it from translocating to the nucleus, basically killing it off. But you're not actually injecting Foxo 4, your injection then stops it. Is it then some sort of decoy receptor where it binds up all the Foxo 4 rendering it inactive? I don't know the chemistry, James, you know anything more about it. I'm just guessing because you wouldn't want fork head box genes expressed per se. No. So as far as I know, Foxo 4, the actual peptide that is used is a modified version of Foxo 4. And then it's basically going in and doing that. It's a serum basically, but for fork head box. Yeah. For my understanding, it's still in early preclinical stage research. So again, it's one of these really gray area peptides. But from a on paper mechanistic perspective, like epitalon improving your telomeres, you now have a potential peptide that can instruct senescent cells to undergo apoptosis when really, you know, they're one of the key drivers of oxidative stress in our body. All right. Looks promising. Yeah. Let's keep our eye on it. I'll put it on my to-do list. We just very long. So right now we can classify that as an anabolic. MOTC though, I think we can classify as an anabolic because it upregulates ATP synthesis by kind of, you know, providing nutrients for the mitochondria. Of course, MOTC is made a comeback thanks to your stack, Dean, the SLU and the MOTC and the methylene blue stack, which is now being run by many a bodybuilder to a great dismay and pleasure. So MOTC, I can classify this A tier also because it's been added to the water prohibited list so I know that it was. Let's do something. Yeah. And I found that so recently I got a 10 milligram vial and I started micro dosing it per day instead of doing one shot where you might get an allergic reaction. Some people get terrible anaphylactic shock even from it. They reconstituted and injected too fast. So some people get really get an adverse reaction, but I've been doing one milligram on workout days with a stack of methylene blue and SLU. And my God, it's great. Energy wise. Now, how much that translates into anabolism? I'm not entirely sure. But since the mitochondrial efficiency is so improved, do you expect some sort of anabolism out of it? Dean, maybe? I mean, do you decide to it without getting too, like, I guess, nerdy is if your mitochondria are more efficient and you're turning over ATP at a higher rate in terms of them and you carry over to your training performance and your ability to produce potential force over a period of time. So obviously, you're going to run into a case where when you're training, your ATP pool diminishes and then your, you know, your phosphocreaty insistent or the phosphogen system kicks in. In theory, you might get an extra rep or two before the phosphogen system has to take over. So again, it's not maybe directly anabolic, but it's improving the efficiency of the energy powerhouse is better fuel in your training. So, you know, as a direct cascade, yeah, there is some level of anabolism coming from them without them being directly anabolic. So it's basically like creatine. Kind of. We take over after creatine ran out. Yeah. And isn't there a decrease in mitochondrial density in bodybuilders versus in aerobic athletes you'd see an increase? Yeah. So it wouldn't be directly anabolic, right? Because it kind of do the opposite thing, but if it gets you, it allows you to increase your work capacity, then it could somehow contribute to that. That's what I noticed from this, from the stack of. Probably just your condom. Yeah. So you started running. You started running this stack also? Me? No, no, I never used it. I don't, I've honestly never used any of these obscure things. I've never even used BPC. Really? I have a bottle in my fridge. I gave my wife the option when I, her knees, the cartilage in her knees was not great. And I gave her the option of growth hormone for BPC and I left it up to her and she had me list the benefits above and she said, well, let's do the G H and so she's been on the G H fixed the knees. So the bottle of BPC is unopened. Oh, road. I've never, not the one I've never been injured in training for 37 years. I've never hurt myself. Oh my God. Amazing. So she trained with me one time. I'll get you injured. You hurt me. So I don't, I've never had a use for it. Okay. And what about this, this mitochondrial stuff like we never used anything about it? Never used anything. Did we spark your interest through your like? Yeah, it's interesting. I just, I just never had much to be used for any of it. It's good, man. So who knows? I'm not against it. I really like MOTC and SLU and methylene blue. I think that's a life changing stack. Yeah. I think that's a, that was like the missing ingredients or to my steroid cycle. Yeah. I think what, like why we keep coming back to like with my preptisher just showed me the next level of being able to get down to that low body fat. But once you're mitochondria, just running so efficiently, nothing suffers about mentally and physically. And, you know, even now currently my body fat, even on what seven KG up on my stageway, I'm pretty much near contest conditions still. Like I haven't gotten fat and I'm eating 4,800 calories on training days now and rest. Yeah, that's what we're eating also. Rest days I'm at 3,700. So, I mean, even from a body fat perspective with the mitochondria being more efficient, I just haven't gotten fat post show with all the food I've been eating. Yeah. So that's what I noticed also. So after that initial fat gain from the United States, eating cheesecakes or whatever, that's why I gained most of my fat and now I'm eating like twice as much literally. I'm eating about 4,500, 4,800, depending on the day. And I'm getting leaner. I'm recomping. It's, you know, so weird. Okay. My PD intake increased a little bit. Maybe the growth hormone high dose helps with that. And being more regimented obviously than walking around the United States and free-styling the meals. But yeah, I feel that I've never recompped on close to 5,000 calories. It's pretty insane. And that's what most people tell that SLU and the mitochondrial upregulation really prevents fat gain during the offseason. Yeah. And that's of course a game changer because the leaner you could start prepping, the shorter prep is and the more muscle mass you can retain because you're less tired at the end. Yeah. You know, that's the hard part. Like most guys just fade away at the end because they've been dieting for 20 weeks. We never adjusted my calories once during the whole prep. Fannyton had more refeeds, like I kept saying. So the actual efficiency of the system improved as prepped went on as opposed to, for most, it's actually you're pulling calories away because of, again, we're coming probably back to mitochondrial efficiency drops. So their ability to burn fat or do you just don't have enough mitochondria to support all these processes? So I think the more we start educating on this now, the condition we're going to see what bigger guys might improve again. Well, I mean, it was kind of apparent that this year's Olympia. So if you can lead the way, then hopefully, you know, the Miss Olympia quality and all the classic quality can improve. We'll never get credit for it, but that's all right. That's all right. I don't listen to the Anabolic Ground Table at all. Sure you don't. Okay. So we'll revisit MOTC a little bit more when we discuss the fat burners, but I'm just going to put an eight here because it does provide some sort of performance enhancing benefits, which is more than you would be able to say from MK-677 or insulin or growth from unscreted drugs, just based on my personal experience. I think it's close to pharma GH and Incolex. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, it really keeps the day going. SS3-1, now I did some research on that, also helps with mitochondrial efficiency and biogenesis, but it's significantly more expensive and you need to run a reasonably high dose. So I ran five milligrams SS3-1 for about a week or two, and then my wallet was literally crying. And then I didn't really notice much of a difference on top of the mitochondrial stuff that I was running. Now this is a year ago before the SLUPP332 and the methylene blow in the MOTC. At that time I was running MOTC at the same time, so maybe that negated the effect. Dean, do you have any experience with SS3-1? I do. Like you have done five milligrams, five days per week for three weeks in a row. But that's with everything else in play like MOTC, SLU, methylene. Did I notice a massive benefit? I can't really say. No, no. Without sort of maybe if you tracked some blood work markers to sort of look at rates of oxidative stress, would you see something reduced or even increase with the SS3-1? Because obviously we've discussed that SS3-1 being something that directly plays into mitochondrial biogenesis, so you actually improved the density of the mitochondria, would actually increase your oxidative stress risk by having more mitochondria. So did I notice anything massive from it? I can't really say. It's like an astray face overnight, which indicates like oxidative stress. I almost got me a dose in the master's drone that looked like astrays. But of course if you're running like injectable glutathione and methylene blue that you kind of mitigate the oxidative stress. For me, when I tried it on top of everything else, because obviously we have this tried and tested protocol that you're like, I'm a screen is so I'm going to keep this in play. Did it do anything beyond what the others were doing? I couldn't say that I had a huge increase in energy or a huge increase in training and performance. So research looks promising for if you have massive amounts of oxidative stress with like organ issues, but as a sort of day to day runner or something that you'd consider, you know, performance and answering, I think there's other options. I think it's good pre-surgery. I talked to several surgeons that use a pre-surgery to upregulate mitochondrial function and density. So in clients with low mitochondria, this seems to be the one that raises the mitochondrial function quite dramatically over the course of a week. Then they do surgery and then with all this ATP production, the outcome of the surgery is better than without it. And that's extensive surgery with stem cells and transfusions and bone marrow and all that shit. So I think it has some practical applications there, but what you see with methylene blue, you act that in and you notice an immediate effect. Same with SLU, it takes a couple days, but after a week of continuous use, you notice like, oh, my energy levels are better and my fat loss is improving and my performance is improving. And same with MOTC, it's almost immediate. But with the SS31, I didn't notice any dramatic effect, not on day one, not on day 14. I wanted to try it as an IV, like what the research says, and do 25 milligrams as an IV, but I've yet to get Morgan to do it. It's a great area. You know, it's the purity. You know, am I going to see anything from it? And it's interesting, like we've discussed, but I think we've sort of nailed the tree that I tried and tested that. I'm not going to move away from it. Not based on anyway, because obviously we see in my bloods, I don't my blood work whenever it was six weeks, Paul Shown was pretty much as good as would be expected. And noting on the blood work showed anything towards running SLU since January as SLU causing any problems. It seems to have no effect on blood work. No effect. So that's good to know for the effect that you get out of it. It's rare. Most of the stuff that really works also has an effect near blood work. You've got a moral decision. Yeah. Okay, so let's go over the tier list to kind of confirm and see if we want to make some changes in S tier. The absolute overpowered drugs are pharma growth hormone and Incral X, which is pharmaceutical age of one in a tier. We got BPC-157 TB-500 and Mod C in B tier. We have nothing, but in C tier, we have generic GH on par with MK-677 D tier insulin. Again, it could be could be a or B tier, but it that's only for the highest of the highest levels. And again, if you've accessed Incral X, no need. Ejectable screening growth hormone screening, GXK copper, I got an E tier. And then the heartbreaker F tier, which is going to lead to all of the negative comments and the drama and the unsubscribes. IGF on alert three, IGF on desk, mechanical growth factor, any kind of follow statin, a zero, 31 a zero, a three. And then to be determined, EPO, because it does look intriguing. The anecdotal reports are astounding, but I'm a little bit hesitant to experiment on it myself. Anything would like to change anything that we forgot any anabolic peptide that we overlooked. Not that I'm aware of. No, right? Not that I could think of. Okay. Well, that brings us on about a ground table to close next time. We'll design some cycles from start to finish. And then the month after that, we'll start classifying the fat burners, which 100% will give us 100,000 views. Yeah, because every time I make a video about fat burners. Oh, man, views fly. Nobody cares about being big anymore. I want to be shredded. Shredded. Shredded. All right, guys, anything you want to contribute for this episode, anything that we should discuss? No, I think we... Kurt, do you want to do a quick tangent about the growth and the calories? Just, yeah, I mean, we could touch on it. It probably warrants a whole video. The food, right? Energy is not the driving force in muscle growth. There is an energy requirement during protein translation, but it's not, you know, eating more does not yield more muscle. Right? And we see that with IGF and GH bypass that whole MTOR pathway by activating and showing the body that there's energy. Anyway, so in theory, if you're using Ankerlux or good growth hormone, you could technically grow in a deficit because your body is just an energy. Yeah, and recomp. Yeah, because you take the fatty acids from the adipose tissue and really translate that into new cell membranes. Yeah, so, you know, and of course you use that for fatty acid oxidation. I think where this growth in a caloric surplus comes from is in a natural state. And then of course, you know, the enhanced body butters would kind of adopt this. But I've proven to everybody that I gained what, 30 kilos, 20 kilos of muscle in a deficit. Yeah, that's a lot of muscle memory, but it's still real fucking muscle, you know. I gained all my size, some stronger pounds with never going above single to the body fat. So, yeah, it probably not needed to overeat. No. Now, do you feel that you grow better if you're in a select caloric surplus because it allows you to train harder? No, use more drugs. Curds. No, I mean, I think two goals. I'm not in a deficit per se, but I don't think that. I mean, do you really feel like you can train harder when you're fat? I'm not talking about fat, but being in a caloric surplus. So I came from like 2800 calories and I ramped it up to 4.5. And did your training improve? Yeah, I got significantly stronger. Okay. I mean, my workout is surrounded by most of my carbs are very heavy before, during and after. Yeah. So I'm still getting the benefit from that. I just don't do as much later. Yeah, so you have to interrupt pre-imposed, right? Yeah. And how many carbs are we talking about? It depends. When I was growing, there was a lot of carbs, 600 to, at a very short period of time, I did up to 2000 grams of carbs. Wow. Usually about 1000 grams of carbs a day. And the majority of it pre-post and... If you want to get leaner, you dial back the carbohydrates. That's all I do. It's the only variable I play with. My fat stays low all the time. My proteins is about the same. Yeah. So your calories do fluctuate a little bit? Yeah, now I'm closer to maintenance. We're not interested in growing. Yeah. And we're talking about what, 500 to 300 calorie fluctuation? At the most, yeah. So my maintenance is, last time I checked, it was closer to 5500. So I still feed like an asshole to maintain. Oh, wow. You saw me eat at a restaurant. Yeah. Yeah. Good. I love it. Yeah, so I don't generally post my food because I think it makes people upset that I can eat like that. Yeah. Yeah, but you've got to live it to understand it. The funny thing is, metabolism seems to be quite adaptive. So if you slow your ramp of your calories and training intensity and drugs alongside of it, then at one point you just hit this point where you recomb, even if you eat a boatload of food because the metabolism has increased so much. I just think that a lot of people misunderstand this caloric adjustment by making 500 to 1000. Yeah, it's too big of a jump. It's too much of a jump, but that's how you get fat or that's how you get flat. You're like, I'm going to go from 5,000 to 2,500 and start cutting. No. The small increments. Yeah, small. And usually 10% works, right? Yeah. 5,000 to 4,500 or maybe even 4,000.  1,700 small adjustments to keep the metabolism going and keep your body burning as it should be, whereas these crazy adjustments up and down, that's where the problems start. And it's not maintainable. The guys that I know that bring their calories way low to try to lose fat, how long do they maintain that diet for? Then they're cheating on it all the time anyway, and then what's the good? So I did it for three years, low calories, but then I would have a refeed in the weekend, then I realized after the United States that metabolism for my size is not where it should be, so I decided to do a hard reset. And now I'm in a good position again when I'm recovering, or I'm training licks twice a week, chest twice a week, I have a boatload of energy, and so it's all new founded for me because I was calorically restricting for such a long time, trying to stay lean for social media. And now I'm staying just as lean on double the calories. Yeah, it'll backfire eventually right if you died too long. Yeah. You see that when I was, I don't generally coach women, but I was, I'm helping a client coach a bikini athlete and the same thing she's been dieting since last January. So she's on a thousand calories now going into show way too low because her metabolism tanked. And the funny thing is, so I gained all this size right from 92 kilos to let's say 110 I'm 2,800, 2,500 calories. And now I almost doubled my calories and I gained five extra kilos. So, but the recovery is 10 times better. All right, so now I'm pushing against my limit of 120 kilos where I'd really have to ramp up the calories. So I think that growth in calories are not linear. No, the original relationship, I just meant it's not this vast like the more you eat the bigger you're going to grow. Yeah, you'll scale more, but that's not what you're looking for. Yeah, and it's like the at one point you need to eat so much food just to sustain your size. And that's where a lot of guys hit that wall because you're eating so much food that physically you can't eat anymore. And then you really have to leverage the pharmacology or sleep 16 hours per day or use a better blocker to reduce your heart rate, something like that. Yes, I think a lot of people really misunderstood the calories that it's some sort of linear progression. But in the end, it's not really the case. And I think the small adjustments, that's where the secret is to kind of assess how the progress is going energy wise, training wise, body composition wise, and then make a small change of 200 calories or 10% based on your total and then take it from there, which is hard. But that's why we have coaches. I guess where it gets blurred in terms of like what curts I would body, weight, we're looking to put on lean tissue as opposed to body mass. So obviously, the more you eat, the further you get, the heavier you get, but not necessarily how much more muscle tissue put on. So and then at the end of the day is body billers, the more fat that goes on the more you have to diet off and the more you have to potentially suffer or die longer or, you know, there's so many variables that play into that. That. Yeah, I agree that there is a ceiling towards food. Similar to like when you're dieting, someone like for me, whenever I coached, you know, people to the stage, I'd never let calories go below like 12 calories per pound. You know, we've seen people go as low as nine, eight or nine calories per pound. 12 to 13. Knowing that 15 calories per pound is roughly maintenance. 12, like Kurt said, you just got a small little deficit and then play off the anchor of activity if you need to create a deficit. But then you decide with them. I've come to, you know, coming back to the mitochondria, you get them to operate better. You've got a better playing field towards how much food, your recovery activity, etc. So I think even when you're pushing someone in like a growing phase, like 15 being maintenance, 18 being your surplus, 20 if you're really pushing it. And, you know, at the end of the day, what is the rate limiting factor to putting on your tissue? If your protein intake is staying the same, your consistently recovering McLeod, it's either the training stimulus or the recovery, which you circumvent with what Kurt said, with more drugs. Yep. What? And the actual rate limit, right? It's like I said before, is how many stem cells you have. That's why it also goes down to age. True. It's, you know, there are many, many stops before that point that could be rate limit someone's genetics, where you have 300 some on genes that control this stuff. 88, 70, 77 genes directly controlled by steroids. You have so many things that could go wrong before you even get to the stem cell thing. But if everything is right, if the stem cells are the ultimate rate limit, not the energy source. Yeah. Micro-intrudes preventing you from training at your highest capacity. Yeah. Yeah. I'm saying in a vacuum, it would be the stem cells. I don't think most people get there, to be honest. They're not in a vacuum. They're not in a vacuum, exactly. All right, let's leave it there. Next week or next month, we'll do a cycle, start to finish. We'll get a good IVP pro on the panel. To finish cross, he's going to agree, but I'm sure he will. And then we'll guide everybody through the ideal scenario of picking your drugs and ending up on the Olympia stage. And of course, adjusting training, nutrition, supplementation along the way with some blood work advice. Might be a three hour podcast, but let's put our heads together and make it happen. Because that will be, I think, the biggest groundbreaking podcast for the next generation of thinking about becoming IVP pros. So they can do it right from the start, without making all the mistakes that us four have made along the way. Yeah, so let's leave it there. Guys, this was great. Dean, I hope to see you very, very soon. And I'll see you in a couple of months at the R&B classic. That's for sure. That's for sure. Any parting words for this podcast? No, it's a pleasure as always. Yeah, thank you for. Thanks for having us. As much as much controversy as we strive up with our tier lists, they're always quite fun. Yeah, you see it in the comments on Instagram, but we do it to entertain. Are you guys not entertained? Guys, you can find all the social media links of Kurt and Dean down below. Give them a follow, give them a subscribe, and we'll be back next month with a vengeance. And then if you're upset now, you can be a whole lot more upset next month. Peace out, guys.