and you not wanting to back down from the training intensity because that's not blue collar at all. That's not how you win shows. I think in that context, cerebral is literally going to be magic. Vigor Steve here with my personal experiences with cerebral, a mixture of four enzyatically treated peptides derived from purified pig brains. And before you scream Pryion's disease, cerebralin has never been associated with Pryion's disease. But to be fair, the clinical data goes back to approximately 1992 when cerebral was FDA approved in Russia and some other East European countries. And over the 30 years of clinical evidence, cerebralin has never been associated with pryion's disease. Again, that's over 30 years, not a lifetime of clinical evidence, not 50 years, not 100 years, but as of now, I would say that cerebralin is reasonably safe to use. The only downside I would see is that the increased brain derived neurotropic factors could result in hair loss. We'll discuss that a little bit later in this video, but that's the only adverse effect I could find regarding the use of cerebralin for prolonged periods of time. Before we get into all of this, please like the video, leave a comment for the algorithm, and consider subscribing if you haven't already. I mostly want to discuss the applications of cerebral in the context of being a strength athlete because again, most of my personal experience regarding cerebral use has been revolving around the mitigation of post exercise brain fog. I've made several videos about this beneficial and useful effect of sax and slank. I'll link it at the end of this video. I'll make a very comprehensive overview of Dhexa in the future as well when I finished triing Dhexa myself. Cerebralin I mostly used to mitigate post exercise brain fog and help with cognition the next day. Now personally I don't suffer from any of the neurodeenerative disorders that cerebral is medically prescribed for. It's used in the treatment of severe anxiety or in the treatment of acute axemic strokes or in the treatment of vascular dementia. None of these I suffer from even though I have a little bit of anxiety here and there mostly in the setting of a social anxiety when I go outside and there's a lot of people staring at me which kind of comes with the territory when you're a bodybuilder because well you look so much different than anybody else. And during this triing of cerebral over the last couple of weeks, I would say that my social anxiety is now completely resolved. Now, to be fair, my social anxiety was already getting better over the last couple of years as I found better ways to navigate through social anxiety and better ways to deal with it. and have a better interaction with people. Use lower dosages of anabolic andic steroids or excludes the compounds which are known to worsen social anxiety or anxiety in general like baldenon for example which you can often mitigate with GABA supplementation. It doesn't completely resolve the anxiety associated with baldenone but it can take the edge off and mitigate it to a certain extent and trim I got anxiety at any dose even at a very low dose during the offseason I would get some sort of anxiety so I haven't touched those compounds in years and now I'm actually quite easygoing in social situations easy to approach easy to get into conversations with people I don't have this perpetual need of feeling that I want to be left alone so that's a warm welcome of this cerebral experiment The main reason why I wanted to use cerebralin is again to see if it would have a more pronounced effect compared to saxin sank in the mitigation of post exercise brain fog which it certainly did. My protocol was as follows. I would use 5 ml to 10 milllers cerebral postworkout five times per week sometimes even seven times per week. So that's every day. But because I was training in the evening, I would administer my cerebral lyin before bed because what I noticed if I were to administer cerebral in the morning, I would get some sort of brain fog which lasted for a couple hours, sometimes the entire day. So what I figured, okay, I'm training in the evening. This is where most of the neurological stress and the neuroinflammation would occur on top of the free radicals which are being produced during strenuous hypertrophy workouts, right? Which is then exacerbated by the use of anabolic andogenic steroids. I already discussed that in a previous video about antioxidants which are protective for your brain when you're on cycle and doing these strenuous hypertrophy workouts. Give that a watch. I'll link it at the end of this video. So I felt that the best protocol for me, which I've been following for the last couple of months or so, is that I would train in the evening, do my absolute hardest work in the gym, come home, have a post-workout meal, and then before bed, I would administer 5 to 10 milliliters of cerebral, and then sleep off the brain fog, which comes from a dose of cerebral at 5 milliliters and upwards. And of course, from the strenuous workout, which took place a couple hours prior. Now on leg days, which I have two of them per week, I would administer 10 milllers of cerebralin. Again, all of my administrations have been predominantly through the intramuscular route. What I noticed with intramuscular injections is that they're smooth as butter, smooth as silk. The smoothest water-based injections of these volumes I've had ever, and I've experimented with a lot of water-based compounds. Now a fair comparison would be to compare cerebralin to growth hormone or insulin or IGF-1 which don't result in post injection pain but those are not very high voluminous shots. Of course these compounds are all peptide based. The growth hormone the insulin the IGF-1 are all used with recombinant DNA technology using E.coli coli bacteria and the cerebralin containing brain derived neurotropic factor cell line derived neurotropic factor nerve growth factor and silary neurotropic factor derived from pig brains all of these are peptides but none of them cause post injection pain but when you compare a 5ml shot of cerebralin to a 5ml shot of injectable glutathione or carnitine or vitamin C or any of the other antioxidants or micronutri nutrients often cause burning at the sight of administration for maybe 10 minutes sometimes up to 15 minutes post administration whereas with cerebralin the injection is so smooth it feels that the injection actually never took place I didn't bother to inject 10 milliliters in one administration site I would always split up 5 milliliters between the left and the right quads I didn't notice any localized effect from cerebral lines I would speculate that because of the neurotropic factor that cerebralin contains that I would get some increased mind muscle connection and neurotropic growth of the nerve cells within the quads. But over my couple of weeks of cerebral use, injecting the upper quads exclusively, I would not say that it has a localized effect. My contraction capacity didn't increase. My recovery capacity didn't increase. The only thing that I noticed is that the recovery of the central nervous system following these strenuous workouts was almost flawless. Cerebralizing before bed improved my sleep quality quite substantially. Not the duration of sleep. I would still sleep for approximately 6 7 hours, but I really noticed that I would wake up feeling more refreshed, right? To the point you really want to stretch out and and kind of do like this when you wake up. I haven't experienced that in a long time until I started using cerebralin more frequently. In the beginning, I would do maybe two administrations per week following the strainous leg days. But after a while, I decided, you know what? I'm noticing a lot of benefits. The social anxiety is going away. This post exercise brain fog and especially the next day, I'm way more cognitive. Why don't I start using this every day? Now, this came to my own detriment because in the beginning, I got a lot of benefits. I didn't really notice brain fog the next day of a 5ml or 10ml administration. Again, I would get brain fog anyway from a strenuous workout. And I felt that a 10ml dose of cerebralin before bed actually made me more cognitive the next day and certainly a lot more productive compared to baseline without using cerebral. So, I didn't really notice brain fog the next day of daily use. That's why I extended it to seven times per week. Basically, it came at my own detriment because I started training harder and harder and harder, right? I felt this neurological fatigue was being mitigated from the cerebral, especially at dosages of 10 milliliters before bed. So, over the duration of these last couple of months, I just added added more volume and more sets to failure and more sets beyond failure. dug such a big hole of overtraining for myself that I literally felt like throwing in the towel and retiring again. That's why I made that video a couple weeks ago about retiring from hardcore bodybuilding. That was right after I concluded the cerebralizing experiment. All of the post exercise brain fog and the neuroinflammation and all this strain on my brain and central nervous system was always being healed by the daily use of cerebral. But now I got so overtrained from a skeletal muscle perspective that I still got brain fogged. So regarding the question, can you outrain cerebral? You certainly can. So with the use of cerebral, even though in the beginning you get very good benefits and improved cognition. If you start to overdo it like I did, right, by going to train harder and trying to maximize every little vector so you can train as hard as possible, that's probably the wrong approach. What I will say is that if you were to use cerebralin daily during a contest prep or cutting phase, especially towards the end when you have anxiety from the tremblone or highdose anabolic andogenic steroids, your sleep quality is impaired and you don't want to take a week off because you're getting closer and closer and closer to your goals and you're stepping on stage soon. During this time, I think cerebral is going to be magic. 5 milliliters to 10 milliliters before bed to reduce the anxiety, to improve your sleep quality, and to prevent you from digging a hole into your central nervous system, allowing you to train for a couple weeks longer before you actually need a de los because your skeletal muscle system is completely messed up. Right? There's two different ways to look at overtraining from a central nervous system perspective and from a skeletal muscle perspective. Now, when you're doing a contest prep or dieting phase, you're on a boatload of anabolic enerogenic steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs, right? We're on the growth hormone, the insulin, the IGF-1, multitude of different steroids and whatever else, right? So, the recovery is there, right? You're eating a decent amount of protein, hopefully sufficient amount of calories, not doing too much cardio, not too much T3, which will result in catabolism. Then the rate limiting factor of the training capacity is mostly your central nervous system and the neuroinflammation and the lack of sleep obviously by being on so much steroids. So a way to combat that would be 5 milllers or 10 milliliters of cerebral lysin every evening to resolve many of the side effects which are being induced in that context of this exposure to drugs and you not wanting to back down from the training intensity because that's not blue collar at all. That's not how you win shows. I think in that context, cerebral is literally going to be magic. So for all of the bodybuilders out there that push the pedal to the metal and grind 24/7, right, you can out train cerebral, but with the intelligent use leading into a context, if you give yourself adequate time off afterwards and maybe continue with cerebral use, I think cerebral again is going to resolve a lot of issues that we face during contest prep or cutting phase in general with the added benefit that on show day, even if you're using Halo Testin, you're not walking around like an arrogant a-hole because over the last couple of months that I was using testosterone and primobollin normally that would make me slightly irritable and when I added in yanavar I would expect more irritability but I basically didn't experience any of that I was calm and composed and happy golucky and energetic and easy to deal with for basically the entire duration of this 30-we cycle again in the beginning I used summax and salank which also put me in a good mood and gave me a cognition boost boost and reduce the neuroinflammation which was coming from the strainers workout. Albeit that at that time I wasn't training as insane and intense as I did towards the end when I was ready to throw in the towel and I had no real outbursts or right moments of irritation or aggression for this entire duration of the last 3 weeks. Now my wife might not entirely agree with that statement. She sees me 24/7 at my absolute best but also at my absolute worst in a raincloud moment. So I might not be 100% happy golucky 24/7 but I do feel from my own anecdotal observation of my own mood over the last couple of weeks that the irritability on testosterone primabol and nanavar was basically not there and this is probably the best mood that I've been in on cycle really my mood was great off cycle but they always have this underlying ill irritability especially on DHT derivatives and this cycle was pretty much not there so that's a huge bonus for removing the social anxiety completely, the majority of the irritability and always putting me in a good mood. The cognition has improved tremendously. And now that I took my training intensity down a notch, right? I'm basically training as intense as I did at the start of the cycle, even though my cycle is coming to a close. And right now, I'm just trying to maintain a portion of the strength that I've built on this cycle. But going forward, if I had to give my productivity a tangible number, I would say that productivity, overall sense of well-being and overall quality of life has improved with approximately 25 to 50%. So let's say it was 100% before. Now we're at 125 to 150% which is a substantial increase. A substantial increase, guys. Really, I can't emphasize this enough. the quality of my life overall has improved quite substantially. So I can't speak highly enough of this compound. The only real side effect that I can pinpoint again like I mentioned in the beginning of this video is the fact that brain derived neurotropic factor has been linked to hair loss which I experienced a little bit myself. That's why I asked that on the latest bio bro if Derek and Leo figured I was balding a little bit more than previously. Now I'm not sure if that was induced by this cerebralin experiment or the saxin salank experiment which I did prior or simply because of age. I mean I'm getting older every year and I was also running 375 milligrams of primaalin which is also known to induce hair loss. So a lot of compiling factors there regarding hair loss. Personally I don't really mind a little bit of hair loss here and there. It's just part of life part of age. My dad has a little bit of male pattern baldness in these areas. So I expected it to happen at one point or another. So all of that aside, that's the only real downside I could see of cerebralin use. Again, you're using super physiological amounts of brain derived neutropic factor and the other three neurotropic factors which cerebralizing contains that has been linked to hair loss. Is that going to be worth it? a little bit of hair loss for the improved cognition, the reduced neuroinflammation, and all of the cognitive benefits that cerebralizing induces over a couple weeks of continuous use. Absolutely yes. Absolutely yes. I would sacrifice all of my hair for the cognitive improvements I've experienced over the last couple of weeks. really I would if my hair would fall out like it would do with chemotherapy, I would just write it off as um right something that comes along with all of these benefits. Really, I wouldn't mind. But maybe if that's a concern of you, again, you can go with the before and after uh videos of me a couple weeks ago and make a decision for yourself. Normally, I'm very hair loss resistant, but if you feel that my hairline has receded a little bit over the last 3 months or so, well, then it's something of concern. And if you're prone to mil pattern baldness, again this increased superfysiological amount of brain derived neurotropic factor which is probably going to be dose dependent hair loss because the more cerebral you use the more BDNF you're going to get into your body into your scalp and having some sort of negative effect on your hair follicles or hair growth in general. Keep that into consideration. The only caveat I have with cerebralin is that the dosages of a 1ml concentration are unknown. We currently don't know, it's not listed anywhere. Ever pharma doesn't mention it on their website. I don't know what the concentration is. How much 1 milll of cerebral contains? How much brain derived neurotropic factor is contained within or glycol cell line derived neurotropic factor? nerve growth factor, silary neurotropic factor. I don't know how much is contained within an ampule of cerebralin. I wish every pharma would mention that specifically on the product packaging. That's why everybody when they talk about cerebralin they talk about 2 milll dosages, 5 milliliters, 10 milliliters or 60 milll dosages which might be required to mitigate withdrawal symptoms from certain medications or drugs or opioids. consider cerebralin to be a proprietary blend. We currently don't know how many of these neurotropic factors are contained within each milliliter, what the concentration is. It's a little bit of a turnoff. I'm going to let that one slide. Again, the benefits are substantial. I think the most of the benefits will come with prolonged and continuous use. And the clearest you will feel is about two weeks to a month after discontinuation. I think the best way to describe it is say that your brain feels new and improved. My brain feels healed from all of the stuff that I did previously, the strenuous workouts and the experimentation with performance enhancing drugs or recreational drugs many decades ago. My brain literally feels healed. My quality of life has improved. And I think this is one of the most profound drugs that I've experimented with over the last couple of years. If you watch this video and you're going to experiment with cerebralizing yourself, please come back to this video and write your own personal review down below in the description section. I would love to hear from you guys what kind of benefits you got out of a couple weeks or months of cerebral use. But it was very profound for me. Hopefully, it's the same for you if you're willing to undergo this experiment for yourself. I would love to hear from you how it all went down. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you're looking for the most comprehensive guides to bodybuilding pharmarmacology, you can find the ebooks on my website, vigorsteve.com/shop. Personalized advice is always available through consultations. You can find the rates in the consultation section. Follow me on Instagram and Tik Tok at vigorsteve. Again, have a look at my link tree with discount codes for all of the sponsors and affiliates that I'm associated with. A front double bicep for the vigorous crew. You guys know what to do. Much love, much appreciated. I wish you all a very nice weekend. I'll see you in the next video.