It breaks my heart to inform you that Joe Lintner, better known as Joe Stthetics, has passed away yesterday, sometime in the afternoon local time, in Padia, Thailand, from what appears to be an aneurysm. That is a preliminary finding and not the official cause of death yet. We're still waiting for an autopsy report, but that might still take several days, if not longer. Um, so this is the preliminary finding. What I do know is that his aunt passed away from an aneurysm about four years ago. So maybe the passing of Joe was something congenital, something that was undiagnosed up until yesterday. Um me, myself, Noel Diesel, his girlfriend, we've been really trying to keep this quiet so we could inform his family. Um his mom flew into Thailand today uh to make arrangements and to see her son one last time. Um, unfortunately the rumor mill has already started. So, I'm here to set the record straight on all the information that I have and can share with you guys. I'm sure more information will come out. I'll update that in the pinned comment of this YouTube video. I'll try to answer as many questions as arise in the comment section for as long as I'm awake today. Um, I understand that Joe was uh a month in the United States which he had a great time. we were in frequent contact about his United States experience and he flew into Thailand at the beginning of this week which is a very long flight. It's about 20 hours or 24 hours depending on how you fly to Thailand. Um there are issues with longer flights called deep vein trombosis. So maybe a blood clot formed during the time that he flew back to Thailand. Um from Wednesday onwards he started experiencing neck pain. I'm sure he posted that pain away and try to work through it with a massage. Um, after that he started experiencing a headache. He was supposed to meet uh No Diesel and a mutual friend of ours at the gym yesterday afternoon around 4:00 to have a workout to film some content. You know, he was really fired up after going to the United States and meeting all of the other influencers and and social media people there. And he never showed up to the gym. His girlfriend called uh John, one of our good friends, in a panic because Joe was not feeling well. John rushed to his condominium a couple minutes away and by the time John came there, Joe's already on the floor. He tried to do CPR for over 30 minutes until the ambulance arrived. But it seems that by the time Jan came to his condominium, Joe had already passed away. Um, he tried his absolute best to keep him alive, but unfortunately Joe was pronounced dead when he came to the hospital. I don't know what to say. My heart is broken right now. What I do know is that Joe would want us to keep going. Keep pushing brother is what he always said. He would always motivate me to keep going with the YouTube channel and Instagram. And he did the same for many other guys. I mean, without Joe, I wouldn't be here. I wouldn't have come this far. Um, he was always there to motivate me. We'd always talk. behind the scenes. Many times we would meet, we wouldn't even take pictures. We just hang out and be good friends. Um, and this really hits me hard. Um, it hit hit an oil diesel very very hard. We had a very long conversation yesterday and I talked with Jen. I talked with Sebastian, all of his friends that he has here in Thailand. It it really hurts. And uh I'm happy that his mom is here now so we can um help her through the process of bringing Joe back home. I would like to ask all of you, my fellow brothers, to keep everything as positive as possible. I mean, Joe was all about positivity, all about keeping going, about motivating everybody else to, you know, get into the fitness game and take care of your health and and just, you know, do the whole fitness journey with him because he was actively sharing his entire fitness journey on on Instagram and YouTube and where else Snapchat and try to give back as much as possible um because he felt uh to be in a very privileged position um that he would that he's able to inspire so many people. And I really hope that you guys can keep going and keep pushing now that Joe is no longer with us because that's what he would have wanted. Trust me, that's what he would have wanted. Keep pushing, guys. I mean, that's his favorite words. You know, Joe was really on top of his health. He never did anything crazy, not for competitions, not to look like as crazy as he did on social media. We've had many conversations off camera about health, blood work, uh what you need to do, and especially when I met him after he tore his bicep and had the kind of surgery. We had a very long conversation. Um and he understood that he couldn't be in that kind of shape and that shredded, you know, year round. I mean, I don't understand how this could have happened. And I I really hope we can get some more answers soon. Um, out of the most people I know, Joe was really on top of his health. He would do blood work as frequently as I did. I've seen his blood work. It looked flawless. I just want all of you guys to know that Joe is really appreciative of all of your support. I mean, he fully understood that without your support, you know, interactions on social media or meeting in the real world. Without you guys, Joe would have not gotten that far. He was so thankful and he always mentioned that to myself and Noel Diesel and the fans that he met constantly whether it was here in Thailand and when he would travel to Dubai or America. Me and Noel actively tried to get him to the Arnold Classic or the Mr. Olympia. So I could see what the gravity was of all the positivity that I tried to spread over the last couple of years because he's reached millions millions of people consider him his brother and it's it's really sad to see him go. So, I would like all of you to continue his legacy and and treat this passing with a standing ovation just like we gave to John Meadows cuz there's not so many people like Joe on this planet that really motivate continuously to everybody that he met whether that was online or in the real world. I need you to continue that legacy because you'll see this week there will be so much drama and so much negativity and so much clickbait and so many people trying to capitalize on a good man's death that I already feel disgusted. So if I seem a little bit wrecked this week, no you don't. Joe, my broski, wherever you might be, my brother, I'm sure you're up in the best gym with the best lighting and the best equipment, thinking about ways to inspire the rest of us. But you don't have to anymore. You can rest now. We'll continue for you. We'll keep pushing. We'll stay strong. You don't you don't have anything to worry about. You've inspired millions. You can rest and we'll keep going for you. I'll make sure and Noel will make sure and everybody else here will make sure that your mom is taken care of. That will tie up any loose ends that you might have here in Thailand so you can rest. But we'll never forget you. I miss you already, bro. I might see you in a couple decades, but when I see you, I'm sure we have a lot to catch up about. Take care, guys.