 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl Welcome to the Mod C Deep Dive where ATP production will become infinite. Vigorous thief here. Okay, let's dive into Mod C, a 16 amino acid mitochondrial derived polypeptide, which full name is mitochondrial open reading frame of the 12SR RNA type C, which honestly is a mouthful. So let's stick with Mod C going forward. Mod C is primarily produced in the mitochondria where it remains under resting conditions. It's released into the human body under metabolic stress and oxidative stress, vigorous strenuous exercise for example, where it then signals the cells of the human body to produce nutrients the mitochondria can utilize for cellular energy metabolism. Mod C is primarily involved in glucose metabolism, but it also regulates fatty acid metabolism. Since cellular mitochondrial concentrations and mitochondrial function generally declines with age, so does Mod C secretion, which reduces overall energy levels. And while Mod C has been investigated in various medical conditions, mostly revolving around obesity or type 2 diabetes, all of this data is coming from animal models. Mod C has yet to reach clinical trials. It's never been investigated in human subjects. And when you go through other clinical trials, you see that they measure Mod C and the changes Mod C concentrations, whether that's in plasma or within cells, but that's also in the context of type 2 diabetes. So for this deep dive, very little to go with. Only animal models, unfortunately, but we'll dive into the production of healthy humans regarding their Mod C concentrations in cells and in plasma a little bit when we get to the evidence-based unique characteristics. So you know how much Mod C you could potentially produce by yourself. Unfortunately, this year Mod C was added to the World Anti-Doping Agency prohibited list of 2025, obviously. Now, that means that it works in human subjects, otherwise they wouldn't prohibit it in particular sports. And it also means that I got to work and made a waterproof doping stack for you guys, offering you like 400 alternatives, which are not included in the prohibited list of 2025. If you haven't watched that video, you should give it a watch. And not only that, the prescription of Mod C through USA-based compounding pharmacies was restricted on September 29th, 2023 as part of Section 503A of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, citing that compounded drugs containing Mod C may pose a significant risk for immunogenity for certain routes of administration and may have complexities with regards to peptide-related impurities and active pharmaceutical ingredient characterization. The Food and Drug Administration has not identified any human exposure data on drug products containing Mod C administered via any route of administration. The Food and Drug Administration lacks important information regarding any safety issues raised with Mod C, including whether it could cause harm if administered to humans. And this is all true. So, we have to agree with this statement. The scientific evidence regarding endogenous Mod C is already reasonably thin and regarding exogenous Mod C administrations in human subjects non-existent. So, we have to go with the anecdotal experience of people using Mod C in various scenarios. And yes, reaction, negative reactions, post-injection pain or irritation or that kind of stuff at the site of administration at various dosage protocols is very, very common. An anaphylactic shock is even reported in various case reports. So, keep this in mind, right? Generally, Mod C should not be able to be prescribed because it's not an FDA-approved medication and it will probably never become an FDA-approved medication because Mod C might be so effective regarding energy levels, glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, and fatty acid metabolism that a lot of other medications might become obsolete. So, let's dive into it, shall we? And to drive that point homewards a little bit, this study performed by Zing et al, published on January 25, 2023, titled Mod C, a Promising Mitochondrial-Derived Peptide for Therapeutic Exploration, describes just that. Mod C might offer benefits from mitochondrial-impaired diseases like diabetes, obesity, or general aging. And it could also have applications for kidney disease, cardiovascular disease, insulin resistance, and inflammation. For all of these diseases, there's a boatload of alternative medications already available, and it might mean that Mod C is superior to a certain extent and replaces all of these medications entirely, right? So, clinical trials, it's probably not in the best interest of the FDA or the medical field as a whole because, oh, Mod C produced that endocrinously, and why should we give you an endocrinous hormone like growth hormone, testosterone, etc., when we can give you medications instead? Bodybuilders in the fitness community generally use Mod C during a cutting phase to improve fat loss and keep energy levels sustained. When caloric intake is significantly restricted towards the end, many bodybuilders report that Mod C, especially in combination with methylene blue, SLU-PP332, and other mitochondrial function support aids, really keeps their energy levels going, sustains their cognition, and allows them to work at a normal capacity without feeling brain fog, especially towards the tail end of a cutting phase or bodybuilding contest. And the longevity community generally uses Mod C for anti-aging and longevity benefits, obviously, keeping mitochondrial function upregulated for sufficient ATP synthesis and overall health purposes, even though the scientific evidence is not really for Mod C as a longevity aid, because, again, it's all stemming from animal models, and how much can you extrapolate from animal models regarding longevity when these animals generally don't live very long? Before we really get into it, there's one clinical trial I want to highlight performed with CB4211, which is an analog of Mod C, where they investigated the effects on healthy, non-obese subjects and subjects with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease at unknown dosages by subcutaneous injections for up to 28 days. Unfortunately, even though this clinical trial is marked as completed, I can't find the results posted anywhere, but that's okay. CB4211 isn't available anywhere either, and all of the gray area peptide websites that carry Mod C are a plenty. So even though there might be a medication in the future dropping the markets with Mod C-like effects, that remains to be seen. It's not available anywhere. So I'll keep you guys updated. If CB4211 becomes available and we can give it a test run comparing CB4211 to Mod C and see which one is more efficacious and which one is more cost effective. But let's focus on Mod C going forward because that's the mitochondrial peptide that we can actually get and use. So let's skip over the clinical trials in the FDA-approved medical applications because there are none and proceed right into the evidence-based unique characteristics of Mod C, which again, no human subjects, no studies, no human clinical trials anywhere to be found. So that means we have to dubiously extrapolate from the animal models to see what kind of benefits we could potentially expect by various dosages of Mod C administrations. Serum concentrations in children and adults are between 150 picograms to 580 nanograms per milliliter. And in adults, that's between, let's say, 46 to 220 nanograms per milliliter. But on average, humans have a serum concentration of approximately 200 nanograms per milliliter. Mod C has a concentration-dependent correlation up to 1,200 milligrams per milliliter with maximum force and average power output during interval counter-movement, jump tests, stemming from human subjects. And this same study showed that there's a concentration-dependent correlation up to 1,100 milligrams per milliliter with total muscle mass, again, stemming from human subjects. Now, I'm well aware that I just mentioned that in adult humans, a normal concentration, an average concentration of Mod C in the bloodstream is 200 nanograms per milliliter. And here they mention up to 1,200 milligrams per milliliter. And I have no explanation for that. Is that a difference in testing parameters between the various studies using a liquid chromatography, time-to-mass spectrometry, or some other testing parameter like Elysia or Eclia? I'm not entirely sure. I really don't know, right? I don't have an explanation. It's indeed a 2.5 to 6 times million-fold difference. And besides the testing parameters, I really don't have an explanation for it. This is what's reported in scientific evidence. There might be some discrepancy there. And even if both of them were, let's say, nanograms per milliliter or milligrams per milliliter, then I would expect a 5, 6 times fold increase compared to baseline Mod C levels when comparing that to, well, the concentration-dependent correlation with muscle mass and this particular interval countermovement jump test, which would make more sense, not a 5 million times increase or 6 million times increase. But, hey, this is scientific evidence. This is what we have to work with. All citations, as usual, are posted down below in case you want to do your own comparison and Mod C analysis. And then let me know what you think of these particular results. I found it very confusing, to be honest. But this is what we have to work with. And the results of this study look a little bit more reasonable. Mod C increased by 150 to 160% approximately in serum during high-intensity interval cycling exercise and by almost 1,200% within skeletal muscle for over 4 hours following exercise, again, in human subjects. So this is all related to endogenous Mod C production. Again, Mod C is being stored in the mitochondria and then being released under metabolic stress or oxidative stress. So if you want your Mod C levels to increase, you don't want to spend money on gray area peptide websites and start injecting Mod C, then all you need to do is wind sprints or heavy squats or vigorous strenuous exercise, and you might get up to 1,200% increase of Mod C levels within skeletal muscle for 4 hours post-workout. But if you're now so big that you suffer from sleep apnea, then it's good to know that Mod C decreases by 66.9% to 79.7% through insulin resistance in cases of mild to severe obstructive sleep apnea observed in humans. So if you feel that you don't have energy levels and you have sleep apnea, which you can self-diagnose with a video I made about self-diagnosis at home, if you suspect that you have sleep apnea and you don't have a partner to kick you basically in the back all night long because you're snoring so loud, so you can self-diagnose with that video using a laptop and just filming yourself over the night and looking for the peaks in the audio track regarding breathing problems like where you're snoring very loud or you're gasping for air. You can do it all by yourself at home and then find a way to purchase a CPAP machine because a, let's say, 67% to 80% decrease in Mod C levels when you suffer from sleep apnea are obviously going to make you very tired during the day and not improve your sleep quality at night. Mod C decreases in patients with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, sarcopenia in peritonal dialysis patients, vascular endothelial dysfunction by 6.5% to 20.3% in obesity, so don't get fat, by 11% to 21% in the elderly, don't get old, easier said than done. I'm fighting it every single day. By 31% in coronary artery disease and by 15.7% to 57.5% in chronic kidney disease. Bottom line is here, take care of yourself. Don't get fat. Don't get type 2 diabetes. Don't get cardiovascular disease or chronic kidney disease and your mitochondria should function as they should. Later on, you can decide to upregulate mitochondrial function and biogenesis with the exogenous Mod C administration and take your energy levels to the next level. But again, if you don't treat yourself well, it doesn't matter how much Mod C you use, energy will never be as good as you would otherwise observe when you're healthy. Mod C decreases by approximately 55% in the bloodstream and approximately 10% in the brain, 5% in the heart, 70% in skeletal muscle, yeah, that much, and 40% in the testes during fasting stemming from an animal model using mice of an unknown time frame. So I'm not entirely sure if that's one day fasting or one week fasting. I couldn't piece that together in the scientific evidence. Unfortunately, still, fasting is not good for Mod C production, even though Mod C production after fasting generally goes up because, well, obviously, you're consuming food again. And in that sense, the nutrients that the mitochondria require for cellular energy metabolism comes up again. Mod C signaling is restored to baseline parameters. Mod C improves physical capacity, motor coordination, but not grip strength. And again, grip strength is a sign of longevity shown in human subjects and various animal models. So if grip strength doesn't improve, then longevity outcome might not improve either. That's performed in an animal model using mice observed at 5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for two weeks consecutively, which translates to 0.41 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily. For humans, I feel that intraperitonal administration into the abdomen and intramuscular injections anywhere in the skeletal muscle all over the body is reasonably comparable regarding the release of the injection depot. But that would mean 41 milligrams daily for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder. That dose would put you on the floor with anaphylactic shock if you inject 41 milligrams Mod C intramuscularly. Mod C improves insulin sensitivity and physical capacity, stemming from an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet. And this effect was observed at 5 milligrams to 50 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for seven to 10 days. And again, that translates to 41 milligrams to 122 milligrams for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder. That dose, honestly, dude, that dose will make you go nuclear like a kira. Mod C upregulates peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha expression in skeletal muscle stemming from an in vitro study using contractile myotube C2, C12 mouse myoblast cells, which basically means improved mitochondrial biogenesis. But this also means that Mod C has potential synergistic effects with cardirin, telmosartan, glucophage, Icar, resveratrol, omega-3 fatty acids, caffeine, epicateogen, and nitric oxide boosting supplements, which all have various effects on peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha expression themselves. And in this study, we're going to compare exogenous Mod C administrations to actual treadmill exercise, where Mod C secretion goes up due to metabolic stress and oxidative stress. It was shown that with treadmill exercise, there was comparable peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha expression, comparable glucose transporter 4 expression, comparable serum Mod C concentrations, and comparable skeletal muscle Mod C concentrations, comparing treadmill exercise versus 0.5 milligrams Mod C per 1 kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for 8 weeks consecutively. So a treadmill exercise gives you the exact same amount of interstellar Mod C secretion, as well, you can extrapolate that to the human equivalent dose, at 0.04 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans, which translates to 4 milligrams Mod C intramuscularly daily for 100 kilogram bodybuilder, which are dosages that are not unheard of. This means comparing treadmill exercise to Mod C at this particular dosage range means that Mod C is basically an exercise memetic. If you extrapolate that in the other direction, right, comparing treadmill exercise to exogenous Mod C administration, if we flip that around, you administer Mod C and you get an exercise-like effect, which would otherwise increase your Mod C levels. Again, it's way cheaper just to do some treadmill exercise to increase your Mod C levels. But this does confirm that Mod C is an exercise memetic, similar to how SLU PP332 was proven in animal models to be an exercise memetic. So imagine if you combine vigorous exercise with SLU PP332 and Mod C. Mod C increases ICAR concentrations by approximately 2,000%. Yes, I had to do a double check on that. It's confirmed. I read this study three times just to make sure. Mod C increases ICAR concentrations by approximately 2,000% and promotes fatty acid oxidation and carnitine shuttling into the mitochondria. And it increases glucose uptake in the mitochondria as well. This is stemming from an in vitro study using human embryonic kidney, HEC239 cells. And Mod C increases whole body insulin sensitivity by approximately 30% and increases glucose uptake again, stemming from an animal model using mice. But this was observed at 5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitone injection daily for seven days, which is 0.41 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, aka 41 milligrams, 400 kilogram. Bodybuilder, way too high. Another study shows that Mod C lowers serum glucose, insulin, and leptin levels, improves insulin sensitivity, and improves fatty acid metabolism. In an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet, this was observed at 2.5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitone injection twice daily for two days. So that translates to 0.2 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, intramuscularly twice daily for humans, aka 40 milligrams daily. Also way too much. Mod C prevents high-fat diet, induced insulin resistance, and obesity, reduces fat gain by approximately 10%. Stemming from an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet, and this was observed at a little bit more moderate dose, 0.5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by IP injection daily for three weeks, which translates to 0.04 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight IM daily for humans, which translates to 4.1 milligrams per 100 kilogram of bodybuilder. Again, those dosages are not unheard of, even though personally I feel that that dosage is way too high if done daily. So if you want to prevent high-fat diet, induced insulin resistance, and obesity, and basically an off-season on the ketogenic diet where you're stuffing your fats with nuts, seeds, avocado, and animal fats, then 4 to 5 milligrams of Mod C daily might be able to prevent you from getting morbidly obese, or you can just eat less and spend less money on drugs, right? I'll leave that up to you. And this study is pretty promising. Mod C increases lifespan by 4.6% to 7%, reverts age-dependent physical decline, improves grip strength, unlike the other animal model, which showed no improvement in overall grip strength. This is an animal model using mice on a high-fat diet again, and this was observed at 15 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight by intraperitone injection three times weekly for up to six months, basically the end of life of these mice. So first these mice were made obese on a high-fat diet, and then towards the tail end of their life, they received a whopping dose of 15 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, which translates to 1.22 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly three times weekly for humans, aka 122 milligrams Mod C three times weekly intramuscularly. Don't do it, especially if you're old. That's literally anaphylactic shock three times per week just to expand your life, a span by, what, 6.4% to 7%. I think it's going to be hell. But again, it's up to you if you have the money and you can ride through the anaphylactic shock and the side irritation. And in case you didn't get the memo yet, here's an animated GIF of Godzilla going nuclear on Geodora, and this scene is too good not to play all the way to the end. Take that, you alien hydro piece of shit. Nobody f***s with Godzilla and Mothra. Okay, back to the evidence-based unique characteristics of Mod C. Mod C improves fatty acid utilization during complete glucose restriction, stemming from an in vitro study using C2, C12 mouse myoblast cells, which prevents cell death. Mod C has comparable improvements in cardiac function, body weight, fasting blood glucose levels, fasting insulin levels, and HOMA-IR score as treadmill exercise, stemming from an animal model using diabetic rats on a high-fat and high-sugar diet, again, confirming further exercise memetic effects of Mod C, comparing that directly to treadmill exercise, albeit that in both animal models, the animals were fat and obese and had diabetes. I don't associate with that, but hey, this is the best that we can go with. And this was observed at 0.5 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight by intraperitonal injection daily for eight weeks, which translates to 0.08 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight intramuscular daily for humans, aka eight milligrams if you're a hundred kilogram. Bodybuilder and Mod C increases aerobic exercise capacity, improves cardiac function, but also induces cardiac hypertrophy when combined with treadmill exercise, stemming from an animal model using rats with the exact same dosage protocol. So again, that translates to 0.8 milligrams for one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans. This also confirms an exercise memetic effect. But if you combine Mod C with anabolic androgenic steroids, which are also associated with cardiac hypertrophy, that might be a double mammy for heart enlargement. So this is a fair warning for you guys, even though this is stemming from animal models and most of the cardiac hypertrophy, you also see in animal models being administered anabolic androgenic steroids, but this is also confirmed in human subjects. The combination of Mod C and anabolic androgenic steroids with vigorous, strenuous, intense, highly pleasurable, and enjoyable exercise might cause heart enlargement. So make sure you keep track of your heart by doing an echocardiogram at least once yearly to make sure that your heart doesn't get too big for your chest and now you can no longer breathe. And under conditions where there is no metabolic stress or oxidative stress, Mod C translates from the mitochondria to the cellular nucleus when stimulated by either glucophage, aka metformin, and ICAR. And this is mediated by adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase, AMPK, activity. So if you want to liberate or promote the secretion of Mod C, but you don't want to exercise, that's what the metformin is for. Yeah, that's also an exercise memandic through this pathway, or that's what the ICAR are for, which is something I would prefer because that actually improves fatty acid oxidation and glucophage just makes you flat and shit your brains out. And now all of this food that you spend money on is literally going down in the toilet. Why don't you eat something cheaper instead? So that all sounds promising and highly beneficial, right? Wrong. Mod C can cause tremendous irritation at the site of administration, ranging from a small itch at lower dosages to full-blown anaphylactic shock at higher dosages. This is something we definitely need to discuss as part of this video because the response and reaction to Mod C might vary tremendously between the injection depth, between subcutaneous injections to intramuscular injections, and between the various dosing protocols, ranging from 0.5 milligrams per injection up to 10 milligrams. So let's get into it. Between 0.5 to 1 milligrams subcutaneously, you'll notice a slight post-injection irritation, but no pain, perhaps some redness for about 24 hours following the injection. But if you switch from the same dose from subcutaneous to intramuscular injections, then you don't seem to get this side effect, and you might even go up to 2.5 milligrams intramuscularly, and the post-injection irritation shouldn't manifest. But between 0.5 milligrams to 2.5 milligrams, regardless of injection depth, you feel a wave of energy that might be overwhelming for 10 to 30 minutes, after which it kind of calms down, and your energy levels are a little bit more sustained. Afterwards, for approximately 24 hours to 48 hours, and then after that, it slowly starts to decline. Now, obviously, this happens in a dose-dependent fashion, so 0.5 milligrams might give you a wave of energy for 10 minutes that lasts for 24 hours, but 2.5 milligrams, mod C, intramuscularly or subcutaneously, will give you a wave of energy for about 30 minutes that lasts for several days, and then slowly tapers downwards. Between 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams subcutaneously, you'll definitely get a severe rash, making it look like you have a credit card-sized patch of cellulitis, about this big, maybe this big, again, it highly depends on the dose, but it will certainly be noticeable that you have a cellulite-like patch that is slightly red or completely red at the site of administration where you administered mod C between 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams subcutaneously. This generally goes away within one to two hours. If you took 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams intramuscularly, then you might also have post-injection irritation, but this red bump looking like cellulitis seems to be non-existent, but it could still occur if you don't get deep enough. So if you go with an 8-millimeter insulin syringe, you'll probably still get a cellulitis-like red patch on your skin, but if you use 13 millimeters or a 1-inch needle, then that's deep enough and prevents this injection site irritation from a skin perspective at least, but the wave of energy when you inject intramuscularly is significantly heightened, again, in a dose-dependent fashion. So between 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams intramuscularly, especially when that's an inch deep, the wave of energy is quite intense and might last over 30 minutes, but then it also stays sustained for several days afterwards, allowing for twice-weekly administration. And again, for some people, this wave of energy is too overwhelming, not enjoyable, and might actually make them feel very uncomfortable. So for those people, and for most people, I would suggest just to start low, start with subcutaneous administrations and build your ways up. If you go with 10 milligrams intramuscularly, it's probably not going to end well for you, right? So a little bit of caution is advised because beyond 5 milligrams subcutaneous or intramuscularly, you can expect an adverse reaction, whether it was sub-Q or intramuscularly, and at 10 milligrams intramuscularly, you might cause anaphylactic shock. If you hit a vein and you inject 10 milligrams Mod C directly into a vein and it goes systemic, systemic anaphylactic shock, you're on the couch, your tongue starts to swell, your face starts to swell, and if you don't have an EpiPen containing, what was it, 0.3 milligrams epinephrine on standby, then you need to ride out that anaphylactic shock for one to two hours. Yeah, it happened to me twice. It's not fun. It's not fun, right? So I circumvent that by doing daily microadministrations of Mod C subcutaneously. I don't see a reason to inject 5 milligrams to 10 milligrams intramuscularly of Mod C to bypass this potential cellulitis-like red pattern. It's not a patch that might manifest on the skin because the side effects comparing cellulitis to anaphylactic shock, I'd rather have the cellulitis patch for one to two hours compared to anaphylactic shock for one to two hours. And for your information, diluting Mod C with, let's say, five milliliters bacterial static water into a five milligram vial, giving you a one milligram per one milliliter concentration, it doesn't solve the problem. I've tried this already many different times. I've even went up to a concentration of 0.5 milligrams per one milliliter, and you still get the redness. You still get the cellulite-like patch. You still get post-injection irritation, itchiness if you keep the dose moderate, and you might still get anaphylactic shock. I didn't get it from diluting the Mod C to this low of a concentration, but it could still happen if you dump the entire 10 milligrams over 20 milliliters into skeletal muscle, and it hits the vein, or even worse, you inject this intravenously, certainly not recommended or required at all, you will still get anaphylactic shock. So keep the dose moderate and escalate the dose upwards as needed. It's probably best to combine Mod C in a stack of other mitochondrial support aids containing a methylene blue, SLU-PP332, and whatnot for you to get a synergistic effect, and thus you can keep the dose of Mod C moderate, and the side irritation, at an all-time minimum or not experience any side effects at all. Let's address this bro science rumor that you need to inject Mod C right after you reconstitute this. I felt for this issue myself as well, right? I was told through the grapevine through a compounding pharmacy that I work with is that you need to inject the 5 milligram or 10 milligram Mod C as soon as you reconstitute it. This is how you get anaphylactic shock. Really? This is how you get anaphylactic shock. You inject 5 milligrams in one go, subcutaneously, and you get the red patch, cellulitis like that goes away after two hours, and then you do 10 milligrams intramuscularly, and you're on the floor with a face bigger than, what was that movie? Total recall. Yeah, bigger than total recall at the end when they hit Mars' surface. So don't do it. I fell for this as well. After a while, I was so sick of these injection site irritation or getting anaphylactic shock. I mean, basically, once you get Trincoff once, then every single injection of Trimbalone afterwards, you're scared that you're going to get Trincoff. And with Mod C, it was the same. I was traumatized for those two anaphylactic shock reactions, and then afterwards, I was just too scared, and I just didn't want that to happen again. Imagine if you inject Trimbalone and Mod C at the same time at the very high dose, just giving you Trincoff and anaphylactic shock, it would not end well for you. I'm sure of it. So I went with one milligram sub-Q five times weekly on workout days, and that solved all of my issues. So this is why the dosing protocol, for me, might be a little bit different from what you read online. Online, they still say that you need to reconstitute and inject right away, forcing you to use a five milligram to ten milligram vial. Again, I fell for this as well in the past, and when I was experimenting with Mod C during the mitochondrial support stack, I believe I told you guys the exact same thing. Now through more self-experimentation and a little bit more.  aut autoprilaguagu dissipation of the dosing protocols. For men and women, it's pretty much the same, even though I would recommend women to start a little bit lower on their MOTC dosing protocols because, generally speaking, women are less body weight than men. For men and women, the sustainable and tolerable dose of MOTC is anywhere between 0.5 milligrams to 1 milligrams, either subcutaneously or intermuscularly, between three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, to five times weekly on workout days, the daily even, if you do so prefer, or 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams, subcutaneously or intermuscularly, one to two times weekly on, let's say, Monday and Friday. And the deleterious dose, I would say over 5 milligrams per injection, whether you do that every single day or once weekly, that's entirely up to you. It just happens that most of the side effects occurs beyond 5 milligrams per injection onwards, whether that's intermuscularly or subcutaneously. So again, start low, start with 0.25 milligrams, MOTC, sub-Q, or intermuscular, if you do so prefer, and then with consecutive administrations, depending on your individual response, you can increase the dose to the efficacious dose where the side effects are not observed, fingers crossed. And again, anecdotally, MOTC is being used at much higher doses compared to what I just recommended, between 5 milligrams to 20 milligrams MOTC per injection, let's say two to three times weekly, or at least once every five days to 20 days, even though there are reports out there of guys using 20 milligrams MOTC every single day, which is crazy to me. I doubt they had a good experience, but hey, everybody's different in that sense. And in these doses ranges, people report improved energy, improved metabolism, improved weight loss, enhanced exercise capacity, improved insulin sensitivity, a potential improvement in cardiovascular health and reduction of age-related diseases, albeit that's an extrapolation from the scientific evidence. And the scientific evidence is so thin that it doesn't really support that kind of conclusion. Like I mentioned before, the most commonly reported side effect of MOTC at this particular dosage range between 5 milligrams to 20 milligrams is injection site irritation, which gets progressively worse as the dose of MOTC escalates upwards. And again, even at 5 milligrams per injection, people notice an increased heart rate and heart palpitation. And some people experience insomnia if they administered 5 milligrams MOTC to close the bed. And even in the morning, their energy levels are way too high even later in the day. So at higher doses MOTC, you might experience a little bit of insomnia. I never experienced that. I never talked to anybody personally who experienced insomnia on MOTC, but apparently that can happen. And again, cases of fever of anaphylactic shock are also reported. So start low, build your way up and don't overdo it. It's too expensive as it is. And before we close things off, since the World Anti-Doping Agency added MOTC to their prohibited list of 2025, let's see if we can find the evidence-based detection times and throw a monkey wrench into their ever-increasing list of no-nos. And well, after a long time of digging, I couldn't find anything. I couldn't find a half-life. I couldn't find any evidence-based detection times, whether that's in the bloodstream or in urine. And I could say that the reported detection time is approximately 14 days based on the reported detection time and the evidence-based detection time of other bioidentical hormones like insulin, growth hormone, erythropoietin, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, right? It might be detectable for a little bit longer, maybe even 21 days or onwards, because while the excretion studies for MOTC have not been performed, regarding the metabolism in the bloodstream, that hasn't fully been documented. And even though there's one study that looks for methods to detect MOTC or some of its metabolites in human serum and make the detection more accurate, since MOTC is produced in the human body, all the time keeping levels somewhat elevated, this study does not really go in depth that much. And I couldn't extrapolate any detection time data from this scientific evidence. That being said, you guys know that the human body also produces nadrolone. And if you take exogenous nadrolone, which might then be detectable for up to 18 months, because there's a detection range of, what was it, five nanograms per milliliter in urine, I believe, or in serum. So if your body continuously produces nadrolone, then serum or urinary nadrolone excretion stays elevated from this single dose or multiple dosages of nadrolone that you took that should otherwise slowly be metabolized out of the body, because your body keeps topping this off. And the same can be said for MOTC, even though that's a peptide hormone coming from the mitochondria, not a steroidal compound that is being produced in the aromatization of testosterone, into estradiol, and then you supplement exogenous nadrolone, phenylpropionate, or decanoate on top. So again, if we go by exogenous growth hormone, exogenous insulin, exogenous erythropoietin, or TB-500 and BBC157, I feel that a period of a safe reported detection time of 14 days is something you can go with. But if you want to play it safe, I would recommend 21 days, or maybe even one month. Because again, mitochondrial peptides might metabolize differently and excrete differently compared to a bioidentical peptide hormones that are being produced in the pituitary or the pancreas or the thymus for that matter. All right, that's it. That's all we got to work with for this deep dive. Thank you guys so much for watching. You'll find all of my sponsors and affiliates down below in the YouTube description section. If you undergo a lot of self-experimentation and you use MOTC or other mitochondrial supports, AIDS, and other performance-enhancing drugs, or cookie cutter TRT, do your blood work. Please do your blood work frequently. MOTC did not alter my blood work parameters in any way, shape, or form because the potential benefits regarding fatty acid metabolism and improved insulin sensitivity I already take care of with injectable carnitine and daily fast cardio. So I did not see any improvement in my blood work parameters because there's nothing to improve. It's already great. I just noticed an improvement in energy levels, and I still do my blood work every single month. So if you live in the United States, do your blood work over at Merrick Health. They have excellent healthcare providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results. And if they don't know something about a particular drug combination that they're not specialized in because it's a male health optimization clinic that doesn't really specialize in these kinds of compounds, then well, send your blood work over to me. I'll gladly help you interpret your blood work results and adjust your protocols just to make sure you stay as healthy as possible. Consultations or personalized advice by email is always available. And if you want to stack MOTC with other mitochondrial supports aids, well, search the channel because this YouTube channel not only is about performance sensing drugs, but also about mitochondrial biogenesis and upregulation. Yes, I cover everything on this YouTube channel. So subscribe now if you haven't already. Vigorous Crew, you guys know what to do. I must see fully enhanced front of the bicep for you guys. Just one milligram per day, baby. That's it. That's it. And a little bit of TRT for three, right? TRT for three people, 625 milligrams, testosterone and intake weekly. But I also have the muscularity of three people so I can get away with a little bit more. Thank you guys so much for watching. I'll see you in the next deep dive.