! METHALschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschsch but let's keep it PG-13, welcome to the Methylene Blue Deep Dive, where the dose is the poison. Vigorous thief here, let's get started by explaining what Methylene Blue actually is, what it's used for medically, and most importantly, which dosages it's prescribed in, so you know which dosage ranges you need to avoid, because the medical dosages can come with a slew of potential side effects. Methylene Blue, also known as methyltheonium chloride, is a dye and a medication, which is commonly used as a nootropic, as a mitochondrial function enhancer, as an anti-aging and longevity compound, and might even be used as a performance enhancing drug. The applications of Methylene Blue are vast and varied, with over 28,000 studies available for literature review, I'll be attempting to make sense of all of the potential benefits and side effects in this deep dive video. Now, if you feel that I left something out, feel free to post your citations and interpretations down below in the comment section, and I'll gladly make an addendum video if there's a lot more to discuss. Methylene Blue was first synthesized in 1876 by German chemist Heinrich Karo, and initially used as a textile dye to stain silk wool and cotton and paper in various shades of blue. And then 10 years later, in 1886, Dr. Paul Elrecht discovered that Methylene Blue also stains live neurons blue, and it had the same effect on Plasmodium found in infected human blood. Plasmodium is the parasite that causes malaria. And then five years later, in 1891, with the help of Dr. Paul Goodman, they successfully treated malaria in human patients using Methylene Blue as a treatment. It was also used in the First and Second World War as an anti-malaria medication, and in 1933, it was found to be an antidote for carbon monoxide poisoning, as well as cyanide poisoning. Methylene Blue has been widely used as a medical dye due to its strong staining properties and its ability to bind to biological tissues. Its bright blue color and ability to interact with biological structures make it a valuable tool for medical procedures and diagnostics. Methylene Blue has been used as a medical dye for the staining in histology and microbiology, which helps to visualize cells, bacteria, and tissues under a microscope. It's been used as a surgical marker. Surgeons use it to trace lymphatic drainage or identify damaged tissues. Methylene Blue as a medical dye has various diagnostic applications. It's injected to detect fistulas, leaks, or structural abnormalities in the body. And as a medical dye, it's vital in procedures to aid in identifying specific tissues, such as during central lymph node mapping in cancer surgery. Currently, Methylene Blue is being extensively studied for its potential uses in neuroprotection and Alzheimer's disease, to inhibit monamine oxidase, to inhibit nitric oxide synthase, and inhibit granulite cyclase, and as a redox agent in cellular metabolism contributing to mitochondrial function. Wait, what? Not so fast there, Steve. Methylene Blue is a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor? That's not bodybuilding approved. What about my massive masculine pumps in the gym? Don't worry, gym bros. Everything will be explained and debunked in this video. But before we start debunking, it's very important for you to know that Methylene Blue is studied and administered at much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much higher dosages than we would generally recommend for nootropic or performance-enhancing purposes. Here in this study performed by Galvin et al., published in January 2021, so a very recent good review index paper titled Methylene Blue for the Treatment of Health Conditions, a Scoping Review. In this study, the researchers indexed 16 previously performed studies which investigated various medical conditions where Methylene Blue was shown to have beneficial therapeutic effects. When you scroll down to table 1, 2, and 3, you see that the dosages are all well above 5 mg daily, going all the way up to 390 mg Methylene Blue twice daily for 7 days consecutively, which is what, 780 mg Methylene Blue every single day for 7 days in total, which are insane, insane dosages that nobody would recommend to healthy individuals for all of the reasons that we'll get into. At 5 mg daily, Methylene Blue might alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety as it acts as a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, raising serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine levels in the brain. More on that a little bit later on. And at 50 mg per day, Methylene Blue might alleviate pain after surgery, potentially by reducing oxidative stress and improving wound healing. Now, personally, I use 10 mg Methylene Blue every single day after my surgeries. I did Fentolasic eye surgery, I did gynecumaceous surgery, I did liposuction at the same time, and I had orthopedic leg surgery, all within 10 days, right, get all of the surgeries out of the way. After the surgeries were done and dusted for, I use 10 mg Methylene Blue every single day to help as an antioxidant and potentially improve wound healing. But I did have significant pain in my leg after the orthopedic plate was removed, up until the two-week mark, and then from one day to the next, the pain was gone, and I could walk normally. I had no pain in my eyes, minus one day after the surgery, a minimal pain in the breast area where the gynecomastia tissue was removed, and the liposuction took place. So, I could say that Methylene Blue aided in my recovery. And another study I want to highlight, again, you can find all citations down below, as usual, in case you're interested, performed by Zeit Kazina et al., published on September 29, 2022, so that's even more recent, titled Clinical Effectiveness and Prospects of Methylene Blue, a systemic review. In this study, the researchers reviewed all relevant clinical trials revolving around brain diseases, cancer imaging and diagnosis, infectious diseases such as malaria and C19, and cardiovascular diseases. And here, the investigated dosages are anywhere between 50 mg daily, up to 280 mg daily. Again, these are not the dosages that we're looking for. Besides these two review papers, I couldn't really find much scientific evidence revolving around very low and modest dosages of Methylene Blue, let's say 3 mg to 15 mg in a single serving, multiple times per week to daily use. So, we might have to go a little bit more with the anecdotal evidence from the fitness and nootropic community over the scientific evidence, because all of the scientific evidence is usually around 10 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg, 800 mg. And again, those are not the dosages that we're after here. So, first, let's look into the medical applications of Methylene Blue, so you know what it's actually being used for and prescribed for in humans. It's prescribed in methamoglobinemia. Guess how many times I had to try to pronounce that one? Methamoglobinemia. 1 mg to 2 mg for 1 kg of body weight, intravenously over 5 to 30 minutes, which might be repeated after 60 minutes if needed, for a maximum of 7 mg per 1 kg of body weight daily. So, if you're 100 kg bodybuilder suffering from methamoglobinemia, that's up to 700 mg Methylene Blue daily. And this is coming straight off my screen because it's impossible to remember and to pronounce without looking at my screen. So, here we go again. Methamoglobinemia is a condition where hemoglobin can't carry oxygen effectively as the iron in hemoglobin is oxidized from a ferrous to ferric state. Methylene Blue acts as a cofactor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent methamoglobin reductase, which can reduce ferric iron back to ferrous iron needed to restore oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin. You know, it also increases the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin, myoinocytil, triparaphosphate, but we'll save that for a separate deep dive dropping in the near future coming soon. So, subscribe now if you haven't subscribed already if you're interested in myoinocytil, triparaphosphate for overall endurance benefits. During chemotherapy, Methylene Blue is used to treat ifosfamide-induced neurotoxicity at 50 mg intravenously every 4 to 8 hours for a total dose of 150 mg to 300 mg daily. During cancer surgery, it's used to map sentinel lymph nodes at 10 mg in a 1 ml solution or 50 mg per 5 ml solution administered subcutaneously. They're used as a dye to identify lymph nodes in surgical oncology. Methylene Blue is being used in the treatment of vasoplegic syndrome occurring during septic or cardiogenic shock, where it's used in refractory hypotension when vasopressors are ineffective, in which case the dose is anywhere between 1 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight administered intravenously over 10 to 20 minutes, continued with a quarter mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight every hour if needed, as long as the vasoplegic syndrome and refractory hypotension is present. It's being used in cyanide poisoning, 1 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight intravenously as an adjuvant therapy in combination with sodium thiosulfate and sodium nitrite. Methylene Blue is currently being investigated during clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease and neurodegenerative disorders at 60 mg to 300 mg orally daily. It's being investigated during clinical trials for potential fluorona C19 acute and long hauler syndrome resolvements. It does just between 0.5 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg body weight intravenous daily or 1 mg to 4 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally daily. So again, all these previously mentioned conditions close to hundreds of milligrams. Methylene Blue is sometimes being prescribed for off-label purposes to treat urinary tract infections usually in combination with other antibiotics. Add 65 mg to 100 mg orally 2 to 3 times daily for a total of 130 to 300 mg daily. Methylene Blue is also used to treat pre-apism, a prolonged erection that lasts for hours and might damage your penile tissue. Add 50 mg per 5 ml to 100 mg per 10 ml by intra-covered nozzle injection. And this is off-label use as well, usually administered after first-line treatments fail. So they would do a blood aspiration from the penis or administered alpha agonists like phenyl ephrine. And if that fails, then well, an intra-covered nozzle injection of methylene Blue might be required. Again, Methylene Blue works as a guanylite cyclase inhibitor reducing nitric oxide signaling and relieving prolonged erections. And it used to be prescribed in the treatment of malaria, but it's now largely replaced by modern anti-malaria medication. Previously, it was prescribed at 36 mg to 73 mg orally every 8 hours for 3 to 4 days. So again, over several days, hundreds of mg, not the dosages that we're after in this deep dive. And to further drive that point home, since I'm sure you're already hopelessly lost in the mg per kg of body weight dosage ranges, I did you a solid. All you have to do is like this video and leave a couple comments for the algorithm to show me some love. I converted all of the dosage ranges to body weight at 10 kg increments. So here's an aggregated dosage range for all of the medical treatments where Methylene Blue is being used to treat something, not as a diagnostic tool in cancer or chemotherapy, for example. So the dosage ranges would be between 0.5 mg to 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally or intravenously in a single administration. Continued if needed to a maximum of 7 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally or intravenous daily or 60 mg to 300 mg orally daily in a single serving or multiple servings over the day. So if you're a 100 kg bodybuilder like I am approximately, that would be between 50 mg to 200 mg Methylene Blue daily for a maximum intake of 700 mg. Way too high. I would never do it. Personally, I would never dare to attempt to take 50 mg Methylene Blue per day. Certainly not 200 mg, let alone 700 mg over the day, even if it was in a single serving. Unless I'd be guaranteed to transform into Dr. Manhattan, even if it's only for a single day, so I could vaporize a couple people, it would be totally worth it to turn completely blue. So did you lose your pump yet? Let's get into this reduction of nitric oxide signaling before we get into the rest of the evidence-based unique characteristics of Methylene Blue. Because many of you are already sweating profusely and you didn't even take the other industrial dye used as a pesticide and herbicide and explosive known as 2,4-dinitrophenol, aka DNP. Methylene Blue acts as an electron donor, disrupting the normal electron flow for nitric oxide synthase enzymes to function correctly, effectively lowering nitric oxide levels. And this disruption occurs in the nervous system, the vasculatory system, aka the bloodstream, and the immune system. Methylene Blue also blocks the activation of soluble guanylite cyclase, an enzyme stimulated by nitric oxide to produce cyclic guanylcine monophosphate. And it's this C-GMP which acts as a key signaling molecule involved in vasodilation, neurotransmission and the relaxation of smooth muscle tissue. By preventing the formation of cyclic guanylcine monophosphate, Methylene Blue prevents nitric oxide's physiological effects. So the role of nitric oxide in skeletal muscle function is as follows. It contributes to vasodilation resulting in muscle oxygenation, ATP synthesis, lactate clearance, and improved endurance capacity. Nitric oxide contributes to muscular contractions, helps with calcium utilization and contractive efficiency. Nitric oxide contributes to strength and power output through muscle profusion and neuromuscular efficiency. Nitric oxide even contributes to hypertrophy. It helps with the anabolic signaling pathways like mTOR activation, muscle protein synthesis, and satellite cell activation. And nitric oxide also contributes to recovery as it regulates skeletal muscle and neuroinflammation. Just be forewarned that excessive nitric oxide levels can contribute to oxidative damage. All of that aside, Methylene Blue is known to increase blood pressure at therapeutic, aka higher dosages, due to its nitric oxide synthase inhibiting effects, reducing cyclic guanylcine monophosphate levels in the bloodstream, well before, again, well before it starts to mitigate the pump. So if you have a crazy pump in the gym but you notice your blood pressure is going up, then your dose of Methylene Blue is probably too high and you need to put something in place to keep your blood pressure under control, one of which is by lowering your Methylene Blue dosage. The key here is not to take too much. You know, dosages used medically for vasoplegic syndrome or pre-epism at 50 mg Methylene Blue per injection. In the medical literature, Methylene Blue is shown to have a noticeable increase in blood pressure at dosages beyond 1 mg per kg of body weight through intravenous administration, not by oral administration. Methylene Blue has an oral bioavailability of approximately 53 to 97%, 72.3% on average, and is absorbed over 30 minutes, not instantaneously, which you would see with an intravenous administration. So there's a huge difference here between excessive nitric oxide synthase inhibition from super high dosages acting instantly through intravenous administration compared to a lower oral bioavailability, which is being absorbed over 30 minutes at single mg, maybe 10 mg dosages, right? The dose is the poison. I can't emphasize this enough. Now, I know what you're thinking, and you're very smart for thinking that way. What about Tadalafil Cialis? A phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor which prevents the breakdown of cyclic guanosine monophosphate and thus raising C, G, and P levels, leading to smooth muscle relaxation and vasodilation, resulting in a phenomenal super pump. As masculine as could be. Now, if you would like to know more about Tadalafil aka Cialis, I would highly suggest you to watch the deep dive. But yes, from personal anecdotal experience, you can combine Cialis with methylene blue, both at low and effective dosages, 5 mg Cialis to 10 mg Cialis with 5 to 10 mg methylene blue. Pumps are insane. And you get all the benefits from methylene blue and none of the side effects. So if you want to combine both for a phenomenal masculine super pump, go right ahead. And if you're still not convinced, here's an extensive list of all of the compounds known to increase nitric oxide levels in production in the body, many of which are found in over-the-counter pre-workout formulas. I mean, why do you think that Gorilla Mode Nitric is called Gorilla Mode Nitric? It's not because it's filled with deli meats, buddy. You can consider L-Arginine at 2,000 mg to 6,000 mg pre-workout or L-Citrulline coming from L-Citrulline malate. So we're after the actual L-Citrulline here, excluding the malate. A dosage is between 3,000 mg to 12,000 mg pre-workout. Nitrocygene, 1,500 mg to 3,000 mg pre-workout. Pycnogenol, 50 mg to 100 mg pre-workout. Ubiquinol, 100 mg to 400 mg pre-workout. Beetroot juice or powder extract. If you go with the juice, you can dissolve all of the other aforementioned nitric oxide-enhancing vasodilating compounds. That would be 250 ml to 500 ml pre-workout. Or go with the powder extract and dissolve everything in water, whatever you prefer. 500 mg to 2,000 mg pre-workout. You can look into Pomp Grenade extract, 500 mg to 1,000 mg pre-workout. Grape seed extract, 100 mg to 200 mg pre-workout. Hawthornberry extract, 250 mg to 500 mg pre-workout. And if you want to go with the theobromine flavonoids for all of you chocolate lovers out there, make sure that it's over 70% cacao dark chocolate, 30 g to 50 g pre-workout. And feel free to increase nitric oxide levels in the body by using omega-3 fatty acids coming from fish oil, high-potency fish oil, for example, Gorillamide Omega-3 Elixir, at a total dose of 3,000 mg EPA and 2,000 mg DHA over the day. And while you're at it, you might as well throw a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor on top of this nitric oxide increasing over-the-counter supplement stack. Whether that's Sildenafil, a.k.a. Viagra, 25 mg to 100 mg taken pre-workout. Or Tadalafil, a.k.a. Cialis, 5 mg to 20 mg at any time during the day, because the half-life is super-duper long. Same for Fordenafil, a.k.a. Levitra, 5 mg to 20 mg anytime during the day, because the half-life is quite long. And with a consecutive Tadalafil or Fordenafil administrations, the dosage compounds and the pump is significantly enhanced. And if that's not enough, there's always nitroglycerin, but you might want to do some research on nitroglycerin before you start experimenting with that at 0.3 mg to 0.6 mg sublingually, right? Caution is advised. Now, diminished pump aside, what I would be more worried about, by inhibiting nitric oxide synthase, methylene blue might impair kidney function by causing vasoconstriction in the kidneys and reducing renal blood flow. And it might also cause vasoconstriction in the brain, reducing cognitive function by impairing blood flow to the brain. I couldn't find any scientific evidence that that happens at low to moderate dosages of methylene blue, the dosages which we'll recommend at the end of this video, but it could be a concern at therapeutic dosages beyond 2 mg per 1 kg of body weight through oral or sublingual administration, or 1 mg per 1 kg of body weight through intravenous or subcutaneous or intercarbunosal administration. So like I mentioned many times before, like with so many other compounds out there that we can choose from, with methylene blue, the dose is the poison. So I hope I put your worries at rest. Now let's dive into the evidence-based unique characteristics of methylene blue. Methylene blue, like I mentioned before, it inhibits nitric oxide synthase enzymes, reducing nitric oxide levels, which could potentially be attenuated by taking nitric oxide boosting supplements. Methylene blue might diminish vasodilation, reduce skeletal muscle pumps and impair exercise performance. Again, this is only observed at higher dosages. And methylene blue also inhibits granulite sicklyse enzymes, reducing sickly guanosine monophosphate levels, which also can potentially be attenuated by taking Tadalafil at any point during the day, because the half-life is so long. And again, it might diminish vasodilation, skeletal muscle pumps and exercise performance at higher dosages, by inhibiting the granulite sicklyse enzymes. But the inhibition of nitric oxide synthase enzymes and guanalyte sicklyse enzymes is only observed at higher dosages, beyond one milligram per one kilogram of body weight, when taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily, or beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight, when taken orally or sublingually daily. And methylene blue improves mitochondrial function, but we'll go a lot more in depth a little bit later on in this video. Don't you worry. Methylene blue improves mitochondrial respiration, acts as an electron donor in mitochondrial complex 1 to 4, which increases adenosine triphosphate production, increasing overall energy levels. Methylene blue increases nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide production within the mitochondria. It stimulates glucose metabolism in anaerobic conditions and lowers oxidative stress. But again, more on this later on. Methylene blue inhibits monamine oxidase A and B enzymes, which prevents serotonin norepinephrine, aka noradrenaline and dopamine neurotransmitter breakdown in the brain, which means that methylene blue has known selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, as well as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, or tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitor drug interactions, leading to serotonin syndrome. And methylene blue can even cause serotonin syndrome or serotonin toxicity all by itself, even without the use of an SSRI or an SNRI or TCA or MOAE medication alongside of it, albeit that this is only observed at a reasonably higher dose, just beyond 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight daily, or 300 milligrams administered over 24-hour periods, all through intravenous administration. The correlation between methylene blue and serotonin syndrome or serotonin toxicity are indexed in this study performed by Boots Guide, all published on August 30th, 2022, titled Methylene blue, a controversial diagnostic acid and medication. When you scroll down to Table 1, you see that serotonin toxicity occurs in emphosphamide-induced encephalopathy at dosages of 50 milligrams intravenous every 4 hours until symptoms resolve, which means 300 milligrams over a 24-hour period, or serotonin toxicity occurs in parathyroid imaging at dosages beyond 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight when taken intravenously. And for the other clinical indications, it seems that serotonin toxicity is not an issue for these particular dosage ranges. Now, it would still be advised to skip or avoid certain medications or over-the-counter supplements which are known to have serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine-modulating effects. So I'm talking about selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or serotonin norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, atypical antipsychotics, opioids with serotonergic effects, nootropics or stimulants with either serotonergic or dopaminergic or both effects. And that includes bromantain, modafinil, ritalin, ephedrine, adderol, dexedrine, and vivant. So those, again, caution is advised, doesn't mean you can't combine methylene blue with either of these nootropics or stimulants, but you might have some serotonergic or dopaminergic drug interactions, especially when you start escalating the dose upwards. There might be a drug interaction with the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists, including exonetides, liraglutide, dulaglutide, semaglutides, terzepidides, eretrotutides, and some of the other underdevelopment GLP-1 receptor agonists. GLP-1 receptor activation has been shown to modulate serotonin levels in the brain and enhance the activity of serotonin-producing neurons, which might treat and resolve anxiety and depression, similar to how low-dose methylene blue might treat and resolve anxiety and depression by increasing serotonin levels in the brain, whether that's from methylene blue or GLP-1 receptor agonists. This results in appetite suppression. And in the case of a GLP-1 receptor agonist, increased serotonin is one of the mechanisms on how GLP-1 receptor agonists results in weight loss. Still, there might be some drug interactions there. Again, I've combined methylene blue at a low dose with a moderate dose of a GLP-1 receptor agonist, whether that's liraglutide, terzepidide, or retrotutide. And I found that my appetite was suppressed and my mood was enhanced, but there was no symptoms of serotonin toxicity. And you have to be cautious when you combine methylene blue with serotonin and over-the-counter supplements like L-tryptophan or 5-HTP, which are the building blocks of serotonin, as well as ashwagandha root extract, ginkgo biloba extract, rhodiola rosea extract, St. John's wort, and theanine. And keep in mind that St. John's wort is a cytochrome P450, 3A4, and 1A2 inducer, increasing the metabolism of particular compounds, but I discussed that in other videos. Feel free to give those a watch as well. And be cautious when you combine methylene blue with dopaminergic over-the-counter supplements, including L-phenylaline, L-tyrosine, L-dopa coming from mucanoprirines, aka velvet bean extract, because these are all forming the building blocks for dopamine, as well as ginkgo biloba extract, rhodiola rosea extract, forscolin extract, theobromine coming from dark chocolate, and theanine coming from green tea. Now, just because there might be some potential drug interactions increasing serotonin levels, norepinephrine levels, or dopamine levels in the brain when combining methylene blue with either of these, over-the-counter supplements or medications I just mentioned, doesn't mean you can't do that. Take myself as an example. I've combined methylene blue with vortioxetine, 3mg methylene blue with 2.5mg vortioxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, and I got full-blown serotonin syndrome, salivating, hallucinating, not knowing where I was, and completely hot my entire body, feeling very, very weird and having micro-contractions for no reason, full-blown serotonin syndrome. So I threw the vortioxetine in the trash because it was also giving me tremendous libido issues and a minor erectile dysfunction. So that SSRI was not meant for me, but combining up to 10mg methylene blue with up to 50mg fluvoxamine, another SSRI which I have great results with, no problems. 10mg methylene blue five times per week with 50mg fluvoxamine every single day, no issues even when stacked with 1mg retrotutite three times per week. So now we're talking about three serotonin compounds that could potentially increase serotonin levels in the brain without any symptoms of serotonin syndrome or serotonin toxicity. I'm not entirely sure if I would add in more serotonin compounds in the form of over-the-counter supplements or other medications if I would get some sort of serotonin syndrome, but I feel that if you keep the dosages low, whether that's methylene blue or the aforementioned over-the-counter supplements or medications, then you should be able to have a positive drug interaction resulting in increased appetite suppression, but also enhanced mood and perhaps increased cognition. And this also means if you're currently using SSRIs or other serotonin medications and you want to phase them out of your life, by the Maui inhibition of methylene blue increasing serotonin levels in the brain, you might completely mitigate the withdrawal symptoms. So instead of tapering the SSRIs down with 10% dosage reductions every week resulting in a withdrawal period of let's say a year or multiple months, you switch to methylene blue, again not medical advice, I've done this myself, but it's not medical advice, switching to methylene blue increasing serotonin levels in the brain by acting as a Maui inhibitor. You can basically go from an SSRI to methylene blue the next day without withdrawal. Now I've done this with several consultations and discussed this with several people behind closed doors. It seems to work, but it obviously wouldn't work for everybody. So again, it's not medical advice, but it's something you can look into. So again, it's not medical advice, but it's something you can look into.  cltiteriter, unboxschopposchop教opiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, unboxschopiter, the side effects that you're experiencing, methylene blue might be a suitable replacement. Still, either way, if you're undergoing this route of combining particular serotonergic medications or supplements with methylene blue and you're undergoing this self-experimentation, proceed with caution, keep the dosages moderate and slowly escalate upwards based on positive effects and taper down as fast as possible when you start to experience serotonergic side effects. Okay, back to the evidence-based unique characteristics of methylene blue. Methylene blue might alleviate Alzheimer's syndrome by improving mitochondrial function. It increases acetylcholine levels in the brain. It has antioxidant effects in the brain. It inhibits beta-amyloid aggregation and may dissolve existing beta-amyloid plaque in the brain and methylene blue binds tubulin-associated unit protein and prevents tau-protein hyperphosphorylation. But this is only observed in the aforementioned clinical trial dosages of 60 milligrams to 300 milligrams. Methylene blue orally daily. Dosages which are way too high and where side effects generally start to manifest. Methylene blue might alleviate pain after surgery observed at 50 milligrams daily. Methylene blue might alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety already observed at 5 milligrams daily. So these are the dosages that we're a little bit more interested in. Methylene blue might alleviate fluorona C-19 acute and long hauler syndrome. It has potential antiviral effects. It improves mitochondrial function. It has antioxidant effects systemically, not just in the brain. Methylene blue enhances the oxygen-carrying capacity of red blood cells by reducing ferric iron back to ferrous iron, which is what is prescribed for methylmoglobinemia. Methylene blue offers erythropoietic effects at therapeutic dosages. The dosages that it's investigated in during clinical trials. Methylene blue reduces chronic fatigue and body aches and reduces chronic systemic inflammation. Now again, these effects are observed at 0.5 milligrams to 2 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when administered intravenously daily or one milligram to four milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when administered orally. Dosages which are considered to be in the ballpark of inducing various side effects. Methylene blue has systemic anti-inflammatory effects. It reduces pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, modulates microphage and neutrophil immune cell function. Methylene blue has systemic antioxidant effects. It increases nuclear factor, erythroid 2-related factor expression. It upregulates superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase activity. So that's very, very promising. That's at all dosages, but you get a dose-dependent effect regarding the antioxidant benefits as well as the anti-inflammatory effects. So that's a dose-dependent effect observed at low dosages, which I'll recommend at the end of this video. Methylene blue improves skin quality. It enhances skin viability and skin hydration, resulting in skin anti-aging effects. It increases dermis thickness, promotes wound healing, and upregulates elastin and collagen 2A1 synthesis, resulting in a more youthful appearance. So regarding a brief side tangent here, regarding the anti-aging benefits of methylene blue, that's mostly observed in the skin. So from a longevity slash cosmetic appearance perspective, methylene blue makes you look younger with perceived anti-aging benefits. And these anti-aging benefits in the skin are very similar to injectable glutathione, leading me to believe that a combination of injectable glutathione with oral methylene blue, you don't need to inject it, don't be silly. Injectable glutathione with oral methylene blue, both at low and conservative, yet effective dosages, should enhance your appearance, making you look more youthful, which allows you to say that you have anti-aging benefits. And these are actual anti-aging effects. Methylene blue protects against skeletal aging by improving mitochondrial function like it does everywhere else. And it also improves antioxidant status within bones. So if you're a little bit older and you have a lot of oxidative stress in the bones resulting in bone aging, then methylene blue might be able to protect against it, resulting in actual anti-aging effects. Methylene blue affects the gut microbiome diversity and composition. It has antimicrobial properties, might prevent candida overgrowth, might disrupt the beneficial bacteria that play an important role in digestion, immunity, and metabolic health. But this is only observed at higher doses beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when taken orally, not subcutaneously or intravenously because that bypasses the gut microbiome. Methylene blue increases cognitive performance and offers neuroprotection. It passes the blood-brain barrier, reduces oxidative stress in the brain again. It increases serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine levels, like I mentioned earlier. Again, assuming you keep the dose moderate and you don't combine it with some of the aforementioned medications or over-the-gunder supplements. Methylene blue improves mitochondrial function in the brain, ATP synthesis in the brain, and reduces beta-amyloid levels in the brain, resulting again in cognitive performance and neuroprotection overall. Methylene blue increases erythropoiesis at moderate dosages. This is very important for you to understand when you start stacking methylene blue with erythropoietin or other erythropoietic compounds like bulbenone, for example, or anadrol, or sleep apnea. It also increases your hematocrit and red blood cell count. It reduces oxidative stress in erythroid progenitor cells. It reduces nitric oxide levels, lowers methyloglobulin, which is the oxidized hemoglobin, which then increases oxygen carrying capacity of the red blood cell count as the hemoglobin can now carry more oxygen around, and that enhances hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha stability, all might result in increased erythropoiesis. And this is observed at moderate dosages between 0.1 milligram to 1 milligram per kilogram of body weight when taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily or at a little bit higher dosages, 0.5 milligrams to 2 milligrams for 1 kilogram of body weight when taken orally or sublingually. So again, if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder from 50 milligrams per day onwards, you might experience erythropoiesis unless you combine methylene blue with other erythropoietic compounds. And methylene blue actually inhibits erythropoiesis at higher dosages by increasing oxidative stress and disrupting mitochondrial function, damaging erythroid progenitor cells, causing oxidative stress to hemoglobin, which is the heightened body formation and even resulting in hemolysis. And methylene blue interferes with erythropoietin receptor sensitivity. And this is observed medically at dosages beyond 2 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight, either taken subcutaneously or intravenously daily or beyond 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight when taken orally or sublingually daily. But anecdotally, I see this effect of reduced hematocrit and reduced red blood count. We're talking about a hematocrit of like 37 to 39%, which is very low for a male bodybuilder, beyond 25 milligrams methylene blue daily. So it seems that erythropoiesis already starts to occur at 3 milligrams to 10 milligrams methylene blue daily, even though medically, that would start to occur beyond 0.5 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight daily. So that's way higher in a medical setting. But we as bodybuilders or fitness enthusiasts combine methylene blue with erythropoietic compounds. So at 10 milligrams methylene blue daily, unless you're using something to inhibit erythropoiesis or reduce hematocrit levels, you might see that hematocrit and real blood cell count starts to shoot up. And beyond 25 milligrams per day, regardless if you take erythropoietin or boldenone or anadrol or you have sleep apnea or not, you might see a reduction in your hematocrit and real blood cell count. So again, if you start escalating the dose upwards, but even at low and moderate dosages, blood work. Do your blood work to prevent issues with your complete blood count parameters. And now for the really bad news, methylene blue reduces cerebral blood flow by inhibiting nitric oxide synthase enzymes and lowering nitric oxide levels. It inhibits soluble guanylite c-clase enzymes and lowers cichlid guanylcine monophosphate levels, inducing vasoconstriction and impairing blood flow to the brain. But this is only observed at higher dosages beyond 0.5 milligram per one kilogram of body weight. Highing kilogram bodybuilder taking 50 milligrams methylene blue and the blood flow to the brain might be impaired. So again, the dose is the poison, like I say, every single time. Methylene blue induces oxidative stress at higher doses observed at doses beyond two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight. So don't do that unless you suffer from a medical condition where you need methylene blue to get you out of that particular scenario. Methylene blue causes acute toxicity at extreme dosages where it induces hemolysis, methylmoglobinemia and severe oxidative stress within red blood cells and also induces severe neurotoxicity and this observed at doses beyond seven milligrams per one kilogram of body weight daily, aka 700 milligrams methylene blue for 100 kilogram bodybuilder. And methylene blue causes hemolysis in glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase, gene deficiencies. So if you suspect a G6PD gene deficiency in your genetic makeup, please do a genetic analysis with 23andMe before you start taking methylene blue because that could result in significant hemolysis and, well, basically death. But the good news is that there might be potential synergistic effects with PPR modulators like telmosartin or cardirine because methylene blue increases peroxisone perifylator activated receptor or gamma coactivator one alpha expression which might enhance fat metabolism. Now, I personally didn't experience any of that comparing a low and effective dose of methylene blue with an effective dose of telmosartin and an effective dose of cardirine which I also have a deep dive on. If you want fat loss, stick with cardirine. The methylene blue and the telmosartin on top of that might offer a 1% benefit which is basically unnoticeable in the bigger picture. So as you might have suspected, methylene blue exhibits a biphasic dose response meaning that low dosages might be beneficial under various conditions but at higher dosages it might have deleterious effects especially if you don't suffer from the particular medical condition in which these elevated dosage ranges are generally prescribed for. So based on a review of the scientific literature it seems that the negative effects of methylene blue start to manifest at dosages beyond 0.5 milligram per 1 kilogram of body weight daily regardless of administration around. So again that means 50 milligrams methylene blue if you're 100 kilogram bodybuilder or 25 milligrams methylene blue if you're 50 kilogram short king. Keep in mind that chronic high dosages of methylene blue can accumulate in tissues stating them blue literally leading to unknown long term potentially deleterious effects. It seems that methylene blue has potential performance enhancing benefits through its effects on mitochondrial function improving and optimizing adenosine triphosphate synthesis which should result in increased energy capacity during your workouts. Methylene blue enhances mitochondrial function biogenesis and ATP synthesis through various mechanisms. These effects seem to be dose dependent and observed in in vitro and in vivo studies so that means that at a low and effective dose methylene blue already enhances mitochondrial function that does it up until certain points at which point there's a tipping point in the dose and methylene blue is no longer an antioxidant but starts to potentiate pro-oxidant effects and these are methylene blue's effects on mitochondrial function where it enhances electron chain efficiency. Methylene blue acts as an alternative electron carrier in the electron transport chain. It accepts electrons from reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides at mitochondrial complex 1 and donates then directly to cytochrome C bypassing mitochondrial complexes 1 and 3. This rerouting of electron enhances the activity of mitochondrial complex 4 which reduces electron leakage and mitigates the production of reactive oxygen species which can otherwise damage the mitochondria due to oxidative stress. By facilitating efficient electron transport within the electron transport chain, methylene blue increases mitochondrial respiration and adenosine triphosphate synthesis increasing overall energy levels. Methylene blue contributes to mitochondrial biogenesis. Methylene blue induces the expression of peroxisone proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha which is a key regulator in mitochondrial biogenesis. This leads to an increase in the number of healthy mitochondria within cells enhancing cellular energy production and resilience. Methylene blue stimulates substrate level phosphorylation in conditions where oxidative phosphorylation is impaired due to the inhibition of mitochondrial complex 1 or mitochondrial ATP synthase. Methylene blue stimulates substrate level phosphorylation through the succinyl coenzyme A ligase enzymes. This alternative ATP production pathway helps maintain cellular energy levels even when mitochondrial function is compromised. Now I don't think this is something you have to worry about if you're otherwise healthy your mitochondrial function is normal or slightly upregulated through the use of various mitochondrial function enhancing compounds like MOTC, SLU, PP332, etc. But if you're in a chronic state of oxidative stress or you're somewhat unhealthy and mitochondrial function is impaired, then methylene blue might be a first line of defense by stimulating substrate level phosphorylation, increasing overall energy levels, when again oxidative phosphorylation within the mitochondria is impaired. Methylene blue contributes to reduction in oxidative stress. Methylene blue reduces the production of reactive oxygen species by preventing electron leakage in the electron transport chain like I mentioned earlier. Methylene blue can also be reduced to leukomethylene blue, leuko-MB, which acts as an antioxidant, scavenging free radicals and preserving mitochondrial integrity. Methylene blue enhances cellular oxygen utilization unless you've been taking such a high dose of methylene blue that you get tremendous vasoconstriction and increase in blood pressure and even then, methylene blue improves oxygen consumption by cells, ensuring efficient ATP synthesis even under hypoxic or energetically stressed conditions, including strenuous strength, performance, or endurance exercise. As a compound that increases mitochondrial function and biogenesis, you could consider combining methylene blue at low and effective dosages where the commonly reported side effects don't occur with other compounds which are known to improve mitochondrial function and biogenesis, increase ATP synthesis, but reduce oxidative stress for an overall synergistic effect. Just be forewarned, you might be able to shoot lightning or laser beams out of your fingertips when you start stacking various mitochondrial support aids together. Methylene blue is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural. So have a look into these various mitochondrial function enhancing compounds including astaxanthin, 4 mg to 16 mg daily, carnitine, whether that's oral L-carnitine, L-tortrate or oral acetyl-L-carnitine at doses of 2,000 mg to 3,000 mg! daily or go with injectable carnitine, 500 mg subcutaneously or intramuscularly once or twice daily, creatine monohydrate, 3,000 to 5,000 mg daily, glutathione, whether that's coming from N-acetyl-cysteine and let's say 1,200 mg to 2,000 mg daily or coming from S-adenosyl-methionine 400 mg to 800 mg daily, reduced glutathione 500 mg to 1,000 mg daily, S-acetyl-gluthione 200 mg! to 300 mg daily or injectable glutathione 1,800 mg intravenously once weekly or 600 mg intramuscularly 3 times weekly for total weekly intake of 1,800 mg injectable, glutathione nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide being produced from nicotinamide mononucleotide at let's say 300 mg to 1,000 mg daily or being produced from nicotinamide riboside at the same dose 300 mg to 1,000 mg daily or administered directly in the form of injectable nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide at 100 mg to 200 mg intravenously once weekly or 15 mg to 30 mg sub-q or intramuscularly daily vitamin B complex helps with mitochondrial function at B50 or B100 complex daily vitamin C helps with mitochondrial function between 2,000 mg! 3,000 mg to 5,000 mg daily quercetin helps with mitochondrial function at 500 mg to 2,000 mg daily curcumin helps with mitochondrial function at 500 mg to 1,000 mg daily berberine 500 mg! to 2,000 mg daily omega-3 fatty acids coming from fish oil at 3,000 mg! EPA and 2,000 mg DHA daily might help with mitochondrial function mod C for sure helps with mitochondrial function at 0.5 mg to 1 mg subcutaneous or intramuscularly daily or 5 mg to 10 mg subcutaneous or intramuscularly 1 to 2 times weekly have a look at the mitochondrial support stack which I have an extensive deep dive on how to use mod C with other mitochondrial biogenesis and function agents but I didn't include methylene blue or SLU PP332 because at that time I was not aware unfortunately so maybe it's time for an updated mitochondrial function video let me know down below if you would like to see it SS3-1 at 5 mg to 10 mg subcutaneously or intramuscularly daily I ran a protocol with SS3-1 for about 2 weeks in duration at 5 mg daily and it did not do anything for me but you might be different again I used it in a stack of various mitochondrial support agents SLU PP332 at a total of 200 mg to 1000 mg! daily I have a deep dive on that you should give it a watch 5-minute 1MQ prevents the breakdown of NAD plus in the adipose tissue it might help with mitochondrial function as well but it mostly helps with fat loss at 50 mg to 150 mg! daily I have 3 videos on that give it a watch and then maybe through PPAR activation and expression telmosartan and cardrine might have a beneficial effect alongside methylene blow with regards to fat loss telmosartan at 20 mg! to 80 mg daily depending on how high or low your blood pressure is and cardrine at let's say 10-40 mg daily split out over 2 servings of 10 mg to 20 mg pre-cardio and pre-workout I have a deep dive on cardrine you should watch it unfortunately I couldn't really find any direct scientific evidence that methylene blue improves athletic performance increases endurance stamina strength or overall exercise capacity that's a little bit of an extrapolation from the benefits of mitochondrial function and ATP synthesis there's no documentation regarding beneficial effects on fat loss or overall weight loss but hey methylene blue is found in the urine samples of athletes which are subject to drug testing and it's not recognized as a masking agent so let's assume athletes are using methylene blue to improve their physical and mental performance during competitions there are several studies that show that methylene blue enhances cognition albeit mostly in Alzheimer's patients but the doses used are generally not the doses that I would recommend because the doses are in their range where side effects already start to manifest which I highlighted earlier at the start and in the middle of this deep dive still this study is pretty interesting to read performed by Rodriguez et al published in June 2017 methylene blue modulates functional connectivity in the human brain in this study 28 healthy subjects between the age of 18 to 65 years old received 280 milligrams methylene blue comparable to 4 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight again dosage ranges where a boatload of side effects start to occur particularly vasoconstriction and then some to assess the effects of methylene blue on the functional connectivity of the human brain using functional magnetic resident imaging fMRI as a diagnostic tool at baseline and 60 minutes after methylene blue administration without getting too technical in the discussion the researchers say that low dose methylene blue 280 milligrams methylene blue is considered a low dose increased visual motor task induced deactivation of a task related network and increased functional connectivity amongst regions associated with working memory visual and motor coordination but they also found a significant decrease in cerebral blood flow like I mentioned earlier after low dose methylene blue in clusters located in the posterior circulate cortex prefrontal cortex and inferior parietal lobes associated with the visual motor tasks of the study so too long didn't read a reasonably high dose of methylene blue what the researchers consider to be a low dose methylene blue 280 milligrams of methylene blue improves memory recollection working memory and visual and motor coordination but it can impair cerebral blood flow and this is not what we're after if you want to have a nootropic effect and if the beneficial effects on functional brain activity are observed at lower and conservative dosages 5 milligrams 10 milligrams 25 milligrams even it seems that that's never been investigated in the studies beyond alleviating symptoms of depression and anxiety so again if you want to say that methylene blue improves cognition go with anecdotal reports not really with the scientific evidence because let's be honest we're not going to take these dosages and we don't suffer from Alzheimer's disease and a lot more studies need to be performed regarding its potential benefits at 3 milligram to 10 milligram dosage ranges but those haven't been performed and the next study is a little bit more comprehensive regarding neurological function under the influence of methylene blow performed by Rajas et al published on January 2012 a little bit older than the previous one titled Neurometabolic Mechanisms for Memory Enhancement and Neuroprotection of Methylene Blow this study goes through all scientific evidence showing that methylene blue could potentially be used as a memory enhancing drug but the index studies are all animal models and mostly use intraperitonal injections that are straight into the abdomen and only one study used oral administrations of methylene blue still the results of these studies proving memory enhancing effects in these animal models is very promising so I did the dose conversion to get the human equivalent dosage where these benefits are already observed in the animal models the effective dosages are anywhere between 1 milligram to 4 milligram per 1 kilogram of body weight which is approximately 0.08 milligrams to 0.65 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight in humans meaning that 100 kilogram bodybuilders should already get memory enhancing effects from methylene blue and a single serving dosage between 8.1 milligram to 64.9 milligrams so let's keep the dosage moderate for me I would say that the nootropic benefits are already observed at 5 milligrams and around 100 kilos and at 10 milligrams I seem to be a little bit more cognitively enhanced unfortunately that dosage is based on interperitonal administrations not oral administrations the effective oral administration dose was 9 milligrams to 30 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight and if you convert that to the human equivalent dose that would be 0.7 milligrams to 2.4 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight orally meaning that a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would need anywhere between 73 to 243.2 milligrams oral methylene blue to get a potential beneficial effect regarding cognition memory formation and memory recollection again those doses are way too high those I would consider to be the side effect inducing dosage ranges now there's a lot more to the study and I would highly suggest you to give it a read if you're interested in the potential nootropic benefits of methylene blue as always the citations are down below in the conclusion the researchers mentioned that all the quoted studies provide conclusive evidence that low dosages of pharmaceutical USP grade methylene blue are effective for improving different forms of memory and preventing various neurochemical structural and functional deficits derived from mitochondrial inhibition and oxidative stress so again most of the nootropic benefits are coming from the improvement in mitochondrial function even though it might impair blood flow again if the dosages are a little bit higher further studies could prove that methylene blue has neuroprotective effects in neurodegradation and amnesia and might be effective as a nootropic agent methylene blue could be used to enhance memory and prevent aging related and disease related memory loss especially in conditions associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in humans yeah very interesting reads it's linked down below in case you're interested since there's little scientific evidence on truly low dose methylene blue administrations dosages which are significantly lower what the researchers consider to be low and effective dosages I'm just going to play it by ear and go with the anecdotal reports of the nootropic space and the fitness community because most of the people in the nootropics community and the fitness community don't really experience the side effects which are commonly associated with methylene blue again with methylene blue less is more especially if you expect to use methylene blue multiple times per week to daily for weeks to months in duration for men the sustainable tolerable dose seems to be anywhere between 3 to 15 milligrams orally upon waking two times weekly to daily and the deleterious dose seems to be over 25 milligrams orally based on anecdotal reports for women generally because their body weight is lower than men the sustainable intolerable dose is anywhere between 3 to 10 milligrams orally upon waking two times weekly to daily and the deleterious dose would be based on anecdotal reports over 15 milligrams daily but based on the scientific evidence that would be beyond 1 milligram per 1 kilogram body weight orally or sublingually daily or beyond 0.5 milligrams per 1 kilogram body weight subcutaneous or intravenous daily and again highly dependent on what else you're running alongside the methylene blue because there's a lot of drug interactions whether those are beneficial or deleterious so do additional research and compare the stack that you're currently on if that might have an overlapping or negative effect when you start combining that with methylene blue ideally you stick with oral methylene blue capsules from reputable sources to ensure that you get the highest possible quality of methylene blue with the highest purity at 99.99999999% which is United States pharmacopoeia quality because there seems to be some risk of heavy metal contamination with non-USB grade methylene blue so beware where you purchase your methylene blue from it's not all the same and the quality might vary amongst the different methylene blue manufacturers and if you do go with methylene blue powder and you get the highest possible quality you can find then you need to dissolve one gram of methylene blue in 10 milliliters bacterial static water to get a 10% solution of methylene blue or one gram per 100 milliliter bacterial static water to get a 1% solution of methylene blue you can dose the 10% solution with an insulin syringe so you draw 3 IOs on the insulin syringe to get 3 milligrams methylene blue and 10 IOs on the insulin syringe to get 10 milligrams methylene blue now unfortunately this high of a concentration doesn't pass through the needle of the insulin syringe so you need to either backfill that by using a higher gauge to remove the plunger from the insulin syringe you draw from the sterile vial let's say 100 IUs or 1 milliliter containing 100 milligrams methylene blue again it's a 10% solution then you backfill that into the insulin syringe and then you literally press down for as many IUs aka milligrams of methylene blue you need and if you go with a 1% solution 10 milligrams methylene blue in 1 milliliter bacterial static water then you need to draw the 30 IUs on the insulin syringe to get 3 milligrams methylene blue and to 100 IUs on the insulin syringe to get 10 milligrams methylene blue again don't be an idiot and inject this 1% or 10% methylene blue solution subcutaneously or intravenously or interperitonally or intercavernosously don't inject methylene blue period you use this insulin syringe to inject or drop the appropriate amount of methylene blue solution into a glass cup then you add more water then you take a straw you stir that up until the solution is a homogenized blue and then you drink that through the straw by aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut aut  autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo absolutely no reason to take the powdered form of methylene blue when the capsules are readily available at three milligrams five milligrams or ten milligram increments which allow for any kind of milligram combination you could potentially be after and even though methylene blue is not included in the world anti-doping agency prohibited list of 2025 you never know if they're going to add it next year because you can bet all of your testicles and your blue tongue that the world anti-doping agency is watching this youtube channel for potential performance enhancing drugs with endurance enhancing benefits so here are the evidence-based detection times for now unfortunately it's never been assessed regarding a proper excretion study for doping analysis so the half-life i am aware of through intravenous administration and oral administration half-life is pretty much the same between five to six and a half hours and with subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitonal administration it's around 24 hours not entirely sure what an intravenous administration the half-life would be i couldn't find that in the scientific evidence unfortunately so again stick with oral administration because the half-life is five to six and a half hours and it's reasonably easy to extrapolate a detection time from but it seems that all of the excretion studies are only lasting 24 hours and after a single serving of methylene blue at various dosages it's still detectable in urine for over 24 hours because the studies don't last that long so unfortunately there's not much to go with yet but once wada starts banning methylene blue potentially then there will be excretion studies regarding the metabolites and how long they are detectable in human urine or in human serum and then we can make an addendum video to make sure you guys keep beating those drug tests now i'd like to hear from you guys write down below in the comment section to fuel the algorithm obviously what was the highest dose of methylene blue you ever took how did you feel did you experience any side effects did you get serotonin syndrome or elevated blood pressure or impaired blood flow to the penis making you lose your erection right whatever silly story you have from a high dose methylene blue let us know down below i would love to hear about it i've experienced zero side effects besides that one instance where i combined three milligrams methylene blue with 2.5 milligrams for the oxytine and i was on the couch for 24 hours suffering through serotonin syndrome was not fun that's the only negative experience i've had on methylene blue and i've gone up to doses of 10 milligrams every single day but usually i stick around 10 milligrams five times per week on workout days and then i rely on something like bromontain or another nootropic on my wrist days right so i can cycle through my nootropics and have different kinds of effects on my productivity and i take a boatload of antioxidants all the way through so i think my antioxidant status and my mitochondrial function is significantly heightened whether i take methylene blue or not i've seen a good amount of blood work on guys that make a dose methylene blue beyond 25 milligrams per day and it's very clear that our hematocrit comes down and their real blood cells come down even if they're taking erythropoietic compounds like a boldenone primabolin potentially or anadrol or again uh they have sleep apnea um so you bring the methylene blue down and you give them a c-pad machine and everything balances itself out like all good things should be do your blood work over at merrick health if you're thinking about running methylene blue so you can get a baseline analysis of your blood work parameters and i give you a little bit of an indication on where you're starting those should be if you're worried about vasoconstriction and impaired pump just buy yourself a tub of gorilla mode nitric i take it before every workout and our pumps are insane even though i take 10 milligrams methylene blue upon waking no diminished pumps have been observed while combining gorilla mode nitric with methylene blue and if you don't know where to get methylene blue well that's what the website is there for vigorsteve.com and you'll save yourself 10 wherever you might shop online all right vigorous crew you guys know what to do a fully enhanced with methylene blue frontal bubble basket for you guys large and in charge nice skin texture fully antioxidant status raised to the max and nootropically enhanced for this entire deep dive i hope you enjoyed it as did i it was a lot of work to prepare for and a lot of stumbling over medical terminology but hey somebody has to do it might as well be me thank you guys so much for watching and i'll see you in the next video