 If you can also age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age 17th age too. Vigorsteve here, let's talk about YK-11, the only selective endoterm receptor modulator worth running because it's a steroidal compound, which is unlike all of the other SARMs that the SARM goblins are gobbling up and overdosing on. And I'm a little bit late to the party, this compound has been around for over a decade, but since it's classified as a SARM, and SARMs are pretty beta and not what is being used at the higher levels of bodybuilding, I completely overlooked it. But if you look into this compound as a phallostatin secretagogue, then it becomes a little bit more interesting. Let's dive in. YK-11 is a dual action performance enhancing drug. Not only does it activate the androgen receptor with little to no affinity for the glucocorticoid receptor, the mineralocorticoid receptor, the estrogen receptors or other receptors that classical anabolic androgenic steroids interact with, which is stemming from a single study where they used YK-11 at reasonably low concentrations and compared it to DHT. So it doesn't really translate into the real world when you start ramping up the dose of YK-11 into bodybuilding dosages, where there might be some spillover effect into the other receptors, but we'll get into that a little bit later on. And YK-11 is set to increase phallostatin levels, which is shown in only two studies. Again, scientific evidence at this point is a little bit thin, but that's what we have to work with. Phallostatin inhibits or blocks myostatin present in skeletal muscle and thus limits or removes the cap of further muscle growth. Again, assuming that phallostatin levels are high enough. Now, if you're interested in manipulating your myostatin and phallostatin levels without the use of non-FTA approved experimental compounds, then I would suggest you watch these videos first and then come back later for the icing on the anabolic cheesecake by using a phallostatin secretagogue. YK-11 is the only steroidal selective endocrine receptor modulator being commonly used, even though there are several steroidal SARMs available, at least judging from the scientific literature, one of which actually underwent clinical trials where it was shown to be anabolic in humans. Now, I already did the research for you. I searched all of the sources, at least the ones that are reputable, far and wide, and it seems that none of these steroidal selective endocrine modulators are currently available. So, YK-11 is all we have to work with. There's CI4AS1, MK0773, again, this was undergoing clinical trials that was shown to be anabolic in humans, MK4541, TFM4AS1, and YK-11, which this deep dive is about. YK-11 was first described in the scientific literature back in 2011, and let's be honest, competitive bodybuilding has really made a giant leap since then. So, it's highly doubtful that YK-11 is as effective as the SARM-schillers make it out to be, otherwise everybody would be using it at their highest level, which they certainly don't. That being said, I had a great experience running YK-11 at 30 milligrams daily for seven weeks in duration, but that's alongside a hefty steroid cycle consisting of testosterone, nandrolone, tristalone, anadrol, drothramone, and IGF-1, pharmaceutical being in Corlex. So, how much difference this YK-11 made in the context of this entire steroid cycle using various peptides? I'm not entirely sure until I run YK-11, which I will do in the future alongside a testosterone-based solo. So, this video will already get an update in the next couple of months, but for now, I would say based on my extensive experience with oral anabolic anagenic steroids, I would say that YK-11 comes very close to Superdrol regarding strength gains, size, density, overall muscularity, and dryness, and that might make it a suitable replacement for Superdrol because, let's be honest, after two weeks, three weeks on Superdrol, it literally feels like your liver is melting out of your asshole, and you feel very, very toxic, and maybe a little bit central nervous system fatigue, which I certainly did experience, and I ran YK-11, again, alongside Anadrol for multiple weeks. In duration, my liver enzymes didn't really budge that much. So, stay tuned for a follow-up experiment using injectable YK-11. For now, I'm probably never going to touch Superdrol again because, again, YK-11 seems to be quite comparable. So, let's dive into it, starting with the scientific evidence, which is as paper-thin as single-ply toilet paper, meaning that if you're careful enough, you're not exactly going to touch shit. I mean, there's no human clinical data, no human clinical trials, no human case reports, rarely any animal models, and a few in vitro studies that we can pull some data from. Here are all the evidence-based unique characteristics of YK-11. It activates the anadron receptors but doesn't bind or activate or block the estrogen or glucocorticoid receptors stemming from in vitro studies. It increases bone mineralization and bone formation, also in vitro, which was compared directly to diaractestosterone. It increases intracellular folistatin levels, again, in vitro studies, between 550 to 800 percent, which is duration-dependent. We'll get into that. It increases folistatin levels in serum stemming from animal models between 10 to 13 percent, which is a dose-dependent effect. Again, we'll get into that a little bit later on. It reduces intramuscular fat mass in animal models. It doesn't increase liver enzymes, ALT and AST enzymes, but it does increase blood urea nitrogen levels slightly, and it prevents muscle wasting and reduces organ damage as well as mortality during sepsis. Now, during all of these animal models, the dosages of YK-11 administration were literally insane, between 350 to 700 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight daily. We'll get into this study a little bit later on. It's quite interesting, and we'll do some extrapolation from the animal dose to the human equivalent dose, making you understand that the dosages are completely out of the realm of possibility. YK-11 might inhibit the 5,5-reductase type 2 enzymes, which is generally expressed in the skin and scalp after puberty in humans, albeit that this scientific evidence is stemming from an in vitro study. Now, this doesn't mean that YK-11 is going to be hair-safe by blocking the conversion of testosterone into dyna testosterone. When you read all of the anecdotal reports, you see that in some individuals, YK-11 can cause hair loss, albeit that we don't really know if this is in the context of taking YK-11 solo without a testosterone base, in which case you'll be testosterone deficient, estrogen deficient, as well as dyna testosterone deficient, right? I couldn't really find any before and after blood work results of YK-11, and unfortunately, since I did the research after I discontinued the YK-11, I didn't do the before and after blood work regarding my dyna testosterone levels. And YK-11 potentiates similar neurotoxic effects in the hippocampus compared to other antibiotic androgenic steroids, albeit that I don't know which other steroids YK-11 was compared to in this animal model. And YK-11 increases oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction within the hippocampus, stemming from a different animal model, but the latter two animal models, the full publication is not available, but you can find the citations and all of the other citations down below. So make sure you stay on top of your antioxidants while using YK-11, which I certainly was. I take vitamin C, vitamin E, injectable glutathione, taurine, etc., etc., etc., right? At least take some vitamin C, vitamin E, and N-acetylcysteine while supplementing with YK-11. And even though the scientific evidence is reasonably thin and stemming from animal models, if it's shown to potentiate oxidative stress similar to steroids, which you also might be using at the same time, then it's a no-brainer to run some antioxidants while using this compound. Methylene blue, also a great way to minimize and negate oxidative stress. Like I mentioned earlier, there's a study which used insane dosages of YK-11 to assess if it could reduce or prevent mortality in cases of bacterial sepsis in mice, performed by Lee et al., published on March 5th, 2021, so that's reasonably recent, titled, Malsight and Inhibitor YK-11 as a Preventative Health Supplement for Bacterial Sepsis. In this study, eight-week-old mice received either 350 milligrams up to 700 milligrams of YK-11 per one kilogram of body weight for 10 consecutive days, after which they were injected with E. coli bacteria to induce sepsis. Now, since I don't wish sepsis on anybody, not even my worst enemies, we're going to forego and overlook the E. coli groups and simply focus on the control group, the 350 milligram YK-11 group, and the 700 milligram YK-11 group. You see here that after 10 days, body weight increased significantly in the 700 milligram YK-11 group, while skeletal muscle weight increased in both groups, and body fat weight also decreased in both groups, albeit more in the 700 milligram YK-11 group. These results are nothing like the transgenic mice, which express false satin like it's going off style, by the way. Of course, this picture is always used to show the magical effects of YK-11, which is coming from a study which was released a decade before YK-11 was discovered. And this is nothing like the myostatin null mice, which don't even produce myostatin at all due to a gene deficiency, similar to the also famous Belgian blue tremolone sandwich cows. In figure 3a, you see that 350 milligram YK-11 for 10 consecutive days increased folosatin levels from about 19 nanograms per milliliter to, let's say, 21 nanograms per milliliter. And in the 700 milligram YK-11 group increased to about 21.5 or maybe 22 nanograms per milliliter, an increase between 10 to 13% or maybe even 15%. Now that's all nice and dandy and super promising at all, gains a plenty and free fat loss, sign me up. But what about the human equivalent dose? I mean, 350 milligrams, 700 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight sounds pretty high, right? That's because it is. If you do the conversion to the human equivalent dose, that would range between 28.4 milligrams per kilogram of body weight up to 56.8 milligrams of body weight orally daily. And for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder, that will be 2,840 milligrams to 5,000, let's say 700 milligrams orally daily. Feel free to split that up over three servings like they did in the animal model. But yeah, that would be multiple bottles of YK-11 every single day. And I think that's really not a good idea. Were these doses just so high due to poor bioavailability of YK-11 because it's not 17 alpha alkylated or because when you have bacterial sepsis, there's no holds barred. It just go with the highest possible dose that you could stomach. Again, it seems that the most effective dose of YK-11 lies anywhere between 5 milligrams to 30 milligrams daily, which is what I took and I got great results. Unfortunately, when it comes to dosing protocols, that's literally all we have to work with from a scientific literature perspective. So let's see what the community has to say about YK-11 anecdotally. And unfortunately, there's, well, probably less information we can pull from because SARM goblins who gobble SARMs, including YK-11, are generally young, inexperienced, don't know how to source actual anabolic energetic steroids, don't do blood work before, during, after, and give us a full report of what it changed regarding their diet, their training, their overall health supplementation, and all the other adjustments that they make, like I usually do on this YouTube channel. So it's a little bit hard to piece together what the anecdotal reports are. I mean, generally speaking, people report that they get dry joints or joint complications the longer they use YK-11. Is that because they take YK-11 with RAT140 or Osterine alongside of it without the testosterone base? I mean, all SARMs, whether they're steroidal or not, shut down the HPTA the longer you take it. So when you take YK-11 or another SARM, testosterone production, estradiol levels, data testosterone levels, bottom out. So how much of this joint pain is actually coming from androgen and estrogen deficiency? I don't really know. When I took YK-11, I did experience some joint pain, some joint discomfort around week four, five, six, peaking around week seven when I discontinued it. Was it terrible? No. Was it like Winstrel, for example? Absolutely not. Was I taking nandrolone, testosterone, tristalone, and anadrol, which all lubricate the joints? And then you got to remember that I was trying to grow gynecomastia at that time. So I didn't take an aromatized inhibitor. So my estradiol levels were around 100, 110 picograms per milliliter. That can also have a joint lubricating and protective effect. It might be advised to limit YK-11 to the end of an off-season mass phase where you're a little bit more watery. Your estrogen levels might be a little bit higher. Your body fat levels might be a little bit higher. You're already reaching the end of this off-season mass phase, but you want to push through strength plateaus for, let's say, four to six weeks, maybe eight weeks, depending on the dosage of YK-11 and again, how your response, right? The longer you take it, liver enzymes and lipids are going to be skewed on top of what was already skewed of your off-season mass cycle. So keep this in mind, right? If you put all the health management in place, I don't see a reason why you can't run it for longer periods of time. I mean, that's what I did. My blood work was pretty acceptable. At the end of this off-season phase, it lasted about seven to eight weeks. But again, the joint problems might start to manifest. And if you take YK-11 at the end of a cutting phase, when you're dry, you're lean, your estrogen levels are low, and you might combine it with something like Winstroll, then, well, caution is advised. And then again, if you use Superdrol at the end of a cutting phase, where you want to be hard, dense, full, and get a little bit of better cosmetic appearance compared to Anadrol, which your appetite suppression would be a warm welcome. But with Superdrol, after two weeks, you feel toxic as fuck. And with YK-11, I don't really see any reports that people feel toxic. I didn't feel toxic. I've used a lot of Superdrol in the past. After two weeks, you want to throw it in the trash because you literally feel horrible, right? Your liver doesn't feel right. Your appetite is a little bit suppressed. Your sensory nervous system feels a little bit overused. And definitely fatigue, fatigue, fatigue, fatigue is very common with Superdrol, which is also contributing to this feeling of toxicity. Didn't have any of that while taking Superdrol sublingually. And it might be the key here, taking YK-11 sublingually or through an injectable route. Again, it's not 17-alpha alkylated. This leads people to believe that YK-11 has poor oral bioavailability, and that could very well be the case. But it has been studied in this context. Again, animal models show that liver enzymes barely increased, even at these insanely high dosages, up to 700 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight. But humans are not animals, and we probably take polypharmacy alongside the YK-11. So you have a little bit of liver stress more than an animal would be. Then again, we can also take liver support in the form of N-acetylcysteine or TATCA, which I would highly recommend while taking anything orally anyway. So the bioavailability in my case might have been high, and thus my liver enzymes might have been low, removing the possibility for a toxic feeling similar to Superdrol. So again, my administration routes, my polypharmacy, and my overall anecdotal experience with YK-11 doesn't really match what you can read online. I had a great result, minimal side effects, minimal increases in liver enzymes. My lipids didn't really skew more beyond what I would expect from the cycle of steroids. That was running. But again, I do everything right. I live the lifestyle. I take all of the health supplements that you need to take. I do my daily fasted cardio, and I eat healthy. And that's generally not what you see with the reports you read online, because, well, Sarm Goblins are going to do what Sarm Goblins do. They're oral-only fans, and they only take YK-11 orally without the testosterone base. So how much of this will translate into your own anecdotal experience with YK-11 if you're interested in using it? I'm not entirely sure. I will say that after the fourth week or so of being on YK-11 consistently, the muscle starts to develop some sort of unique feeling. And for the better lack of explanation, it just felt anabolic, like wants to go to the gym and train and lift heavy weights and utilize all the food that I was giving it and all of the drugs I was supplementing alongside the YK-11, it had a unique feeling where it felt it was radiating anabolism. I administered one milligram folistatin 344 bilaterally, intramuscularly into the upper quads at its 500 micrograms left and right. And that gave me the exact same unique feeling that I get from YK-11 after the fourth week mark, which seemed to steadily increase by week seven. I stopped YK-11 at week seven. A couple of days later, I administered folistatin 344, one milligram in total. And that gave me the exact same feeling, but to a much greater extent. Now, ever since then, I stopped the YK-11 and the folistatin 344, and that unique feeling that I got potentially from folistatin has completely gone away. I'm cruising on about 500 milligrams of testosterone per week now. And it also brings me to another point. Anecdotally, YK-11 might act as an aromatous inhibitor. Again, how much of this is coming from having bottomed out testosterone, preventing the conversion from testosterone into estradiol or simply being estrogen deficient because there's no testosterone base. Anecdotally, which I certainly have or had at that time, I would expect my serum estradiol levels to be higher when I was running testosterone, androl, and trastalone, and then androl, which doesn't convert, but might interact with the estrogen receptor from the stack of three compounds, which are known to aromatize. I would expect higher estrogen levels while I was using YK-11. And now that I stopped the YK-11, I was running 500 tests with 500 androl and 150 mint at that time. My serum estradiol levels ended up around 100, 110 picograms per milliliter. And now that I'm running 500 tests without the YK-11, serum estradiol is 130. It's higher, but I'm using less aromatizing compounds. So take from that what you will. Again, it's not really hard scientific evidence, anecdotal reports, and before and after blood work results with so many compounds in the picture. But it might mean that YK-11 does have some aromatize inhibiting effects, which we'll investigate the next time I use injectable YK-11. Now again, we already discussed the poor oral bioavailability because YK-11 is not 17 alpha occulated. How much of the poor oral availability is assessed from that? Or because SARM sources might go from very potent YK-11 dose at 10 milligrams per capsule as labeled at 10 milligrams per capsule to 5 milligrams, or switching that for windstrow or nothing entirely, right? That happens. The gray area websites itself SARMs are not very well regulated. So make sure you get your YK-11 from a reputable source and then take that sublingually like I did, or otherwise go with injectable YK-11, which from what I understand doesn't require propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol or another synthetic carrier oil that it's highly inflammatory for your body. If you don't know what I'm talking about, watch this video where I discuss carrier oils into great detail. Ejectable YK-11 can apparently be brewed in MCT oil with a little bit of benzoyl benzoate and benzoyl alcohol, unless you're allergic for benzoyl benzoate or benzoyl alcohol, obviously don't take that. So for now, I'm pretty bullish on this compound, but I would like to do a little bit more experimentation in comparing the different administration routes to come with a final conclusion. And that brings us to the dosing protocol. For men, I would say that the sustainable and tolerable dose is 5 mg to 50 mg orally, preferably taken sublingually morning and evening, or taking 5 mg to 50 mg bilaterally, intramuscularly, 30 minutes pre-workout, because again, the folostatin increase seems to be a localized effect, so might as well take that pre-workout. When I took YK-11 orally, sublingually, pre-workout, I didn't notice a dramatic difference. There seems to be no non-genomic effects like you get with anadryl, superdril, anavar. We get an immediate result during the workout. I did not notice that from YK-11, so I would recommend that if you take it orally or sublingually, to just split it morning and evening for total dose between 10 mg to 30 mg daily. And when it comes to the deleterious dose, I would say that that's over 30 mg orally or intramuscularly daily, simply because the anecdotal reports and my personal anecdotal experience didn't really go over. 30 mg daily. And if you want to go with the scientific evidence, that would be over, let's say, 57 mg per 1 kg of body weight orally, daily split out over three administrations. But that's highly dubiously extrapolated from animal models. So I would not put too much weight into that. And when it comes to women, I would say that, well, it's not recommended because it's an oral steroid. And I couldn't really find any anecdotal reports of women using YK-11 and walking away with a good experience without viralization. So I would limit it to anivar instead. And it brings us to the evidence-based detection time in human urine. Not much to work with. There's a single study that shows that YK-11 in a single 5 mg dose taken orally was detectable over 48 hours because the urine samples weren't taken after 48 hours. The half-life is unknown. It might be over 10 hours, which is a suspected half-life. And that's basically all we have to work with from a scientific perspective. There's a study that detected the presence of 11 YK-11 metabolites in horse urine after a single administration of 50 mg YK-11 orally. But the researchers didn't do an excretion study to see how long these 11 metabolites were detectable and how much that would translate from horse urine to human urine. I'm not entirely sure. And there's a few liquid chromatography studies to detect the presence of YK-11 in dietary supplements. And there you see that a lot of the supplements that market YK-11 as SARMs don't actually contain YK-11 at all. So caution is advised, make sure you stick to reputable sources. There might be a recent 2024 study that detected the presence of YK-11 or its metabolites in a human subject, but the full publication is behind the paywall. You can purchase it yourself with the citations down below in case you're interested. Performed by Sobolewski et al., which actually does a lot of excretion studies of anabolic androgenic steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs, published on June 2024, titled Detection of Selective Androgen Receptor Modulator YK-11 in a Doping Control Sample. Link down below in case you're interested. As far as I know, there's no reported detection time in human urine for YK-11. It's probably along the lines of three weeks, similar to traditional anabolic androgenic steroids that are not metabolism-resistant or not oral steroids that are otherwise injected. Like injectable winstrol is a very long detection time compared to oral winstrol. So it might be the same case here. If you inject YK-11, the detection time is much longer because injectable YK-11 remains in the injection depot, whereas oral or sublingual YK-11 is metabolized quite rapidly because it's not 17-alpha alkylated. I have no idea, so I wouldn't bet my house on this three-week potential reported detection time. If you're subject to drug testing, just stick to something that we know the detection time of from a scientific perspective and the reported detection time so you can pass the doping test or don't use anything at all. That's also a possibility. Maybe actually play by the rules for a change. Okay, so the follow-up experiment that I'm going to run, oral YK-11, taken sublingually at 30 milligrams daily alongside a testosterone base, blood work before, during, and after to see if YK-11 has an aromatized inhibiting effect. Run that for about three to four weeks. Do blood work before I switch to injectable YK-11 at the exact same dose, split into 50 milligrams injections bilaterally pre-workout. And otherwise, I take it subcutaneously on rest days to kind of extend the half-life because the half-life is currently unknown. And then finish that off after three or four weeks of that protocol with blood work, then switching to injectable folistatin 344 at one milligram daily. Yes, that will give me some serious gains and serious contractile capacity and hopefully mutate my physique to the next level. Anyway, stay tuned. That might be coming up in the next couple of months. In the meantime, I'm just going to cruise, relax, and kind of detoxify, take care of my gynecomastia surgery, which is coming up. And then once I'm ready to hit the ground running, we're going to do a little bit of a folistatin experiment. For now, I would like you to look into YK-11 and consider it a folistatin secretagogue. In the meantime, I would love to hear your personal anecdotal experience with YK-11. Did you use it with a testosterone base? What were your results before, during, and after? Did you do blood work? What dramatic changes did you see in your blood work? Did you notice any comparable effect to injectable folistatin if you've used that in the past? Let us know down below in the comment section. I would love to hear about it. And I'm sure everybody else in the Vigors Crew community would love to hear about it. Make sure you do your blood work over at Merrick Health if you live in the United States or another blood work place if you live somewhere else. Blood work is very important. I do it all the time. I report my blood work here on YouTube, even though I don't do it. In Merrick Health, I still have a discount code for a full male lab panel and a discounted, budgeted male lab panel with the links down below. If you want to take your workouts to the next level, look no further than Gorilla Mind Supplements or Intelligent Shop for all those cosmetic things that might be applicable for you if you're a male. I hope with the best over-the-counter supplements you can find on the planet besides Gorilla Mind for less of a discount, but a discount nonetheless. Those codes are all down below. And if you can't find anything specific, you might be able to find it on my website, vigorsteve.com. Consultations are always available. We can either schedule a call or handle it by email. Those rates you can find down below as well. And I even have a 10-hour consultation package if you want to walk in a fat discount to be in touch with me continuously. All right, I'll leave it here. Thank you guys so much for watching. Vigorous Crew, you guys know what to do. Anabolic, slightly enhanced YK-11 frontable bicep for you guys. I'm about 110 kilos now, but I ended up at 120 kilos on YK-11, which is, well, pretty dramatic. But again, I was running testosterone, nandrolone, tristelone, anadrol, grothermone, IGF-1, and, well, some injectable pre-workouts to take those workouts to the next level. So how much of that was from the YK-11 or the copies of amounts of food that I was eating? I'm not entirely sure. So it warrants another experiment, another frontable bicep for you guys, and I'll see you in the next video. Peace out.