 aut autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilaglugsch, autoprilag here before we get into the retrograde deep dive please understand that all studies performed on retrograde sides were published from september 2022 onwards and it means none of them are available as full publications through science hub science hub goes back regarding their full publications up until 2021 give or take and i honestly felt a little bit handicapped preparing for this retrograde deep dive because normally i have access to all full publications through science hub so i can read everything i want to know on a particular compound that i make a deep dive on for this deep dive i didn't purchase a single study as the total value of studies locked behind the paywall was 1645 give or take luckily i was able to read a few of these publications for free through my friends who have the right credentials to access these studies you otherwise have to pay for now obviously i can't show those studies on screen i'm sure you guys understand and if you want me to do additional research since 1645 dollars and i'll gladly pay for all of those studies and review the entire deep dive all over again to see if there's any additional information that i left out because again otherwise i would have to spend a boatload of my own money and i feel that the time investment that took place regarding the review of the studies that are available for free was already extensive enough and most of the studies which are published for free contain all of the relevant information that you would like to know about the clinical trials which are otherwise locked behind the paywall or some of the other studies which are locked behind the paywall right a lot of the conclusions from those studies behind the paywall are copied into the studies that are available for free so i think i was thorough enough and it doesn't warrant throwing uh 645 dollars into this deep dive to purchase all the studies and then make a follow-up addendum video for you guys and unless you guys really want to see it then well start to cofundme then well i'll gladly do it all over again retrotutite also known as ly 3437942 which is the name it generally goes by in the clinical trials don't you worry i've linked all of them down below in the youtube description section and the comment section in case you want to give them a read for yourself retrotutite is a novel triple action glucagon like peptide one receptor agonist as well as glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor or also known as gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor agonist and glucagon receptor agonist peptide medication which is currently undergoing clinical trials for potential treatment in obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus it was originally developed by elli lily i'm sure their stock will get a nice boost in overall total valuation a couple years from now when retrotutite is finally introduced into the medical field as an fda approved medication but for now the only way to get retrotutite are through the chinese generic peptide resellers and that means you can try retrotutite well before it hits the market and you can probably get it a lot cheaper compared to lyroglutide duloglutide semaglutide terzepidite extenetite or some of the other glucagon like peptide one receptor agonist type medications and it seems that everybody in the fitness community already got the memo and made the pivot to retrotutite after a couple years of self-experimentation with either lyroglutide duloglutide semaglutide or terzepidite which became increasingly popular because it's a dual action GLP-1 and GIP receptor agonist so again whether you experiment with pharmaceutical lyroglutide duloglutide or terzepidite or chinese generic peptides nowadays everybody seems to make the pivot to retrotutite and they said they get a much more pronounced effect for the same amount of appetite suppression because you get additional fat loss through this glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor agonism and glucagon receptor agonism for now i'm going to have to conclude that retrotutite is the superior compound in this class of medications until that is until na93 hits the market which is a quadruple action GLP-1 GIP glucagon and IGF-1 receptor agonist it probably goes by the name by glutite as soon as na931 by glutite will hit the markets you know i will make a deep dive on it and then everybody can pivot from retrotutite to by glutite for all the right reasons uh fingers crossed potentially so let's start this deep dive off with a little bit of a visualization on how these peptide hormones look and how they interact with their relevant receptors this study was performed by lee et al published on july 2024 so it's less than a year old titled structural insights into the triple agonism of GLP-1 receptor GIP receptor and glucagon receptor manifested by retrotutite you see here the structural similarities between the various incretin medications and how retrotutite interacts with the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor glucose dependent insulinotropic receptor and glucagon receptors as you can see it can bind to all three of these receptors albeit with different affinities and strengths compared to endogenously produced GLP-1 GIP or glucagon from an endogenously produced hormone perspective GLP-1 enhances glucose dependent insulin secretion from the beta cells of the pancreas contributing to glucose homeostasis in the bloodstream GLP-1 also inhibits glucagon secretion reducing hepatic gluconeogenesis and keeping blood glucose levels in range through this pathway GLP-1 slows gastric emptying and inhibits gastric motility promoting satiation and reducing overall food intake and GLP-1 prevents betacel apoptosis promotes neurogenesis and replenishes insulin stores GIP also stimulates insulin secretion unlike GLP-1 GIP actually contributes to glucagon secretion GIP interacts with insulin to increase lipoprotein lipase activity contributing to the breakdown of triglycerides in the bloodstream and lipogenesis in adipose tissue meaning that if you stimulate the GIP receptor on adipose tissue and fat is going into adipose tissue that you're literally telling it to be stored now if serum insulin and serum glucagon are favorable and serum glucose levels and serum triglyceride levels are favorable you stimulate the adipose tissue with beta-2 adrenergic receptors or hormone sensitive lipase being increased by growth hormone or another lipolytic agent if the situation is favorable for lipolysis then activating the GIP one receptors on adipose tissue actually helps with the fatty acid removal out of adipose tissue stimulating overall fat loss GIP promotes growth and survival of beta cells in the pancreas and experimental studies suggest that GIP may have an effect on bone metabolism and when it comes to glucagon it mediates hepatic glucose production coming either from glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis with glycogenolysis glucagon helps with the breakdown of stored glycogen within the liver and thus keeping serum glucose levels in range throughout the night predominantly when the serum insulin levels are low and a dietary carbohydrate intake is basically non-existent because you're not eating while you're sleeping and with a gluconeogenesis that's the breakdown of amino acids or glycerol into glucose keeping serum glucose levels in range that way and whether the protein is coming from skeletal muscle leaking out of it during strenuous workouts especially when cortisol starts to go up then you get some gluconeogenesis or this dietary protein is being consumed obviously converting into glucose through gluconeogenesis or glycerol coming from adipose tissue which is stored as the backbone alongside three triglyceride molecules when glucagon stimulates the glucagon receptors in adipose tissue it causes lipolysis so these three triglyceride molecules and one backbone in the form of glycerol is being released into the bloodstream you can burn the triglycerides away in the mitochondria and this glycerol backbone gets converted into glucose through gluconeogenesis which glucagon stimulates in the liver so you get lipolysis glucose homeostasis and the preventing blood glucose levels from dropping too severely during fasting in between meals or fasting throughout the night so by activating all three of these receptors albeit with different levels of affinity retro to diet promotes satiation by reducing gastric emptying reducing your appetite overall and taking away the food noise so you can have a better control over your diet and overall caloric intake it promotes glucose homeostasis in the bloodstream regulating blood glucose levels by promoting the secretion of insulin and glucagon and in a caloric deficit which is very easy on retritutite as your core intake comes down you can control your diet a lot better on retritutite as the calories come down it actually promotes lipolysis through the glucagon and GIP receptor and thus your fat loss journey is significantly easier and this makes retritutite almost the ideal fat loss agent and compounds like clambutrol or subitramine or tesofensine or other stimulatory fat burning agents are probably not required now since retritutite is not fda approved yet it's not available as a pharmaceutical medication let's just stick with the clinical trials albeit that many of the clinical trials are either not completed yet or still recruiting and even for the completed clinical trials in many cases the results aren't posted so i had to extrapolate that information from the publications the studies which are available for free so there might be some gaps here i did my absolute best to summarize all of the clinical trials performed or being performed or going to be performed on retritutite for this segment of the video but again if there's some gaps here my sincere apology and we're literally in the middle of investigating this compound and even though it is available through the chinese peptide websites it doesn't mean that the information at this point in time is absolutely complete and very conclusive you can find the published results of four completed clinical trials down below in the youtube comment section unfortunately three of those studies are locked behind the paywall but the three other ones are actually available for free as a full publication one of which is actually a meta-analysis comparing retritutite to the other GLP-1 receptor agonist medications but we'll get into the study when we start comparing all of the glp1s and see which of the dosing protocols give you comparable results so you know how to transition from let's say terzepidite in a particular dose to retritutite at the new and improved dosing protocol now unfortunately the results of clinical trials performed unhealthy individuals are nowhere to be found so all we have to work with is basically unhealthy people the biggest clinical trial looking to investigate the effects of retritutite once weekly on cardiovascular outcomes and kidney outcomes in adults living with obesity calling the triumph outcomes as an enrollment estimate of about 10 000 people and should be completed in february 2029 so once that's completed then you need a couple more years for those results to be published and then perhaps a couple more years for retritutite actually becoming available as an fda approved medication so hold your horses it will be a while before this is fda approved and for now we have to rely on the chinese generic peptide websites to get our retritutite in through the mail so i was able to summarize all of the clinical trials whether those are completed or not here in this segment the investigated conditions regarding retritutite are for general safety tolerability and metabolism in healthy individuals those results are nowhere to be found in postmenopausal obesity or regular obesity in men obviously with a body mass index between 27 to 50 kilograms per square meter in the maintenance of weight loss in obesity type 2 diabetes mellitus cardiovascular disease impaired renal function or chronic kidney disease impaired liver function or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease knee osteoarthritis and a pharmacokinetic comparison between a testing device and a standard reference device seeing what administration route regarding pens for example is the most efficacious the investigated drug interactions between retritutite are occurring with midazolam warfarin caffeine ethinyl estradiol uh trospironone metoprolol a beta blocker glucophage aka metformin and various sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors the investigated drug comparisons are happening between retritutite and dulaglutite or retritutite and semaglutite or retritutite and terzepidite the investigated enrollment size overall between all clinical trials is 20 245 so by the time retritutite hits the market and then it is approved as a medication then the total sample size of people participating in clinical trials was over 20 000 people for retritutite the investigated treatment duration is anywhere between 30 days up to two years and 12 weeks where they basically see if a dose escalation upward of retritutite and then maintaining that dose for 48 weeks or longer and then tapering it down again promotes weight loss and that weight loss is then sustained because they learned from the other clinical trials when liraglutite or dulaglutite or semaglutite or terzepidite are discontinued then the weight loss comes right back with inventions and these people end up fatter than they ever were before because their appetite is now so uh ravenous that they can't control themselves and they went from 300 pounds to 200 pounds and then to 350 pounds for example that's kind of brutal that way so tapering upwards sustaining it for a year or longer and then tapering downwards based on the clinical trial information that seems to be the route going forward or at least for people suffering from type 2 diabetes or obesity the investigated doses are 0.5 milligrams 1 milligram 2 milligram 4 milligram 8 milligram and up to 12 milligrams subcutaneous once weekly and that's with or without weekly dose escalation so you might start at half a milligram once weekly and then escalate all the way up to 12 milligrams once weekly the administration route is always subcutaneous the reported half-life is six days with an active life of approximately 48 days based on the pharmacokinetics and dynamics of retrodutite published in scientific evidence and these are the reported beneficial effects of retrodutite whenever they are available retrodutite decreases appetite improves satiation promotes weight loss reduces waist circumference reduces liver fat improves the systolic and diastolic blood pressure improves lipid parameters improves fasting glucose levels fasting insulin levels and hemoglobin A1c levels it improves homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance that's the homa 2 ir score and might even cause full pre-diabetic reversion and the commonly reported side effects are as follows anemia clear cell renal cell carcinoma acute kidney injury acute cholecystitis acute pancreatitis increased resting heart rate and irregular heart beats mild to moderate gastrointestinal disorders which is actually temporary so as the dose of retrodutite is being escalated upwards gastrointestinal upset and problems like nausea diarrhea or vomiting are a little bit more common but then as you sustain a particular dose of retrodutite these gastrointestinal problems seem to go away with time as you get used to this particular medication and retrodutite is associated with fatigue dizziness headache skin disorders and might even increase your blood pressure albeit that it's more common that it actually controls blood pressure now keep in mind that all of these reported side effects are not among healthy individuals i couldn't find those results this is all stemming from people suffering from either obesity or type 2 diabetes or both so if you associate with or you can identify as being obese my body mass index is way too high but that's from freakishly amounts of muscle mass i don't associate as somebody with high body mass index due to obesity and i don't associate myself as having type 2 diabetes and personally from all the retrodutite experimentation that i've done none of these reported side effects seem to occur in healthy individuals who use retrodutite to control their appetite and improve their weight loss by improving their fat loss journey regarding the reported blood work parameter changes besides the one we already mentioned regarding an improvement of blood glucose levels fasting insulin levels and hemoglobin A1c levels retrodutite also increased creatine phosphokinase levels amylase lipase and anaponectin levels but decreased leptin levels and regarding the safety profile a rich that seems to be consistent and comparable with other incretin based medications whether those are solo GLP-1 receptor agonists or combination medications GLP-1 and GIP receptor agonists so in that sense um retrodutite is reasonably comparable with the other medications but we'll dive into that a little bit later on because i feel that those results are not um as clear as the other fta approved medications because those have a longer trajectory of being used by general population and when it's introduced in general population you see that the side effects and the problematic effects start to become more apparent so since retrodutite is not fta approved yet and the total sample size um when all the clinical trials are completed will be around 20 000 people excluding all the people in the fitness community who have access to retrodutite through the peptide websites the other incretin based medications have been used by millions so you're comparing millions to 20 000 people and i'm sure you can see the discrepancy regarding the side effects and the potential deleterious effects i'm sure those will become more apparent with retrodutite when it finally hits the market a couple years from now by the way none of these clinical trials actually investigate changes to body composition regarding a reduction of total fat mass in relation to a potential reduction in muscle mass it seems that they just list changes to total body weight without specifying where this weight loss is actually coming from is that a reduction in overall fat mass or also a reduction in total muscle mass a 25 to 30 percent body weight reduction after 48 weeks on 12 milligrams retrodutite subcutaneously once weekly sounds very promising i'll tell you that 25 to 30 percent body weight reduction very very promising but is this 25 to 30 percent reduction coming from actual fat mass or intestinal mass or muscle mass or the loss of bone mineral density that i don't know all i could find was a significant reduction in total liver fat content on various dosages of retrodutite albeit in a dose dependent fashion so the more retrodutite you take the more liver fat content you'll be able to reduce um and that was investigated in the treatment or potential treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld which is now being renamed to metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease ma sld because non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is probably too woke and triggering nowadays so maybe we can do some highly dubious extrapolation using a similar compound not rich or too tight but a similar compound developed by illy lily that works on the glucagon receptor so not on the GLP-1 GIP and glucagon receptor solely on the glucagon receptor do some highly dubious extrapolation converting the animal dose to the human equivalent dose to come up with some sort of dosing protocol because i was able to find one single animal study on this particular compound that investigated the changes in fat mass and in relation to lean mass this study performed by rule et al published in january 2025 so that's what three months old titled characterization of ly3324954 so this is a long-acting glucagon receptor agonist and this study shows a dose-dependent decrease in body weight fat mass and muscle mass in mice with diet induced obesity there was a dose-dependent increase in blood glucose levels until the highest dose of this glucagon receptor agonist was reached after which the blood glucose dropped down again probably from liver glycogen stores being finally depleted and then escalating the dose upwards does not initiate more glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis which would otherwise increase blood glucose levels and it was a dose-dependent decrease in blood urea nitrogen and creatinine indicating muscle loss total cholesterol went down in a dose-dependent fashion as did serum triglycerides and liver triglyceride levels liver enzymes changes were all over the place so it's very hard to draw conclusions from these results and many of these changes are also observed in humans during the clinical trials now i really wish i could do some highly dubious extrapolation converting the animal dose to the human equivalent dose for this ly3324954 glucocon receptor agonist from elli lily but they listed dosages between one nanomoles per kilogram of body weight up to 300 nanomoles per kilogram of body weight but the molecular weight of this ly3324954 is unknown now so let's dubiously dubiously extrapolate replacing this ly3324954 for retrotutite with a molecular weight that's anywhere between 4731.33 to 5083.47 but most of the sources say 4731.33 grams per mole that means that if we do some dubious calculation the effective animal dosage ranges of one nanomole to 300 nanomoles per one kilogram of body weight subcutaneous on day one and four would loosely very very very very very loosely this is totally incorrect but let's do it anyway loosely translate to a human equivalent dosage range of let's say 0.4 micrograms to 115 micrograms per one kilogram of body weight and then the number of the administered subcutaneously every four days and it means um a hundred kilogram bodybuilder would get up to 11.5 milligrams retrodutite subcutaneously every four days which roughly translates to the investigated clinical trial dosages going up to 12 milligrams weekly this is totally incorrect right we can't draw any conclusions from this regarding a loss of lean mass and muscle mass because um this ly variant is not the same as retrotutite solely works on the glucagon receptor not on the GLP-1 GIP and glucagon receptor we don't know the molecular weight so um i think it was interesting to give this segment a trial but don't draw any conclusions please so let's just move over to the actual evidence-based unique characteristics of retrotutite retrotutite agonizes the glucagon like peptide one stemming from an in vitro study the GLP-1 receptor activation supersedes glucagon receptor activation in relation to serum glucose levels retrotutite agonizes the glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide a.k.a. gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor with 8.9 fold greater so that's 8.9 times greater potency compared to endogenous GIP um again stemming from the same in vitro study and the GIP receptor activation supersedes glucagon receptor activation in relation to serum glucose levels so again a glucagon in this picture is the lowest as a retrotutite agonizes the glucagon receptor with 2.9 fold less so that's 0.3 times the potency compared to endogenously produced glucagon but when retrotutite is compared directly to endogenously produced glucagon it has a similar potency observed in liver hepatocytes and retrotutite increased overall energy expenditure might prevent metabolic adaptation during prolonged caloric restriction again all stemming from an in vitro study retrotutite is dipeptidyl peptidase 4 enzyme metabolism resistant meaning that you have reduced breakdown compared to endogenously produced incretins like GLP-1 and GIP and that means the combination of retrotutite with a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor is not required you don't need to combine a dpb4i with retrotutite to make it more effective on a milligram for milligram basis i know retrotutite is expensive but you don't get a synergistic effect with these kinds of inhibitors making retrotutite more potent and now you can reduce the dose for the same level of appetite suppression and overall fat loss retrotutite was shown to have a dose-dependent decrease of appetite and promotion in satiation stemming from human subjects and animal models retrotutite induces weight loss reduces gastric emptying and intestinal transit and reduces waist circumference and liver fat content retrotutite has insulinotropic effects improves glucose tolerance and lipid profile it lowers serum glucose triglycerides total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein amino acids and fasting insulin and fasting glucagon and hemoglobin A1c levels in the bloodstream albeit that retrotutite also agonizes the glucagon receptor so you get a little bit of a replacement effect retrotutite raises high density lipoprotein levels improves homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance it's the HOMA2 IR score and it actually raised fasting insulin levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus not in healthy individuals so in healthy individuals retrotutite will lower fasting insulin levels but people with type 2 diabetes see an increase in fasting insulin levels improving their overall glucose homeostasis and control their appetite giving them a beneficial outcome after all retrotutite was shown to have a dose-dependent increase of resting heart rates by 6.7 to 12 beats per minute and that's probably higher compared to all of the other incretin based medications retrotutite was shown to cause mild to moderate cardiac arrhythmias potentially through blood pressure modulation retrotutite improves systolic and diastolic blood pressure coming from human subjects and animal models it might be a potential treatment for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease or metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis so retrotutite might be a potential treatment for NAFLD aka MASLD or NASH retrotutite controls appetite association improves healthy diet adherence reduces caloric intake and improves body weight loss and overall body composition assuming that you also train and eat a good amount of protein retrotutite might be a potential treatment for lifestyle induced cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease a potential treatment for obesity induced obstructive sleep apnea and a potential treatment of binge eating disorder with similar reasoning as a potential treatment for NAFLD retrotutite might offer potential treatment of addiction by controlling dopaminergic urges albeit that the scientific evidence is reasonably thin there's more scientific evidence on the other incretin based medications regarding dopamine levels and neurotransmitter modulation in the brain but again retrotutite might be a treatment for addiction when it has to do with dopaminergic pathways retrotutite is a potential treatment for triple negative breast cancer in obesity it down regulates hexamine biosynthesis pathway decreased yes associated protein levels overcomes chemotherapy resistance and decreases tumor size and enhances chemotherapy efficacy and retrotutite offers comparable weight reduction is metabolic surgery aka bariatric surgery offering similar levels of satiation and reduced gastric emptying now apparently bariatric surgery costs anywhere between 17 000 to 26 000 in the united states not including insurance coverage retrotutite obviously isn't fda approved yet but based on the cost of the other incretin medications um an effective dose of retrotutite might be anywhere between let's say a thousand to 1150 dollars per month excluding um insurance meaning that you would get let's say between 17 to 26 months of solid appetite suppression reducing your overall food intake allowing your stomach to shrink albeit not to the same extent as bariatric surgery which literally basically cuts off a segment of your stomach allowing you to control your appetite that way but you still have appetite albeit that you feel satiated faster because your stomach is literally smaller so with a retrotutite for the same cost you might get up to well almost two and a half years of appetite suppression and a reduction in stomach size and the outcome of your diet might be  aut autoppoopeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropenerop a blue-collar, hardcore bodybuilder that can control their appetite and get satiation just by looking at the cooking channel. Once your cutting phase is over, the cravings are so bad, but your stomach is so small that you want to eat all of the cheesecakes or all of the ice creams or all of the donuts or whatever cookies you prefer. You want to eat all of that food. Your stomach is so small that you can't take that food volume, that food capacity in, but the appetite is ravenously high. And with retrotitite, you have none of that. You don't have the food cravings. You don't have this fantasization about donuts or ice cream or cookies or whatnot. Your stomach shrinks just the same. And then when you do eat, you feel satiated within a couple bites. So it's way better than bariatric surgery and probably way better than all of the appetite suppressants, which are stimulatory. They're available on the markets nowadays. Now, since there isn't much scientific evidence on retrotitite to go with yet, no direct hit-on-hit dosage comparisons between retrotitite and the other GLP-1 receptor agonists. Let's compare its efficacy to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, wherever the information is available, and come up with our own dosage ranges where the beneficial effects and potential side effects are observed. There are a few meta-analysis studies which compare the efficacy of retrotitite versus the efficacy of other GLP-1s, but they usually do that with the investigated clinical trial dosages at the maximum dose that they investigated regarding its efficacy on weight loss, not a particular dose of retrotitite versus the other GLPs, a certain amount of milligrams, for you to have an expected certain amount of weight loss. So I got to work and did it for you. Here are the effects of the various GLP-1s on body weight reduction and the various investigated dosages wherever I could find the results. Some of the studies didn't mention the baseline starting weight of the patients or participants. So instead of a percentage reduction, I listed the net kilograms or pounds lost. So this is just the raw data of GLP-1 receptor agonists regarding body weight reduction. The details are on the screen. Let that scroll a little bit. We'll use this for the calculations a little bit later on. Here's the raw data for the glucagon receptor agonists regarding body fat reduction. We're ever known, so that's already a lot less. Just for liraglutide, semaglutide, and terzepidide, these percentages were known. Here are the results for GLP-1 receptor agonists regarding waist circumference reduction, shown in centimeters or inches. A little bit more information was available there. Let that scroll a little bit so you have the details on the screen. Then regarding GLP-1 receptor agonists and liver fat reduction, whether that's relative liver fat reduction or absolute liver fat reduction, shown in a percentage. The details are on the screen. A lot of details. Let that scroll a little bit. Here are the GLP-1s regarding their total cholesterol reduction, usually in milligrams per deciliter or millimoles per liter, but sometimes shown as a percentage. And then lastly, the changes in hemoglobin A1c levels, usually in a percentage, because hemoglobin A1c is also a percentage. Let that scroll a little bit. This is probably the most information I could find, because most of these glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists have been investigated in the context of type 2 diabetes, in which case they always check hemoglobin A1c levels and see how much they reduce over time. So with all of this raw data, let's calculate, albeit highly dubiously, but this is what we get to expect from these deep dives, because nobody else did it, so I have to do it for you guys. Highly dubious calculation regarding the effects that you would be able to expect from 3 milligrams retritutite weekly, whether you take that once weekly or 3 shots, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 1 milligram subcutaneous each shot, that's entirely up to you, which again is the commonly used dosage amongst the bodybuilders and everybody else in the fitness community. Nowadays, 3 milligrams retritutite weekly, split up 1 milligram Monday, Wednesday, Friday. That seems to be the sweet spot for most people using this particular compound. This is a range based on the average of all of the results I just mentioned a little bit earlier, and the dosage range, which is closest to the results we're aiming for for each medication, without the range, we'd get some weird results. So there's a little bit of a range, but you should be able to get a similar effect as 3 milligrams retritutite. So regarding body weight reduction, 3 milligrams retritutite should give you a reduction of approximately 12.08%. And if you're after 12.08% body weight reduction, then you would need to get the following dosage ranges for the other GLP-1 receptor agonists. Regarding changes in body fat levels, that was unfortunately never assessed in humans. We can use that glucagon receptor agonist for dubious extrapolation, but I think we do enough of that here already. We only know a body weight changes, not body fat changes for retritutite. So we'll have to skip over this segment. So let's move over to the waist circumference reduction. If you go with 3 milligrams retritutite weekly, you should expect a waist circumference reduction of approximately 10 centimeters or 4 inches. And you would need to take these particular dosages of the other GLP-1 receptor agonists to get a comparable waist circumference reduction of approximately 10 centimeters or 4 inches. Next is a comparison of 3 milligrams retritutite weekly regarding relative liver fat reduction, since the absolute liver fat reduction values aren't commonly reported. 3 milligrams retritutite should give you a relative liver fat reduction of 59.1%. And if you're after 59.1% with the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, then the dosages are on the screen. For total cholesterol reduction, 3 milligrams retritutite weekly should give you a total cholesterol reduction of about 5.2%. And the dosages for the other GLP-1 receptor agonists for similar total cholesterol reduction of about 5.2% are on the screen. Regarding hemoglobin A1c reduction, 3 milligrams retritutite should give you a 0.88% reduction in hemoglobin A1c. And again, the dosages are on the screen if you're after a similar reduction. Now, if we want to compare all these beneficial effects of 3 milligrams retritutite versus the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, 3 milligrams retritutite equals, again, this is a very good approximation, 3 milligrams retritutite weekly subcutaneously approximates about 4.2 micrograms exenatite orally daily or 6.4 milligrams exenatite orally weekly. So that's a micrograms versus milligrams, a big discrepancy in dosing protocol. You have a short-acting and long-acting exenatite, 0.8 milligrams to 5.2 milligrams liraglutite subcutaneously daily with a mean administration dose of 2.7 milligrams subcutaneously daily, 1.4 milligrams to 18.8 milligrams liraglutite subcutaneously weekly with a mean administration dose of 6.4 milligrams subcutaneous weekly, 1.7 milligrams to 3.1 milligrams semiglutite subcutaneous weekly with a mean administration dose of 2.3 milligrams subcutaneous weekly or 14.2 milligrams semiglutite orally daily. Orally, it's also bioavailable apparently. 47.6 milligrams abluglutite subcutaneous weekly, 42.3 micrograms liraglutite subcutaneous weekly, 3.2 to 18.8 terzepidite subcutaneous weekly with a mean administration dose of 7.5 milligrams subcutaneous weekly. So, 3 milligrams liraglutite versus 7.5 milligrams terzepidite on a weekly basis, that's about two and a half times. So, if you're coming from terzepidite and you're moving over to liraglutite, you can actually lower the dose quite significantly, saving you a boatload of cash in the process. 1 to 4.1 milligrams servodutite with a mean administration dose of 2.4 milligrams subcutaneous weekly, 2.3 milligrams to 8.6 milligrams mastutite with a mean administration dose of 5.3 milligrams subcutaneous weekly and 7.3 milligrams to 14.2 milligrams efenopegdutite subcutaneous weekly with a mean administration dose of 8.9 milligrams subcutaneous weekly. And, well, bioglutite would be 158.4 milligrams orally daily, all to get comparable effect as 3 milligrams retro dutite subcutaneous weekly, preferably split up into 1 milligram shots. Monday, Wednesday, Friday. These calculations took a boatload of time. I'm sure I made a mistake here and there. So, my sincere apologies if I messed up. But this is the best we can do. The scientific evidence doesn't go this in-depth. So, again, I did it for you. And if you have some anecdotal experience and blood work results before and after, switching from exonetite to retrotitite or liraglutite to retrotitite, doula to retta, sematoretra to zepidite to retrotitite, please let us know down below in the comment section where your blood work results similar for particular dosage ranges. And how was the switch going from one compound to retrotitite regarding dosage and overall satiation, fat loss, and beneficial effects? Or did you get full-blown cardiac arrhythmias and your resting heart rate went up with 12 points as was shown in the clinical trials, right? Let us know your experience down below because not many people made the switch and really documented it. I mean, I've never done that myself either. I either used liraglutite for a couple months, then came off and got fat again, or used terzepidite for a couple months, came off and got fat again. And now, nowadays, I use retrotitite, but I never switch from liraglutite to retrotitite. So, if you have some experience on that front, let us know down below in the comment section. We would all love to hear about it. And since we're directly comparing retrotitite to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, I feel it's only fair to address the potential serious and severe side effects that might occur with these kinds of medications. Here, you see that liraglutite, semaglutite, and retrotitite are all associated with potential kidney function impairment. And while most GLP-1 receptor agonists might be beneficial for kidney function by improving glomerular filtration rates, which is proven in obesity and chronic kidney disease, with liraglutite and semaglutite, there are case reports of acute kidney injury, and they can increase serum creatinine levels, particularly due to the dehydration caused by gastrointestinal upset. And like I mentioned before, with retrotitite in the clinical trials, also shows rare instances of acute kidney damage. Exenatite, liraglutite, and again, the retrotitite are associated with potential liver function impairment. And even though GLP-1 receptor agonists are generally not associated with significant liver toxicity, and actually should offer beneficial effects in the context of NAFLD, aka MAFLD, SLD. Exenatite, liraglutite, and retrotitite are known to increase liver enzymes, and there are rare cases of autoimmune hepatitis that have been reported for liraglutite. Regarding exenatite, liraglutite, semaglutite, and retrotitite, albeit potentially, there might be an increased risk of developing pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer. Exenatite was associated with a significant increased risk of pancreatitis and reported pancreatic cancer instances. Liraglutite and semaglutite have been linked to an increased risk of pancreatitis compared to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, though the scientific meta-analysis findings suggest that there is no significant risk of developing pancreatitis, and they are not associated with the development of pancreatic cancer. Retrotitite has suggested the risk of pancreatitis based on the results of the other GLP-1 receptor agonists. That's never been proven. Scientifically, I couldn't find it, at least in the scientific evidence that's available, but I haven't read the scientific evidence that's locked behind the paywall, obviously, so donate if you want me to find risks of pancreatitis. And for your information, C-tagliptin, a dipeptidolpeptidase 4 inhibitor, which prevents the breakdown of incretin, GLP-1, and GIP, is also linked to an increased risk of developing pancreatitis. Exenatite and liraglutite are both associated with thyroid cancer in various animal models, albeit that the human scientific evidence is reasonably thin and not very conclusive. And regarding gastrointestinal adverse events, exenatite, liraglutite, dologlutite, semiglutite, terzepidite, and retrotitite are all associated with these kinds of side effects. So nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bloating, acid reflux, all these problems with the intestinal tract caused by GLP-1 receptor agonists are well documented. But it seems to be dose-dependent. And the longer you stay in a particular dose, the more these side effects become tolerable and then eventually become non-existent. But the satiation and the appetite suppression remains intact, albeit that the dose sometimes need to be escalated upwards when the satiation becomes non-existent. And then the side effects might return again, unfortunately. And for the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, since there's so little scientific evidence to go with, it seems that gastrointestinal adverse events are not very well documented. Atrial fibrillation, cardiac arrhythmias, elevated resting heart rate, and elevated blood pressure can occur with exenatite, liraglutite, dologlutite, semiglutite, and again, eretrogetite. Exenatite has been associated with atrial fibrillation, elevated heart rate, and blood pressure. Liraglutite has been linked to ventricular premature beats. Other arrhythmias and elevated heart rate by approximately 10 beats per minute. Dullaglutite has been associated with sinus tachycardia and increased PR interval, and elevates heart rate by approximately 4 beats per minute. Semiglutite has been associated with an increased resting heart rate. Retrodutite was shown to cause supraventricular arrhythmias and cardiac conduction disorders in a few participants during the clinical trials in a dose-dependent fashion, albeit that these side effects were not considered to be serious. And with the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, cardiac arrhythmias and an increase in elevated heart rate are not reported because of scientific evidence paper-thin. Exenatite, liraglutite, and semiglutite are all associated with neurotransmitter modulation. Exenatite has been studied for its potential neuroprotective effects in Parkinson's disease, where it may influence dopamine cell survival. However, direct modulation of dopamine levels is not well documented. Liraglutite reduces the expression of hypodermic 5-HC2A receptors, which are involved in appetite regulation. However, this is coming from an animal model, hasn't been proven in human subjects, and it doesn't affect serotonin synthesis directly, which has been shown in studies using tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitors. So not only does liraglutite promote appetite suppression and satiation by activating the GLP-1 receptors, it might also promote appetite suppression and satiation by modulating short-ternergic response in the brain. And there is a theoretical potential for semiglutite to influence serotonin and dopamine levels in the brain, albeit that studies indicate that semiglutite does not significantly impact the efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in patients suffering from depression. So the serotonergic and the dopaminergic effects of semiglutite are still basically poorly understood. So overall, while GLP-1 receptor agonists might modulate or influence neurotransmitter systems in the brain, direct evidence regarding the modulation of serotonin levels, dopamine levels, norepinephrine levels, or epinephrine levels is extremely limited at this point. So while retrodutite might appear safer compared to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, which are currently FDA-approved and being used by the general population, mostly people suffering from obesity or type 2 diabetes, where people who are not healthy generally use these kinds of medications, the side effects regarding pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer, thyroid cancer might come after, after retrodutite is introduced to the market, introduced to general population who are not healthy, suffer from obesity or type 2 diabetes, have lifestyle problems, and then these kinds of instances might be more reported in the future. Still, we're well ahead of that from occurring because the clinical trials go up to 2029 when they're set to be completed, and then it might still take a couple years for retrodutite to become available as an FDA-approved medication, and then it hits the market. So instances of pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer, or thyroid cancer might happen 10 years from now. As always, caution is advised when using once weekly. Medical dosages, whether that's from retrodutite shown in the clinical trials or the other currently FDA-approved GLP-1 receptor agonists with once-weekly administration protocols, it's probably safer to microdose retrodutite or the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, maybe three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, at a low and effective dose just enough to blunt your appetite, promote satiation, and take away the food noise, where you're undergoing a cutting phase, so you're not ravaginously hungry, thinking about donuts, cheesecake, ice cream, etc. And thus, diet adherence is so much greater, and the successful outcome of your cutting phase is thus significantly enhanced. But if you look at the clinical trial doses of retrodutite at, let's say, 1 to 3 milligrams or up to 4 milligrams weekly, the instances of reported side effects are significantly less, obviously, compared to the maximum efficacious dose of 12 milligrams weekly, which is basically 4 milligrams three times per week. Yeah, nobody would do that in their right mind. So here's your segue into the retrodutite dosing protocols. For men and women, basically, a sustainable and tolerable dose really depends on how much appetite management you need during a cutting phase. And that could be between 0.25 milligrams up to 1.66 milligrams subcutaneous, three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, aka 0.75 milligrams to 5 milligrams weekly. And the deleterious dose based on the clinical trials would be over 12 milligrams weekly. I've never talked to anybody who went up to 12 milligrams of retrodutite weekly. But I do know guys that administered 5 milligrams, aka an entire valve of retrodutite in one single shot, and all the gastrointestinal adverse events manifested to the point they could not even hydrate themselves because their appetite was so severely blunted and they got extreme nausea and vomiting that even water was not palatable and they could not keep it down. So start low, build your way up, so you prevent these terrible side effects. And even if you notice that you get good appetite suppression for a particular dose, but gastrointestinal problems might manifest, then you might need to stay on that dose for two or three weeks and then your body will slowly adapt. The satiation and appetite suppression will remain, but these gastrointestinal upsets or problems or nausea or diarrhea or bloating, that slowly goes away with time as you get more used to these kinds of medications. Anecdotally, retrodutite is the most potent and most productive GLP-1 receptor agonist out there when it comes to appetite management and fat loss overall. Again, you get this added benefit of glucose-dependent insulinotropic receptor agonism or a glucagon receptor agonism, which might actually help with fat mobilization, especially if you do this during caloric deficit and you really control your diet regarding dietary fat intake. So you have less fatty acids going into adipose tissue and more fatty acids coming out of adipose tissue, resulting in net fat loss, assuming that your caloric expenditure is sustained for the entire time that you're using retrodutite in a caloric deficit. So most people have already pivoted from exenotide, lyruglutide, semaglutide, and even terzepidite, even though there's still a lot of people that favor terzepidite over retrodutite because they feel they get better appetite suppression from terzepidite on a milligram-for-milligram basis compared to retrodutite. But terzepidite is a good amount cheaper, approximately 30% cheaper than retrodutite comparing all the sources which sell terzepidite and retrodutite. So the guys that notice improved appetite suppression with terzepidite over retrodutite, they stay with terzepidite because the price is lower and thus it's more cost-effective. Now, during the off-season, it seems that retrodutite might offer some benefits regarding the sustainability of insulin sensitivity and the prevention of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. But I think that the benefits regarding insulin sensitivity and the benefits regarding non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are stemming from caloric restriction being stimulated by the satiation and the appetite-blunting effect of retrodutite. Still, if during the off-season, you tend to overeat, which is what I do, I eat more than I need to, to make progress regarding the accrual of new muscle tissue, strength sites, etc. I tend to overeat a little bit so I get fat during the off-season. So the next time I do an off-season, I will definitely include retrodutite at, let's say, 0.25 milligrams three times per week at the maximum half a milligram three times per week to see if this insulin sensitizing effect remains. Of course, I will check my liver health with a fibrous scan and ultrasound regarding non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which I resolved years ago. It hasn't come back yet, luckily. So I'll keep track of that before and after. But there might be something to say for it, albeit that in the scientific evidence, it's not very conclusive regarding this potential benefit. But anecdotally, in the bodybuilding community, there are a lot of guys who blunt their appetite or at least take away the food noise that they don't overeat during the off-season. And they report that they have better glucose homeostasis or don't need to use insulin at all while they use retrodutite at a low-effective dose of, let's say, 0.25 milligrams to 0.5 milligrams three times weekly. It's very hard to determine if this potential beneficial effect regarding insulin sensitivity during the off-season results in the accrual of more muscle tissue, increasing strength sites, and overall muscularity. And that remains to be debated. But again, there's plenty of anecdotal reports of people showing a before and after, including retrodutite in their polypharmacy protocol with anabolic energy exterans, growth hormone, and whatnot. And they look better than their previous off-season. So it's worth looking into. I'll definitely look into it myself during the next off-season when I'm done with this cutting phase and I get my lower back fat and the glute fat under control. I'll add in the retrodutite and then see how much of a difference it makes. And then maybe report back to you guys with an addendum live stream. But to be fair, I've also heard reports of people claiming that retrodutite, or trisepatite for that matter, makes them flat, which is to be expected to a certain extent because it blunts your appetite. So it restricts your carbohydrates and fat intake unless you really force feed through the appetite suppression, obviously. And the people claim that retrodutite might cause flatness through this glucagon receptor activation. Now, if you activate the glucagon receptor on the liver, obviously, you get a gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis modulating your blood glucose levels and dumping a little bit of this glycogen stored within the liver into the bloodstream. But it doesn't work like that on the skeletal muscle, right? Once glycogen is stored in skeletal muscle, it's in, it's locked in there. You literally need to burn that away through activity. So if you take retrodutite during the cutting phase and your carbohydrate intake is restricted, then obviously you're going to be a little bit flatter than you would otherwise during the off-season where you can eat a bottle of carbs and your glycogen storage in skeletal muscle are saturated to the max to the point you now have full-blown insulin resistance, right? This is how it works. So if you have good insulin sensitivity, all of the carbohydrates would go into skeletal muscle, which is something that retrodutite promotes, obviously. So you should not go flat. If you go flat, it's a problem with your electrolytes. It's a problem with your overall caloric intake or your carbohydrate intake. And through some intelligent diet manipulations, you should be able to restore the flatness to somewhat fullness and still get a solid pump in the gym. And otherwise, guys, otherwise, that's what the Anadrol is there for. I made an entire video about how to get skin-splitting pumps, whether that's during the off-season or a cutting phase, whether you're on retrodutite or not. So give that one a watch. Regarding fat loss, though, it's absolutely amazing, right? Not only do you get appetite suppression, you also get this mobilization of fatty acids, which is unlike the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, because this one also contains GIP and glucagon receptor agonism. But until this bioglutite hits the market, I think that retrodutite is probably your best appetite suppression compound over the other stimulatory fat burners that raise your heart rate to the nth degree, right? An elevated heart rate of, what was it, 6.7 to 12 beats per minute, I think it's acceptable during a cutting phase. And you should be able to mitigate that by doing daily fasted cardio, which is something you should do anyway. So regarding appetite management and fat loss, I think retrodutite is next level compared to other GLP-1 receptor agonists. But once bioglutite hits the market, where you get quadruple agonism, also of the IGF-1 receptor, I think we're all going to pivot from retrodutite to bioglutite. But stay tuned for that deep dive that might drop a couple years from now because scientific evidence right now, paper thin and it's not available anywhere. And regarding addiction and dopamine signaling, whether that's a food addiction, drug addiction, or other kinds of addictions, gambling addiction, porn addiction, there are some anecdotal responses that retrodutite or GLP-1 receptor agonists help with the resolvement of these particular addictions. So it's something worth looking into. Will it be as potent as cerebral lichen or ibogaine treatments, for example? Probably not. But as long as you're using retrodutite or another GLP-1 receptor agonist, it might be easier to manage these symptoms of addiction and preventing addiction from recurring, obviously. Certainly for food addiction, it's probably hands down one of the best medications you could take. Albeit that the addiction, the food addiction, or other kinds of addiction might come back with inventions when you take retrodutite out. I've experienced this myself when taking terzepidite out or lyruglutite out in the past. Food addiction comes back and I'm morbidly, no, not morbidly obese, but I gain fat like nothing else because all the appetite is so ravenous and I can't under-eat and that's, or physically, I can't under-eat in that particular context. So yeah, it's pretty tough. I think when I start retrodutite again, I'm going to keep it at a low and effective dose and maybe a little bit higher dose during the cutting phase just to take away the food noise and prevent a rebound. And again, the clinical trials regarding appetite suppression and the management of obesity, they ramp up the dose of retrodutite, keep that at a certain point, let's say up to 12 milligrams weekly for over a year and then they taper it downwards, but keep the retrodutite in to sustain this appetite suppression and keep obesity management or type 2 diabetes management under control because they know when they take it out based in the other clinical trials and scientific evidence on GLP-1 receptor agonists that that's probably not a good idea to do. So it only works while you're using it. And if you suffer from an addiction and you use retrodutite to overcome this addiction, then you're probably on retrodutite for life, albeit that you should be able to lower the dose quite significantly, at least in the context of food addiction. All right, I'll leave it here. Please let me know your anecdotal response and reports to retrodutite. Did you get side effects? Did you get beneficial effects? How did you find it stacking with other GLP-1 receptor agonists or other appetite suppressions, whether those are stimulatory or not? And how is your fat loss journey or cutting phase by adding retrodutite in? Was it significantly easier or did you just feel that you're spending a boat on the money because again, retrodutite ain't cheap and that's why we have discount codes out there. All right. If you start solving experimentation, you should do your blood work over at Merrick Health. If you live in the United States, they have excellent healthcare providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results and make sure that you stay healthy while you're undergoing a self-experimentation with polypharmacy. And if you can't figure it out by doing blood work at Merrick Health, then you can always contact me for a consultation and I'll gladly sort out your protocol with you together on a consultation call. You can find all of my other sponsors and affiliates down below in the YouTube description section and if you can't find a particular sponsor or affiliate there, head over to my website vigoroustheve.com where everything is explained into great detail. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A almost unretrodutite front double bicep for you guys. Not quite unretrodutite yet. Otherwise, it'll be a lot leaner. But hey, maybe at one point or another, my appetite becomes unmanageable and I need some appetite suppression and then the first thing that I'll look into is retrodutite at a low-and-effective dose of a milligram to one milligram subcutaneous three times weekly. All right. Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.