 Hi there, do you enjoy massive mass con pumps in the bedroom as well as in the gym just like I do? Keep watching if you identify as a super soldier serum loving Captain America or as Bane a venom connoisseur? This video will teach you exactly how to get skin-splitting pumps that last for hours if not days right after the disclaimer! America or is Bain a venom connoisseur? This video will teach you exactly how to get skin-splitting pumps that last for hours if not days right after the disclaimer. Vigorous Steve here. All right so many of you guys had a minor heart attack and started sweating profusely when I discussed in the methylene blue deep dive that methylene blue is a nitric oxide synthase and soluble guanalyte cyclase inhibitor and might diminish the pump but I also simultaneously debunked any potential negative effects that methylene blue might have on your massive masculine pumps in the gym as methylene blue's inhibitory effects are only observed at higher dosages beyond one milligram per kilogram of body weight by subcutaneous or intravenous injection or two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight when taken sublingually or orally and these are generally not the dosage ranges that methylene blue users are aiming for and again your blood pressure will increase well before you start to notice any kind of diminishing effects on your gym performance so that brings us to the ultimate skin splitting pump protocol to take your workouts to the next level and literally mutate into Bain right in front of everybody's eyes with each consecutive set including the grunts and the swearing and the sweating before we continue please keep in mind that a carbohydrate rich off-season diet is infinitely better for your pump and overall gym performance compared to a carbohydrate restricted cutting phase diets especially a ketogenic diet or carnivore diets which are basically pump killing diets so trust me when I say this I've been following a ketogenic diet for close to two decades now and even with the entire performance enhancing drug stack discussed in this video when carbs are excluded the pump won't be as insane compared to an off-season filtered carbohydrates and anadrol allegedly that means you might need more of these pump products if you follow a ketogenic diet or a carnivore diet compared to when you're stuffing your face with carbohydrates all day long more carbohydrates equals more pump it's that simple so you'll have to design your massive masculine skin splitting mega pump super stack to your individual dietary restrictions and needs there isn't a cookie cutter way to optimize the pump only guidelines so enjoy some volumizing self-experimentation in the process first you need to know which compounds drugs medications and supplements you need to avoid as they might diminish the pump dramatically leaving you with a flaccid softy reminiscent of that time you spent a little bit too much time in the cold plunge and everybody started laughing at you when you got out you should avoid amphetamines which increase catecholamine release including epinephrine and norepinephrine aka adrenaline and noradrenaline leading to vasoconstriction and impaired blood flow to skeletal muscle and that includes amphetamines like adderol dexedrine and vivans you should avoid the beta blockers which reduce heart rate and impaired blood flow needed for optimal gym performance which might diminish the pump overall this includes nabivolol and propanol albeit that nabivolol selectively blocks the beta-1 receptors of the heart and stimulates the beta-3 adrenergic receptors which might improve overall exercise performance so nabivolol at a low and effective dose of let's say 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams upon waking a couple hours before you go to the gym should be acceptable should not diminish your pump but if you take the other aforementioned beta blockers then you might notice a small to significant reduction in the pump by impairing a systemic blood flow you should avoid the decongestions which cause vasoconstriction by stimulating the alpha adrenergic receptors or by increasing catecholamine release both can diminish the pump quite substantially this includes ephedrine you should avoid non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like aspirin ibuprofen and naproxen as well as regular peracetamol which are all known to inhibit the cyclooxynase enzymes which is essential critical for a muscle protein synthesis post-exercise which might diminish the pump potentially during your workout you should avoid statins which are medications used to lower cholesterol levels and low density lipoprotein levels in the bloodstream now you might be able to get away with the low and effective dose of a statin of your choice assuming that your lipid parameters stay in range but you don't observe the generally associated side effects of statins which include muscle pain cramping and weakness which can all potentially interfere with your gym performance and ultimately downstream might diminish your pump as well this includes a monoclon k which is found in red yeast rice which is a naturally occurring statin found in malt fermented rice as well as rosuvastatin or symphastatin which seems to be more commonly prescribed again a low and effective dose of a statin you might be able to get away with it but if as soon as you start to notice that due to your poor lipid management through other practices you need to increase the dose of statins or red yeast rice for that matter and you start to get side effects resulting in a diminished pump then you might want to reassess this protocol in your overall lifestyle because well you need to keep your lipids in range but you also need a massive masculine super pump in the gym i mean if you can't have both what's the point of it all you should avoid type 2 diabetic medications including glucophage aka metformin or a pi glitazone metformin has been shown to impair muscle protein synthesis and reduce mitochondrial function it acts by increasing insulin sensitivity by reducing the gastric emptying and disposing some of the carbohydrates through the intestines out to the bathroom so that already lowers the amount of carbohydrates that you need to absorb in the skeletal muscle for a massive masculine super pump unless you follow a ketogenic diet and your carbohydrate intake is already significantly restricted that being said there's several pathways in which metformin and pi glitazone might impair and diminish the pump that you would otherwise expect in the gym but some people swear by metformin that it actually enhances their pump in the gym quite substantially and that's usually in the case with people that don't really follow a strict diet they were on this um all you can eat hamburger diet with all of the soda and the french fries attached and then when they start disposing of some of these carbohydrates uh by the use of metformin their insulin sensitivity increases and now all of the carbohydrates and saturated fats that they were eating finally ends up in skeletal muscle because they no longer have this chronic insulin resistance or full-blown attack to diabetes that they induce themselves with terrible dietary habits then the metformin literally gets them out of that situation and somehow some way the pump returns i don't think that healthy individuals who follow a healthy diet should use metformin because from my personal experience and everybody else that i know that follows a structured bodybuilding diet as soon as you add in the metformin the pump diminishes very very noticeably and with continuous lose the pump is just completely gone no matter how many carbohydrates you consume you should avoid anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid steroids as they're known to cause muscle atrophy over time by inhibiting muscle protein synthesis and by actually increasing muscle protein breakdown resulting in a significantly diminished pump during your workouts now again if you have these prescribed for a particular medical condition obviously you need to keep taking the glucocorticoid steroids but as soon as you take them out you'll probably notice that your gym performance increases and that the pump magically returns you should avoid alcohol as alcohol impairs muscle protein synthesis quite dramatically it also reduces testosterone levels albeit that we probably have a way around that by taking TRT or there above alcohol dehydrates the body especially when you take a lot of alcohol and if you're hung over i'm sure you've noticed the next day if you can even make it to the gym after you're hung over when you go do a workout no pump the only pump that you have is literally in your brain giving you a splitting headache alcohol diminishes the pump and might actually hinder recovery you should avoid caffeine at higher dosages albeit that you build up a little bit of a tolerance to its vasocorticoid constrictive effects scientifically it's been shown that caffeine has vasoconstrictive effects beyond 400 milligrams caffeine in a single serving usually that results or manifest itself during the workout by inhibiting the pump quite substantially but over time as you get more used to caffeine you might be able to ramp up the dose to 500 milligrams caffeine without any weight shape or diminishing effect on your massive masculine pump in the gym and caffeine has been shown to cause vasodilation at lower to moderate dosages let's say at 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams caffeine in a single serving and like i mentioned in the methylene blue deep dive methylene blue inhibits nitric oxide synthase and soluble gonelite sicklase but this is only observed at higher doses at one milligram per one kilogram of body weight with injectable administrations or two milligrams per one kilogram of body weight through oral or sublingual sublingual administration so that's not something you really have to worry about so long story short too long didn't read 2.5 to 5 milligrams of the bivitol should be okay should not diminish your pump in any way shape or form it might actually increase exercise performance by acting on a beta-3 adrenergic receptors find a nice balance between your statin intake whether that's a medical statin or red yeast dries and your overall gym performance because again we need to keep your lipids in range because all of the steroids that you're taking are skewing with your lipids parameters and if that means you need a high dose of a statin to bring that in range and that diminishes your pump there are ways around that don't you worry regarding caffeine intake unless you have a super high tolerance for caffeine just like i do because i'm an addict um let's say 100 milligrams to 250 milligrams caffeine pre-workout should not diminish your gym performance and then as you go higher you might need to take caffeine more frequently again to build up a tolerance to prevent it from inhibiting your pump by causing some sort of vasoconstrictive effects and when it comes to methylene blue i think five milligrams to 15 milligrams of methylene blue is perfectly okay should not diminish your pump in any way shape or form but i would avoid all of the other aforementioned compounds that might diminish your pump in the gym if you're after that imaginary lat syndrome swole look and with that being said there are a few medications that you might already be taking that have a synergistic effect with the entire stack that we're going to discuss in this video these are all blood pressure medications known to lower blood pressure and improve blood pressure management in a dose-dependent fashion when taken just by themselves when we start stacking these with pump enhancing uh performance enhancing drugs for example there might be a synergistic or drug interacting effect going from a normal blood pressure management to a severe hypotensive state so make sure you have an omron 7 wrist cuff or another arm cuff on standby so you can keep track of your blood pressure when you start stacking these blood pressure medications with pump enhancing compounds at the same time to enhance your massive masculine super pump in the gym and these include alpha adrenergic receptor antagonists also known as alpha blockers which actually reduce or fully blunt the release of catecholamines which would otherwise cause vasoconstriction most of these medications are prescribed in cases of benign prostate enlargement to help with urine flow but as you see from the list there's a yo himbine and rawolcine which is generally used to help with a fat loss from the lower back in a fat loss and cutting phase scenario but if you ramp up the dose of yo himbine and rawolcine to let's say beyond nine milligrams daily especially in a single serving then you might see that you still get vasoconstrictive effects and the pump is diminished so a low dose of rawolcine or yo himbine you be should be able to get away with should not diminish your pump in any way shape or form and is often included in various over-the-counter pre-workout formulas at a low and effective dose of let's say 1.5 milligrams to 3 milligrams in a small serving it should not diminish the pump but if you take over 9 milligrams in a single serving then the pump might be significantly diminished and you feel terribly jittery so i would not recommend that some people swear that they can take 3 milligrams yo himbine or well seen over 3 servings over the day for total daily dose of 9 milligrams without having an inhibitory effect on their pump but i would still recommend you to keep the dose low especially if you have a benign prostate enlargement and you're also prescribed thomsolosin or any of these other alpha blockers you can have a synergistic effect with various angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors including um lisinopril which is the most commonly used angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and with anapril a vasotec that actually lowers hematocrit and red blood cell count which is observed at a low and effective dose regarding blood pressure between 2.5 milligrams to 10 milligrams daily so if you're after endless endurance which we're going to discuss in a separate video then i would avoid anapril altogether unless your hematocrit levels and red blood cell count is really really high because you suffer from sleep apnea you take a blood load of erythropoietic compounds and now your hematocrit is like 56 to 58 percent then maybe you should take 2.5 milligrams anapril three times weekly or a daily to keep that under control which then should not affect your pump because you're keeping your levels at the top of the range you'll probably get a synergistic effect by taking an angiotensin receptor blocker including thomasartan now thomasartan has been shown to modulate hematocrit and red blood cell count it might increase it at a low dose of 20 milligrams daily but it might reduce it at a high dose of 80 milligrams daily so you kind of break even depending on the dose and how much blood pressure management you actually need alongside the entire performance and hunting drug cocktail that you're on personally i take 20 milligrams to 40 milligrams thomasartan in combination with the large majority of this entire pump stack my blood pressure is in range and i get phenomenal super pumps so this combination is pretty much warranted from my personal experience you might have a synergistic or hypotensive effect with calcium channel blockers i have no experience with calcium channel blockers but i do have extensive experience with phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors including viagra cialis and levitra but we'll save those for a little bit later on because those are actually included in overall skin splitting mega pump stack so first let's get this pumpage protocol started by optimizing nitric oxide production which increases the pump substantially partially by acting as a vasodilator but also by increasing soluble guanylite cichlase enzyme activity which then downstream increases cyclic guanylc monophosphate levels which you can then prevent the breakdown of with phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors like viagra cialis or levitra more on this later and the cyclic guanylc monophosphate also acts as a very potent vasodilator so no and c gmp is raised to the nth max degree then expect to have a phenomenal super pump you can increase nitric oxide with the following compounds including l-arginine l-citrulline nitrocycine which is a dietary supplement that's patented it's a complex of l-arginine potassium silicate and inositol pycnogenol ubiquinol beetroot whether that's the juice or powder extract pomegranate extract grape sweet extract hawthornberry extract and over 70 dark chocolate containing theobromine flavonoids these can all be taken 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout either taken separately or found in various over-the-counter pre-workout formulations don't worry we'll address that because it's a little bit easier to go with an over-the-counter pre-workout formulation and buying all of these separately and then trying to figure out the most efficacious dose for you even though i'm not against that kind of practice at all so it's a little bit more convenient just to take one scoop or two scoops and then be about your business by adding all of the other pumpage products in on top so um right the details are on the screen and then omega-3 fatty acids coming from fish oil are known to increase nitric oxide levels over the day it's better to split that up to let's say 500 milligrams to a thousand milligrams fish oil with every single meal for a total of 3 000 milligrams epa and 2 000 milligrams dhea daily again the phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors you can take either as a pre-workout or sometime in the morning because many of these have a long lasting effect due to their long half-life and active life and especially with the data fill with a very long half-life and active life the dose compounds up start low at five milligrams daily and then give yourself one or two weeks for the maximum serum levels to occur and for the maximum pumpage to occur and then there's always nitroglycerin at 0.3 milligrams to 0.6 milligrams sublingually this is probably the most potent way to increase your nitric oxide levels but this is not for the faint of heart yeah may it cause significant vasodilation and actually hypotensive states especially when you combine that with certain blood pressure medications that many of you guys are using prophylactically so a little bit of caution is advised do additional research on nitroglycerin if you can even source it but yeah the pump on nitroglycerin through sublingual administration and not comparing that to injectable pre-workouts which we're going to discuss a little bit later on uh pretty potent pretty powerful but not recommended so based on these no and cgmp boosting ingredients we can select an over-the-counter pre-workout formula that contain most of these ingredients all in efficacious dosages and then start stacking some more compounds on top to take that vanilla pump to a masculine super pump here you see that gorilla mode lightning contains l-citrulline but it's mostly a stim based pre-workout that might cause vasoconstriction especially when you start double scooping gorilla mode base also contains l-citrulline but that's not enough to get my juices flowing then you have gorilla mode the og pre-workout from gorilla mind also contains l-citrulline and creatine monohydrate more on that later as well as glycerol and sodium and other electrolytes which should all help with the pump but it's still not 100 what i'm after myself and then you have gorilla mode nitric my absolute 100 favorite for the last couple of years which contains sodium nitrite to help with nitrite nitrate and nitric oxide pathway other electrolytes to help with the pump as well l-citrulline to increase nitric oxide production obviously creatine monohydrate glycerol and betaine to help with the muscle volumization hydration and energy production and vasodrive ap which inhibits angiotensic converting enzyme to a similar extent that thomas artan does all contributing to a massive masculine super pump in the gym especially when you take two scoops pre-workout trust me so let's take gorilla mind nitric in any flavor you prefer at one to two scoops as a base and then start stacking other products on top to again bring that vanilla pump to a masculine super pump you could take inter-workout carbohydrates whether that's a waxy maize or cluster dextrins also known as hybranced cyclic dextrins or dextrose or fructose or de-ribrose or a combination thereof personally waxy maize always gave me some indigestion whether they took a full dose let's say 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout or uh slowly drank that throughout the workouts diluted in let's say three liters of water always digestive issues so i usually go with a combination when i take carbohydrates a combination of cluster dextrins with dextrose fructose and d-ribose gorilla mode intra contains 15 000 milligrams cluster dextrins 15 000 milligrams dextrose 7 500 milligrams fructose and 5 000 milligrams de-ribose with an additional 2500 milligrams creatine monohydrates so that's on top of the creatine monohydrates you would get from gorilla mode nitric per single scoop and then 750 milligrams electrolytes from coconut water and himalaya pink salt so depending on your overall diet caloric intake how many scoops of gorilla mode nitric you take your training intensity your overall muscle mass you might take an additional one to three scoops gorilla mode intra throughout the entirety of your workout intra-workout or maybe one scoop pre-workout and then two scoops intra-workout to give you phenomenal stamina increased endurance but mostly a massive masculine super pump that is longer lasting after the workout has concluded for at least a couple hours you could take intra-workout essential amino acids with l-leucine isoleucine valine lysine threonine phenylalanine histidine tryptophan and methionine a gorilla mind essential amino acids contains 4000 milligrams l-leucine 2000 milligrams l-isoleucine 2000 milligrams l-valine a regular bca 2 to 1 to 1 ratio with 1000 milligrams l-lysine 1000 milligrams l-3-in-650 milligrams l-phenylalanine 600 milligrams l-histidine 450 milligrams l-tryptophan and 300 milligrams l-methionine you could take one to two scoops um intra-workout alongside your gorilla mode intra or another of intra-workout carbohydrates formulation right you go with whatever you prefer so if you take intra-workout carbohydrates and intra-workout essential amino acids you should be able to lower the intake of both because you want to keep the caloric intake very similar yes essential amino acids have calories uh albeit that the nutritional boards probably doesn't agree with that right they might be converting into uh glucose through gluconeogenesis and then the glucose that you get from these essential amino acids even though the intra-workout carbs should prevent um gluconeogenesis from amino acids still they have some caloric value and give you a good amount of energy but in combination both of these especially with electrolytes don't worry we'll get to that that should give you a crazy workout capacity and raise your pump to the next level personally i take about half a scoop of essential amino acids pre-workout and another half a scoop essential amino acids with my intra carbohydrates intra-workout so i have a little bit of a spread out effect again it highly depends on your caloric intake what your macros are and what you're after how you need to dose and how you need to scoop the essential amino acids or the intra-workout carbohydrates you can add in an electrolyte formula containing sodium potassium magnesium calcium and chloride in efficacious dosages as well as correct ratios this is very important for proper muscle hydration and enhancing the pump gorilla hydration contains 750 milligrams sodium 545 milligrams potassium 100 milligrams magnesium and 50 milligrams calcium per sachet so you can take one to two sachets pre-workout or maybe one sachet pre-workout and one sachet intra-workout if you train in the gym or you sweat buckets just like i do right i train in a gym without air conditioning i need one sachet pre and one sachet intra-workout otherwise i lose all of my electrolytes and my pump is nowhere to be found um and again keep in mind the gorilla mount intra also contains a decent amount of electrolytes so you have to dose your uh gorilla hydration sachets accordingly creatine monohydrates 2500 milligrams to 10 000 milligrams pre or intra-workout and gorilla mode intra also contains 2500 milligrams creatine monohydrate per single scope so if you double scoop your pre-workout and you double scoop your intra then you already have 10 000 milligrams creatine monohydrate and you don't need to supplement with additional gorilla mode creatine which contains 5000 milligrams per single scope uh again if you want to go higher that's entirely up to you but you might have some intestinal upset and gastric distress more creatine certainly isn't better but i prefer to go with glycerol compared to creatine both give me similar energy levels but with an efficacious dose of glycerol the pump is substantially increased compared to creatine and an efficacious dose regarding again energy levels i prefer liquid glycerol over a powdered glycerol you can either go with hydro prime or glycerol monosteroid powder and let's say 2500 milligrams to 10 000 milligrams pre-workout and a little bit higher dose for liquid because that's not 100 percent net glycerol because again it's soluble in water gorilla mode nitric already contains 2000 milligrams hydro prime which provides 1300 milligrams net glycerol and separate grill mode hydro prime contains 3250 milligrams glycerol powder from 5000 milligrams hydro prime per single scoop in case you want to enhance the pump further but i prefer the liquid glycerol from gorilla mind and then add that to my double scoop nitric and intra and essential amino acids that kind of stuff and then the pump with the electrolytes sweet i'll tell you that and then on top of this let's say 30 minutes to 60 minutes pre-workout you can add in peak atp muscle tech muscle builder has an oral adenosine 5-tri pyrophosphate disodium capsule formulation at 400 milligrams each they recommend one capsule but sometimes i take two shame on me which seems to be as potent as an injectable pre-workout formula which we're going to discuss that contains approximately 40 milligrams injectable adenosine tri-pyrophosphate and maybe 5 milligrams adenosine monophosphate on the site depending on the formulation so if you don't want to go with the injectable pre-workout route then oral peak atp seems to give you masculine massive super pumps that are skin splitting nonetheless right you do seem to build up a little bit of a tolerance so in the beginning of taking 400 milligrams peak atp the vasodilation and the slight hyperventilation might occur during the workout which is you're going to hyperventilate anyway if you train to failure and beyond but you notice that you get increased oxygenation but also a significant vasodilation when you first start taking this muscle tech muscle builder containing 400 milligrams peak atp per serving but then over time it seems to have diminishing returns as you build up a little bit of a tolerance i'm not entirely sure how that happens maybe start increasing the breakdown of atp in the bloodstream before it ends up in skeletal muscle or you reduce conversion of atp into amp which acts as a more potent vasodilator that i'm not entirely sure of so in the beginning you might need to take one capsule and then later on you might need to take two capsules 800 milligrams peak atp for similar vasodilating effect and before you ask lf atp which is a combination of ancient peat and apple polyphenols which is touted to increase i didn't see trap our phosphate production in the body doesn't seem to do anything at all i've tried various dosages of lf atp um far beyond what's recommended didn't change my pump or didn't cause any vasodilation or didn't make me heave like amp atp coming from peak atp or injectable pre-workout formulations in any way shape or form so personally i would avoid lf atp and stick with peak atp or injectable pre-workouts instead and then again vasodrive ap or betaine anhydrous also known as trimethylglycine tmg all increase the pump through a different pathway than no or c gmp but they're already contained within gorilla mode nitric but if you decide to go with the other pre-workout formulations or you decide to stack your own pre-workout together then please include vasodrive ap and trimethylglycine betaine anhydrous for an enhanced super pump then there are various pump enhancing performance enhancing drugs including dianabol right at various doses you can get to decide which doses of dianabol you want to take pre-workout whether that's 10 to 50 milligrams orally or sublingually or 5 to 25 milligrams bilaterally intramuscularly coming from an injectable dianabol formula 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout three times to five times weekly and then if you want to go the extra mileage for stable serum levels then on your wrist stage you could also split up your injectable or oral dianabol into five milligrams to 25 milligrams a morning evening for total daily intake of 10 milligrams to 50 milligrams i know it's a bit of a dosage range but everybody has their preference i prefer not to take dianabol but if you like dianabol start low build your way up go through the various administration routes and if you end up at 50 milligrams injectable dianabol split bilaterally into 25 milligram servings then please let us know down below in the comment section how your pump is i would love to know because maybe you can convince me to take injectable dianabol instead then there's super droll right the dosage range is a little bit lower let's say 10 to 30 milligrams orally or sublingually um i don't know that there's a injectable super droll but if there's an injectable super droll available please let us know down below in the comment section so yeah i might give that a shot or three or 25 um oxandrolone anivar at five milligrams 25 milligrams orally or sublingually pre-workout right some guys prefer 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams oral anivar or sublingual anivar in which case i'm going to have to say that your anivar is probably not anivar uh maybe it's providing instead and that's why you're able to make a dose up to 100 milligrams or maybe your 100 milligrams of anivar is actually 10 milligrams and you get a 10 milligram like effect for the 100 milligrams that you think that you're taking then there's uh oxymethalone anadrol this dot just can be a little bit higher 25 milligrams to 100 milligrams orally or sublingually taken pre-workout or in the case of injectable anadrol that could be 12.5 milligrams to 50 milligrams bilaterally intermuscularly for total dose over again 25 milligrams to 100 milligrams  aut autopril, cschoppoop教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教 subcutaneously up morning and evening on rest days. If you want to have daily testosterone suspension administrations for more stable serum levels, make sure you use an aromatized inhibitor with injectable suspension, as is the case with oral or injectable deana ball, because aromatization is going to be substantial if you go with the injectable or even the oral route. And with tremble load suspension, the starting dose is the same, but the maximum dose is a little bit lower because, well, based on my personal experience, 50 milligrams trenbolone suspension per day is a little bit too much. So you could go with 12.5 milligrams to 25 milligrams trenbolone suspension, split bilaterally, intramuscularly, pre-workout, and taken subcutaneous morning and evening on your wrist days if you do so prefer. Again, a little bit of caution is advised with trenbolone suspension, even though it gives you a phenomenal super pump, especially when you start stacking it with everything else that we discussed in this video. It can also make you rage and turn red hot because you're overheating, because your metabolism has increased so much. So a little bit of caution is advised. Use it sparingly and start low and build your way up as needed. And these you might not have heard about because they're erectile dysfunction medications, injectable papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix. I've used papavirine in the past when I got a big fat box of like 50 ampules from Mother Russia at 30 milligrams per one milliliter papavirine. I think there were one or two milliliter ampules. I can't remember. It's been a while. But splitting that up bilaterally up to a maximum of two milliliters pre-workout, depending on the body parts. Pumps were crazy. Yeah, pumps were crazy. And it did not spill over into the organ that it's supposed to be injected in. Again, this is administered by intercavernosal injection, either papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix straight into the penis, basically for a long-lasting erection because, again, it's an erectile dysfunction medication or a medication for impotence. I've never injected it there. That always scares me. But I've injected copious amounts of papavirine into my muscles before injectable pre-workouts became a thing. And I had great results. I'll tell you that. So you can either go out with 0.25 milliliters to 1 milliliters papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix, split bilaterally, intramuscularly in the muscle group that you're going to train that day. And then start low, build your way up based on your own experience. Because, again, Bi-mix has fentolamine included, and Tri-mix has fentolamine and aprostadil, PGE1, which should give you a more enhanced effect. But, again, I've never tried it. So I'll leave it up to you to write down your personal anecdotal experience with papavirine, Bi-mix, or Tri-mix, whether that was for erectile dysfunction or to enhance your pump. So going forward, on the topic of injectable pre-workouts, we'll have to use a couple of abbreviations to adhere to the YouTube guidelines. If you're not knowing what I'm talking about, go to my website, vigorsteve.com, where everything is explained into great detail. The OG, injectable pre-workout, scintillator from ST, at 40 milligrams per one milliliter adenosine monophosphate, which converts into adenosine triphosphate, which, depending on the scientific evidence that you read, might or might not permeate into the cells. Still, adenosine monophosphate is the most potent vasodilator you can inject. Don't take this intravenously, unless you do an MRI with a galanidium contrast to check for your cardiac function. But if you inject it locally into the muscle group that you're going to train, splitting that up bilaterally, up to a maximum dose of one milliliter pre-workout, 40 milligrams adenosine monophosphate, pump is insane. Yeah. You could skip all of the other compounds which I mentioned earlier. If you just stick with this or some of the other injectable pre-workouts, it's honestly all you need. It's honestly all you need. Now, scintillator used to be used pre-contest before pre-judging at the entire vial. So that's 400 milligrams adenosine monophosphate, a 10 milliliter injection split, 5 milliliters left cheek and right cheek, about an hour before stepping on stage. Then the athlete would disappear or retreat in a corner to hyperventilate for approximately 10 minutes, as the vasodilating effect from this much injectable adenosine monophosphate is taking place. And all of this vasodilation kind of directs off the blood flow to the peripheral tissue, causing a tremendous super pump. Again, before pre-judging, don't do this twice. If you do it twice, you spill over and you look absolutely terrible. But if you time it right, before pre-judging, an entire vial of scintillator, fullness galore. I don't need insulin, don't need anadrol, don't need anything else. A full vial of scintillator, as many competitors will vouch for, it's like night and day. Yeah, it's like night and day. But again, the heaving and the vasodilating effects are not for the faint of heart. This is not for amateurs. This is for hardcore bodybuilders who've practiced this several times back home. And then once you undergo this terrible process of hyperventilating for a couple minutes at home, then you know what to expect backstage. And then you can time the scintillator accordingly. I used it as a pre-workout many different times. Great super pump. But nowadays we have a couple other companies like AA or MA, which specialize into injectable pre-workouts, which contain a lot of other ingredients, which have a synergistic overlapping effect for a more potent super pump effect. AA has various injectable pre-workout formulations. I've grouped these from least potent to most potent. My favorites are the Mass Monster Blend and Stampedes. I combine both of them, usually pre-workouts, at the maximum efficacious dosage. Again, I have a lot of experience with AA's injectable pre-workouts. I started low, built my way up. And with the copious amounts of muscle tissue that I have, that needs a good amount of stimulation for a massive masculine super pump, I can go to the maximum efficacious dose or even go beyond that, because I have the experience. And needless to say, I can't get my tank top off after the workout, unless somebody helps me, especially for upper body. It's like, I can't get it off. That's the side effect of injectable pre-workouts. I haven't tried their Ultra Instinct formula yet, but that formula sure looks tasty. So all of the details are on the screen with recommended dosage ranges. Again, all of this is split bilaterally, intermuscularly for localized effect. So if you want to get started, basically you start with the GAC blend, then you proceed into the shredder, then you go to GAC extreme, then the monster pump blend, then the mass monster blend, and then the super shredder, which also contains albuterol, which might act as a vasoconstrictor downstream. It shouldn't impair your pump in any way, shape, or form. It will stimulate your central nervous system by acting on the beta-2 adrenergic receptors. And otherwise, well, the adenosine tri-pyrophosphate at 50 milligrams per one milliliter, converting into adenosine monophosphate downstream, which helps with vasodilation, should give you an overall beneficial effect regarding the pump. And if anything, you just get additional fat loss from the albuterol that the super shredder contains. And it may be proceeding to Ultra Instinct, which based on the ingredients, I would say would probably give you the second best pump out of all of the AA injectable pre-workout formulations. My absolute favorite is AA Stampede. I've been using Stampede for a very long time now. I've used it many a workout, I would say. It contains 400 milligrams per one milliliter L-carnitine, 40 milligrams per one milliliter adenosine tri-pyrophosphate, five milligrams per one milliliter adenosine monophosphate for total, a dose of 445 milligrams per one milliliter. And I would go up sometimes to two milliliters pre-workout, split one milliliter bilaterally, but don't do that. My recommendations are half a milliliter, split bilaterally, intramuscularly at maximum until you get some experience with Stampede yourself. Start low, build your way up. And then if you're crazy like me, you need a phenomenal super pump alongside of all of the other things that we're discussing in this video, then, well, feel free to up the dose. But that's not my personal recommendation. Don't do what I do unless you want to be small. Okay. And then MA also has their own line of injectable pre-workouts, similar to AA, albeit in different formulations. I've ordered them also from the least potent to the most potent regarding an improvement and increase in the pump overall. My favorites are Carved and The Motivator. And yes, I combine both of them as well, similar to I combine two products from AA. So you could start with max drive at the dosages on the screen, then move on to focus, then move on to pump, then move on to the daily driver, and then maybe proceed to one of my favorites, MA Carved, containing 50 milligrams for one milliliter L-carnitine, which helps with fatty acid absorption into the mitochondria, 50 milligrams for one milliliter choline, 50 milligrams for one milliliter inositol, and 10 milligrams per one milliliter, which helps with fatty acid mobilization. That's a MYC blend that helps with transport of fatty acids across the cell of the adipose tissue and also into the cells of metabolically active tissues. So carnitine and MYC blend, great for fat loss overall. And then 25 milligrams for one milliliter vitamin B6, and 500 micrograms for one milliliter vitamin B12, greatly contributes to energy production and overall energy levels. If you take this pre-workout, during the workout, obviously, and then 20 milligrams for one milliliter nicotinamide mononucleotide probably gives you the most energy during the workouts because nicotinamide mononucleotide NAD+, is an electron donor, but also contributes to thousands of enzymatic reactions in the body, keeping your metabolism going alongside vitamin B6, MB12, and the carnitine, and the MYC blend. Again, one of my favorites. You could proceed into the builder. Zeus Juice, that's also great for pumps, but the best pumps and the best motivation out of all of the injectable MA pre-workout formulas I got from MA The Motivator, containing 175 milligrams per one milliliter L-arginine, 45 milligrams per one milliliter CDP-choline, helps with cognition tremendously, especially during the workout. 40 milligrams per one milliliter adenosine tri-paraphosphate, helps with pumps and energy levels. 35 milligrams per one milliliter N-SDL-tyrosine, helps with motivation, basically injectable L-tyrosine. Who wouldn't want that? I certainly do. 30 milligrams per one milliliter betaine anhydrase, also known as trimethylglycine TMG, helps with the pump tremendously. 20 milligrams per one milliliter nicotinamide mononucleotide, NAD+, for energy and pump, potentially, and 5 milligrams adenosine monophosphate AMP, for tremendous vasodilation on top of the adenosine tri-phosphate at 40 milligrams, which the motivator also contains. For a total of 350 milligrams per one milliliter, and then I might go up to one milliliter bilaterally, even though I recommend half a milliliter bilaterally to start. Now, just like with injectable Deonable or injectable Anadrol or injectable Superdrol, potentially, and certainly injectable testosterone suspension and injectable Trimbalone suspension or windstrel suspension, which doesn't really give you a pump, but let's mention it here anyway. They can all potentiate post-injection pain, obviously. If you take them 30 minutes to 60 minutes pre-workout, and you split them bilaterally, you maybe dilute that with bacterial static water to get a lower concentration and a higher injection volume. If you do this all pre-workout, and you have a good workout with a phenomenal super pump, all of these compounds should diffuse into the peripheral tissue, potentiate local effects, which potentially result in animalism, but certainly enhance the pump substantially. And then not potentiate any post-injection pain. But if some post-injection pain occurs, that's meant to be expected. You're injecting literally directly into the muscle, and there's no free ride. So this is part of the game. Experiment with a couple ones, and then see which one you prefer, which one gives you the best pump and the least amount of post-injection pain or complications of post-injection. And then stick with the one you like at the efficacious dosage that you prefer. And it finally brings us to Steve's massively masculine, skin-splitting, super pump, mega stack. And again, this is what I do, not my recommendation, but if you want to have a little bit of an insight on what I do before my workout, preventing me from taking my shirt off, post-workout, then this is basically what I do. My total electrolyte intake over the day, which includes the electrolytes that I get from pre-workouts or hydration and whatnot, is about 3,500 to 5,000 milligrams sodium, 7,000 milligrams to 10,000 milligrams potassium, let's say 2,000 milligrams to 2,500 milligrams magnesium, and about 1,000 to 1,500 milligrams calcium over the day. Then I take 40 milligrams Thalmasartan upon waking. Sometimes it's 20 milligrams, but most of the time, since I'm on cycle, most of the time it's 40 milligrams Thalmasartan. Then I might take, on certain days, 5 milligrams to 10 milligrams Cialis upon waking, but that kind of depends on the workout and how much pump I want to have later in the day. Then I take 100 milligrams Ubiquinol morning and evening, which increases nitric oxide levels. And then I take an additional 200 milligrams or 400 milligrams Ubiquinol pre-workout, depending on the workout intensity that I expect. I take one or two scoops, Gorilla Mode Nitric, 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout, three to five times weekly. In combination with Gorilla Mode Essential Amino Acids, one scoop, 30 to 60 minutes pre-workout, three to five times weekly. And if I have really strenuous workouts, especially when I start to get a little bit depleted, low body fat levels, then I might have an additional scoop Essential Amino Acids inter-workout. I usually save the Gorilla Mode Intro containing carbohydrates for the off-season where I eat more carbohydrates. But right now, when I'm following a ketogenic diet, I skip the intra containing the carbohydrates and I stick with the Essential Amino Acids and the Glycerol instead. I take Gorilla Mode Hydration, usually two sachets, one pre-workout and one inter-workout. I take Gorilla Mode Glycerol, one to two pumps. Sometimes that's one pump pre-workout and another pump intra-workout. But most of the time, I take two pumps pre-workout because if I take it intra-workout, then I might feel a little bit nauseous because it's so sweet. It's so sweet. I mean, it's carbohydrates after all. And then I might have a combination of the Mass Monster Blend with Stampede or a combination of Carved with the Motivator. Sometimes I'm crazy and I combine Stampede with the Motivator at one milliliter each. I'd split bilaterally, not two milliliters of each. That's way too much, adenosine triphosphate and adenosine monophosphate, which would probably put me on the floor with severe hypotension. I have a lot of experience with these injectable pre-workouts. So I combine efficacious dosages and I look at the total picture of all of the ingredients. And then again, the pump is quite insane whenever I do the maximum application. Obviously, sometimes I take my oral steroid sublingually. Again, I prefer anadrol sublingually over the injectable anadrol because the injectable anadrol that I can source is causing a little bit more post-injection pain than these injectable pre-workouts. And I still like to keep my post-injection pain to a minimum because I'm old and I don't want to be limp all the freaking time. And then sometimes I take grothermone too. I use pre-workout which also seems to have a synergistic effect in a stack like this. And one of that's come from, coming from a lipolytic effect, releasing free-form fatty acids in the glycerol backbone from a stored adipose tissue converting into glucose or the glycerol is actually contributing to skeletal muscle volumization just like the gorilla mode. Liquid glycerol does. That I'm not entirely sure of. But this combination of everything we just mentioned, full as a house. Absolutely fantastic. Again, make sure you monitor your blood pressure while you'll start stacking all of these vasodilators and pump-enhancing products together. I've linked the Omron 7 down below. You can purchase it on Amazon. And again, if you start to experience any kind of symptom of hypotensive or just a slight reduction in blood pressure, which you can check with your Omron 7, stop, increase your sodium intake to increase your blood volume so you keep your blood pressure in range and just stay home. Write it out. You overdid it. You don't want to be hypotensive with significant low blood pressure in the gym making you faint, especially during a strenuous deadlift, for example. I mean, we've seen those incidents happen all the time, right? So if you overdid it, just stay home, write it out, increase your sodium intake to increase your blood volume and keep your blood pressure in range and then you try again the next time. I've linked all of the Gorillamide products which we just discussed down below for easy access. Just make sure you use code VIGORUS for 10% discount if you want to purchase some of these products yourself. If you live in the United States, you can do your blood work over at Merrick Health which have excellent patient care coordinators and healthcare providers who can help you interpret your blood work results. I don't think that any of these compounds besides the injectable steroids are going to skew your blood work parameters but it's still important to do your blood work frequently when you do a lot of self-experimentation in order to achieve the most masculine super pump you could potentially get. And for everything else, check out vigorsteve.com if you're looking for something specific that we didn't discuss. In this video, literally everything is explained on my website. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A super pump front double bicep for you guys. Maybe I should do a couple of push-ups to bring this pump to the next level but I'm always pumped talking about performance enhancing drugs. Maybe it's just me, maybe it's you too but I like the pump. I'm sitting here being fully pumped and charged up ready to inject some injectable pre-workouts and then head to the gym. Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.