What's up, dudes? It's not a vigorous Q&A. It's my 40th Well, 40th birthday. That's right. 14,610 days of life. Can you believe that? I can't believe it myself. Uh, it's been a pretty uneventful birthday. I will say that. Um, usually me and my wife would do birthday dinner dates on Sunday anyway because sometimes the birthdays falls on the weekday. But that doesn't mean you get to misbehave during the week. So um and since this is like um you know insemination/conception week, there will be no cigars and no alcohol until um we've passed the window of opportunity I would say. So yeah, 40 cigars in 40 minutes exactly. Uh no cigars this time. So I will save that for Sunday. So basically today was very uneventful. I went to the gym, trained back, killer workout, incorrect gains. Um, dieting 98 kilos right now. Getting pretty lean, so that's good. Uh, and what else? What else is new? Uh, I recorded a video today that will drop next week. The, uh, what is it called? Oh yeah, the entrepreneurial deep dive part one recorded today and probably part two will be recorded tomorrow. So stay tuned. That will be dropping soon. Today I actually wanted to release a insulin sensitivity video about or insulin sensitivity video for MK-677. I might drop it tomorrow, but on Friday the views are kind of abysmal. So, probably next week. Next week will also be the how to stay happy on Trembolone. Yeah. Yeah. 20 minutes of good advice on how to stay happy on Tremblone. So, that will be next week. A couple more podcasts coming up. So, plenty of content on the way. Thanks for all the birthday wishes, guys. I highly appreciate it, man. There's so many of them already. So, let's start. Oh, and as as a a common rule, please read read it down below. Let's save the PD questions for next Saturday. So, if you super chat me for a particular performance announcing drug question, I'll ask my editor to kind of make a note or my time stamps guy, Alvaro. Oh, he's right here. Alvaro is right here. Happy birthday, Steve. Hopefully, you can get quadruplets right off the bat of a birthday gift. I think my wife is going to explode. Do you guys remember that scene from Alien uh or Aliens, right? or whatever sequel follows after that. So, let's then go there. I'll be happy with one. So, Alvaro, please if if you see somebody super chat a PD question, just write it down in the timestamps that you're going to make and then um we'll answer that next Saturday. Yeah, I already put it down below here. So, don't go crazy. Oh, and here's already a super chat. Holy [\h__\h] Holy beas. Where is it? 50 bucks from Ron Burgundy. You are the man. Happy birthday, brother. It's my 40 40th as well. So, your birthday is on September 28th. That's right. That's the best birthday of the year, bro. Congratulations. Happy birthday, bro. I I can't super chat you back, but I highly appreciate it nonetheless. All right, so let's just keep it light today. Let's keep it easy. Another super chat from Truth Avails. Happy birthday, Vigorous Steve. Much appreciated. So, uh, let's just go through the chat and answer some silly questions. So, you can ask me about life. It's, um, yeah, it's been a long it's been a long time. I can't believe I'm pretty much halfway there or at least halfway through quality of life. Then after 80 years old, apparently it starts to deteriorate. Let's see. The day drinker. Day drinker. Jesus Christ. Hey, I got you beat by 365 days. So, it's your birthday also. The day drinker. Happy birthday, dude. Likewise. So, in a quarter, you can't leave out that February 29th that comes around every uh what is it? Every four years minus minus one to every every 2,000 years or something where they skip uh February 29th. All right. A lot of birthday wishes. How about we all know how you did into fitness and your motivation ups and downs, mistakes and briefs. How about we all know how you did how you did get into fitness? Okay. So my how did I get into fitness? Uh so I swam when I was younger. I swam from the age three maybe four until age no not three maybe later. I can't remember. It's been well 37 years or maybe a little bit longer. 35 years ago. Anyway, I was very young, single singledigit uh numbers on age. I went to uh swimming, right? You get your ABC diploma and then you keep going. You have another 21 diplomas after that. So, I got all of them until I was like 14 years old. Then I took one year off and my wife or not my wife, my mom, same [\h__\h] right? Um my mom said I should do something. So, she was going to the gym and so she signed me up for something called Kids Fits. uh fit, you know, fitness for kids and uh it was once a week and it was for a super hot instructor. So I was about 15 years old and the instructor was 18 years old. So when you're that young it's okay, right? Apparently the female instructor super hot and um she would spot us on bench press, you know, but you get the beautiful view of the underboop. So, we would do bench press every week and then I went to the gym twice a week to get, you know, the bench press angle twice a week. So, yeah, that's how I got started in the gym. And then I think I got laid six months later. Yeah. And the girl that I got laid with was 17 years old. So, not as old as the instructor, but a little bit older than I was. And she really liked my muscularity. So, I was sold after that. Yeah. So, good times. Yeah. I was a model also, by the way. Everything was downhill after that until I met my wife. But yeah, I lost my virginity to a 17 year old model. H good times because I was muscular. So, you know, there's a lot of benefits. And regarding the motivation, I mean, it's part of my life, dude. It doesn't require any motivation. It's like brushing my teeth. So, going to the gym is the same as um I don't know, eating, brushing my teeth. It's just a life I live. So it has nothing to do with motivation or or finding the inspiration to go. If I'm tired, gym. If I feel stressed, gym, right? If I feel uh sad, gym. If I feel happy, gym. Gym is the solution to everything basically. Um so that's why I keep going and going and going. I went today also. Uh Richard Bell, did you have hookers and ice cream cake, Steve? No. Um, you know, at one point I wanted to do a cocaine and hooker party, but then I grew up and then I got married, so that that's that's off the menu. Uh, I don't think my wife would agree on the hookers. Uh, but maybe the ice cream cake. Maybe next Sunday, right? Keep those super chats going so I can afford it. Yeah, no. No hookers. No. Very nice shirt. Thank you. This is I got this off the rack in Japan. Surprisingly, it fit, but for how long? That remains to be seen. Adam, going to Thailand soon. See you at the gym. Yeah, see you at the gym. There you go. See you there. All right, here we go. Uh, happy birthday. Favorite mitochondrial support supplement. Can't wait for the entrepreneurs tech. Thank you for all of your work. Okay, so Avaro, please make a note. We'll answer this on Saturday on the vigorous Q&A. Don't worry uh a kai grata occult we won't forget about your question but this is a birthday uh live stream not a performance announcing drug live stream so give it some time two days and your question will be answered let's see a lot of happy birthdays all right any particular reason you chose vigorous and not some other name um so funny story I think I put it in my bio or about on my vigoroussteve.com website but long story short Um, you know, Steve is not my real name. My real name is Stefan. Uh, which is the name that my parents gave gave me. As for my last name, we'll keep that ambiguous, right? So, my family members don't have to suffer the the terrible fate of this YouTube channel talking about performance, not drugs. Ah, yeah. Unfortunate. So, uh, I changed my name from Stefan to Steve when I came to Thailand and nobody could pronounce my [\h__\h] name. Yeah, they would call me Satan, which was just made my ears bleed. So, after about a year of that, I just said, "You know what? Steve is a little bit easier to pronounce." Plus, Steve was uh my favorite bodyguard from the Jerry Springer show, right? Steve. Steve. Steve. For the guys that are over 35, I'm sure you guys remember. And then, you know, I I was going to the gym quite frequently, you know, training the way I do, you know, high intensity, high reps, time under tension, that kind of stuff. So, somebody said, "Man, you train so vigorously." And then I realized you put two and two together, Vigor Steve. And here we are. Now, the the Vigor Steve uh name doesn't rhyme or sit well with everybody. Of course, there's a lot of word play work jokes on the Vigor Steve. Um but it's all good, man. We all need an alias and uh I think Vigor Steve is timeless. I think Derek is not so happy with his more plates, more dates uh alias because, you know, it's not about the plates and the dates anymore. It's mostly about um you know sharing information that people should have um in the form of reaction videos. So I think he was thinking about changing it to more plates at one point but yeah it's still more plates more dates but I think vigorous Steve is kind of timeless until I'm no longer going to the gym and thus no longer vigorous but then uh you know we can always go to vanilla Steve right. All right. Alvaro JD I was born on February 29th. Finally have one next year. So, you're what, like four years? No, not four. Five years old. Six years old. You're so smart for a six-year-old, dude. There we go. Iron Grit. It's part of the team. Part of the moderating team. So, don't piss off the Iron Grit because he'll put you in timeout indefinitely. Send you on that permanent vacation that they talked about in those old mafia movies. So, Steve, got a question. In 40 years of being alive, what has been one of the silly experience? Oh, man. So many. Perhaps getting pissed drunk and ending up in a foreign country or something like that. Yeah, I got pissed drunk and some ended up in Thailand and I'm 40 years old. Um, dude, I've had so many silly experiences. So many. Uh, but many of them do involve recreational drugs. Uh, I I crossed the border into Myanmar, but I better not tell that story. Um, twice. One time the way you're not supposed to do it and one time the way you're supposed to do it. A touch. Um, let's see. I mean, too many, dude. When I was when I was traveling for a year, I've had so many silly experiences. One time I uh I rented a motorbike in Vietnam. I think it was Da Nang or Data. So, it's the middle of Vietnam. And I would just make my own adventure. So, I would go drive around on my motorbike and uh you know, whatever happens happens, right? So I go through all these mountainous roads and side alleys and at one point I ended up at this place where there was like a bamboo fence like sky high like [\h__\h] 10 m super super high just a bamboo fence completely you can't see through it. So I'm like what the hell is going on? And I guess they heard me coming because, you know, the door opened and some guy came out with an axe. And the exact same thing happened close to the border with Myanmar at a at a what was it the military station also some guy with an axe and dogs. They basically in Vietnam he basically walked out and said, you know, beat it. So might have been some sort of opioid or drug plantation in the middle of nowhere or some sort of factory. Um yeah, that was pretty silly. So, I turned around and I got the [\h__\h] out of there. And the same thing happened close to the border of Myanmar when I ended up in some uh Thai military uh station or base next to the border. Two dogs first ran to be barking, but usually, you know, if you know how to handle dogs and especially if the tails are waggling, that's usually not an issue. And then also a guy with an axe, different kind of axe, but also with an axe, you're like, "Uh, you shouldn't be here." Like, "Get the [\h__\h] get lost." But luckily at the time was able to speak all over the Thai. Uh so he politely uh you know asked me to go and I told him so he asked me what are you what the hell are you doing here? So I'm just driving around you know having fun seeing the rest of Thailand. He's like this is not the place to be driving around. So anyway uh many experience like that. Um yeah that's why I'm surprised I'm still alive. I got all that [\h__\h] out of the door before I got married though. So for the last 10 years my life has been pretty uneventful. uh allegedly. But um even though Japan was pretty rugged, yeah, Japan was pretty rugged, too. But I I'll spare you the details. All right, let's scroll down a little bit. Here we go. Happy birthday. Uh does Turk make you as tight as Eci? Uh well, it's not a drug question, right? So, I would say both don't really make you tight. I would say that Turk and Ecti made me hold a little bit of water, but nothing to the extent that steroids would. So yeah, there goes that. Stefan sounds pretty Dutch. Yeah. Yeah. The curse of Dutch nationalities will haunt me forever until I get a uh a new passport, but that's so much hassle. All right, Sammy G. Is it okay to run? Well, we'll answer this Saturday, Sammy. So, Alvaro, take a note and then we'll answer that over the weekend. Let's see. Peter Petrov, uh, Bitcoin price predictions. Will we hit 22K by the end of the year or 30K? Is it in store? Yeah, it's a bit tricky because I mean tomorrow we have the max pain, right? The the the futures, the MC futures are going to expire tomorrow. And I think the max pain is around 26,000, but just now it pumped up quite high, but it's pumping against resistance. So, I'm not sure if it's I I'm I'm all out. By the way, you know, disclaimer, I'm all out of Bitcoin. I made a couple trades in this, you know, sideways movement, but this one I didn't predict because normally I would just get in, you know, with a couple coins in the in the bottom of the range and then cash out right around this point, but it only hit the midway. So, I I felt not confident to put in some money and and, you know, ride it out. So, it keeps bumping against the resistance. you know, it's edging, it's proddding basically. Not against the cervix though, but you know, the the entry point. So, right now, I'm I'm, you know, all out of all coins or most of them. Maybe I still got some trace trace money in the old coins, but I'm mostly all out. Uh I'm waiting for lower prices. It wouldn't surprise me if we hit 25K again. And if that doesn't um if that doesn't hold then anywhere between 22k 23k and a half uh is very reasonable where's that well I'm not going to mention the I'm not going to you know [\h__\h] up my bandwidth but wherever the previous support was it wouldn't surprise me if it goes all the way down there because you know the first six months of this you know move has already played out and it's very likely based on the previous years that in the pre- having year right or pre-electction here depending on how you look at it that it's just going to go down. So, you know, you have to, you know, play all scenarios, but I think 22K is more likely in the short term than 30K. But again, you could be mistaken, right? If it breaks through the resistance right now and it holds there, even though it's the end of the month and even though September is generally speaking a a low month, a negative month, if we close positively every time that happened, October is absolutely phenomenal. So, you know, let's see what happens. And don't be afraid to move your money back in. If we break through support, hold it there and start October off fresh because then we might go up to 30K or maybe even 48,000, you know? Who knows? Who knows? That's why Bitcoin is so much fun. Iron Grit. Yeah, now you know my frustration. It's a birthday stream, bro. Let's see. Uh your thoughts on who will be Mr. Olympia this year? Man, it's a tough one because Hadi Shopan looks improved even though I feel that he's a little bit maxed out. So he might be a little bit bigger. Let's say two pounds bigger and 2% sharper for example. So that's marginal changes, but it could be enough, right? You have to knock the champion out. And if Chupan is a little bit better, he just arrived in uh in America by the way. So that's what one How many weeks are we out? 1 2 3 4 5 weeks out. So, you know, no possible issues of water retention during flights like his first Olympia. So, last time he also came in a very very long time ago and he slate obviously. Now, that being said, if he's the same or slightly off again, if he if he's 100% on and slightly improved, I think he will win again. But if he's slightly off for the same as last year and Derek Lunsford is, you know, much improved, which based on his previous physiques, he does look a lot improved, then um I think he can take it. And I wouldn't have anything against Derek Lunford taking it because he has a much more pleasing physique in my opinion than Heidi Chupan, right? Derek Lunford doesn't have suspicious delts, has a little bit better taper, has more balloon muscle, but the muscle maturity and the density and the gnarly definition isn't there yet simply because um Derek Lunsford doesn't have so much years in the gym and so many years of competing compared to Howard Chupan. Now Chupan is I think 40 something 40 42 years old and Derek Lunsford is what they're 30 years old you know. I mean, he's got a lot of time to improve. That being said, you know, I think it's one and two for those two. And depending on who shows up and who improved the most, I think the the one who improved the most will win. Then uh let's see. Then we have uh Nick. Of course, I think Nick will go down to fourth because it looks like Samson Da has improved a lot. And based what I've seen on Nick, um, he can still improve more, but it looks like he's kind of maxed out to the point he will only improve two, three% per year, but Samson Dada has improved 10% since the Arnold Classic. And in the Arnold Classic, he already won. So, I think he's going to leaprog over Nick. Again, that's purely based on statistics and uh, you know, that kind of stuff. And then we'll have to see what what what's going on with uh what's his name? Uh man, all these names elude me. I honestly I don't follow body that much anymore. Anyway, the guy that lives in Dubai, so yeah. So he might be fifth and then Nick sixth. But again, anything can happen. Depends on who shows up. Top six is going to be super tight. Ramy is out. Uh, I don't think that um you Let me just whip up the the entire lineup, Mr. Olympia lineup, so I don't leave out anybody other people are going to be pissed. Uh, let's see who's qualified. Mr. Olympia qualification. Qualification. That is generation iron. That will probably not end in well. Yeah, it's funny. Every time you you time every time you try something specific, then uh it can't find it. Qualified list. Yeah. Qualified athletes and IFBR.com. All right. Hopefully the internet will hold up. Even though I got a dual connection that I'm paying paying an arm and a leg for, this uh live stream quality is still not the same as people who live in the United States. Okay, I think Harupan in first, Derek Lunsford second, um Samson Da third. Let's see where is the guy from Dubai. I thought he's qualified. Oh yeah, here Andrew Jacked Chinedu Andrew Obia uh from the Oba from the United Emirates and then uh well the rest Ian Vieier is out um retired smartly. Big Ramy is sitting it out but he should just retire because I don't think he can overcome his injuries. Brandon Curry I think that was a one-off and then the rest I mean I really hope that Roman Fritz breaks the top 10. That would be great if you could just fill out and uh and then Nathan Dash, I really hope he can make it to the USA at all, you know, based on previous convictions in the UK. All right, let's scroll up a little bit. Let's select something good. Time to be bitter. Congrats, Steve. Thank you very much. I'm a Dutch guy trying to escape the Netherlands. You inspire me. Okay, so two videos you need to watch. First one is the blueprint for financial freedom. Watch that twice. It's a two-year plan on how to escape and the Thailand survival guide. And there's a couple other Thailand videos because Thailand, you know, all things considering, it's still the best place to live, you know, even though it's sometimes a little bit problematic with the visa and uh, you know, the rules and regulations and that kind of stuff. Once you're well traveled, and I've been to many countries in my lifetime. All things considering, Thailand is the best place. That's why I'm still here. I would like to live in Dubai, but it's a little bit more complicated to get started again. And now I have a house and six, well, eight cats. We adopted the two ones that are outside. They're still outside, but they got all the comforts of the inside cats. So, we have eight cats and then, of course, a wife and potentially a kid on the way. Fingers crossed. So, it's a lot of um you know, now that I'm settled, it's it's kind of a little bit difficult to leave, I would say. But, you know, never say never, right? I mean, maybe Dubai at one point does sound a little bit a little bit more appealing than Thailand depending on how these rules are going to be enforced. So, uh, watch the blueprint for financial freedom and then maybe a couple Thailand videos and then, uh, start grabbing life by the balls and make some hard decisions because, uh, you know, you can be a bit ver better version of yourself if you just move countries. So funny, it's like every live stream is a jerk live stream, but whatever, dude. What I realized a long time is though ago that people never listen and it doesn't matter if you try to steer them in the right direction or if you put this [\h__\h] in the bottom. Uh people are going to do what people are going to do and the people who are smart they pay attention and make the adjustments and otherwise well just uh h what can you do? Mantis what's up bro? How you doing, Steve? The three most positive and happy moments of these 40 years you revive in your mind when you feel blue. Uh I barely feel blue nowadays because I'm uh I think I tacked off all the boxes besides um having a kid before 40. Like there were there were certain things I wanted to accomplish by the age of 40. I wanted to travel the world. I accomplished that at the age of 26. Not the world, but I traveling for a year and I did it through Asia. Of course, there's a lot more countries to see, but I've been to a lot of countries in my life. So, that's, you know, traveling for a year, that's basically traveling the world. I think that's a fair assessment. At the age of 26, 27, uh, I wanted to marry the best woman in the world, which I did, and we're still married. Um, we're almost, we know each other for almost 10 years, and now I'm married for, man, what is it? Eight almost eight years. And, uh, well, now we're going to have a kid. I wanted to be financially secure. I will leave the amount ambiguous, but I'm doing very well financially. Thank you very much. and I wanted to have a kid. Um, which as of now, uh, didn't happen yet, but we're still trying. I'm confident will happen within my 41, uh, my 40 years of age before the age of 41. So, at least we have, you know, not before 40, but within the 40th year. So, the positive moments, um, I don't know, getting all my cats besides marrying my wife, right? We just mentioned that. So, three positive moments besides marrying my wife. Uh, getting my cats. That was absolutely great. Uh, I love all of them tremendously, including the ones that are outside. So, all the cats that I have currently, it's uh that's a absolute highlight of my life. Um, yeah, traveling for a year, we we just mentioned that. It was probably the best time of my life ever. Traveling for an entire year, having um, you know, a fuckload of savings and no, you know, immediate deadline to spend it all. Uh, because I wanted to travel for two years. I had two years worth of savings. Uh, but I only survived one year. So, yeah. Uh, because my body was broke after one years of traveling. Uh, that was definitely the most happy moment in my life. All things. Yeah. No stress, just doing whatever the [\h__\h] I want. I I'm free. Free as a bird, no obligations. The only person I have to be accountable was me. And even though I like my life right now, uh it comes with ups and downs, right? So yeah. Uh but the cats and the wife obviously overcompensate for all the downs. More than enough. And third one. Man, that's hard. That's hard. Leaving the Netherlands. Yeah. When when did I leave 2013 when I when it was official and I and then of course I met my wife in 2014 and I I really felt a reason to stay in Thailand because otherwise I probably lived in Dubai by now. I'll be honest. Um yeah. So basically everything revolves around my wife. That's why we're still together. Yeah. Yeah. I achieved financial security when I was my with my wife, by the way. Yeah. Not before, but with my wife. All right, let's scroll down a little bit. John Jones, Steve, have you ever grown your facial hair out? Yes, I have. I used to rock a beard. It did. It didn't sit well on me. I've had my hair up to here at one point. I kind of looked like uh you know a slick back or what was his name? Not not Marcelus Wallace, but the other guy from P Fiction that gets shot up in the bathroom because he tried to uh Man, it's been such a long time since I watched Pulp Fiction. Anyway, I kind of look like that guy. Not Not What was his name? Guys, remind me in the chat. What was this guy's name? I'm sure you guys know. Anyway, so yeah, I I've had my hair grown out quite a bit. Um, but this is the much I I' I'd rather have it. Um, apparently it tickles, or so my wife says. So, this is only one day old, by the way. This ink collection makes my hair grow super fast. It's [\h__\h] crazy, dude. Yeah. So, tomorrow is shaving time and then I'll record some more videos for next week. But today we're uh we're just cruising along. All right. Today we're cruising along. But there's no u no a fat chance that my facial hair will ever return. I just don't like hair. This is all I have. This this is the longest I have. And even this I have to trim because if I leave it longer and I do this then it like it's like up to here. Yeah. So those caterpillars uh disgusting. So now uh I'm now in a position in life where um I prefer to be bald. Yeah. Everywhere. And since I'm off the market, I don't have to care if it looks good or not. Iron Gary, don't worry about it, man. Um people are going to do what they're going to do. Just just let them ask. I'm just not going to answer to it. Yeah. Hey, Panini, what internet service provider do you use? Um man, that's a good good question. I actually use both true and ais in Thailand. That's the only two that offer internet. So I got an a parallel line at the highest bandwidth and then I use some sort of uh you know loadbearing splitter or something. I installed that took a whole day to um to split that across the internet or if one line drops and the other line automatically picks up. So yeah, I use the highest internet speeds of both internet providers and uh still the the quality is abysmal. That's the life you live when you live in a third world country or developing country. What is the advice you would give yourself to a 30-year-old you? Um on a time machine or if I was 30 now? Um on a time machine I would say put all your money in Bitcoin. Yeah. very irresponsible. But look at the [\h__\h] gains. Uh yeah. Uh man, what what would I give? I I think I learned most of my stupid lessons by the time I was 30, to be honest, you know. Yeah, to be honest, I think I I I pieced it all together. Of course, you get older, you get more, you know, knowledgeable about certain subjects, but when I was 30, I think I had my [\h__\h] together already. Yeah, to be honest. Um, so what what advice would I give myself? Don't change a [\h__\h] thing. Don't change a [\h__\h] thing, dude. Because I'm I'm very happy at the place that I am right now. I mean, I I think I have the respect of the fitness industry, the respect of respectable people. Um, again, I'm in a good spot, dude. Yeah, I'm in a good spot. So, I don't think I'd have much advice. Now, for a 20-year-old, I would have a lot of advice, right? Um, recognize the retards earlier so you don't invest in friendships that are leading nowhere. You know, be a little bit more responsible with your money. Even though I was quite responsible with my money at 20 years old already. Uh, don't drink so much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Don't start doing something for yourself a little bit earlier, right? Leave Holland earlier. But I think well, yeah, you know, all lead all all roads lead to this point, right? So, uh, since I'm quite content, I would say that, uh, what can you do? Oh, my wife is making a guest appearance. It's me. What's up, babe? Get out of the chat here. Get out. This is This is not This is not wifey material. Anyway, scroll back a little bit. We uh we made some good remarks about my marriage with you, so enjoy. Nick, happy birthday. Thanks for all the knowledge you provide. My pleasure, Nick. That's what we're doing here. All right, let me see. All right, you guys. You guys figure it out about the direct questions, okay? Just to talk about your your uh yourself amongst yourself. Uh let's see. Can you tell me is 550 nanogs per deciliter low for 20? Uh no, that's average. Is it enough for bodybuilding or quality of life? Probably not. I'm 600 nanogs per deciliter and I can't wait to be back on cycle. But they highlight that in the entrepreneur deep dive part one. So stay tuned. Yeah, John Travolta. That's right. Vince Vega. I kind of look like him, albeit younger. And when I had long hair, I think I was like 21. No, 31. 31 when I grew my hair out. We have a VIP in the chat. Bodybuilding with Aaron. Meeting. Yeah, meeting Aaron. Yeah, that was the best part of my life. That too. Yeah, that was a friendship that I invested in and that paid off. One of the few. So, good on you, Erin. You didn't join the the the the list of people that turned out to be [\h__\h] scumbags. Good on you, Aaron. Nice work. So, get that didn't join, right, as an emphasis. So yeah, um getting Aaron into my life and then getting him over from China to Thailand, that was a yeah, a good thing. That was very positive. We should get that [\h__\h] drunk soon and smoke some cigars, bro. Yeah. Hey, fitness. What's the secret to looking 21 at 40? Uh financial security so I can afford all the anti-aging drugs, which I'm very heavy on. And shaving helps. Yeah. And not taking steroids helps. So when you go back like to, you know, 2022 and look at my face there, I look older even though it's been nine months. So if I shave, I look kind of young. Um, I do look young. No, maybe it's this light. I think if I'm in the gym and you see all these [\h__\h] crevices in my face and I frown a little bit here, you got front light that helps. But in the gym with the overhead lighting from the muscle factory, I lost his balls. absolutely crazy. So, if you want to look young, uh, get a Thai wife, a a smart one, not one that you get off the street, the ones from Padia, don't do it. Don't do it. That will age you 10 years, two years. But if you get a smart one, you know, if you have an education and you get a wife that has an education and you've traveled the world and you get a wife that has traveled the world and you are financially secure and your wife is financially secure, right, everything matches and then you still have this playfulness from the Thai culture. So you um you know have to re-educate yourself from a cultural perspective. Takes a couple years, but I've gotten used to it. That's why I'm always happy golucky here or at least most of the time. Um that's the secret to life, baby. Yeah, that's the secret to life. And then the next step is just exclude all the western [\h__\h] that is on YouTube and on TV. That is the best thing you can do, right? Disconnect your cable, go to YouTube, and don't watch hate and drama and nonsense. it doesn't contribute anything. Only watch the stuff that contributes to the well-being of your life and whether that's uh financial well-being or intellectual well-being or relationship and love well-being, right? Just be selective on what you consume so you can have can have a full life because and of course drama will always come to you but then it's you know depending on how you manage it. Look at it this way. Life is a big joke. It's like a video game. All you need to do is pass it. And then when you pass, you beat the game. You beat the game of taxes. Then uh Yeah, the last pretty good. Bit Zapple. Nice shirt. Thank you. Thank you. Got it off the rack in Japan. One of the few souvenirs that I bought. I like this thing. Yeah. And it's stretchy, too. You see that? Cleavage. Cleavage. Didn't I just answer this one? Social justice warrior. It's a more life advice. We're in our 40s now. So, more life advice. Um, more life advice. I know. Just focus on you, man. Like the the society is tell tells you the strength to steer you and even the man will swear, which is toxic as [\h__\h] And all those guys look the same, too. They're on TRT. They got a beard. Some of them are bold or they got this, you know, over stylized hair, right? They all got a shirt. They all got a watch. They all got a Lamborghini. It's like clones of each other. [\h__\h] pathetic. These guys. Oh, this is a man, right? You got to have the watch and the beard and the shirt and the the lanky but semuscular, right? You need to be six feet tall and have a six six inch dick and make six figures a year. Don't consume that content. It's such a waste of time. Just be the best version of you, right? And focus on you alone. If you develop yourself as a person and try to be the best version of yourself every single day or at least most days out of the year with a couple intermediate breaks for debauchery, I mean, it has to take place. Get it out of your system. Um, I still have the need for some debauchery here or there even though I'm 40, right? but within reason. Not not when I was 20 or 25. That was [\h__\h] insane. And somehow I survived. Um, so just focus on you, dude. There's a lot of noise in this world. There's a lot of drama and and you have to selectively block it out, right? And whether that comes from family, they don't support you, [\h__\h] them. [\h__\h] them. Move on. Right? You can still be cordial during events, uh, during family dinners, but just just don't pay it any mind. You know, just you you you selectively close the information that you share with your family members or friends for that matter. And I used to have great friends and then, you know, [\h__\h] happens and they prove that they're no longer uh, friendship material. Cut them off. Really, there's so many people in the world you can have friendships with, right? And it it it's brutally honest, but friends can weigh you down so much. So much, right? You're the collection of the people you let into your life uh in your immediate surroundings that you do stuff with and share experiences with. So if you want to level up, you need to be around people that are leveling up themselves as well, right? So you can get inspired and and you know, join the race of self- betterment. And not that it's a competition, but you know, like guys like Erin for example, you know, you start basically here, right? When we got into comparatively, right, but I'm six years older. So he started here and over the course of that I know him. So that's uh six years. Aaron, do I know you six years? Five years. He's got himself from here to here, right? He's leveled up tremendously. And that's what I would like to see in my friendships, right? So, if somebody wants to be in the friend zone, but they're not leveling up, they're they're weighing you down, right? That's I wish somebody told me when I was 20, but that's the advice I could give you. So, surround yourself with people who are go-getters trying to better themselves, winners, and and and you only need a couple of them. You don't need a huge group of friends. You just need to keep a couple solid friends that are um as uh as thirsty for self- betterment as you are. And then when you have that, we have a good network. Um, then dude, the life will just get better every single day, you know? And then all you need is one partner to match, right? One life partner to match. And in the meantime, you just [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Just don't don't spend too much time on it. You know, the time that you spend on Tinder or chasing girls, um, you can spend chasing money. And, uh, when there's money and there's financial security, there's confidence. And we have confidence the women will come. Yeah. Easy. All right. Aaron, where are you? Are you still here? Are you agreeing or you think I'm full of [\h__\h] All right. Aaron has already left the chat. All right, let me scroll down and then uh let's see where we are. Yeah, there you go. Zubar said it the best. Birds of a fedter flock. together. You hang with losers, you'll end up a loser. Very true. Yeah, very true. But I wish that uh somebody told me that when I was 20, not that I had to figure out over the last uh 15 years. You know what's stupid? Like I've gone through this a couple times before, right? when you uh you have a friendship with a loser and then they kind of weigh you down and then you know [\h__\h] happens and then it happens when you're like 27 and then it happens again when you're like 32 and then recently you know it's it's yeah you have to be super selective dude and that sucks for people who are trying to get into my circle now because I'm I'm super you know so prove your [\h__\h] self you know prove yourself so yeah be careful and Then again, you know, no hard feelings. If people want to move on or proven themselves to be [\h__\h] then uh that's on them, you know. Just leave them be. Let them be [\h__\h] all by themselves. John Doe Steve, world for a good time or a long time? What is it here? World for a good time or a long time? All right. Um well, both ideally. You got to find a balance, right? Between a good time and a long time. You can uh do the longevity stuff and live to 120 years old, but you probably don't have much to look back on. So, right, a little bit of debt here and there, having some fun, taking some risks. Um, life without risks is a life not worth living, right? And every time you get into a relationship or a friendship or uh you know, buying an asset that can appreciate potentially over time, it's all risk and it's all part of the true uh part of the game. Bodybuilding with Aaron the man speaks the truth. I'm walking evidence of what happens when you listen to Steve. Yeah, but it's mutual, right? I mean, you gave me a lot of advice along the way as well. So, you level up, I level up, we all level up together and uh that's uh what it's uh there for. But, you know, and all the people that we see in Thailand that are just [\h__\h] making a Yeah. a mockery uh of their own lives, those guys we were cordial with, but yeah, we don't waste time on Yeah. And there are many. There's a lot of driftwood in Thailand, I'll tell you that. People just floating around doing [\h__\h] Anyway, we're still friendly. Just uh just just get off your ass, you know? I would say get off your ass and level up. Jesus Christ. So many so many. It's all PD questions. I've typ cast myself, right? You see, Steve, and it's all about drugs. All right, here's a good one. Happy birthday, coach. Just wanted to let you know that I appreciate your content. What I've learned is invaluable. Thank you. Thank you. Favorite information channel on YouTube. Happy birthday, Steve. Awesome. Fishing Indiana. My pleasure, dude. That's why we're giving back. Hopefully, we're changing lives. Joff explosive double bus. This guy. You even got my [\h__\h] Every time it's mirrored, right? You even got that [\h__\h] cannon. Let's put it closer to the camera so you can see. Um, as a um avatar to bring you 30th birthday happiness and in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Uh, Eric, what physical therapist do you recommend in Bangkok? Well, I would go with TK. Yeah, TK from Japan. He's um what is it? TK Acupuncture. I I'll link it down below if forget. This guy's the goat. Don't go to anybody else. Yeah. Fixed so many issues of my body and Aaron's body and everybody else's body that he works on and people that are consistent with his work, right? once a week, twice a week. Well worth the money. This guy's legit and he keeps expanding his knowledge base. So, good stuff. Uh, SNC Nutrition. Okay, Alo, make notes. We'll answer this on Saturday. This is not a vigorous Q&A. This is a birthday live stream and all the drug questions. Saturday, bro. Ask me something about life. Subar, happy birthday, Steve. You've been an inspiration to many of us. I appreciate all that you do, man. Yeah, but don't don't consider me a father figure or an elderly brother. Um I'm not qualified. I've made many a mistake. Yeah. Let's see. Blizzy Blake Yappa, happy birthday for everything you've taught me and all my friends come for everything now. Oh, right. Yeah. So now you're the elderly brother to all of your friends. make sure that they have something to contribute as well. That was also a mistake I used to make. Like everybody would come to me for advice and then I had nobody to go for my own advice. So when my parents were divorcing, guess what? I had nobody to turn to because everybody came to me for advice and then I asked a couple people and then they're like, "Yeah, they're gone." Right? So again, make sure you're surrounding yourself with go-getters so when you have troubles, you have somebody to go to. Aaron, we shouldn't say the hard R, but that's okay. There are many that recognize the retards. Yeah. And it takes a while, you know. I mean, when you're in Thailand, you think that everybody's like in the same boat, but it's not. So much [\h__\h] retardation here. It's uh Yeah, that's why we love it, right? That's why we love it here. You can do whatever you want, you know, hang out with the retards or decide not to. Yeah. Happy birthday, Steve, and thank you for all you do. My pleasure, guys. I'm I'm up for an update because I'll tell you this, after 9 months of being off testosterone, my motivation is at an all-time low. Yeah. So, I uh they're still getting it done though. But I would say, [\h__\h] I would love to be on some testosterone. Jesus Christ, my wife better get pregnant soon. Here we go. Angregious blunder. Uh, Steve, have you ever been to a rub and tug parlor since living in Thailand? Um, well, if you go to a rub and tug, you don't talk about it, right? They're they're they're available, but if you partake, just you don't talk about it, right? It's a first rule of fight club. So, there are many a rub and tuck parlor. There are many a [\h__\h] bars. There are many a um go-go bars with shorttime rooms. There are many a uh [\h__\h] massage parlors. The debauchery never ends here. Like I if if I wanted to be in if I wanted to, you know, cheat on my wife, I could do in five minutes. Literally around the corner, there's a house. I'm sure of it. Masked as a karaoke bar, but you decide not to do that. So, you know, getting laid is very easy in Thailand. Unless you're very old and ugly. And if you're old and ugly, then yes, there's many of alternatives at the rub and tugs and everything that falls into that category. Um, and there's even even websites that review these places. What's it called? Summit Psycho. Is that still online? Yeah, interesting read. All right, next one. Uh, which video game uh original soundtrack have you been listening to lately? I've been trying F-Zero. [\h__\h] you are the [\h__\h] man. Yes. F-99. Insanely fun. I invite you to listen to Barberman 64. I have that one. I have that. And the original F-Zero soundtrack, F-ZeroX from That's not the original one that But the uh F-ZeroX Taro Bando [\h__\h] dude. Heavy metal like melodic death metal. He was one of the first who brought it to a video game and one of the first who made it in digital form. um you know alto together. So Taro Taro Bando, right? I think is it Taro Bando? Yeah. Musical composer from the Japan. It's one of the few names I recognize. Legend. [\h__\h] legend. Barberman 64 is very very good. Um man, I have like gigabytes of video game music, but the most one I listen to is Doom one and two, right? Doom 2, the soundtrack is not as good as Doom 1. That's uh the most recent not the not the very old Dooms that that one I listen to the video game remixes uh OC Remix has a very old website also OC Remix has a very old Doom category right Doom one two three uh of the old line and then the recent ones Doom uh what was this what's his [\h__\h] name uh Doom composer I good I'm good with drugs but I'm not good with names Gordon also lint I mean M Gordon I still listen to when I'm training. So I I should public my list right of music. I have so much. Have you heard of a ping pong shows? Uh I've heard of them. Yes, but I've never been. I've been to the banana bar in Holland a couple times. That was uh interesting. That was interesting. But uh the pingpong shows uh no no because I always heard that they're scams. So, you know, you go to the ping-pong show and then they charge you like, you know, $1,000 bill and then they won't let you out. Um, you get into problems, right? But you can actually sneak out past the guards. They're not allowed to beat you because then you can go to the cops. So, if that does happen to you, you go to a ping- pong show and they start to charge you like $1,000 for the uh entertainment, then just sneak out. Just don't touch anybody. Put your hands like that and you just squeeze yourself past the guards and they won't do anything. Uh, and then you go to the tourist police. But no, I've never been. And again, uh, you know, um, dubious insertions I'm not too interested in. Um, I'm I'm well capable to insert my own into the nar into the narrative. And then, uh, yeah, a pleasure for both. Let's see. You've been a member for five months. I should pay you for your membership, right? Don't worry. We will uh we'll talk on uh Instagram. It's a shame I can't see like the badges. I made all these cool badges on uh on the memberships, but I can't see that here on the live stream at Streamyard. I only go so far. It can overlay all this cool stuff, but you know, the membership badges I don't see, unfortunately. Mick Gordon is gas. Exactly. Exactly. All right, let's uh scroll up and answer some cool questions that are not about drugs. Oh, Eric Ser. Hey. Hey, look at this. One, two, I think another one. What's going on here? Another one. Three times. So, what do we do with guys like this? Iron grids and put them in timeout. [\h__\h] off. Stop spamming. Jesus [\h__\h] Christ. That's not what it's there for. What is the best Zelda game? Um, I did like Breath of the Wild. I like that a lot more than the recent one, Tears of the Kingdom, because it was repetitive. I mean, it was in innovative, but the overworld was pretty much the same. So, I didn't feel like exploring as much, even though there was caves and of course sky islands. Um, for me it was not new enough for me to say that it's better than Breath of the Wild. And you know, when you factor in childhood memory and uh, you know, the instance of growing up after pulling out the sword figured literally and figurative speaking, um, yeah, I'm going to say Ocarine of Time is still the best Zelda game and basically the best game of all time. uh simply because um you know for the older dudes amongst us that are over well close to 40 when you play that game for the first time of course you play you know Super Mario 64 first that's 3D but then we have Zelda and the the expanses of the world and the amount of things you can do and of course the fun fact of growing up after pulling out the sword uh literally that is uh quite the eye opener and then when you do grow up in Zelda Huh? Then you realize that the world has gone to [\h__\h] which is exactly how it turns out, right? You grow up and then all the fun stuff of your childhood that you realized was cool and fun and then you get a rude awakening that the world is falling apart, which still is. Yeah. Yeah. That's why you need to buy financially secured to make it somewhat tolerable because uh so Ocarine of Time well imprinted best video game ever. Even though there's many cool video games out there, um I'm just I don't have time to play anymore that much. Ah, you're also a member for 6 months. Do what a surprise notification. Dear Steve, I wish you all the best. You are our precious precious golem. Yeah. Oh, of Time is still a goat. Absolutely. Absolutely. Uh cost of living in Thailand, sky's the limit. Yeah, I I think I made a short about that from one of the previous uh videos. So, please go to my Instagram. I think I wear the rope, right? The Jedi robe, not this one, but the Jedi rope. And there I go over the cost of living living. So, uh let's say $2,000 after tax. So, $2,000 net. that it's about 75. Well, maybe maybe more now with the [\h__\h] dollar to tie the rate. But yeah, you need about 2,000 bucks to get started and life gets good from $5,000 upwards. Yeah, that's net. But I know some people who do it over of $1,000 per month and they live very minimalistically and they're super happy and uh but you know, you don't open any doors with $1,000 per month. not not not you know in the you know in the nether regions most women don't get excited for $1,000 of income and you're not going to play with the the winners when you make $1,000 a month. So you know level up so you don't have to think about money and whatever you spend you spend as long as it's worth it and whatever you don't spend you invest. Just don't have any crazy you know expensive [\h__\h] habits like buying supercars. I mean it's useless especially in Thailand. You'll have [\h__\h] panic attacks and anxiety with all the motorbikes whizzing around. So, get yourself a motorbike that is cheap. Don't spend too much. Iron Grid, have you ever played Cyberpunk? I picked it up the last latest release. Really wakes your eyes on futuristic dystopia. It's an uncanny and good story so far from what I've played. Um, no, I haven't played it yet and um probably won't. I simply don't have the time, you know. I I really didn't have time to play the latest Zelda game. My wife was furious, so I had to not not really furious, but she's like, "What the hell are you doing?" You know, so I played for like two hours at the end of the day, but I I'm better off spending those two hours working and uh you know, just solidifying my financial freedom for the next couple of years. Um so no, I I'm I don't have time. I play the video game of life. I have a lot of asset management and weight management, you know, which is very common in uh in video games as well. And uh you know, creating all these cool outfits so I can look cool on the gram or in real life. Even though every time I post myself on the gram, everybody laughs about my pants and shoes and whatnot. So, I guess I'm unsuccessful in that area, but you know, when you're 40 years old, you don't really give a [\h__\h] about that [\h__\h] anymore. So, yeah. All right, next one. So, no no video games. Let's see. Uh uh uh uh uh uh let's answer a couple cool questions. Let's scroll down. A lot of happy birthdays. Much appreciated, guys. Again, it's been pretty uneventful today. Just another working day and things I have to do, but uh it's all good. Let's see. Oh my god, that username is not good. Are you Christian? Have you heard the gospel? Uh actually I have. Uh well, I went to Christian school when I was younger. Uh there were a couple options in my hometown and the Christian school resonated the most with my mom. So I have sang a many song in Dutch from the Bible. Yes. But I'm not religious. It uh all the songs that we sang and all the um Bible verses that I read or got read to me, it didn't really resonate with me. Yeah, I'll be honest. Well, I changed my mind at one point. Uh maybe, but I know I like uh I like aspects of most religions, you know, a little bit of Christianity, a little bit of Islam, a little bit of Buddhism or Shintoism, right? I take um what I feel is useful and embed it into my soul and um yeah but I I don't want to be limited by a book. There's so many opportunities in this planet and I don't think that I'm living u such a debaucherous life that I need to reel myself back in with the guidelines of one religion when there are many religions that you can choose from and many of them have their positives and negatives. So you take the positives in your eyes and roll with it. Dirty hammer Steve looks undefeated at 40. You should see me when I'm drunk. I look very defeated. Happy birthday, man. Thank you for everything you do. All right. My pleasure, dude. Yeah. Don't uh man, last year we had a birthday party uh that I threw for everybody basically and uh not too many people showed up because we threw it in Padia, but the good people showed up and then we had [\h__\h] legendary night with uh Aaron and Elon Musk and Colton who still lives in Padia. Elon Musk is also there, the guy that did the what 30 lbs in seven days challenge. And uh yeah, it was a top five night. That was [\h__\h] epic. I will not be repeated on what exactly happened, but it was a lot of fun. And I could well, we could still I could still walk. Yeah, I could still walk. And then I think I spent another hour with Aaron in the hotel room just catching up and having fun. And then we went to bed when the sun was coming up. That was uh [\h__\h] epic. Yeah. Yeah. We There's What was Aaron? Are you still here? What was the name of the club? Revolution or something? And it was a nightclub and the DJ was playing all the songs. So me and Aaron both being 120. No, I was 110 and he was 125 kilos. We're just dancing and dancing and dancing and and you know burning through the alcohol basically. And I was I was still Yeah, I was close to sober or sober enough to uh you know get a taxi home basically. But that was a lot of fun. Yeah. Uh I I was very defeated the next day though. That hurt. Yeah, that hurt. Let's see. Fish in Indiana. Country you've never been to that's on your list? Uh Tibet. Um I want to go to Yeah. And uh I've been to Bhutan already. I would like to go to Bhutan again. I would like to go to Mongolia again. I had such a good experience in both countries. And I have, you know, people I consider friends in both countries. So I would have a warm welcome and a good experience again. Uh but Tibet is on that list and um man what would like Italy? Yeah, Italy for sure. Turkey and um I think that's it. I think that's it. Yeah, that I really want to go to. Um, but a lot of places I want to go to, I've been to already. I would like to go to Bali again. I would like to go to Dubai again. I would like to go to Bhutan, Mongolia, and of course the United States, which is coming up in uh well, I think I'm leaving in two weeks. So, yeah, that that's pretty much it. I've been to Italy, but it's only the top only the tip of the country when I was traveling with my dad. So, I went to Austria and then he's like, "Do you want to go to Italy?" And we did like a little loop and uh yeah. Have you been to India? Yes, I've been to India for the World Championships in 2015 and um yeah, it was a bit intense. I tell you that it was a bit intense. Andy, have you ever been to Canada? Uh no, not yet. I The closest I came was Seattle last year when our flights got delayed. So, I spent a day in Seattle. Um and I wanted to go this year, but Derek was too busy at the dates I could come. So I decided to go to China, excuse me, go to China instead. So I go to China first, visit my good friend, lifetime friend of 39 years. We basically know each other since we were born because our parents are friends. So I got uh you know in I got I was made a good introduction after he was born and we've been friends ever since. It's the same guy that I went to with Japan and basically every everywhere he got stationed um for his work, I visited him. So, I visited him in Japan a couple years and then we met again for Osaka, Kyoto, and Coobe where we spent way too much money on coobe beef. Um, yeah. So, I'll go visit him in China, which is now open. And, um, but no, now Canada is on the to-do list, but honestly, I think next year um, of course, fingers crossed that my wife will give birth somewhere next year. I don't think I will be traveling much because I want to be there for the first two or three years continuously as my kid is growing up. So, will we all travel together as a family? Yes. But it will not be a long trip. So, it will be maybe a week, two weeks, you know, again, depending on when I feel we're ready as to travel as a family. So, might I go to Canada real quick? Maybe. We'll only be for a couple days, right? This will be for most of the destinations. So, again, get your traveling out the door before you settle and have kids because afterwards it's uh it's a bit difficult or you just have different priorities. Uh, Zigzag, what's up? Happy birthday, Steve. Thank you. I'm grateful that you share all of your knowledge with people all over the world. You definitely put me in the right track to improve my health. Much love, a fellow European. Thank you. That's that's good to hear. Yeah, that's good to hear. I mean, hopefully I can instill a little bit more than the performance drug information with the occasional uh life um advice. But yeah, I'm I'm just trying to give back as much as I can because um at one point I won't be doing YouTube anymore. When that is, I'm not sure. But at one point you won't be doing that anymore. So take as much as you can while I'm still on YouTube. And um yeah, it's just at one point it's time, you know, when you're old enough, you've experienced enough, it's just time to give back. Um for people who um you know are haven't gone through that yet, right? It might be people that are 50 years old or 20 years old. Doesn't really matter. And don't get me wrong, I have a lot of learning to do myself and I still make plenty of mistakes as my wife always reminds me, you know, not really, but sometimes you you [\h__\h] up here and there, you know, you do stupid stuff and uh yeah, but it's all a learning experience for everybody, right? So, uh if you guys can learn from me and I can learn from you guys, then I I think everybody wins, you know, and thank God for social media, we can do that. You have to take the good with the bad, but social media is mostly good. Yeah, mostly. Let's see. Uh, [\h__\h] Black. Oh, man. Good name though. Don't worry about it. Any conspiracy theories you think are true? If so, give the details, but not enough to get banned. Um, I mean, I think the government just a big conspiracy theory. Uh, I mean, yeah, how how deep do you want to go, dude? You know, again, what I always say, if you don't want to get banned or cancelled, keep it to yourself. That's the best thing, right? And conspiracy theories, as interesting as they are, you're not going to solve anything. So, my solution to all conspiracy theories is to do red pill stuff. not super red pill to the point you um start misbehaving towards women because I think that's despicable um or or just a toxic menace in general, but you need to get ahead financially and intellectually so you can make this planet more tolerable and that's completely in your hands and wasting your time on conspiracy theories when you can't have any influence on it unless you go um to the you know the places where you can actually have an influence but then you join the conspiracy theories basically because you see you know on the other side and you're like oh this looks interesting I'm you know if you can't beat them join them. So focus all your efforts on improving yourself and consume conspiracy theories um when you have free time if you want to spend your free time uh not with your wife or training or that kind of stuff. So yeah, there's a lot of good things uh going on in the world that you can focus your attention on to uh have a good time cuz life is finite. Yeah. Uh have you decided on the name for your future baby? Yes, I have two names ready for both a boy and a girl and uh nothing in between. So yeah, we got names ready. Yeah, stay tuned. Stay tuned. Check bound, happy birthday, Steve, and greetings from Prague. What's up, buddy? Greetings from Bangkok. Well done for sharing your experience with everybody here. Uh, both life and otherwise. I hope life is good for you in your uh and yours. Yes. Yes, life is very, very good. I mean, it can always be better, but you don't have to raise the bar too high. Um, I'm I'm pretty content with what I've had, what I have built, and where I am right now. Yeah, I'm pretty content. Can always be better, and I'm usually very hard on myself, which I shouldn't really be doing. Um, but uh yeah, I'm uh I'm doing okay. Thank you. I'm doing okay. Let's see. Let's see. I will be a father soon, but I'm concerned about the cerebrum shrinkage that's correlated with fatherhood. Do you have any ideas about it? In particular, do you have any thoughts about how to avoid? Um, you mean after you become a father that your cerebum will shrink? Uh, I didn't look into that. I'm not a father yet. So, we'll take one step at a time. What kind of uh one step at a time? So maybe, you know, what what else are you going to do? Live your life and not have any offspring? You know, some people don't shouldn't have any offspring. I mean, there's a lot of [\h__\h] on this planet. They shouldn't really have any offsprings. Um, but they'll still, you know, keep going, keep going. So you have to it's up to you to put something uh of worth and value on this planet and guide them right and be a present father and a present parent unlike so many kids uh you know got that opportunity. So if you want to better the world uh you have to put something on the planet that's worthy of leading and uh I'm going to be the one to do that. So, um, if I'm worried about something like like I said, I've lived I've accomplished most of the things that I wanted in my life already. So, if I have to take a step back on my own, uh, intellect to raise another, [\h__\h] it. Whatever, dude. I don't care. I don't care. It's no longer about me. Let's see what's next. What's the birthday cheat meal? Um, I'm not sure yet. I wanted to go out to a steak restaurant. Again, today I just had my normal day, so I ate a well a fish and eggs, a protein shake before going to the gym. So, it's pretty boring. But Sunday, I will I might go for steak, but I've looked at all the steak restaurants here in Thailand. And uh I don't know. I think I've I've been to I've think I've been to all of them. And after Coobe Beef, I'm um I'm not really in the mood for steak. I I told my wife said, "Why don't we save the birthday dinner for when we go to Las Vegas and then just go [\h__\h] ham on what's available?" You know, I don't I don't mind to wait another month to have a birthday dinner because we'll be there, I think, October 25th. So, it's a month from now, but you know, when you're 40 years old, times flies. I mean, I can remember the 39th birthday like it was yesterday. And it's getting old. Scary. So, let's see. Let's see Saturday. whatever I feel like. Might just be a hamburger and a couple donuts and then call it a day. You know, that's the downside of getting old. You've tried everything already and then nothing gets you excited anymore. I [\h__\h] jade it. You're like, "Oh, hamburger, nah, had that 100 times. Steak, nah, had that 100 times. Sushi, had that 100 times." Right? I tried everything already. And then, you know what I haven't tried? I haven't tried for a reason. So, I know probably the same old [\h__\h] Aronid, what's your favorite cut of steak? Genuine. Uh, generally a question that's been on my mind for a while now that we talk about beef a lot. Yeah. Uh, I like beef curtains. Yeah. Or a roast beef sandwich. Best steak there is. Yeah. But I prefer peach though. Yeah. Peach. Peach is the best uh dinner that a man could have. So, anyway, uh, best cut of steak. Yeah, I like all the cuts as long as they're not too fatty. So, I like Wagyu, but not too much marbling. Actually, the Wagyu that I had and the Coobe beef that I had in Japan was actually not as fatty as the Wagyio beef, the plus five or the plus 7 A, whatever the grading is, as I had abroad. So, the Coobe beef and the Wagyu beef in Coobe actually quite lean. Not as fatty as I expected, but mad [\h__\h] tasty. So after that, I probably can never have steak again because I mean what's beyond having coob beef in coobe, you know, hedonistic treadmill. I probably just need to go to um the I just watched a documentary about this uh heart attack grill and just have a sloppy burger there and almost risk getting a heart attack and cardiovascular disease for me to kind of reset to uh and luckily Heart Attack Grill is in Las Vegas. I've walked past it the last time, even stood on the scale, but I was only 240 pounds. So, I couldn't get a free meal in. You need to be at least 350. Um, yeah. So, cuts of steak, the lean ones, the dryaged, preferably 180 days. I like that stuff. And then, of course, some nice uh stuff on the side. Yeah. Um, but dude, I I'm not too picky about food to be honest. I mean, I I killed my own sheep in Mongolia for [\h__\h] sake and ate the whole thing with the Mongolian family that I was staying for two days. Yeah, I have it all on video, too. So, I'm not too picky when it comes to food. Um, yeah, but a good steak is a good steak. And, uh, those are usually expensive. And sometimes we cook at home. You know, I import a steak uh from uh, you know, Australia or from uh, what's it called? Uh, Colombia. Not Colombia. Argentinia. Argentine. Yeah, Argentinia. And then uh, you sear it a little bit. Oh, man. Good [\h__\h] TCJ Mods, do you like do Thai women like muscular men? Uh the women that are in the gym and going to uh you know fitness, they like muscular men. Um but usually beyond let's say 90 95 kilos, the the the adverse reaction starts to go away. So I'm way too muscular for general Thai women. But but who cares? because I'm off the market and my wife um you know I was already going to the gym for a couple years when I met her and uh I think I was like 92 kilos at that time. Tiny tiny um and she was okay with it and then I gained most of my size as we were together and she liked me even more. So again uh you know if you're a muscular dude the the the the g the girls that are into muscular men will find you and uh the lady boys will love you for sure. Yeah, all the lady boys are um absolutely into muscular dudes. So, there's a market. There's every jar has its own lit. That was the saying, something like that. Scott, what's up, bro? I'll see you in in [\h__\h] three weeks. Oh, one, one, two. Oh, yeah. Three weeks. Happy birthday. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. We're going to hang out with Scott McN and um yeah, do go to a Detroit techno rave. Minimalistic techno. Let's go. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be fun. Uh Anthony, what do you think about Wesley last show? Robbed. I mean, he was already qualified and they need the other guy to go to the Olympia, too, because he was out of the I don't think he was qualified. He was out of the top five at the Arnold Classic, I believe, and he was Was he qualified? I'm not sure. Anyway, I mean, that guy looks good. also great poser was in shape but Wesley was his best shape ever which sucks because Wesley at his absolute gnarliest best most shredded most separated uh is not good enough to beat uh [\h__\h] what is his name now I need to go to the classic I keep forgetting all these names uh I spent too much time on PubMet forgetting about all the Olympia competitors classic physique lineup qualified. Terrible. No, I should go to jail for this [\h__\h] Let's see who's qualified. Where is he? I'm sure you guys are raging in the chat right now. Terren Ruffin. Yeah, Terren Ruffin. I even follow the guy on Instagram. So, yeah. I mean, Whistley at his best can't beat Terren Ruffin at his best, which I I think Terrence looked average to be honest. Not completely dialed in, but he's probably saving it for the Mr. Olympia. So, that sucks. Now, can Whistley improve? Of course, his adductors can be better, his hamstrings can be better, can have a little bit more leg thickness from the side, but that's just a matter of time. Um, I think Wesley will do very very well this year at the Mr. Olympia. And if not, since I'm in the the front row, I'll be screaming. Yeah, I'll be screaming all kinds of words. Are we back? All right, I think we're back. I almost had a heart attack there. All right, welcome to Thailand, guys. Uh, it's Chilly Willy. Is testosterone undetectable and a PED drug test? I think the detection time is like 4 days because you mess with the testosterone to epi testosterone ratio. So, it takes about four days to clear, but you have to do intramuscular administrations, not subcutaneous um because intramuscular clears faster than subcutaneous. So yeah, still four days. Wait, the Olympia is in a month already. Yeah, dude. It's It's five weeks out. It's on a Friday. Prejudging is one, two, three, four, five. Three three November, right? Yeah. Three November. So it's it's it's getting up fast. Yeah. Time time goes fast, dude. Yeah. Like I said, I can remember my birthday from a 39 year old like it was yesterday. So many drunk questions. All camera's frozen. Yeah, I'm sorry, guys. We're back. Ah, here we go. Here we go. Loaded questions. Steve, what do you think about being married to somebody who's not of your own race? My parents are against it. So, what should I do? Um, well, we're all the same species, so what the [\h__\h] does race matter? The race really doesn't matter, dude. What matters is how serious um your significant other takes the culture that they grew up in. Like, I don't take my Dutch culture serious at all besides the, you know, the financial aspects, which is something I still bury carry with me to this day. But everything else about Dutch culture, I think most of it I let go, you know. Um, and and she let go a lot of her Thai culture so we can meet somewhere halfway, you know. She's a lot more direct. I'm a little a little bit more indirect. Um, but because Dutch people are blunt as [\h__\h] as we all know, and type people are just like to beat around the butch and make everything, you know, nice and sweet and easy and and, you know, because they get offended easily. So, we kind of meet halfway. So, the race doesn't matter. It just matters if you can meet halfway because your heritage and your um your culture is going to be different most likely unless it's a different race that grew up in the same country. So if you're both American or both Dutch, you know, it's going to be pretty much the same. But if your parents are against it, [\h__\h] them. [\h__\h] him. Seriously. Seriously. Just do what you want to do. And if you get burned, right, if your relationship doesn't work out, it has nothing to do with the race, but you're going to have to justify to your parents why it didn't work out and why you told them to go [\h__\h] themselves because you wanted to go this route. All right? So, if you want to do something that your parents are against and you care about it, you better better make sure that you're 100% into it and that it's going to play out, you know? But man, I've I've uh yeah, for me race, Caucasian, uh African, Asian, you know, everything in between there and above, Arab even or or uh you know, Middle Eastern. I mean, I did a girl from Iran also. So, you know, I've sampled many a women regardless of race and um they were all pink on the inside. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. There. There's your shirt right there. Yeah. And they all want to be loved and they all go crazy sometimes. So, doesn't matter which race you choose, you're in for a wild ride. Happy birthday. Thank you. Thank you, bro. All right, let's scroll down a little bit. Uh, where are we? Um, let's scroll a bit. Grant Keel, how late in life would it be too late to pursue bodybuilding? I mean, it's never too late, man, to adopt a lifestyle. Um, but, you know, saucing saucing to the guilts with performance, drugs, steroids, etc. I think if you're over 60, you probably should stick to TRT for the sake of your own health. So if you want to do all the crazy saucing, do that when you're young and resilient. You know, mid20s, 30s, and then by the time you're 40, you should be a little bit more careful. Like the amount of years on performance and hunting drugs really play into it. So Erin has only had five years on PEDs. So he can, you know, he still has another five years of abuse ahead of him if if he decides to do so, uh, with the health management in place. But I've already done 12 years on performance-enhancing drugs. So my uh PED journey is slowly coming to a close you know and and you know being married longer and longer and longer and having kids on the way um yeah you get a little bit more self-conscious about that stuff. So if you start bodybuilding at 40, 50, 60 years old, fine. Just the drugs are what going to do you in, not the bodybuilding. And if you train smartly around your injuries uh that you might have accumulated pre-bodybuilding, you know, due to age or other sports you might do, might have performed. You know, there's so many ways to bodybuild and the act of bodybuilding can be very gratifying. It's just the the people in bodybuilding that are absolutely horrendous sometimes. But the bodybuilding community, the real bodybuilding community is beautiful. But the people surround in the fitness community, there's so much negativity and you know, despicable behavior and uh you know, but you don't have to partake, right? You can, you know, provide value and look good and not partake in the drama. Um, but that's completely up to you, right? There we go. Happy birthday, Uncle Steve. That's what they called me at the gym, too. Uncle Steve. Yeah. Terrible. Techno or trans? Hard style. Dude, look at this hair. Hard style. Hard style. Bordering on hardcore. I'm 40 years old. I I was born in the 80s. So, um, yeah. Haka or get the [\h__\h] out of here. No. No. I never went to those. I I did go to those parties. Yeah, I did go to the Tunnel of Terror at Thunderdome, man. Good [\h__\h] times. Good times for sure. Anton, what it uh what would it take for you to adopt me? Also, happy birthday. Um I think everybody's adopted in the Vigorous crew, right? Um yeah. Yeah, I have a little army of adopted um yeah, people who are like uh interested in like-minded things, but um yeah, to come live in our house, uh no thank you. You can be outside with the two adopted street cats, you know, just hang out on the porch. Just don't smoke any cigarettes or weed. That uh that doesn't get you in that level up status that we talked about earlier. Yeah. Let's see. Should zoom in a little bit. All right, that's better. Happy birthdays everywhere. Show the same caution you show us to yourself with your health. Yes, I'm doing my absolute best. And again, everything that I want to do, you know, a PED experiment wise, I run past my wife first. and explain it the best I can and then if she's like, "No, I don't think that's a good idea." Then then it doesn't happen. Anon, uh, what breed of cats are they? So, the two outside ones are just street cats. They basically showed up one day and then they were so cute and um that we decided to adopt them alongside of our neighbors. So, the street cats don't only belong to us, but two other houses. We all feed them with the high quality cat food. Um, what is it called? uh royal canine, right? They get the best cat food on the [\h__\h] planet. Uh and we got them spayed because they were fighting all the time. Um and we uh you know, we cut their nails a little bit, not to the point they feel defenseless, but sometimes they're a little bit too long. So once a month, I kind of check if their teeth and their nails and all that stuff is still good. And uh we got them vaccinated. So those are just street cats. And the the six ones that we have in our house are all swinxes. So they're hairless because again, no hair in the house. Ew, disgusting. Yeah. No hair in the house. So the six cats we have in the house are swings cats. We have uh three short legs. So those are um what is it called? Not. We have one dwarf, one elf cat, two uh short leg sphinxes, and then uh man, what what is it called? Anyway, they're all swinxes. So, yeah, they're uh we have cats of plenty. So, if you're a cat person, you can be adopted, but if you're a dog person, too [\h__\h] bad. I like dogs, though. But from afar, Yeah. for maybe 10 minutes to play with and then I'm tired of the drool and the barking. That's why I like cats. They're way cuter. Favorite drink? Water, bro. I drink 10 liters a day. Epic. Second favorite drink is coffee. I drink two cups of coffee per day. And then um whatever whiskey sounds uh very snazzy, uh that is my third favorite drink. So, uh, most of the month I have water and coffee and then once in a while I have some whiskey with a cigar and, uh, I have some, you know, double barrel aged 12 year, 18 year, 15 year, you know, triple cask, that kind of [\h__\h] Uh, so it sounds, so it's expensive. So I don't drink too much. I had very good Yamazaki 12-year-old and 18year-old. Was it 18 in Coobe? Again, I was pre-plastered, so if I can't remember, my sincere apologies. Um, but yeah, any fancy whiskey will do. If you want to make me happy though, um, yeah, cigars and whiskey is the way to do it. Just don't all come to me with cigars and whiskey on the Mr. Olympia because then I I can't function after a couple days. I'm more fati. All right, we'll save the PD questions for Saturday. So, uh, Alvaro, make a note and, uh, we'll answer that on Saturday. See you then. Use the timestamps. Uh, does daily edibles, this is not a performance sensing drug question. It's a recreational drug. So, I think that's okay. Uh, does daily use of edibles marijuana affect blood work or organ function, elevated liver activity, for example? Not really, but prolactin levels might go up. I mean wheats infrequently might uh increase prolactin levels. So that that's it. But of course edibles have more active ingredients or ingredients in general than uh you know vaping uh wheat or using one of those vaporizers. So yeah uh those ingredients might raise liver enzymes but liver enzymes can get elevated from so many things. So, watch the regular vigorous Q&A that uh yeah, Andrew Yuber says, "Melaton kills your testosterone. What's your take?" Um, can't remember reading a study like that, but I don't use melatonin right now. I use it infrequently if I want to sleep. I might need to take some tonight because of course I had a whole can of Gorilla Mode energy drinks before we got started so I can talk nice and fast and I have all my hand gestures all over the place. Yeah. Properly stimulated. But I might have to take some melatonin to take the edge off before I go to bed. Does it kill testosterone? Um, well, it's an indogenously produced hormone at at low dosages to make you fall asleep. Uh, which doesn't seem to take the edge off testosterone, but maybe mega dosing does. So, yeah, it could be. There's a benefit and a and and a negative to every thing you can possibly take from overthe-count supplements to foods to performance drugs to recreational drugs to uh Yeah. So, read the disclaimers. All right. You know what? I'm going to go to the bathroom real quick. It's been 1 hour and 30 minutes and I really have to pee. But don't worry, we'll continue for another hour. I'm having a lot of fun. Um, so bear with me. Be right back. and we're back. All right. [\h__\h] man. Those were the days, dude. Those were the days when I'm in Thailand. I can't. Those days are over. Those days are over. I remember I shouldn't tell these stories, right? Yeah, I better not. But I have Yes, I will admit to having done that um during important meetings at one point or another. You got to live your life, right? And uh you know sometimes you uh you do uh the things that are frowned upon and get away with it. Yeah. Well, stereu translator are more jacked children than no stereules. Uh from all the research that I've done, that doesn't seem to be apparent. But apparently, and I'm I'm I'm still working on this, but apparently based on the oxidative stress that steroids can potentiate, especially in combination with strainous workouts, it seems that the the Y chromosome is more susceptible to um oxidative stress than the X chromosome. And that's why it's more likely for um you know, men on steroids to get um daughters, right? because the the the there's DNA damage right on uh the male uh semen, the male sperm. What's your height? Uh well, not six feet, but 5'9. Yes. So, I don't qualify for the manosphere. Uh everything else is six. The six is still No, that's not true. Yeah, I'm all in the fives. No, that's not true either. Yeah, some some are sevens and some are fives and uh yeah, maybe the occasional six there, but my my height is 175 cm or 5'9. Yeah. Injectable psilocybin pre-workout. Jesus, that's that's a bit rough. No, that's a bit rough. Is is there an injectable version of that available now? That's how far am I out of touch of that kind of stuff. Yeah. But uh regular psilocybin, good stuff, man. Or so from what I can remember. Yeah. Micro doses or that that was not a micro dose. Those are my f favorite doses. The last time I took mushrooms, oh man, it's a couple years ago. Long long time ago. In Holland, we used to have um mushrooms uh wet. So, you would take five grams, 10 grams of the wet variety, which translates to about two to three grams uh dry. So, I haven't touched mushrooms in years. And then somebody uh hands me a sample of mushrooms dried. And I remember, you know, I used to take 10 grams. So, I was like, okay, I'm going to take half the dose, five grams. So, I took five grams dry. Yeah, that was not a micro dose. I still had a lot of still had a lot of fun though. Yeah, that was pretty sick. So, that was basically like uh 20 grams 20 grams wet. Oh my god. It's good. had a lot of experience with mushrooms because I was just sitting there looking at, you know, some sort of um screen saver, which was not a screen saver, but was just a picture with, you know, psychedelic music just to uh kind of keep my composure for the next six hours. Yeah. Oh, Steve, these these these are the stories that Yeah. make you guys lose respect for me, but they still need to be told. Let's see. If we're thinking about injectable psilocybin, let's do some PCP. Yeah, man. But again, guys, the recreational drugs needs to be respected. Now, I never went as far as Conor Murphy. No, no, no, no. And half of that was an act, apparently. So, I talked to Conor Murphy about this when he came to Thailand. We had that master class. Conor Murphy was there and I told him said, "Hey, you know, I hope you're mentally sound because the [\h__\h] that you pulled in the United States doesn't fly here. You'll be spending all of your time in jail." So he understood and he he told me that you know some of it was a little bit exaggerated um you know for for the audience which Connor is very in tune with you know social media drama and exaggeration. He's also very verbally fluent as uh you can see in some of his videos. So uh so I told him to kind of lay low and uh I think he's doing better than before. Is he really laying low in Thailand though? Not really. But you know I guess everybody has to figure it out for themselves. Does provess fertility? Actually, no. It there's 40 studies or something showing that proviron enhances fertility in subfertile men. I manage I mentioned that in the steroids versus fertility video. I have all the citations in a document that you can download. So, go watch that uh video which nobody watched. That's why I stopped making fertility videos. But uh because I spent so much time on it. So, uh yeah. Ah, here we go. One and two and you're a diamond. Bye. All right. What's next? I love putting in people in timeout. It's my new favorite hobby. Yeah. So, be careful. I might time you out for no reason. Why doesn't he take us to the bathroom to give us some ASMR? Yeah, I know. My my peeing sounds are um I don't know, nightmare inducing. Oh my god, you guys are silly as hell. Uhuh. Oh, it's all drug questions now. All right, this one is more interesting. Dutch friend took mushrooms with friends. Yes. They agreed to lock the house doors in case somebody had a bad trip. An hour later, his friend locked in the bathroom screaming and they had to call the cops. Oh no, he locked himself in the bathroom. Yeah, that kind of shit's happened. So if you want to do trips with friends, make sure they're all mentally sound, right? And me mentally sound people are easy to recognize because they got their [\h__\h] together, right? not pretending that they have their [\h__\h] together and secretly don't have their [\h__\h] together. Um, if you want to trip with a couple buddies, uh, make sure that everybody's in a good state of health mentally, physically, and uh, well, emotionally, right? Because otherwise you get [\h__\h] like this. And then uh, not only does your friend go to jail, but everybody goes to jail because you're high as [\h__\h] So, you know, do do it smart. Another one. Jesus, everybody's double posting drug questions. Cut it out. Cut it out. Uranianite. Uranian. Yeah, whatever. Ur uranium. Uranus. Yeah. Uranus 81. Have you ever been to Cambodia? How is it there? Yes, I've been there twice. I've been to Ankorwat, which was great. Uh, spent four days there. rented a song to or tuk tuk, however you want to call it, and I drove around to all the um ancient um sites, including the ones that are very far out, like Cabal Span, Spin, Spoon, whatever, Cabal Spoon. Um very far out, very interesting sites. Uh some of them are completely designed differently. Can't remember all of them off the top of my head, but it's uh Ankorwat is very impressive. I didn't really like um the city next to it. It was just like a tourist town, you know, a lot of drinking, a lot of [\h__\h] So, I just woke up at 6:00 and got the hell out of there and, you know, did my entire day at Anker Wat and then I crashed uh in the hotel room, the $5 hotel room. And um I went to Punen. Interesting. Went to the killing field, shot some guns that were probably used in the war there. Um the the you know, the the local war, the the however that's called. and um you know some AK-47s and some handguns and some M16s and yeah it was a lot of fun and I went to uh Kong which is a beautiful island off the coast of Canukville which is basically a party town like Pattia/Puket a lot of prostitution is going on there so be forewarned unless you're into that stuff right then Senukville is on your uh you know uh the sex tourist trip list but Kong at least in 2010 2011. Completely untouched. Whitest beaches I've ever seen. Matt White. So white. Uh nowadays you would get hate for it. Yeah. Very politically incorrect, but that's how white the beaches were. Covered in sandflies. So I of course I was shaving my head when I was traveling. And uh I put de everywhere except for my head. So I walked, you know, one side of the island because there was no roads now. Now there's an airport and a fuckload of roads. So it's uh spoiled. Not untouched anymore, but it's spoiled. I mean, it's been 12 years, 13 years since I was there. Uh I went there twice. That's how beautiful it was. So I walked I walked along all these beaches and then, you know, you have a little cove and you have to walk around the beach or through the forest. Ton of centipedes, very scary, very dangerous personally. Rattlesnakes as well, but I didn't see those. So you walk for a day, then you come back and my entire head was stung by sand flies. I literally had blisters and all kinds of [\h__\h] goo and [\h__\h] coming out of out of my skull. So the next day I had to put deed on my face as well. Yeah, there was one beach was about I can't remember if it was 7 km or 11 km. You had a a guest house at the start. I think it's called Love Beach and at the end that was again 13 years ago. So you had uh two uh guest houses or resorts at the beginning and the end and nothing in between. Nothing in between. So you walk um let's say 500 meters. Take all your [\h__\h] off and just walk around naked. Yeah. I walked eight Yeah. Let's I think it was 11 kilometers. So I probably walked eight kilometers naked on the beach. The the whitest beaches you've ever seen to the point you have like glare the whole day. You just you have to walk around like this. That's how white it is. Pristine. You have you guys remember that that you know that sand powder um you know when you walk and it you sink in it and you have that unique noise that squeaky noise. I mean legendary dude. I got it all on camera. I got it all on camera too. Yeah. Me walking around naked. So that that footage will never um find its way on the internet. Um but yeah, that's that's that's cool [\h__\h] I used to do when I was traveling. So Cambodia is great. Um, people are a little bit weird though. Um, yeah, a little bit weird. I I'll just leave it there. But all that's uh all that said, Cambodia is a great country for let's say a month. I would say a month to six weeks in Laos, up to three months in Vietnam. Vietnam is beautiful. I mean, that's got everything just like Thailand. Maybe a month in Cambodia and then uh well, the rest of the time in Thailand. Yeah. Because Thailand is just fun for days. Fun for days. All right. Well, then we went a little bit over time there. Ryan Crawford, are you a gun owner, Steve? No comment. Yeah, let's leave that ambiguous. Open for uh uh interpretation. How long have you been married? Uh so, eight years. Yeah, eight years. Yeah. So, we passed that seven year. Nothing happened at the seven-year mark. So, I don't know what people are on about, but uh just just feel each other out for a couple years before you get married. You know, don't be a dumbass and develop yourself as a personality. So, we got married at the age of 32, 33 or or give or take. It's not rocket science, you know. Develop yourself, become a full person, then settle with somebody who's also a full person. feel each other out for a couple years, live together for a couple years, go on a couple holidays, go through uh times of financial crisis and and financial success. And if you can survive all of that, then you can get married and uh and then, you know, think about kids along the way. So, uh let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Would you recommend visiting Thailand in February? Yes, but it does start to get hotter and hotter and hotter and uh you know, so keep that in mind. February is still okay. It's right after the the the you know, the busy season, the high season, so prices should come down a little bit, but February is still fine, man. Yeah. Just just keep in mind every day gets like a degree hotter and but March is [\h__\h] hot. So yeah, come over, dude. Go to the gym. Cortex, what's up, Ryan? How have you been? Happy 40-y old, bro. Uh, looking good. Yeah, 40 is a new 32. I think it's a new 30, though. Yeah, I think it's I think I think Yeah, if I go on steroids, I'll look like a fat 40-year-old again. So, maybe I should just stay natty or at least off the testosterone. I I would like to have a little bit of testosterone. Yeah. So, thanks, buddy. Good to see you again, Ryan. I hope everything is well. Oh, Lucium. Here we go. Can 500 milligrams of bourberine with 750 milligrams apple cider vinegar before falls me. Man, I just made a video about this for the MK-677 insulin sensitivity video. So, let's drop that tomorrow then. Uh or may No, no. Let's do it next week because Friday gets a Bismol views and I don't want to waste the video on uh when everybody's out drinking and partying. So, let's drop that next week. But yes, 500 milligrams bourberine and 750 milligrams apple cider vinegar before meals can uh well not be used as an insulin replacement. Um but it will certainly insulin sensitize you. So you know if you want to have more insulin secretion look into vandal sulfate which acts as an insulin mimemetic and then of course um you know gel P1 receptor agonist promote insulin secretion in the presence of carbohydrates assuming that your estradile levels are sufficiently in range because estradile also contribute to to glucose homeostasis. So um yeah but you know there's nothing like insulin or IGF-1 for that matter. So, no overthe-c counter supplement. No matter how they market it as slim pills, it cannot replace actual insulin or IGF-1. So, watch the MK-677 and insulin sensitivity video will be dropping soon. You go to Thailand for April for Sunkrron. Yeah, Srron is back. So, it wasn't here for like two years or three years due to the pandemic, but now it's back. Last year was absolutely insane. So, I stayed home because scrron always makes me sick because uh people use like the river water to splice each other and uh that's not very sanitary. So, I've done a couple song crowns back in the day. Um, you know, with your shirts like this, but unbuttoned and a little bit more flowery and there some, you know, swimming shorts. And then you have, you know, your camera and your phone and your money and this little waterproof bag. And then, uh, yeah, you get [\h__\h] hammered and start splashing girls. Yeah. Yeah. With with water pistols, obviously, right? That's the the other splashing happens later. Um, but during the day, uh, somehow the all the tie girls, they wear white shorts and they have no bras on. So, it's like the purge, but without the murdering. It's a purge with water guns. Yeah, it's a lot of fun. Yeah, but expect to get sick. That's just how it goes. All right, I guess we're running out of questions, huh? People are pissed that I don't answer the direct questions. Okay, let's see. Or did uh did Streamyard finally throw in the towel? Oh, no. Where's Where's some new stuff? All right, this is fun. Check bound check. Check has all the good questions. A friend used to boast about never wearing a condom. I know. Yeah. Dating a Russian girl for two months, then she moved in. Two weeks later, she fell pregnant. How embarrassing. He was embarrassed to tell us. Yeah. Yeah, man. A girl you just met, wear a condom. Yeah. Even if you're on steroids, just wear a condom. You never know. People lie about not having STDs or HPV, etc., etc. So, just just condom up, you know, treat your dick like it's the most precious possession you have. And when you do that, you only stick it in women that are worthy and women that are um, you know, more sanitary. You know, women that shower before you have sex with them. I got so spoiled dude when I went to Thailand I was first I'm 23 right and then here all the girls shower so you go to I was in Bangkok for no I was in Bangkok for one day then I went to Pquette Patong like the worst place to go and man I was 23 dressing decently like girls were literally screaming in the streets happened multitude of times I don't know why but they were screaming you know like look at this guy probably like ah look at this sucker fresh meat. Let's uh you know embezzle all of his money, but which didn't happen. But it didn't take much to take the girls home. I'll tell you that. And uh yeah, but you just wrap it up. Wrap it up, you know. And then later on you realize when you go back home that none of the girls shower and then you get a little bit jaded and and you know, you're like, "A [\h__\h] never mind." You know? So in Holland after that I I I barely got busy because I just I was like [\h__\h] I can get so much better somewhere else. And then you ask these girls to shower said hey we just you know all night dancing and drinking in the club where everybody's smoking and I feel a little bit dirty and smoke and then you ask the girls let's jump in the shower you know let's clean up and you're like do you think I'm dirty? Are you in in Dutch you say it a little bit different so there lost in translation here but just something along the lines. Do you think I'm dirty? And I just just walk out like, "Fuck this. You don't want to shower? My dick is the king. I'm not going to stick it in. Goodbye. Just go home. Just go home." So, you need to come to a point where you're so jaded about dating that um you just want to settle down. Yeah. So, and don't don't get women pregnant, right? Be careful. Oh, here. This is the one I wanted to answer. Sorry. I missed a couple super chats. Uh, much appreciated. Is there a question here? Remind me. Happy birthday, Steve. Quick question. What do what to recommend to control the premature ejaculation from a sensitive skin? Masturbation. Yeah. Yeah. That's the cure for sensitive skin. You know how many consultations I've had of guys that do no fap, no fap, and they're all premature ejaculators? Imagine you pay me like $675 to help you and after 20 minutes of talking, I tell you as simple as this. Stop with the no fat [\h__\h] Stop with the no um you know semen retention. just jerk off for you to have a little bit of sensitivity loss that by the time you stick it in uh that you are properly desensitized to the point you can last for 20 minutes you know or 15 minutes however long you prefer. This is the problem nowadays. No fop in this uh you know semen retention stuff. All these guys when they finally stick it in they come prematurely you know and otherwise you use a condom that's a little bit thicker you know. Don't Don't start rubbing cocaine on your dick. Don't be like that. There's actually condoms out there with numbing cream. Um I know I never just change the angle. I mean when you have experience it you you have a well I'm not going to use hand gestures here but you have an angle where it feels really really good. You have an angle where you feel a lot a little bit less whether you use a condom or not. So hopefully that's the angle that gets her off. All right. So, use the angle that gets her off. And then when she gets off and she came and she's, you know, you give her lasting pleasure that makes her come back for more um, you know, on the short uh quick boot call list. And then you use your angle that gets you off, right? And if you time it right, when you know the angle that gets you off, you use the angle that doesn't get you off until she's almost ready to get off. And then you use your angle. Hopefully, that's the same angle that still gets her off. And then you come at the same time. This is how you stay married. [\h__\h] newbies. Do do I need to be there physically to show it to you to, you know, and then everybody turns to a cuck? For [\h__\h] sake, man. You can't you can't re you can't learn this online. You have to live life, you know. God damn. Piss me off. Uh my tier doc suggested to take okay Alvaro note this we'll answer this Saturday yeah it's right there at the bottom PD super chats will uh we'll do another next Q&A see you then use time stamps to get answers to your question same for this one uh today provant be taken together uh well let's just answer that the proviron needs to be take that out yeah replace the proviron for FSH watch all my fertility videos and then you can have a uh 500 50. Yes. 550 million sperm per 1 milliliter with good morphology, good motility, and only 13% DNA fragmentation. Yeah. After 12 years of steroids. Yeah. Watch those videos. You'll be surprised. I got a dip. My girlfriend wants to cuddle. All right. Uh I'd stick around for 30 minutes more, but she's moody. No, man. Go do your thing. You're young and uh and and you've uh put in your efforts well worth today. So, uh, let's see. Steve, again, happy birthday. Thank you so much. See you. And hope there's no troublemakers in the chat. No, don't worry. I'll be I'll be okay. So, enjoy your cuddle. Make sure you use all the right angles and then come at the same time. And then definitely don't think about me when that's happening. Don't do it. You'll be ruined for life. Arnold Black, when only fans from you, Steve. It's already there. Onlyfans.comvigorste. Yeah, go have a look. and go have a look. It's free to join. Yeah. Uh let's see what else do we have. Jesus. Jerk off two times before sex at least. I wouldn't be able to come, dude. You know, no fap. Whatever it takes, man. If you if you need to jerk off once a week to keep the sensitivity down a little bit, then so be it. [\h__\h] Just find a porn that that you know or or [\h__\h] use your fantasy. Um, find a porn that's as close to reality as you can find. Not not this obscure [\h__\h] not this dopamineergic [\h__\h] because then you you know you you won't be able to get satisfied from real life anymore. But if you find some sort of POV angle that's similar to your girlfriend, then then by all means, man, just [\h__\h] go for it. People take people take this [\h__\h] way too serious and still not get laid. I've been doing no fat for a year. And how often do you have sex? I haven't had sex for two years. Oh, what is that world coming to? Just go out there and live your life. Uh, what business do you do besides YouTube? Um, well, crypto, but that's not really a business. I think I think the real business is is like everything that revolves around the YouTube channel, right? So, the consultations, the personalized advice by email. I still have a couple mentorship clients which I'm unwinding by the end of the year. Um, I I mean, I have the affiliates, the sponsors. Basically, the business of Vigorous Steve revolves around the YouTube channel because that's the best platform to market. I mean, I have what is it? How many subscribers do I have or follow followers on Instagram? I started my Instagram earlier, but I got like one-third the following there, which is probably all the same as on YouTube. Yeah, 37,000 followers. So, let's say 40% of my following is on Instagram. So, shame on you if you're not following me there. I mean, I'm mad disappointed. And you don't want Uncle Vig or Steve to be disappointed in you. So, if you're not subscribed or not following on on Instagram yet, here it is. Vigorous Steve, right? Show quickly. So, and we're almost at 100,000 subscribers here. Um, so that's basically everything that's business revolves around YouTube. Then I still have a lot of importation and exportation of overthec counter supplements to some of my um overount supplements. Nothing illegal guys. OTC from ihurodybuilding.com u you know some other websites to uh countries where I had clients in the past that are like the highest level. So the Mr. whatever right Mr. Myanmar, Mr. Bhutan, Mr. Mongolia countries where importation is a little bit more difficult. So they send me some cash. I order all the supplements for them and then at a markup I send that through them through a uh let's say bypassing customs method that they have in place because they have so many con connections because they're at the highest level of their local bodybuilding circuit. So I imported them here, don't have to pay any import taxes and then I ship that outwards uh to other countries. So that's a side hustle for good for a couple thousand dollars a month. Uh but those orders come in every couple of months. So, it's it's a multi,000 order that uh or profit that I make and then you spread that out, right? I have so many revenue streams. You know, I I whenever there's an opportunity that's worth my time, I make sure that I grab it. Absolutely. Because there's no security that any revenue stream or income stream is long lasting. I mean, I could lose all my sponsors. I could lose my consultations. I You could lose every revenue stream can dry up, right? So, I make sure I have a multitude of revenue streams. I have I have a fuckload. And then you put it all together and and some make like $10, some make $50, some make several thousand dollar. And you put it all together at the end of the month. And then and then everything is pretty pretty good. And then it's up to me not to spend all of that. And they put it into assets that appreciate, right? So, you set yourself up for even more financial freedom to the point you don't have to work. you just manage your assets and then you can kind of kick back and not have to be a part of the to toxic YouTube community. Even though the audience is great, the the YouTubers might be mad toxic. I mean, how many videos has Greg Det made about me? I never watched any of them. No way. All right, let's see. Hey, a lot of drug questions again. We'll save that for the vigorous Q&A, guys. All right, check bound. Just signed up to follow you on Instagram. All right. Well, you don't have to go to that extreme of a route, but much appreciated nonetheless. Favorite sweet tooth cheat meal? Man, it just varies week to week. I just eat what I feel like. Um, yeah. Favorite cheat meal? I mean, I like I still I like I like a good hamburger. I like a good steak. I like good sushi. Uh I like, you know, one donut or two donuts. I split them down the middle so I can share with my wife. I like some ice cream. And it's basic [\h__\h] man. Sometimes you feel like Mexican food, you know, and then you have to suffer the consequence or my wife has to suffer the consequences the same day and the next day because Mexican food makes me mad. Farty. Um Marty farty McFly basically. So yeah, I let's just say I like food. That's why I'm never shredded. Yeah, that's why I need something like tepid to really get the fat off because I just [\h__\h] like to eat. How long Uncle Steve studies per day? Uh let's say two, three hours. Yeah, two or three hours per day. See, five days a week. Yeah. And then you know that goes in between just interpreting the studies and then making videos about it. And sometimes you need to study multiple days just to have a five minute segment because you need to make sure that the information is correct, especially if it's something new. So yeah. Yeah, I study a lot. I study more than uh than fun activity, but studying is fun. Enriching one's mind. Uh I've studied so much that I realized that most of the scientific evidence is kind of full of [\h__\h] Also, it's a lot of horseshit out there. I'll tell you that. Yeah. And still all these educators like to uh oh this study performed on you know 1975 on elderly females that didn't take performance enhancing drugs. We extrapolate the data so we can make better decisions regarding our performance enhancing drug journey. Okay then. Okay then. Yeah exter experience beats science every single time. But you can use the science to enhance your experience. Right? But most people just hide behind the science and then uh because they lack experience. Yeah. Yeah. But uh Yeah. What can you do? What can you do? Burgers or pizza for the rest of your life? What what you choose? Uh hamburgers for sure. Yeah. Hamburgers for sure because you have more protein and more vegetables than pizza. And all the protein on pizza. Even a five meat pizza uh doesn't have as much protein for the amount of calories that you eat uh compared to hamburgers. And remember kids, when you have hamburgers doesn't mean you have to take fries at sight, right? You can have hash browns, which is basically the same thing, or just a baked potato or a thad. You can have a salad alongside your hamburger also. Have you had crumble cookies? Uh, my girlfriend put me on I don't want to stop. Uh, are those available in Thailand? If so, send me a link on Instagram. I I do love my cookies. Yeah, I had cookies last Sunday. What was it called? Man, I can't remember. Was it Mortier? So, I had like three cookies on Sunday. I was like [\h__\h] oil for like three days. I don't know how much butter they put in there. They were good though. But like [\h__\h] liquid shits for like three days. Oh, here we go. Steve, have you ever tried Mario Water? Is that like code for GHB? What is this code for? Please clarify. Mario water. Have I played Super Mario Sunshine? Yes, I have. In Thailand, you have happy water. It's GHB mixed with all kinds of other [\h__\h] It's doesn't sound appealing to me at all. Again, I don't touch that [\h__\h] anymore. That face is behind me. What kind of burger do you like? Uh, a gourmet hamburger in a restaurant. So, not the one that's fast food that you get from the window, right? You have to pull up with your car and then uh, you know, you get it from the window or it's, you know, produced in in one of those sliders. Now, I want a gourmet hamburger with unique ingredients uh, that is prepared with love and sanitation and care in mind. Um, almost to the point it would get a Michelin star. And yes, I've ate at the I think it was a Michelin star. Gordon Ramsey hamburger. Does it have a Michelin star? Not sure. But that was a mad good hamburger. The one I had in Las Vegas. Yeah. Yeah, we had it twice. Yeah, there we go. Did you use Did you use GHB? Yeah, dude. I've used every recreational drug on the planet besides uh heroin because pain before pleasure. I don't know. This is really and it's it's mad addictive. So, but yes, I've used GHB, MDMA, LSD, mushrooms, [\h__\h] amphetamines, coke, all that [\h__\h] dude. When I was younger. Yeah. Yeah. Good times. Good times. Like I always said, you have to live a life uh over um full fully. So, but I did it all in moderation. All in moderation. Never crazy. Never had a blackout. Never oded. Never had to go to the hospital. Never had a friend tell me like, "Hey, are you okay?" I always remained my composure and made sure that I was well informed of what I was putting in my body. Yeah. So, nothing, you know, plenty of crazy stories, but never to the point that you would be concerned. Yeah. Your life advice to a 25-year-old. Um, use the timestamps to skip to earlier parts and then there's plenty of life advice there at an earlier part of this live stream. Where would you recommend a 90-day bodybuilding vacation in Thailand? Um, I mean, Phuket, Bangkok, Patia, that's pretty much it. Samoya is nice, but you don't have all the fac um, you know, facilities, anemities that you would need as a bodybuilder, but the night life is there, the gyms are there, the the restaurants are there, you know. So, yeah. and and you know uh maybe maybe Shang Mai, but you might get harassed by some old fart with a neck that comes to here and starts talking about safer use models um and gives you unsolicited advice and then says they have to sign up for some sort of master class for $50 a month, you know, to learn more. So don't go to Shanghai. Don't go there. Otherwise, you get harassed by people who look not as good as you do. So, yeah, it depends on what you like, man. Do research about Patty. Do research about Phuket Bangkok. Uh, if you stay longer than 90 days, all roads lead to Bangkok. Um, that or at least that's what most people say. You know, Patty is fun for a while. Pukquet is fun for a little bit longer in my opinion. Simui is let's say in between Patty and Phuket regarding how much fun you can have for a period of time. But most serious people they move to Bangkok eventually because most of the serious people are here less of the toxicity. Um you know Pquette and Patty can be quite toxic regarding the people there. Again more degenerates I would say a lot more prostitution a lot more people that love to uh you know be surrounded by prostitutes. So, and again, you know, if that's your life, there's nothing wrong with that, but it's usually a certain people that eventually start uh weighing you down, I would say. So, Bangkok is the place to be. And Bangkok also requires more financial security and more people here are serious. We I think I talked about this with Aaron in the previous muscle nomads. So, I give that one a watch. I'll try Phuket or Bangkok mostly. Just try both, dude. Just try both. I mean, it's non-exclusive. You can fly into Bangkok or you can do like Phuket is an international airport. So, you get like a multi-ity uh trip, whatever airplane you airline, you go to Phuket, you fly into Thailand in Phuket or Bangkok and then you take a domestic flight with Thai Airways, not Air Asia. That's scary as hell nowadays. So Bangkok Airways, Thai Airways, you know, a little bit more upper class where you pay a little bit more money, but it'll be well worth it. And then you fly from Phuket to from not from Puget to Puget, unless you want to do the mile high club circling. That's that's I think that's available in Phuket. If you know, you know. So you go from Phuket to Bangkok or Bangkok to Phukquet and you fly out from wherever you end up and then come come join us at the muscle factory, do a little pharmacy run, you know, enjoy yourself and then you uh you come back home and you realize that the Western world or wherever you come from is kind of trash and then you're going to move here just like so many others. Tolga, what's up, bro? How you enjoying the United States? I'll see you in November. And then in December, you're coming here, right? Tall guy is like me. He uh he married an Amazonian goddess and never looked back. Yeah. Smart. Roco King, advice for stopping paralysis by analysis. Uh not paralysis by anal. That's something entirely different. But if you're giving, then you don't have to worry about that. It's getting like the dad jokes are coming out. Uh sometimes I feel like I don't live appreciate the moment enough or focus on what I'm doing because of it. Um yeah, that's tough. Yeah, that's tough. Sometimes you just got to revel in your accomplishments, but I'm I'm not the kind of guy to kind of guy to do that as well. So I usually need a holiday to get myself out of the, you know, the routine. So when I went to Japan, you know, you sit down, you kind of unwind, talk with my wife for a couple hours in a nice place and uh and then you kind of appreciate and then you go right back and then you know like you can you can research as much as you can like about the subject of paralysis by analysis. You can research as much as you can, but at one point you have to execute. And when you execute, there should be no doubt that you're doing it or at least give yourself enough time to execute and don't reflect on it until you have some tangible evidence or results to reflect on it and make further adjustments. So don't spend all your time analyzing. At one point, you got to, you know, cut the rope, if that's the right way to say it, and just execute. And then through execution you gain knowledge and then you realize that all the analysis that you did previously only 50% of that was correct and the other 50% you get through experience and again sometimes you just got to you know throw in the towel and say [\h__\h] this I'm out and then you do something entirely different but we'll cover that in the entrepreneurial deep dive where I give you uh breaks so what are cliff notes u you take breaks while you're cooking food you take a power nap um You uh take half a day off on your Sunday. You take a a long weekend every month. You take a power holiday, that's a quick holiday uh for five to seven days every 3 months twice a year. And then a proper holiday that's like two weeks to four weeks uh once per year, right? That's how you reel it back in and learn to appreciate your accomplishments in between. And it also means you have limited time to accomplish stuff because you um you know because you have to take a step back sometimes and to spend some time with the [\h__\h] family cuz whoopde-doo it's Thursday evening 2 o'clock in the morning and I'm spending time with you guys when I could be banging my wife. Actually, I did that first thing last Yeah. Not 24 hours ago. As soon as the the bell struck 12, uh, I was on a mission to inciminate on my birthday. Mission accomplished. You're going to get a lot more dad jokes out of me today. I'll be there in February. Okay. Make sure you don't come too late because February is mad hot. Sebastian, I can't wait for Blonde Steve. I have no no uh no incentive to [\h__\h] grow my hair out. Yeah, but blonde Steve did look good. I will tell you that. And then of course you have the token [\h__\h] that said blonde doesn't match you. Said, "Dude, you don't have to [\h__\h] me. It doesn't [\h__\h] matter what you think." It doesn't matter what you think. You know these people, dude. Those are toxic people that that that Yeah, I'm keeping it real with you. No. No. You're trying to bring me down to your [\h__\h] level. Shut the [\h__\h] up. If I want to dye my hair blonde, let me. You don't have to [\h__\h] me. My wife has to [\h__\h] me. So, shut the [\h__\h] up. Just do blonde eyebrows like Brent Swanson. Jeez, that guy looks like the villain from um uh Fist of the Northstar. I mean, his [\h__\h] head, right? All he needs is like ZZ. You guys remember Fist of the Northstar? That's all he needs. And then Tiny Keniro comes up and he starts like pressing the nerves, you know, and then his head explodes. Yeah. Brent Swanson is a [\h__\h] unit, though. I love that guy. And he and he married Will. Yeah. Autumn Swanson and Brent Swanson. That's a one hell of a power couple. [\h__\h] There's so much muscle in that household. Uh that's enough muscle for um an entire football team. That's for sure. All right, let's see. Do you think it's worth to up the cycle on 500 test to one gram? Yes. Yes. Yes. If you're stagnating, then yes. Yeah. If you're just doing for the fun of it, for experimentation purposes, then also yes. Um, but there needs to be a reason. So, uh, I I've increased from 250 to 500 to 750 to a gram to one and a half to two grams, which in reality was two and a half grams. And I, uh, yeah, had a good time. You're still going? Yeah, there's still 115 people in the chat. I'm still getting super chats. Um, I'm having a good time and my Gorilla Mind energy drink is still working. So, why not keep going for another 15 minutes? You go home, Steve. I'm at the gym and saw the notification. Jesus. Okay. Cog cognition is declining clearly. Just wanted to drop by and say happy birthday. Thank you very much. Now continue workout and do the next set all the way to failure and beyond. Make it count. I command you because I don't take sets of failure anymore because I'm off the PEDs. Um yes. Do you remember the videos with the dirty PT-141 happened and you mentioned it on Mark Bell podcast? Yeah. So, if you go back like three years, I think it's the time where I switched from uh the the the green couch to this studio. I took like a week off and I built this studio by myself. Um you know, with all the the lights around it. And um you know what? I was so dirty tanned. I took like 1 milligram PT1 for one for libido purposes every single day. And yeah, sex every day, hands down. But I got a nasty tan. and and since I don't really go out tanning and the pollution in Bangkok is terrible anyway. So all the UVA AB radiation is not really going through. Um so you don't really get a tan in Bangkok and then you move to Patia and you get uh you know crazy tan with the same clouds but the pollution here is just terrible. So I got like this muddy tan and you can clearly see it in the videos where I still had the white background and the green couch but then when I changed to this uh setup I was a little bit less tan but I I didn't have these lights yet. I think I was using a little bit less light. So now I have these two studio lights which um make me look very very young and very pale. Uh even though I'm this pale in real life also. And then people tell you to get a tan. And my answer to that as usual is you don't have to [\h__\h] me. It doesn't matter if I have a tan or blonde hair or no hair or uh you know just take me as I am. Yeah. Not not literally obviously. You know, just appreciate me for who I am right now, please. For [\h__\h] sake. We're going to get demonetized for sure. So much [\h__\h] and Jesus [\h__\h] Christ and and swear words, but that's okay, man. Not all videos have to be monetized. Uh, let's see. Matt, how much have you seen the risks and rewards increased from doing so? Doing what? I forgot your question. Let's let's go back to the previous one. I got too too many drug questions, dude. read a [\h__\h] like banner at the bottom. What are the risks and the rewards? Are you new? Are you new to performance enhancing drugs? All right. Increased blood pressure, potential for increased hair loss, potential for increased acne, uh potential for increased gynecomastia, and all can be managed if you just watch the videos on this YouTube channel. So, yeah, do your research and uh and you'll figure it out. What? Michael Hearn is starring in a movie being shown here in Prague, a sci-fi film festival called Divinity produced by uh Sodenberg. [\h__\h] I love Sodenberg. Is that true? Sodenberg IMDb. You know what? The older I get, the more I can appreciate uh Michael Hearn. Of course, he's not natural, but I mean, he's he still looks good. 5.9 rating on IMDb earning that [\h__\h] Scott Bakula is in there, so that's good. Yeah, Michael Hearn as Rip Pierce. [\h__\h] making it to Hollywood. Good. Good on him. Good on him. Yeah. The older I get, the more I can appreciate. But um yeah, he will take his performance drug use to the grave, I'm sure. Yeah, the eternal natty that is Michael Hearn. Hey, if it's Sodenberg and there's a bodybuilder in it, bet all of your testicles I'll watch it and I'll let you guys know if the movie is good. But if it's Sodenberg, it's good. All All Sodenberg movies are good and it's got Bula. I mean, what more do you want, right? It's been a long road. intro of Star Trek Enterprise or Enterprise without the Star Trek in front of it. [\h__\h] that was a good series. Got discontinued though. Still still a better love story than Star Trek Discovery. What a travesty. Star Trek Strange New Worlds. That is That is That is my Star Trek. Yeah, that is [\h__\h] good. That is [\h__\h] good. different episodes, you know, every episode is a little bit different and uh I love that. I second season was great. Yeah, Jing John super sticker. Thank you. All right, there's a question attached. All right, let's see. Uh God. All right, Alvaro making notes. We'll answer this on Saturday. Yeah. Yeah, guys, you got to read. We'll do the PED questions on Saturday. Saguat, happy birthday, Steve. I probably butchered that, but that's the best I can do. Happy birthday, Steve. Been watching you for about two years from Iceland with love. Iceland, man. I would love to visit there though one day. Yeah, and I should go in winter, but I hate the [\h__\h] cold. Anyway, do some exploring for me and let me know how it is. Let's see. Marathon man, my neighbor apparently has some people over. Sounds like they're partying. Uh, if they don't stop, I'm going to go knock on their door. I need to work tomorrow. It's almost 10:30 p.m. here in Finland. Yeah. But you know what you do? You just knock on the door and you stand there. You don't say anything. But make sure you go in your pajamas and just stand there like this like you bring your pillow and like you know can I please or at least invite me in so I can you know take all the hot chicks that are in the kitchen you know mix drinks take one home and then uh you know take all the hotties from the party. You probably already liquored up properly, so it should be an easy easy win. Spank my goat. Whatever you say, dude. Have you been watching the Ahsoka show? Yeah, I watched it yesterday. Uh, I think it's great so far. It's kind of building up. Um, I like that Anakin is back. Spoilers. Spoilers. Um, and yeah, let's see. Let's see what happens to this Balon character because the actor apparently passed away right after filming. Ahsoka. So, I want to I really want to know what they're going to do with uh you know do with the character. And I thought all the Jedi was dead were dead, but apparently there's still plenty of Jedi running around in the galaxy even after um you know, apparently all of them were killed in order 66. Albeit that Ahsoka is no longer Jedi, right? But she walked away. So, I I like it. I like Ahsoka so far. And um I liked uh Andor. That was that was a good heist. Like you have like four episodes um and then it kind of switches and then four more episodes and then what was it 10 or 12 episodes. So you have like three story arcs over multitude of episodes. And um yeah the the the other stuff I didn't really like so much. So I guess it kind of depends on the director. But Dave Fona is doing a good job so far. Yeah. I never got into the cartoons or the animated series but I I heard it was good. So, I like Ahsoka. I like sci-fi in general. Yeah. Especially hard sci-fi, you know. With some life-changing uh things. What are the most life-changing books you've read? I don't really read books to be honest. I know I should, but I like the medium that is YouTube or movies. Yeah, I'm going to be honest. I don't really read books. Sorry. Yeah, I will read that new book that uh Brian Johnson just uh released. Yeah, it was Johnson, not [\h__\h] Is it Brian Johnson? Yeah, Brian Johnson. He just released a new book. You can download it from his Instagram page. It's like 160 pages. I'll give that one a read. Yeah, Kenny. It is impossible to commit no mistakes and still lose. That is not a weakness. That is life. Captain John Luke Pequard. Everybody's online TV that Yeah. Yeah. The Pequard I couldn't get into. The third season was okay, but you know, Star Trek the Next Generation season 2 to seven, great. First season was a bit slow, but still good. Yeah. Jean Luke Peard, I looked I learned a lot from that guy. Yeah. What was that quote? Uh blah blah blah and Tagra at uh what was it? That's the best quote from Star Trek. Tagura. I probably can't find it. No. Not Trinidad man. Google Star Star Star Trek TG quote tagra dumb rock and gelat at Tanagra. They have t-shirts of that [\h__\h] and it looks like some sort of dance festival. Yeah, if you know, you know. Man, that was a great episode. Well, how how do you communicate with with when the universal translator doesn't work? Go travel for a year and you'll figure it out. Yeah, I went to China and I couldn't speak any Chinese, so you just communicate with hand gestures and gang signs and and emojis, real life emojis, and you'll figure it out. Yeah. Too bad that that character died, though. Spoilers. Dharmmark and Galatagra that appears in some t-shirts where means working together and there was indeed excellent the watch is there watchman TV series. Holy [\h__\h] is I didn't know that watchman TV series. When when did that air with Jeremy Irons? Holy [\h__\h] All right, we're going to cut this live stream short. I'm going to watch the watchman. Is that finished? 2019. What the [\h__\h] H I didn't know about that. How many episodes one season? Nine episodes. Oh, I know. I'm going to watch this weekend. Holy [\h__\h] I didn't know there was a series. All right, much appreciated, bro. You are the goat. All right, no more super chats. Let's wrap it up. What compound do you recommend for OMAT fastite? Yeah, keep the appetite at bay. Yeah, that I would definitely recommend. And otherwise, just eat eat ketogenic meals on one meal per day. So you have a big fat meal of steak and uh you know some mixed nuts and maybe a little aside serving of salmon and some vegetables and then you're in a ketogenic state and then the appetite should be suppressed because uh yeah there you go. Dumrock and Gelat Tanagra True Detective I watched the first two seasons. The third one I couldn't really get into but the first two seasons were great. Yeah. All right, let's wrap it up, guys. I think uh Yeah, see it's only 100 people in the chat and we've gone on for two hours and 30 minutes. Thanks for all the birthday wishes. You guys are freaking awesome. I'll give you a frontal bicep in my It's almost going to split in my what is it? Uh clothes that looks like newspaper. That's all I can afford. Fist and chips in newspapers foundation. Yes, two seasons. [\h__\h] legendary, but you need a brain to uh to follow it. Uh Sebum or Arnold, I would say Chris Bumstead. Yeah, way more appealing, pleasing physique. But yeah, Foundation is great. Give it a watch, but without a brain, you probably won't get it. So, you need a brain first. Um so, yeah, let's wrap it up, guys. Thanks for all the birthday wishes. I wish you all a very nice uh weekend uh in advance because weekend starts well Friday basically. So um my weekend no I still have to record videos [\h__\h] and do consultations. [\h__\h] my life. So I'll see you guys Saturday. We'll answer all of the drug questions on Saturday. Hopefully the time stamps the guy Mr. Alvaro JD legend uh can get all the questions out the door. We'll answer that in the beginning. Sorry I didn't want to do that today but it's my [\h__\h] birthday after all. Give me a [\h__\h] break. Okay. So, peace out. We'll see you guys Saturday uh for another live stream over here in the Vigor Steve YouTube channel as a uh a 40-year-old. Yes. See you guys soon. Take care and be good. Okay. Be good. That's how you uh reach internal zenness. All right. Peace.