 I wanna ask the most cheeky question ever. Where did you end up for the Mr. Olympia? And how far was that off from your peak dose, you just maybe in the past? Because obviously at one point or another, you went up, you know, try to do a heavy cycle yourself. I will go through this process. So spill the beans, please. Sure, happily do so. On the J3 forum, like I lay it all out. There's nothing that I don't talk about. With past off seasons, I've run heavier stuff. Like I worked with Jansen earlier on in my career. Now, my next offseason year, I assessed the previous. I know I ran 2,300 milligram. However, I'm moving to the open. I want a similar rate of progress for what I know I need. I moved very close. It was right under. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Anabola Groundtable, where everybody decided to wear black. We got our first guest, yes, black to make ourselves look smaller. I got our first guest to join in, because we're going to discuss cycles from starts to IFB pro and potentially the Mr. Olympia stage. So I figured it would be only appropriate to get the highest ranking PD educator on board. IFB pro John Jewett, who placed 11th at the most recent Mr. Olympian Open. You placed thirds in the 2019 to 12th. And what was his fourth, third or fourth? Who knows, it was fourth. Who knows, yeah, top three. And then he also won that Vancouver pro last year, where he qualified. Thanks for jumping on board. It's an honor and a pleasure to have you here. What's an honor and pleasure to be here. I have looked forward to chatting with you guys for a long time. I feel like, well, Dean, you've been on our podcast a long time ago and just finally give a good group of guys just to talk about what we love to do is exciting. Yeah, for sure, for sure. So John, you, let's just get right into it. Like we're going to talk about cycle starts to finish, right? So what can we put in place before we even think about drugs? Because of course we all decided at one point to start enhancing. Hind sign is 2020. So I was drug free for 11 years. I think Kurt, you were drug free for about 500 years. Yeah, four, four, 98. 498, 29. And Dean, do you, you were natural for quite a bit? Of course, yeah, I think up until age 24. So it was like five six years. Okay, so what about you, John? Please, please take it away because you're, again, you're the most knowledgeable when it comes to this stuff. Yeah, gosh, this, I feel like it dates me as being a long-term drug user, but I didn't start like my, I'll say my intentional first cycle. So I was about a year out from my first bodybuilding show. So this was like being, I was 25 years old. However, I'd started some TRT prior to that. But the reason I say like intentionally is because I came up in the air when there was like the designer's steroid or it was called prohormone on the market, right? So you could go into G and C, you could go into a supplement show and buy like these prohormones and being young and kind of naive, I just thought, well, yeah, these things like convert to this hormone, this isn't a steroid because you can buy it in the store. So I definitely, definitely had some exposure, probably in this like 19 to early 20 area of these different compounds, which gosh, who, what were they? Being naive and stupid, not a lot to know there. However, I do know probably my first one was one called TORQ that was here, a local company that was being created and it absolutely was superdraw. So my first exposure was superdraw. That's terrible dude. How were your liver enzymes? Did you ever check those or did you feel toxic or? I don't know. No, no, no. I don't think anyone did back then. That's the blood road things newer. So I, and I was young, right? So it's like as cheap as you can do it. I don't know. I mean, my body weight shot up like 20 pounds in like five weeks, my binge press went up like 50 pounds and it was amazing. And then I lost like 50 pounds of strength and dropped right back down to where I was previously. So I was like, well, that's kind of demoralizing, but anyway. And when you shut down, like looking back, were you shut down from that first quote unquote, or only cycle or what do you think you were underage in the patient for a bit? So I didn't have labs pulled until probably, it was probably three years prior to wanting to bodybuild. And I had lower, low normal testosterone at that point. And then I'm like, well, okay, I hadn't been using and just kind of went about my way. The doctor was like, oh, you know, it could just be the test, blah, blah, blah. So when I actually got into like, hey, I want to bodybuild, let me look at my hormone levels. And they were still like around this. I was like, I got 270 nanogram per deciliter. I'm like, well, this isn't going to cut it. I think just using these hormones in the past caused some issues. Could it have been come back over like more years of this letting off? I don't know, but my path was going to be bodybuilding anyway. So that's when I was like, well, let me get a script. I got my first script and that kind of led me into doing my first shows and how I kind of progressed forward from there. Okay. And then like with the knowledge you have access to now and how you would design it for guys that would do their first cycle, what do you think needs to be in place before people even think about taking PEDs? I mean, I think you need to go through just your, a lot of understanding of just what you're about to jump into. Of course, I think you need time as well to train naturally, to maximize those variables. Cause you see so often that guys are going to jump on and you can easily mask a poor diet training, a recovery protocols just with using more gear. And then you eventually hit this roadblock where like you had high dosage of gear and you still don't look enormous. And you're like, well, now you have to backpedal and figure out why is that is. And usually you just like, well, let me just take more of these drugs in place. So I think having some time spent training naturally has a huge benefit. What I usually outline is like, spend at least three to five quality years. I mean, quality. So doing all these things right before making the decision to move on. Cause within the first year of someone training naturally, like you can make substantial progress and then kind of every year it get halved from there. So when you get to the point where in a year you're adding maybe three pounds of tissue on, this might be the consideration point for like moving to enhanced area. Where does that look like age wise? Well, I wouldn't have touched anything being 18, 19 years old. Probably 19 to 20, you see some of your peak hormone levels in the blood, maximize those like absolutely. And even at that age, I didn't have the awareness of what to do with training and nutrition and even my recovery aspect. Even for males, we don't see like full brain development till you're around 25 years old. So there's an aspect of like, do you really want to expose yourself to like neuro toxicity and the neurodegeneration potential around steroids? When you haven't even reached your full brain development yet. Also just the maturation side, right? Like being in my early twenties, like probably wasn't the best decision of what I wanted to do even long-term career wise. So I would say, hey, first exposures you might consider getting out of college, being in this kind of like 23 year old era. Then you have the potential of like, how long exposure wise to reach a pro ranks, if that's your goal, 10, 15 years of exposure could take you up to the pro level. And that's being, you know, at 35 where we see a lot of guys are peaking in their prime. They're starting to peak. I think this timeline kind of makes a lot of sense. Now I know that doesn't fit for everyone because you have guys getting into it later. So that kind of changes the dynamic there. But I think giving yourself some time to train naturally, maximize what you already have would be essential. From there, I think guys would be just a questionnaire that you need to go through of PD preparedness to say, like, you know, what is the need of your division? This probably caters more to like the female population. There's a lot you can do before you jump into gear with if you're training on bikini or you have our new fit model division that just came out yesterday, right? Oh yeah. Oh no. More time spent in the benches before everybody starts. Yeah, so like these are the questions that I would have in mind if I was my younger self of like, have you spent time maximizing all your variables? Like, do you understand the short-term and long-term risk of using PDs? Do you have some basic understanding of endocrinology and the compound risk? Do you have access to quality products? Are you shopping at GNC for your performance? Are you getting them from the steroid dealer corner or can you access farm grade? Do you know like the supplementation that you'd even need in place to protect yourself and how to handle like an estrogen issue or a DHT issue or whatever it may be, if that was to pop up? Like, can you afford this without having limitations? I think all these questions would be some, at least some starting points to consider before you even move into that area. Now, guys- What you're basically saying is there needs to be some sort of entry exam. Nearly. Before you start PDs, where you have like four to five years about the same time as a proper education where you graduate from your NADI status and then based on your performance during your NADI career, you might go into the next phase or performance enhancing that might be under guidance of a coach or I think that's a good way, but like the way you said it, like there's needs to be multiple steps in place before you even consider this kind of stuff. I think there would be some sort of entry exam and I think a lot of people would fail on their first try. How are you, they would say, hey, maybe you need another year in the benches before you can go to the next level. Dean, what do you think? Yeah, no, I agree. I mean, I think even to Bill on like John, we have the old-school mythology of like the three, four, five strength methods of being able like bench tree plates, squat four, deadlift five to sort of reach that natural strength plateau, I guess. Like most guys will never really push themselves to the limit of reaching strength plateaus before taking the leap to being enhanced, let alone like the hormone situation of assessing where your hormones are naturally. I think guys jump to go without reaching a plateau when these compounds really build upon that central nervous system strength aspect. Kurt. Yeah, I mean, I agree with everything both of them said. I just, I waited longer. I didn't really need drugs. I was kind of against them for a long time and I waited until basically my body started going the other direction. When I tried to lose fat, muscle would come off and when I tried to gain muscle, fat would come on. I was always naturally leaner. So it wasn't, I could see it in my body that was just changing. I went and got lab worked on. My test was like in the low fours. So I went on TRT and then I was on TRT for like very short period of time before I did my first cycle. Yeah. Do you think TRT is a good entry into steroids? I was 39. So for me, yeah, for a younger guy, I think TRT for most guys is a misused term. If you're under 20s, most likely you don't need TRT. Like fix the lifestyle stuff unless you actually have hyper gonadism. And if you do, why is it primary or secondary? I think that's my problem with the online medicine stuff nowadays is that clinics are just prescribing stuff without actually thinking of what's wrong. Why would a 25 year old be hyper gonadal? A lot of the clinics are glorified cellular dealers and not a lot of clinics like the one we work with, Merrick Health, that one actually goes into the situation and tries to optimize the testosterone levels with sleep and healthy lifestyle and all these little things first before any kind of script needs to be taken place. And I know from the former doctor that used to work, Dr. Adam Hodgkis and a couple of the current doctors that worked there is that they really assessed the situation and see, well, many of the guys that think that their end of the deficient were similar to John where they experimented with psalms or hormones or something along those lines and they shut themselves down and they never gave themselves adequate time to kind of recover from that. And now since all these TikTok influencers want to stay in shape 24 seven, the fat intake is low and the sleep quality isn't so good. So how high can your testosterone levels come back? I think every natural should go through a period where they just, disregarding of how they look, they try to get their hormone levels as high as possible with high food intake. And if that means you get a little bit fatter, so be it. But if you sleep better because of that, I think if you learn your basal hormonal state and try to optimize that, I think you can learn a lot about your body and actually take care of your seat quite far. I mean, will you look like a pro bodybuilder unless you're genetically inclined? You know, we can name a couple guys that look phenomenal without PEDs, but those are the exceptions, not the norm. So I think if you're a natural guy and you're really passionate about bodybuilding, I mean, at least try to dial in your nutrition, training, supplementation. And for nutrition, it's very simple. You eat the foods that you can digest, moderate protein, high carbs, and moderate fat during the offseason, you know, reasonably high protein, moderate carbs, and maybe lower fat during the cutting phase. And that seems to work well for most people. Carb cycling as needed based on activity levels. Supplementation is basically what you need to supplement what you can't get from your diet and then maybe creatine monohydrate on top of that. And the rest is just extra fluff that maybe contributes one or 2%. I mean, let's be honest. And then, you know, the training, most people do well with a three to five day split. And that kind of depends on your development. So if you have a lot of development that needs to take place, you do a push for legs, AB routine, something like that. And I mean, maybe later on, you can split it up into a four day split or five day split. And then it kind of depends on, you know, how you develop from that, because some body parts will develop faster than other body parts. Again, a coach who understands natural bodybuilding would go a very long way. And I think now that they're being a good amount of natural, or coaches that are specialized in natural athletes, you spend $300, $500 for a good coach to learn it faster. And then you basically graduate yourself to your first cycle, which again, I think one ampoule of testosterone per week, it's probably a great starting point. It's already double the reference range for most guys for one half times the reference range. And that 500 tests in a cycle with the endable kickstart, then the start form is perpetuated? No. No, no, no, no, no. You do that for 12 weeks, then you do a PCT. And it's only 12 weeks for some reason. I don't know why. Yeah, yeah, time on this time off, right? It's a great way to. Make sure you start to, make sure you start two weeks after your last shot, regardless of what you talk about. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then let the nander alone just stay active while your at CT is working. So discussing the first cycle, maybe we can start there. What do you think about the duration, compound selection, things to avoid, things to look for, just probably from a direct perspective, we're going to assume that the athletes graduated from their natural stuff, right? So they're financially secure. They did blood work a couple of times, their nutrition training, et cetera, is all in place. What would be a good place to start? John, take it away. Sure, yeah. Just a second, one last thing that you said, Steve, is that to this day, still my greatest focus in learning is training. That's where I spend most of my time on the day, thinking how can I prove my execution throughout every set, even while I'm in the gym. It's not spent learning all about drugs all day. Most of us love it just, and we go way beyond what you'd probably need to know. But at this level, like if you get together with like other high-level pros, it's talking about training, because that's still your greatest tool to drive this process forward. So if you invest that time in anything, spend more in training, because even at this level, I'm still learning and improving. So someone that's earlier on, I used to coach people and not have weight training included, just do that nutrition and supplementation. People would be like, oh, I got training, don't worry about that. Man, you don't have training, because I don't even have training, I'm still figuring out. Anyway. I think it also evolves. Like I think that the intensity and knowing when to back off or when to really go for it, I think you need longer than five years, honestly, because I really started piecing together after 15 years of training, where you really know how to contract properly and stay in that ideal range of motion and some exercise it's more range of motion than others. So you have this little library of how to perform each exercise to the perfect capacity. And that might be more cumbersome than learning about steroids, because every exercise is so different than you have to work with your biomechanics. And like you could do a crash course on steroids maybe in a week, but when you train legs twice per week, I mean, how many workouts do you really need to piece it together? It might take several years. Absolutely. Back to your original question, those things like starting points, I would still be a testosterone first kind of guy and not be a Sarm Goblin or anything of this sort. I think starting dosage wise, along lines that we all have spoken to, I think a great paper to look at is like that Bayeson paper of 2001, I think it was where you have varying graded dosages of testosterone, again, I get some ideas of what really moves the needle into super physiological territory. And that one group that was on 125 milligrams per week, that was a battle replacement dosage for those guys. They're around like the 600 to 700 nanogram per deciliter. But when they jumped to 300 makes a test per week, they go super physiological, which was around this, it was over 1200 nanogram per deciliter. I don't remember exactly, but that's the point of superfizz, right? So if you're looking at this range, like 125 to 300 for some individuals, that's gonna move the needle a lot. So what I would want in my first cycle would be moving beyond my natural levels for one, or pretty close to it, because you don't wanna be under because that's just not beneficial at all. So I think starting even at 200 milligram testosterone per week would be reasonable. And then to assess where that moves you if you have some natural lab work in place. And why I say low is milk the most from the least. And it also gives you opportunity to learn how to manage if there was a side effect to come about, it would be a less likely issue to have a side effect come about versus starting at 300, 400 milligram of testosterone for you as genetically you can image all that takes you way beyond. And now you have to deal with, oh man, now I have like estrogen issues, my guide was filling up or something along these lines. And you're having a back pedal and figured out. And as a first time user, I don't think you want that complication. You want something pretty close to like physiological levels to where you can manage estradiol and DHT very reasonably. And so I think something at 200 milligrams per week testosterone would be very suitable to do so. And very low risk in that same study, like there's some of the guys that were running 600 milligram testosterone per week over 20 weeks. You see a little HDL lowering, a little hematocrit rising, but for the most part, it's fairly benign for that duration of time. So I think this gives you a lot of ground as a start point just to keep driving that up and make a lot of progress. And I don't think you actually need a set timeline per se. I think your timeline is probably more to take a depictive of what's gonna be your limitation factor when you're bulking. I think some of you guys are running to like getting too fat too quick or digestive issues getting, you know, appetite smashed or they're just smashed from training and they need to then scale back and deload or do some type of fat loss phase. And that would detect like moving the dosage back down to a maintenance. But if you're at tier like this 200 milligram, you would need to do that. But I think that's kind of the start of a framework of where I would go from there. Would you guys agree on that dosing? Or would you change something about it? Can I? Yeah, I think that's reasonable. I mean, you're basically doubling your serums for most people, you know. Can I touch on two points that I think get misunderstood? So when we're looking at blood work from a medical point of view, hemoglobin and hematocrit are not the biggest deal, right? A lot of doctors, and they learn this stuff. I don't know if they just forgot it or they're just doing it to protect their own ass. Those aren't the concerning things when they go up a little bit. What we look at is platelet count. So if you need to see a phlebotomist to get blood, it's when your platelet count is elevated because that's what's gonna cause the clotting issues, not a rise in hemoglobin and hematocrit, right? You don't obviously want them super high, but they in and of themselves are not the risk that we're looking at. So we don't obsess about, that's kind of a benefit of using steroids, right? Prevent anemia. If you give blood every time you're hematocrit or hemoglobin goes slightly above the range, you can become anemic. It doesn't make any sense. Yeah, you don't have much iron. I just look at platelet count. Platelet count's in the middle of the range. You're generally fine. The other thing is to define physiological versus super physiological. And I think this gets lost on the internet. So what we're taught in school, and people can ask you for references, and unfortunately, unless you wanna buy an endocrinology textbook, I don't have an act. There's not necessarily studies that show all this stuff. Some information you just have to understand. You just take from people that are more educated than you and you just accept it. What we're defining super physiological is, it generally at 300 milligrams. And the reason being is that in the average person, that'll get your serum level over 1400 nanograms per deciliter every day, as an average is a low. In order to cause muscle growth through the three anabox pathways from drugs, from testosterone alone, this does not include other anabox, you need to be above 1400. If it drops below that, you're not anabox. So what we see for the average person, there are people that might get above 1400 on 200 milligrams. So I think with physiological, so I think people get too obsessed about the numbers, like, well, we produce 11 milligrams, testosterone a day, and if you add that out, 100 milligrams is TRT. That might be fine for TRT. For some people, it might also be inadequate. That's, I wasn't ever taught to use 100 milligrams for TRT. But we generally look at under 250 is considered physiological, even if the dose is more than you would naturally produce, because on the average person, it's not gonna get you on an average above 1400 milligrams. So that's kind of what we're looking at. And that's how you define those terms. It's not that just because it's more than you would produce, that it's all of a sudden this magical amount of steroids. Very few guys are gonna grow a significant amount of mass on 200 milligrams a test. Most of that mass is probably because they were under eating, eating incorrectly, not training correctly, not sleeping well, right? There were other things going on. So, wait, wait, wait. Are you saying guys on 200 milligrams a week are using TRT as a crutch? To compensate for a lot of the... Yeah, of course, for bad lifestyle stuff, totally. I honestly, I call placebo ballin. When guys are growing, like I took 100 milligrams of this and I blew up. Well, that's because all of a sudden, you decided that you weren't gonna drink, you weren't gonna get better sleep, you were gonna start eating better. It was those factors more than, yes, you fixed your hormone profile. So there's some effect there. But again, you're not leveraging adiabolic to the extent that the adiabolic is driving the growth per se. That makes sense. I agree, I think on a primed natural athlete that's been grinding for five years in the gym, 100 milligrams to 200 is not going to move the needle much. Maybe 200, but obviously, if the testosterone levels are high and they're basically pushing against their natural potential, they might need a little bit more unless they're pushing against their natural potential with a natural testosterone level of 400. Then I don't mind bringing that up to 800 to 1,000 nanograms per deciliter, right? To kind of assess response. But since it will take for most esters about four weeks for serum levels to peak, at four weeks you can do your blood work and kind of assess. And then obviously you would probably have three months of progress in you and then make a dose adjustment. So you would start maybe between 200 to 300 milligrams and then basically your progress, you would slowly ramp that up and then maybe leverage an aromatizanibular or some sort of DHT derivative to kind of keep estrogen arranged or getting your body fat levels down. Yeah, for a bit. Can I just touch on the TRT dosing too, the way that I was taught? So general practitioners, wellness doctors, neurologists are probably not taught the same stuff. What we're taught within standard of care is, let's say Dean comes to me and he's hyper gonadal. Most guys are afraid of needles, right? Let's say you're 40 years old, you've never injected anything, it's weird, your wife is strange, it's not super into you injecting needles. You give the guy 100 milligrams. Most likely he's not gonna feel a whole lot and he's not gonna wanna continue, right? He's gonna be like, this is for the birds. His heart is a lump now. I don't really feel a whole lot different than I did before. The primary reason is one, you give them, depending on the way the test is made, either give them the 200 or the 250. They feel amazing right away. You can always back down if you need to, if the blood markers change or there's something wrong or there's side effects. But that way at least you have patient compliance, right? When you give them the proper dose immediately, you can always shift it. If you give them a low dose, you're generally not gonna work it up. Most doctors don't increase doses. The other reason that people seem to miss is that from a measurement point of view, we are all educated, we know how to measure things. I could tell John knows the difference, he knows how to calculate to measure GH and peptides and all these things. The average person can't do math, right? They did a study with McDonald's and they asked people about the quarter pounder. And people couldn't understand what size a quarter pounder was. So you're gonna tell a guy to take, to dilute something with a weird amount and measure to that, like they're gonna get it wrong. So generally drugs are given in the dose that they come, right? Testosterone comes in 200 or 250 milligrams per ML. You give them a one ML syringe. You say fill the syringe, inject it once a week. It doesn't mean- It doesn't mean it's best practice, it's just simple. You don't give someone a Moxicillin and say, it's a 500 milligram pill. But what I want you to do is cut it in thirds. And I want you to take it every two and a half days at nine hours into the day. No one's gonna do that right. You give, yes, saracens is a perfect example. If you're under over 140 pounds, you take the bottle. They don't have people diluting it with 1.8 MOs of water and pulling through units and doing it at this time. It leads to disaster. No one does it right. Well, that's what the bodybuilders do. We try to reinvent the wheel, which is fun. When unfortunately you're knocking out smart Merc or Pfizer. Yeah. It's not gonna happen. Yeah. Dean, what do you think about first cycle practices? Yeah, relatively in agreement. Although I think, you know, having a hormone baseline as a natural gives you a stepping point to build from. So obviously we're taking the assumption there that we've got a natural athlete whose total testosterone level says 25 nanomall per liter or whatever, 800 to 900 nanogram per desiliter. Yeah. If you give them one to five tests, it's gonna probably yield the same serum level. You give them 250, even though pretty much doubled their serum level. The only time I'd be a bit cautionary is, let's say you do have someone who is a natural athlete who is for all intents and purposes, hypergonadol on paper, but doesn't exhibit hypergonadal symptoms. So their total test level is eight to 10 nanomall. You give them 250 milligrams of tests, their level is now 45, you know, you've quadrupled their total test level. Yeah, that's probably gonna see a brilliant effect to that level, but you've now quadrupled the total testosterone that could bring side effects, you know, unwanted metabolic outcomes like estrogen, DHT. So I guess you have to look at where your natural level is to start and then adjust from there. I mean, we had this discussion, I brought this point up at the conference last week of, if we're gonna start picking medical dosages to give athletes like the enhanced games, all right, let's just start giving 600 milligrams based on base and study. You know, we have to tailor to that person's biochemistry, what their total level is, and then adjust the dose from there, that's my personal take on it. And you're gonna end up somewhere between two to 300 milligrams anyway, to take someone's level, double or triple their natural level, if they are, you know, in that mid-20s. Where for someone who's a little lower, going too high, too quick to start, like John said, you wanna milk the like absolute most from the least dose. Yeah, and I think it's a good point what John made is that we're starting this first cycle during the offseason, because then the food is in place, right? The training is at the highest capacity, so you're basically pushing against this natural limited terrain, and then a low dose of a couple hundred milligrams to start strong goes a very long way, because again, the food is in surplus and you've already learned how to be anabolic through several dieting phases. What I will add to that is that I think it's a good idea to do your last natty diet before you start your first cycle, so you start lean, so you don't have to worry too much about the aromatization, and you can see the changes on your physique, because you don't have to x-ray through this layer of fat, where, you know, at least your abs and your glutes and your quad separation and all that stuff, the visual changes are so apparent, not only to yourself, but to everybody in the gym, and then now with social media, you can milk the fuck out of it, make some money while you're at it. Of course, if you're...  N-acetyl-25, don't promote the drugs, because your audience is even younger. That's the biggest problem nowadays on TikTok. So basically, you start from this ideal point where you can see your physique, you just come from a cutting phase, your calories might be a little bit low, but you can ramp that up. And I think through multiple caloric adjustments, even if you start with 200 milligrams or 300 milligrams of testosterone and nothing else, you can make so much progress. And we're talking about 10, 20, 30 pounds on your first cycle, starting from this reasonably lean state. We've seen some pretty good effects with starting with guys. I think there's a lot of value to doing your first show natural. Some might not wanna do that, but I think you'll learn actually nutrition, training, fatigue management, aspects, peaking without the drug massing and the complication of masking as well. Coming off the back end of that, you know you're gonna be suppressed in several different positive hormones. I think from a natural, that could be a very good starting point as well, versus what's the difference of like, we're gonna let these natural levels come back up through just normal processes and timing. Then we could start our first one. Might as well start it right out the gate there, low at a time when man, you'll leverage so much out of that gate. So if you're not competing, that's okay. Like Steve suggested, like do a cut phase, come off that. So you have a lot of runway to grow. But if you're competing, I'd say at least do your first show natural. And then if you decide, hey, move it from there, do a couple of shows natural and move up the needle. I wanted to like, just clarify a statement that you had mentioned, Kurt, because you said, you know, at 1400 nanogram per deciliter, like you won't leverage anabolic processes. I think we're talking about like, what might be within a reference range. And I don't think you disagree with what Dean had said, that it depends like physiological, normal exposure would depend on what that person's been used to, right? So moving that needle up beyond, maybe for that person, 1000 is like, man, they're a whole new man. While it wouldn't be the case, right? Correct. Well, medicine is based on averages, right? We can't tell her everything, but within that, that's what clinical practice should be. It should be based on standard of cares based on the individual. So again, let's say Dean comes to me, he could be hypogonal, but have no symptoms. You don't necessarily have to treat it unless there's obvious, right? Issues, you also, you see guys that have a 600 test that have horrible symptoms. It just depends on the person. And that's where seeing a real doctor helps over, sometimes some of these, you know, shady clinics or whatever. Or trying to, the other one I see nowadays is guys trying to diagnose and fix real medical problems themselves, right? They do everything on their own and they're trying to interpret blood work. Then they're trying to manage other health issues that come along, right? They got high blood pressure. Now they got kidney problems. Now they got all these things and they're buying all these drugs in the black market and they're trying to manage their entire health without, you know, their 20 year short of school to make that decision on how to fix those things. You know, playing nephrologist is not an easy job. No, you know. It's tough to say you're on user, right? Being like young, like myself, and I didn't have the money to run all of these tests and meet with doctors and have like say, a great clinic like Merrick Health to like manage my health markers. Essentially, yes, you have all those things, but I think that's part of the initial realization. Is that it's gonna be a costly endeavor and make sure you can at least afford. Yeah, and honestly, labs are so cheap now. Like I think probably all of us have some type of code we give out for lab work. We are, you know, adequately evaluating labs because I see a lot of guys will be like, hey, my labs are still good. Can I keep pushing? They're missing like most of the markers that you should probably have on there to check. You're like, yeah, that's not everything you need. And also lab work doesn't mean there's not still risk there. But I think, you know, having at least understanding like, hey, every 10 to 12 weeks, you should be pulling some serum lab work in your analysis. Like this is cost that you should probably be thinking about. Yeah. And if you don't- I put that into your cycle. And if you're young like John said, and you just don't know where to go right, and you don't have a doctor that you trust. I mean, all four of us, I don't know if you still do consultations, but the three of us at least do, and there's probably at least 10 other guys out there that I would trust interpreting blood work. There are resources now that weren't available when I was younger, right? And I get it, you're nervous to go to your GP, your family doctor, and be like, I'm on test in DECA, and I don't feel great. Yeah, when you're young, you're maybe a little bit short on finance. I mean, you're probably- No, I get it. But- Yeah, you're short on finance, but you're fat on time. So you can do a lot of research already, learn as you go along, but also ask your questions very direct. So you know exactly how to get those answers for 10 minute, 20 minute consultation. Because, you know, preparation into a consultation or even with a coach, I think that's half the work when you're young, you know, when you're short on money. Because then you can get it most out of a personal service. I think that's very valuable to bring back to blood work. Like blood work every three months, every month, you know, depending on the level of your bodybuilding. In person, I do it every month, and I've been doing that for many years. I did it every year since I was 15, because I just wanted to know. So I literally have graphs of my testosterone levels declining until I was 26 years old. I mean, my levels were 629 against per deciliter, so it's not terribly low, but you know, after 11 years of night bodybuilding, I wanted to see what one ampoule testosterone was going to do with me. And I gained 15 pounds in five weeks. And yeah, it was great. Yeah, I started dieting. Yeah, it was a lot of fun. A lot of gains. So, but a lot of guys, they don't really do that. But I think nowadays there's no real excuse anymore with the reef. I mean, all four of us are basically excellent resources of information. And I think if you just follow through for the first four years, five years, before you start your first cycle, you're close to as much of an expert you can be on testosterone, because in the time that you're not training and cooking meals and ordering supplements online, you can do some research on testosterone only, and you know exactly what to expect on your first cycle. Now, if you do a blood work a couple of times, I don't see a problem with running testosterone only for a year straight. Right? Maybe a sodium-grasm, ATG for testosterone function, maybe two years, but there will come a point in time where Pandora's box is now appealing, and then what we're gonna add. Yeah, wait, can I just- If I had a time machine, I would add growth hormone, but Kurt, I'm gonna add growth hormone. I was just gonna back up to address what John said about Dean's comment. So what we find in natural individuals, and it probably carries over to drug enhancements, when we're talking about what amount gets you over a certain serum level with your own biochemistry, what we found the best responders, the most naturally muscular people, don't necessarily the highest serum testosterone levels. They have the highest level of angiotemperceptors. So their AR density is naturally much higher than someone who's not gonna respond. And we see that even in guys that use drugs, right? I'm sure we've all worked with people who have you pushed the limits of the gear up a little bit, and nothing really occurs, right? That's generally an AR issue, or some other polymorphism or other gene, but it's not so much the serum, but we can't measure, I can't necessarily measure someone's angiotemperceptor density. That's not like a practical test you're doing on people all the time. So we go by serum level, but yeah, you're right. It just depends, it's an individual thing, not so much. I think when you start this first cycle, you absolutely should be seeing on a week to week basis the ability to increase load reps every single session, nearly across every single exercise. I think if you're not seeing that, then likely your dosing could be inadequate, or you still just really suck at programming your training and doing those things. So I think whether you're increased dosage, it should always be that questioning process and assessment. So if the dose is too high, like, hey, do you have all the following check, like adequate sleep, like you have a low stress, nutrition's on point, trainings, that adequate volume and effort, are you in a calorie surplus and gaining weight? Like if you're not gaining weight and you're not eating enough, well, yeah, the gear's probably not gonna be taking this full advantage and you're probably not seeing training performance increase. Now if you're doing all those things and training performance is still not increasing or slowing down, this might be the assessment point to you, it is time to increase the dosage. But before that, it's like, yeah, hey, what about health risk and markers? Like are those in check? Yes, or are it steps like within that risk profile? Okay, now we make decision, yes, it is time to push up the dosage and that's kind of where you might fall along the spectrum like Steve's bring up that I very well think you could run a testosterone only cycle for a year without having to adjust dosages back down and just have this continued slow escalation, using that assessment along the way, which absolutely I think holding dosages for at least eight weeks at a time would be very reasonable. For esters to your chimalate, you hold that peak dosage for a time, you look at labs, you make your next decision from there. And I do think a 20 to 30% increase, milligram-wise total per week is very reasonable to keep moving that needle. So this might be 70 milligram increase of testosterone at a time and of course that percentage would build upon so you keep leveraging the same amount of growth as you get more advanced. And by the end of a year of doing this, you very well get end up in the 500 milligram of testosterone point. You might not because you can tolerate, you reach this point of where you have to make a decision of, hey, this estrogen issues are becoming problematic. You could go the AI route and build testosterone up that way, or you might need to leverage some other type of compound and build up that way. Got a two decisions to go, but I think within that dosage profile for your first three week, you make tremendous gains and you wouldn't have rationale to really need to be pulling back the dosage and just really milk everything out. Yeah, I like to just set 500 milligrams up a year. A lot of people are going to be pissed. Which is what the Anabolic Ground Table is about, we're really the break hearts. I would hope to do that in 12 weeks and then I lose my gains and then I do a PCT and... Yeah, exactly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Breathe that, I let your nephisage up and then you end up looking exactly the same as you did at week zero. Dean, anything you would wanna contribute? No, I think we've touched on it quite a lot. And the reason and thing that we keep coming back to is training, is being able to train effectively and efficiently. And I think, I guess we were all lucky, we probably grew up in a period where there was no social media of confounding biases to training. We all understood DC, top set, backoff, second and annihilate yourself, which... Yeah, we've discussed now several times that we've probably leveraged antibiotics to overcome recovery issues from that type of training. But now we're falling into the pattern of single arm cable exercises of like nailing, execution there, where you're losing the focus on load, on tension, on technique. That... We're doing high level exercises to sculpt a physique which is already there, to build a physique that is still under development. So you're basically trying to ride a sports car when you're six years old. You have to ride a bicycle first. And like what we've discussed, about high volume approaches, reps and reserve. Most of us have been training way over 15 years that we're now getting to more nuanced ways of staying injury free more than trying to gain muscle tissue specifically. So even that training that John touched on, you touched on, before you even assess your next move on a bollocks, you need to be looking at your training and really having an honest assessment of your training intensity. Like you said, you could be training legs three times per week. Most people, I know if they train legs properly, you'd be lucky to get back into the gym after five days. So, you know, that real honest assessment of your training progress alongside your dosage increase and then food on top, that's quite often the missing puzzle piece. I'm eating correctly, I'm taking the gear, but then you're not training properly. So the physique isn't adapting to that training stimulus. I will say that purely based on social media, I think people take their training a lot more serious now because it's a bit of a badge of honor than we used to do back in the day because we couldn't share our training videos, right? So when I look at John, look at John train or myself or some of the other people that I follow in social media, everybody's training very deliberate. And that seems to occur at a much younger age as well because they get exposed to it. Now, does it qualify them to start cycling earlier? I'm not entirely sure, but that also seems to be the norm now where people don't start at 25 where their brain is fully developed, but maybe 23, 21, 18. Then again, I went to school with classmates who started their cycle at 16. So, you know, has it really changed? They went into their parents' deionable jar that they cut from Thailand, by the way. But that's a story for different subject. So advancing from the first cycle, right? We milk this testosterone only as long as we can. Within that first year, do we see a need to add in something like growth hormone or another anabolic androgenic steroid? Like what would be some key indicators for yourself or maybe the coach to say, hey, listen, you know, wait a minute, we're leveraging this testosterone, but what about, let's try to figure out what's behind door number two, maybe torinibol as an oral or anivar as an oral or growth hormone as an injectable, would be a suitable option. Because at one point you're going to have to diversify a little bit. Yeah, so I guess I'll answer. My thoughts are on that. Yeah, I think it's going back to you all. You have your assessment point of like losing your logbook as your diagnostic tool, right? And when this is starting to slow down, like what's the process from there? I do think you could leverage just the anabolic lever for quite a bit. And I think we have to consider the actual feasibility of what's going to be available for someone that maybe not have access to everything and cost-wise, because if I was to go back and I reached this bridge of like kind of this stalemate of 500 milligram, do I leverage more anabolic or do I bring in something like growth hormone? Man, I would be really keen on probably starting growth hormone earlier on as just the synergy that it creates with being able to partition more towards muscle, limiting fat getting in the offseason, doing your kind of phases, easier time holding tissue and fullness and dropping body fat with very low risk. I think that's what's the realization and to realize that your anabolics are create the most growth, but also at the greatest detriment to your health. So if you're able to mitigate that to a degree and work on synergies, it would be much in your favor for a long term of doing this. Like we mentioned, this could be 10, 15 years down the road when you're finally reaching like your all time peaks and competitiveness. So earlier on growth hormone utilization would be probably a first lever to pull, but the reality is that some people might not be able to have access to this or with the affording thing, it's growth hormone is more affordable than it's ever been. However, you have to be able to access that affordability. So you might be getting some UG growth hormone that's just total junk, even though you're not paying a lot of money for it. But I think that would be an initial starting point. So I'm with the two to three I use of growth hormone versus going up beyond 500 milligram. Would y'all utilize growth hormone first? Or would you keep pushing the anabolic lever? I would, if I had a time machine, I would put growth hormone for, which I actually did on my second cycle, I put growth hormone in, because that was the time of a GF4 or kick tropon becoming available on the GH15 form. That's around the time I did my first cycle. So I stocked up heavily during that time. It was pretty affordable. Got a good results. I grew, got another growth spurt out of it. But I think everybody's different. But like you said, growth hormone is very available now. And if you have a good coach with a good hookup, again, that's worth paying for, to have a guy that not only guides you regarding your PD usage, but also maybe is able to point you in the right direction or work to acquire high quality pharmaceuticals. Now, we can all agree that starting at 25 is probably ideal. But if you're younger, would a growth hormone secretagogue be more suitable than real growth hormone? Yeah, we're threading a little bit in the gray area now, because I think we all feel the same about growth hormone secretagogues. But would it be an option for younger, let's say you're super serious, right? You've been bodybuilding since 15 to 20 years old and your growth hormone output could still be leveraged by a growth hormone secretagogue. Would it be an option or are we putting these guys, or would we recommend? How old are we talking here? 20? I mean, realistically, you're probably making about three milligrams a day anyway, growth hormone. Is it MK-677 gonna make a difference there? Probably not. Might make you hungry. Yeah, that's true. That's the only problem with the growth hormone is that, I do agree, I think it has more value than anything else. I even put on part of testosterone. I think the problem is when a guy's super young, how much do they need to actually leverage it, where they're just not turning the pituitary off to either match it or get less, right, because we know that you're not gonna get a ton of growth out of something like 3I use, GH. And it becomes an affordability, like you said, like I would rather guys use GH long-term, it's not something that's used, like I'm out of the school thought where it's like a cycle thing. Like you go on GH, you're pretty much on GH. The guy of no intention of ever stopping using growth hormone at this point. So that would be a huge issue. We realize the benefits, especially at a little bit more higher dosages, why would you stop besides financial reasons? But hopefully by that time, you get your financial situation in order for you to afford a good amount of growth hormone. And again, a higher dose of growth hormone, it's been well studied. It seems to be a little bit safer than high-dose steroids. And if that allows you to keep your steroid dosage moderate, which again, like John said, it's going to skew your blood work parameters the most, it didn't cause heart enlargement and all that stuff. I think that's a more suitable route. So you'll have two compounds that you could probably run for the first three years, which makes it very unexciting. But honestly, if I had a time machine, that's what I would do. The first three years, I would just use the test in GH. That's it. That's all I use now. Yeah. Yeah. That might all be I ever use again. You had a great point, Steve, because I get the question too, where do you access this cheap growth hormone, John? It's like, well, yeah, let me just give this out, Willie Neely, right? But I think you have a good point, Steve, is like, well, how would you? And I was like, well, I would find a reputable coach and make friends with the gym that's in town, with all the big guys that train there, and then have my coach. And through that, people will help each other out. So I think that's your route to finding potential access to these things. And that might be a good way to go to clarify something that you brought up, Kurt, around. Because I don't want anyone out there to think like, if they are gonna use three, I use a growth hormone that that's a waste of time. No, I didn't mean to waste. Yeah, no, I didn't. And I know you didn't mean that. I think you're right. The aspects of growing probably come directly with higher dosing of growth hormone. But I would say the leveraging of the ability in that gained body fat, or a limited state, could come from that lower dosage, if, right? It is going beyond what your natural limitations were. And so that, I think it's indirectly your ability to drive food and partition it towards all these growth processes is where that benefit comes from even lower dosaging. To the point as well, up being with Steve is that if you are using testosterone in your young, that might have already in turn already leveraged a lot of the increases of GH and IGF-1 to testosterone working. Where you might not see that huge advantage if you're just replacing that high amount already for the same amount of growth hormone you're taking. So yeah, to that degree, if you are having to be using younger, which is your growth hormone, not be your best route. I would bring this up, because I don't know, I've had a hard question a lot. We know systemic IGF-1, it's not the best measure of actual response to what we really want is localized IGF-1. However, we don't really have a means to testing localized IGF-1 feasibly. However, even in like, in Kurt, maybe you can bring this up is that even with growth hormone deficiency in children and looking at growth, they still use systemic IGF-1 to an degree to see some type of response. And potentially there's a correlation if you're getting peripheral conversion. Hopefully there is some localized conversion as well occurring that you could test, hey, just like you did your natural testosterone level, you have your natural IGF-1 level. To get an idea if you're utilizing growth hormone is moving you up beyond what that natural level was versus it being lower. I don't know if y'all would agree to that, but I know the limitations around systemic IGF-1 that does not really entail like the response that you get from it. Well, with children, we use X-rays. So we'll actually measure bone growth from it. So we're not just looking at the serum IGF. Serum IGF is like you said, it measures IGF to an extent, but it's systemic. It's not necessarily going to your muscle because most likely it's bound at that point and it can't enter the cell. So, and again, I don't wanna go from the estrogen tender, but that's also the estrogen things that the guys are like, well, my IGF went really high, went up to my estrogen right high, yeah, because that's bound. So women don't need, women's physiology dictates that they don't need high IGF. That's why estrogen binds it because it's protecting them from it. Where men are different, we're supposed to have more intramuscular IGF. So, you know. Of course, we're not going to administer IGF-1, LR3 or Inc. collection our first cycle. Or within the first couple of years, that's more of an advanced exotic compound where we need maybe some localized side enhancement besides fallostatin or some of the sorts, side enhancement to really leverage our placing. But that's for later on. I think that's not really needed. So, if you can get a good IGF-1 response out of it, I'm sure it can be beneficial to kind of track, because again, IGF-1 levels stay elevated for 20 or 32 to 36 hours after growth hormone injections. So that will be similar to checking your total testosterone level, it's an indication of what's going on in your body. But in the end, it's the before and after pictures of what's really showing you where you're going, similar to height, velocity and kids. You're before and after pictures of your contours and how you're developing is basically showing you the effectiveness of everything you put in place and whether that's the training, nutrition, supplementation or the drugs, right? Putting everything together, that's basically where the progress is stemming from. Dean, anything you would like to add on, when additional compounds are going to be added? I think just budget, budget's to really, trying to convince someone to spend quite a bit of money on pharmaceutical GH, even a generic GH kit versus the cost of like a 10 mil underground vial of premaboline. You know, we're not even considering getting, you know, remaboline, pharmaceutical premaboline. You have all these costs on the table of, you've got your blood work, your supplements, your food, your gym, blah, blah. And they're saying to someone, okay, $200 at a cheat point for a good source of cheap pharma GH for 36 IU's. And then they're sort of looking, okay, well you want me to take four IU's, that's nine days, so now you're telling me I have to spend, you know, four or $600 per month on pharma GH on top of everything else. It can be, you know, yeah, long-term, it's a great benefit to the whole overall cycle design, but then they're looking at, you know, a $40 bottle of 10 mils of premaboline, but that looks like a cheaper alternative. So, you know, it comes down to budget, but I think, you know, all of us agree, even myself, including Heinz, I, you know, testing GH is a sort of affordability. If you can afford it, that's your next step, I think. Yeah, so let's say it's the second compound, right? If you're on 500 tests or even 750, what's that really costing you with an AI per month? $100? Yeah. $100? Like, one amp of testosterone is what, $45? Seven, if you're unlucky, it's not like remabolling where it's 36, and then you don't need one ampio per week, but maybe three or five. So you're spending significantly more, and then an oral of choice would be what, Teriniball or Anivar, Teriniball's pretty affordable. That is a good entry start. It would be a great on the tier list that Teriniball would be a great oral to start with. And then you use it one and done, and then you advance to Anivar, because hopefully during that time, you learn how to source a little bit more properly. So I think everything considering I would rather spend the money on GH, because up until this point, the bodybuilding was reasonably cheap. You know, the second you're not able to like, What work? You know, wasn't that crazy? John, go ahead, sorry. Yeah, if you're probably not getting your growth from going from a dollar to a dollar 50 per one IU, then you're probably getting charged a lot and you'd have great access. So if that wasn't the case, and you're paying double to triple that, you might leverage some different routes before going and revisiting the growth hormone piece. And I think that's a great point. It's the feasibility, right? Like what's your next compound selection? The reality of this and coaching is like, we can talk all day about what's optimal in paper. Like probably most would agree like, Premaball would be probably my second top steroid to utilize, absolutely. You can access farm grade premullan. Hey, this reduces risk in multiple fronts from a sterilization standpoint, from like an endogenic side standpoint. But how many people can access that or even afford it? Might be limited. So then you're left with what other compounds could you be utilizing? If I was younger, I probably would go the AI route and hire testosterone because you're paying what maybe 50 cents a day for like an AI versus like premaballan or what it may be. So maybe even less for your NASTRAs also. Probably would leverage those pathways. I think ideally I would probably, I like the idea of less complexity and maybe have your stop point for testosterone where you find this optimal estradiol sweet spot, whether it be with a little bit of AI present or without AI present, that you kind of go down the list of tiers of if it's not premaballan, what comes next? And gosh, really when you see in bodybuilding, there's like Mastra and Bouldinone and Nandrona. Like these are compounds that are kind of prevalently used and beyond that, there's not many more injectables used outside of Trinballone, but that's still yet to come for us or going down our journey of bodybuilding. And then you're kind of weighing pros and cons of like all four of these compounds. And what I want for a second compound is a milligram amount total to hit. And that's gonna be the most benign for my health. And we see like vast individual variability in what that does. Like I had people that say, premaballan was terrible in my lipids or Mastra and really hit my hair hard or Bouldinone gave me anxiety and high blood pressure or Nandrona just makes my gynoflora up. So which one of these four caused you the least benign health effects that you could fill in as a secondary compound? I think that would be the more optimal choice. I can't tell you all day on paper like what optimal would be. Or if I think a lot of people think I have some bias of Mastra, you know, like John just uses Mastra. It's like, well, no, like going down my pro con list, this fits well into me personally. Is that what I want to put on you? Well, no, I think as a beginner, you should probably rotate between all these on a solo basis with testosterone. So you understand which one gets the long best for you. Then that might be the one you leverage more along your path. Yeah, I agree. And of course the only real way of knowing what is going to work for you is by getting your hands dirty. You could do all the research you want, but the studies that have been performed on Nandrona regarding heart enlargement have not been performed on Mastron, Prima-Ballon, and Bolvano. And all the kidney studies that have been performed on Bolvano have not been performed on Mastron, Prima-Ballon, and Nandrona. And the cancer studies, again, on Prima-Ballon, Mastron have not been performed, well, Nandrona may be to a certain extent, but not on Bolvano. So you could do all the research you want, but the overlap between specific studies, especially this Bolvano and kidney toxicity issue, it's not being duplicated. So you can take that as a decision point, but switching to other compounds doesn't guarantee you that you're safe in that aspect simply because those studies have never been performed. Now, do we see tremendous kidney issues from Bolvano? Not really. Do we see tremendous heart issues from Nandrona? Not really. Unless health metrics are not addressed in the long term.  so I think experimenting with these kinds of compounds when you feel you're ready, maybe under the guidance of a coach or just doing copious amounts of research on J3 University and SN education and coach forum in my YouTube channel, all right, it's all there, so you can do the research you want and then make a decision for yourself. But most roads lead to test primo-annevar. I think we can agree on this. But yeah, if primo-annevar or growth hormone are not within your financial means, then maybe you need to go with test anadrolone and a heavy aromatazenibiter or test anbaldenone and no aromatazenibiter, right, or test a mastron. But mastron seems to be a little bit more expensive nowadays. But that could also be because, well, mastron and primo-annevar have been in the news a lot and then the price goes up. I think it's our fault, honestly. Very well, good point. Honestly, too. What did you see? What, I don't know if you guys see this, the impact of what we said at the beginning of the last video with the shortage. I don't know if you see that. I've seen quite the impact there. I've seen the impact, so yeah. You should buy stock and say the right thing and leverage our net worth. Yeah, so I bought stock in nolva Nordisk and Ellie Lilly when Lyriglutide and Seven Glutide came to market. And that has paid off quite well. Very good. So last week, or a month ago when we recorded the previous podcast, which went live a couple of days ago, we discussed a potential shortage come up from Chinese raws. And, well, if we're in touch with the raw providers or the middlemen, you would have gotten a message and say, hey, listen, we just podcasted and, of course, think big also discussed it in a couple other podcasts. We sold out. The other thing you see now, too, is people are gouging stuff. So the companies that make the glass bottles and the stoppers, the caps, have all doubled their prices. B.A. prices will be going up. B.B. prices will be going up. Everyone's going to try to make money on this now. Oh, my Bitcoin before it's too late. So basically the intermediate phase of trying to piece things together until you're ready to step on stage enhanced is trial and error. I guess because there's so many compounds we can choose from. And again, individual response kind of dictates what the best compound is going to be for you. And I've discussed these cycles with mini amateurs and mini pros, and it seems to be all over the place. Of course, nowadays we can kind of agree that trim blow needs to be kept low and that you can leverage the test primo or masteron a reasonably high. Instead of doing the rip mix, right, 300 tests, 300 masteron a 300 trend, those days seem to be over. I wasn't Breonna Ansley doing that. Well, that's besides the points. Coach is probably from back then too though, right? Yeah, back at, well, yeah. I don't know who is Chris from here. So that's the back of the day, the 300, 300 mix. So nowadays we come a little bit to the same conclusion. Just last one is a base, leverage your DHTs, and then keep your trend moderate to the point you don't get tremendous side effects, right? For glucocorticoid receptor innovation and prevent the catabolism, and you don't use any more than that so your sleep quality isn't impaired. Beyond that, beyond that basic compound selection, we've got an hour left so we're going to have to skip the queue a little bit. At one point we have to look into things like insulin and IGF-1, and maybe some niche peptide companies. Like at what point what you say those become applicable, or maybe we can briefly discuss this for every drug or every steroid real quick, like a rapid fire, when do we leverage drugs XYZ? Parts, please. You want to start with the start, like when would you leverage trend? Just start, yeah real quick. When we leverage trend, typically the only two times I would leverage it. Most common is pre-contest if it's needed. Lots of guys do shows now without it. So is it needed? No. Is it help? Sure. If you tolerate it, but like anything else, if you don't tolerate it, don't use it. Right? You might have to diet harder, you might have to watch your food, you might be doing more cardio. The only other time I would leverage it is in an offseason. If you've hit like a true plateau, it will put mass on you that you might not have gained through other compounds. Right? On a milligram basis it's stronger. It is a very strong anabolic. If it weren't, we would be using Primo for cows. And we unfortunately don't use Primo in cattle. You know, that would be the only other time I'd leverage it. Things like masteron outside of the current use where it can be substituted for, you know, premium bond, perhaps. masteron typically was a pre-contest drug. That was the only time we ever really saw it. Right? And even 15 years ago it was rare. So half the guys back then didn't even use it because they couldn't find it. I mean, like you said, those classic anabox, the EQ, the Nandrolone, the Primo, they're relatively interchangeable and you do have to experiment to see what feels the best to you. Some guys, you know, can't use some of them. You know, tests should always be used. GH, I think, is a basic as well. I mean, what are the orals? I typically would save orals outside of Vanadrol for pre-contest. Pretty much just windstroll, perhaps Anivar, Halo testing. I wouldn't be leveraging. I'm not a big oral and off-season guy. I don't think it's worth destroying your health, you know, to leverage because you're going to get there's nothing that Anivar does specifically that you couldn't get from Primo. Right? And we talked about this last video, the five unique, the five unique stories that don't have any that do basically everything are test, trend, Winnie, Anadrol and Dianable are the really the unique ones. All the others basically have some crossover effect that you can get from one of those. Right. So half of the orals were used for cosmetic benefits, not necessarily for your antibiotic potential. Yeah, I wouldn't use Anadrol. Yeah, besides Anadrol. But Anadrol fits into one of the unique ones, right? And it's generally more favorable than Dianable. I mean, and then things like insulin. I'm not a huge insulin proponent. I think if a guy needs it, if he's big enough that he's eating enough food and his pancreas can't keep up with that demand of his food, then sure, if you are 180 pounds, probably don't eat insulin. You know, if you're not eating 1000 grams of carbs, probably don't eat insulin, right? Get leaner. When you get most guys show lean, usually they pull the insulin out. I don't know what you've done, John, but when guys are stay lean or very or get very lean for show, most likely they're going hypo anyway. Yeah, they're insulin sensitive. You know, and the other stuff like the other peptides and stuff. I mean, outside, increlux, I would say is a very advanced drug. That's like you're like if they Arnold, you're at the Olympia, you're at that, you know, New York pro, you perhaps one of those guys in open, it's expensive. It's hard to cut, at least in the United States, it's hard to come by. And it's probably not going to be super beneficial to the average Jim Rath. Yeah, and the guy that sold it in the US, he's sold out. Yeah, so already. Yeah, exactly. So it's sorry. So if you want to fly to Thailand, they might be able to hook you up. Yeah, but I mean, for the average guy that's not competing in bodybuilding, if he can't grow on test and G8 or test and G1, Primo, like you said, revisit the training, revisit what you're eating. There's something else wrong or it's not the sport, right? If you have a poor genetic response to this stuff, maybe this isn't the road to go down. Maybe chess is a better idea. Yeah, you know, that's the unfortunate reality. Rapid fire of drugs, when to apply them? Yeah, I'm pretty much in agreement with Kurt. I mean, we've, I guess, upset a lot of people where our change in dynamic, even towards trend. And even what I've done personally, what we've discussed when I compete the last two times, where this whole 300, 400 milligrams of trend is no longer really warranted or required when you really look at what's the effect of dose of where we use it. And then the time length of exposure, we've completely changed that. Most of the time people are trying to train in at the very start of a cutting cycle or competition prep that, you know, we're now reserving it for like the last eight or even six weeks before a show, when you are really getting down into that, you know, sub 6%, 5% body fat to try and, you know, stave off catabolism or just add another small bump to toalandrogenic loads due to how strong it binds like Kurt said. So I think, like Kurt said, if we can't leverage off the basics, then, you know, you have to probably consider your choice of sport. And I think, depending on what phase you're in, whether it's, you know, offseason or pre-contest, it still keeps coming back to the basics of, you know, recovery, nutrition, training, sleep. The drugs are just there to facilitate those overall anabolic processes and recovery that when you really look at it, it's not like a magician's hat anymore of, you know, a special coach knows how to get someone in shape for the stage. It's just simple dose adjustments that person's biochemistry and, again, going back to those boring basics of sleep, nutrition, recovery from training. And willingness to get shredded because that's getting more rare also. I mean, there's more people in the sport than ever using drugs and less people in actual shape. I mean, when I was at the Olympia, I was at seventh row and John walks out and I was excited because John was in shape. That's not really if you pay $1500 for a gold VIP ticket, you want to see some guys in shape. And when the top three walks out and there's a little bit off, right? And then Martin Fitzwater walks out and he's like, yes, this is bodybuilding. And John walks out, this is bodybuilding. But even at the highest level, it seems to be more rare than the norm, where absolutely phenomenal dice to the soft physique that are fully peaked. I mean, we had you and Martin basically, you know, not throwing any shade at the Mr. Olympia this year. But I think the top three could have been significantly better. And that's why I felt John was so much overlooked, which we talked about when you walked off stage. You know, and when you go down the armature ranks, how many guys are really in shape? You know, we have all the drug education in the world and all the drugs available in the world, but the ability to push to that shredded state, it seems to be more rare, rare, rare nowadays. There's a lot of mental stuff there. Yeah, as you see, like from a coach, as one of you, a lot of people can't push to that place. Right? You really have to go to a dark place to get in that shape. John, like I've seen John in the offseason, John is always in shape. Like when I say Arnold, like you're always rock around looking fantastic. You know, but that's also part of it. If you stay in shape year round, it's much easier to peak. True. Nothing to the biggest mistakes made for guys not getting in shape is an improper prep timeline and the inability to manage fatigue to actually get down to the body fat level that you have to require. Because a lot of people, what the first issue is, they didn't prep for long enough. The second issue comes into play when they're a few weeks out, they're like, Oh, shit, I still have like 10 pounds to pull off. And then they push down. However, now that they're at like lower body fat levels, they can't manage that fatigue level and training for when it starts dipping down. They have just become kind of a smaller version of themselves and not having the time to pull off the last bit of body fat. One should actually slow down the deficit in those phases. So these are the number two mistakes. And they're still made in high level bodybuilding. And like you said, Steve, it is shocking when you stand amongst open pros at the Olympia and you look, you're like, man, this guy barely has some glute lines in. And it's not just a glute line show anymore, right? You have to have the full physique, right? So, of course, like the top three, absolutely, these are phenolphozoics, they deserve to be there. But along this way, it's just, it's always going back to our point we keep bringing up and like mastering nutrition, training in the assessment point of improving your process. And I think when you have too much drugs going in, it really murkies your assessment, especially in contest prep. When I used to, I was taught that like at certain time intervals, certain drugs go in. So like 10 weeks out, you put Trin in six weeks out, windstraw goes in at three weeks out, hella testing goes in, you're like, well, why? And then you're like, oh, because it hardens you up. You're like, is there more to that? So I think where I differ and people have kind of come out of this idea is that in contest prep is actually my milligram totals are lower from a steroid perspective. Reason being is I think it's a lot easier to maintain muscle than it is to build it. And so on a percentage wise, I'm maybe 30% less total peak dosing in my contest prep. But this is from someone that knows how to manage that fatigue aspect and training. And where I think these other protocols come in, we're like, no, I use way more drugs on prep is because you're having to make up for poor training and fatigue management and nutrition with more drugs to uphold that training. So in turn, you wind up using more drugs and prep that you did in the offseason. If you're finding yourself doing that, you might want to reinvestigate your training and nutrition approaches, because you might be leaving aspects on the table to retain that tissue. So the other thing around my statement around using less steroid on prep is that there is a different type of steroid being utilized that could potentially drive other processes of being anti catabolic like trend balloon, however more toxic, right? So there's kind of a tradeoff here and your milligram total might go down, but your risk profile might increase slightly. But on this way down to your prep and your fat loss phases, it's still assessment along the way of like, remember, what does a steroid do? And as its basic level, it's to build muscle, retain tissue, simple as that, which indirectly we could look at your logbook. If you're upholding training performance on prep, you should in turn be holding muscle tissue relatively well. And I think that can drive kind of your dosage decisions. So if you're prepping along and training forces driving down and you don't have the ability to increase recovery capacity through maybe modifying your training volume or increasing sleep and things, then that might be the time where you need to add in some type of compound to drag up the milligram total. And as you get closer to show, you might need something that is fast-reacting. Trim balloon acetate, but at a low dosage could do. My own Olympia prep, I was hard as nails. Steve confirmed. Yes, use Trin. I didn't use Trin and I didn't have an oral start. Broken hearts left and right. Yeah, you're not the only one who did a Trin balloon prep, a free prep this year. Like Roman Fritz last year, when he was, I also didn't use Trin when he was at the Mr. Olympia stage. So a lot of people, again, will be having their hearts broken. But when you're truly in shape, you don't need so much of these drugs. And food's coming up. Yeah, I'll add to that real quick. The guys that increase their dosages are usually doing that because they're not ending up in shape on stage. So they're training too hard, they're maybe too watery, too fat, overcompensating with higher dosages to get this cosmetic change that you would also get by dropping your body fat levels 2% more. Because again, in the end, you get some, you get great cosmetic effects from something like windstroll and halo testing at the end, but you probably don't need to leverage those that hard if you're truly in shape. You do have to ask the question of like for the aesthetic effect, because I think this creates some mysticism around all these oral steroids that each one is a different flavor of Skittle, and they're all going to have a different taste and do something different in the body. When in reality, we're still looking at a steroid working on the antireceptor as its main mechanism of action, primarily for what we want from bodybuilding. So I'd have to ask the question of you, if you're putting in this oral with this magical way of like this one's going to thin my skin and make me hard as nails of how does it do that? And is steroid the greatest tool to create the hard look? And it's either leveraging what it has to be, losing body fat or manipulating water. Those are the only ways you're going to get a harder look. Maybe you get a little fuller muscle push against the skin, but I think you can leverage that all through carbohydrates in your diet. So are steroids the best tool to lose body fat? Probably not. Are they the best tool to manipulate water? Well, if you adjust your dosages, you could probably do plenty of that on its own. So where I stand as far as oral usage and prep is I think just like how we talked about rotating injectables and finding what gets the long best for you, is you're able to do the same thing with these orals that we did mention like Antivara, Hyalotestin, Winstraw, and that you maybe try each one for a peak. Deeming the need for muscle retention is present because I think that's where oral shine is when you see quick drops in training performance, they're great at bringing up training performance and upholding tissue. When you don't have time for your injectables and esters to accumulate like you would in far other weeks out from the show, you can add that in. I think that's where you leverage worlds. As far as all of a sudden, this is going to make me harder. I have the stronger belief that that's not the case and that still comes down to your timeline and mangy body fat. Now, maybe it does leverage some age to indestion ratios and you see a little bit of water shift, but I've done preps one year where I rotated each oral every time and the only thing that dictated when I was conditioned on stage and looked hard was my body fat level. I would be more inclined to say, hey, rotate through these and see if you maybe noticed some effect like that, but it'd be more so based on the decision process of assessing when you're seeing training performance decline and just know that you don't have to use an oral either. If training performance is solid, you're in shape and now you're raising food up. When food goes up, muscle retention is going to be even easier. You don't need more drug during that time. I think that's how you can also leverage doing multiple shows back to back as having ebbs and flows of drugs coming up and down and a lot of it's going to be based around leveraging food increases when you are in shape. This is obviously at the highest level we have like a decade worth of experience. It will be very hard to translate to an amateur competing, trying to make his way up the ranks because this is something you've been incorporating for maybe the last three, four years since you moved from 212 to open or before that time as well? 212 give me a lot of opportunity just to because I'm basically in maintenance mode for a long time to kind of hold similar dosaging or lower it because I just get better at the bodybuilding process and so I get more out of less because my training is improved and whatnot, but then also the opportunity to rotate just individual variables with drugs and seeing the responses to see like does the bro-lure hold weight as far as what this drug is evidently supposed to be doing. So yeah, yeah, across the span I've been competing for 12 years but actually mindfully competing probably the past six years. So you've been leveraging list dosages as you got better at the bodybuilding process to put it to a degree through 212 but then to move up you absolutely had to push dosages because I've already leveraged all the variables right so the only card left to play is moving total dosage level up and so these past little over a year now was making that same thing that I've done 30% increases in total anabolic load is enough to keep driving that process at a similar rate that I want to achieve stage weight from the previous year and so that's where I lie. So back to you I guess our conversation of on our journey here to evidently the highest muscular freak status or being amongst the just amateur ranks forever is where do you find yourself dosage wise and it's going to vary tremendously but again if you stick to this assessment process and as you need it 30% increases a lot of times I think from a gram to two gram could get a guy very very far on a per week basis I think you're going to find a lot of top pros are falling and the two gram mark with some edging towards the three gram mark per week at different phases throughout their season and what that drug composition made up is going to be already the compounds that we already mentioned based on their individual responses. Beyond that yeah beyond the three gram mark is I think where you get to the the anomalies and the rare cases and at that point you're going to have to really make deciding factors like we mentioned earlier if this is really the right place for you if you're still in the amateur ranks and you're like already pushing three grams and you're like man I've leveraged all variables like what's left it's like there's nothing left but more drugs but more drugs equals more risk and is this really worth it at this point maybe you should take up some other hobby like basket weaving or crochet or I don't know but then to move beyond that that's where I would really question you've been doing so based on like all the open guys that I know and the dosages that they run are shockingly most below three grams do not think that you should be taking it there if you haven't reached the amateur ranks like this would be a be a problem so I'd say in in five years of steroid usage you're gonna have a you're gonna have a pretty quick realization of where you lie genetic wise in the proclivity to progress in the ranks and from that five-year assessment point I think there should be a decision probably made if it's worth continuing to push forward or moving to more like lifestyle enhanced usage if that's your decision from my personal decision I wouldn't I'm not a proponent of using much gear unless you decide to compete so I don't see the risks is worth it let's speak but anyway back to you Steve so I want to while we're on the topic I want to ask the most cheeky question ever where did you end up for the mr. Olympia and how far was that off from your peak dosages maybe in the past because obviously at one point or another you went up you know try to do a heavy cycle yourself I will go through this process so spill the beans please sure happily do so on my on the j3 forum like I lay it all out there's nothing that I don't talk about with uh with past off seasons I've run heavier stuff like I worked with Jansen earlier on in my career I couldn't tell you what the what the peak dosages were back then to even have to trace down my cycles but they were a vast escalation from what I had previously done and I had a lot of growth that happened in a short period of time now back to when I actually had like more meticulous tracking and assessment of like my needs um 2021 I died in like all year and basically lost my soul eventually to where I'm like all right I'm going to take a year off and grow and that dosage to like move that needle up to max out the 212 I was at 2,300 milligram total per week in the offseason that that took me from being on stage when I was eventually like 205 that year at 2 at 212 at the Olympia to circle back to my last 212 show I was ready at 218 so substantial progress and I had barely can make weight and so that was at that dosage then I did my open show and I just threw food and leveraging growth hormone a lot is what I had never pushed the late the mark for I was all around 5 IU so I moved that to 8 IU I got on stage at 221 222 in eight weeks later yeah now my next offseason year I assessed the previous I know I ran 2,300 milligram however I'm moving to the open I want a similar rate of progress for what I know I need I moved very close it was right under 3 grams per week in 8 IU's of growth hormone and that this past year is what I got on stage at the Olympia was right around 233 so at a pretty advanced level of training able to put on 10 11 pounds of stage weight at that dosage level was a fast escalation now what I would say if I got to a muscular level that's hey I'm very competitive I don't need to run that in the offseason anymore but there's going to be a time when you're going to need to push to put on that tissue and then these pros that you see that talk about man I don't run a lot of gear it's like they're already freaking huge like of course you don't need to anymore I absolutely could drop way back down in my offseason phases and then now I'm saying yeah I run low dosages and look how huge I am well what caused you to get there to begin with and you'll have to push it so it's the same with anything when you know when new guys ask they go to most a guy like you in the gym and they're like what do you what do you do what what how much food are you eating how are you training it's that's not the right question it's how you got there not what you're doing now yeah now I do the pinky dumbbell cable I only take 500 makes a test and I'm huge well that's with bums that right people were people didn't believe that bums that was using 500 milligrams of test and soft season he was already in his wake up with a classic he didn't need more more drugs are going to do right he's going to hold it you know if that's what he was using who knows no and it's it's of course difficult to you know convey to the audience um when all they want to know is what you're doing now to look like that but you might have done crazy stuff in the past or considerably crazier stuff and what maybe put you in a you know precarious health situation and then you realize you know what it's not really worth it to have look at my labs and cringe for the same amount of muscle mass that I can maintain for half the dose last question for john if you were to leverage the growth hormone to 18 i use per day what do you think your steroid dose just would be because if you only went up to eight i use but you double that would you be able to have your steroid dose i have i have played with moving up a little higher and at 10 i use is kind of my limitation point where i feel diminishing returns and so what i would preface this by saying is that if any pd design is impeding your ability to sleep eat or train then that's not the aid that you want from these drugs and for me like moving growth from up cause more like sleep discrepancy actually because it can aid sleep the same time it can impede it too um it could hurt i would need more like c-pap aid um and then yeah because you're really getting more fluid to you you're just a bigger body weight and you're not really getting any new muscle tissue for the and one thing to consider is even digestion i think we brought up training the offseason like that's another great point or orals in the offseason where maybe it creates this much more tissue but at the detriment of you not being able to eat and sleep is not worth that trade off at all like you won't grow more doing so so for me like that was kind of like a cutoff point where i don't i don't see enough progress worth the diminishing returns i've even had some guys in the offseason running the higher dosaging of growth hormone and if you look in growth hormone deficiency and replacement and there's there's a cool study where they look at some interactions with leptin and grayland and it actually can lower grayland in in an active with leptin despite changes in in uh body fat so it actually can decrease hunger signaling and grayland aids and gastric motility so i've had guys they're like man i'm so bloated and they miss their growth from days and like man i can finally eat it's like well is it worth taking growth from one of these causing your ability not to eat it's like ah no it should be adjusting dosages based around that so should i uh to 18 i use i think the diminishing returns could very well potentially be there um to your point steve as well what i'd like to add on is the same thing goes with um offseason compound selection and what is deemed a mass drug or a cutting drug uh which i think a lot of people might say man nangeloin caused me to grow way more than primaval and i'd say like i challenge that we're like well how much did you keep once you remove the nangeloin of actual contractile tissue we're looking at these drugs you actually build like actual contractile tissue not just increase water acutely and that acute increase in water now you have to manage blood pressure more now you're at a higher body weight and potentially the higher body weight aspect is more detrimental to health across the board to maintain that with discrepancies in sleep too so we could leverage a drug stack design that makes you just retain a little less water and maybe you're more accurate in assessing if you're gaining body fat versus water versus muscle that would probably be an easier way to assess from a coaching perspective and and have better results long term that way so again circling back your pee design should be aiding your sleep training nutrition it's taken away from that restructure the drugs Dean you've been awfully quiet please yeah no i no i've been listening very intently um you know i agree absolutely everything that we've said and i don't want to keep banging on about you know mitochondrion oxidative stress this is going to be a whole new level to coaching setup or even dieting where we start to actually go back to basic biochemistry of why guys don't get in shape in the first place i really have that bias where they look at fullness so oh i'm getting a little flat here so i need a refeed let's chuck in some insulin to add some more carbohydrates you know the the mentality of being able to drive down to that low body fat like we've covered here it's like and Kurt said it's a mental approach you know i could never ever step on stage where i didn't consider myself in condition let alone my wife let me get on stage my wife would turn and tell me you're still fat you know so you and i guess we're in that i guess buttercup phase where people are being told oh you look amazing but we know in reality they've probably gone about 20  alfalfalpounds, to lose, to be truly conditioned on stage. And I guess it's sort of easy now, if you can turn up in shape on stage these days, you get rewarded, because the guys beside you still look eight or 10 weeks out. So, looking back at how you approach losing body fat then and that sort of dieting phase and the association that everyone has got with certain compounds, at the end of the day, we've just seen dosages escalate with poor recovery. And we're just coming back to a very basic thing again. Of, you know, and I've covered it myself for being guilty of the log book, of just annihilating the log book on prep, all means. But when you really look at rep execution and quality of rep execution, you're just gonna move and, you know, wait from point A to B without any focus on actual tension on the muscle or actual engagement of what you're trying to retain. It's, oh, the leg press on my log book says 500 kilos, so I need to lift 500 kilos. When you could have probably maintained the tissue with 250 kilos, both correct tempo, which was what built the tissue originally, not the actual weight you were lifting. So, I think, you know, we've covered some really good things there that doesn't really matter amateur to pro level, still comes back to execution in the gym, nutrition, and then finding the right compounds there. Suit you both physically and mentally, because no amount, you know, telling someone 300 milligrams, 600 milligrams a train is the sweet spot on prep, and they're going around like a cycle that you can't sleep properly. Just because that was the ways of the past and what we've sort of come to see that even 10 milligrams on training days could be just enough to give you that sweet spot, which you'll recovery without driving that oxalate of stress. I think that's a great point, Dean, around old school things that have just keep coming up, and where they just get, you know, perturbated is, you know, from old school thought that doesn't change, but where I see, and just moving a little bit if it's okay from the drug conversation, because I think there is a additional health aspect that can be considered, and why I bring it up and people are like, oh man, health, like, I just want to get freaking huge. It's like, well, this is how you get huge, is because when we talk about 15 years of anabolic usage, to see that out, you're going to have to stay healthy, and a lot of what matters too is we see some guys that have very good resiliency to side effects, and to get into these dosage aspects that you might need to, if you're more resilient and have a focus on health, you're going to be able to stay in those phases longer when you, if you need to, to see out that progress, and where I see a lot of things left on the table is even nutrition-wise, where the typical dogmatic approach of we eat chicken rice, and that's it, just chicken rice or beef and rice, and we rotate those meals and eat six of those a day, and that's your approach when I think the basics of where antibiotics have their problems is inflammation, oxidative stress, to just systemic organs, and I think your first defense around this for one, probably sleep, and secondarily, or right at it would be your nutrition approach and trying to bring in fruits and veggies, and that's so basic, like before you even take a supplement, like, oh, it's cool, take an antioxidant supplement, it's like, man, you have one that you can just eat, and so I usually recommend, hey, a thousand grams of total fruits and veggies for the day, and there was actually a really cool study that I was reading on earlier in the week, it was a Mediterranean diet comparatively to a green Mediterranean diet, which a green Mediterranean diet is one that's higher in polyphenols, so they used something called duckweed, which I don't think they've given the states, it's high in a specific polyphenol, walnuts, and then also green tea, and this group, same weight loss, but they had double the visceral fat gain loss, having this higher polyphenol content in diet, so bodybuilders like lightbulbs should be going off, like some of the biggest risks that we have is basically as a bodybuilder looking like a lean person with metabolic syndrome, you know, and so if you can mitigate some of these effects, just the nutrition kind of. Sorry, I'm trying to imagine, I know exactly what it looks like, yeah, but this is very common. Yeah, like, so if we can implement it, like, I drink green tea every day, don't worry, like the anti-estronaric, you know, aspects about it, like you won't be losing gains or anything, having some green tea, but I think just having a diverse amount of fruits and veggies potentially would probably leverage some like dark green veggies, like spinach, or like high nitrates. I drink beetroot powder, pre-training, like 30 grams. 30? Yeah, yeah, so it can, yeah, some like maybe some aspects around training benefits, but also to leverage like increases in nitric oxide. You could supplement garlic, I think, Dean, you're gonna be the supplement wizard here, but I think garlic, if you looked across the board, the benefits from like a coagulation standpoint, blood pressure aspects, and lipids, it's a pretty solid one. Eat some garlic, close a day, very simple. Have walnuts, have berries. I think pomegranate juice is a great one, if you need to get in some extra calories, and want to leverage the other like polyphenols and potential nitrates that can be present in those. And the last one that I kind of like to have in is like cocoa powder. I think cocoa flavonoids have awesome aspects around health. So all these things you could have in your diet, without having to even take a supplement yet, and create like a ton of micronutrient and antioxidant and anti-inflammatory defense, against all the steroid usage that you're using. Yeah, I mean, even I was just gonna say, John, church is on something beautiful, as simple as nutrition, because aside from all the fancy training setups, and techniques, wherever else, we're battling against, if it fits your macros in a prep setting, of trying to keep somebody's nice, ultra-processed foods, which could be contributing on top of your steroid load towards oxidative stress, that having immaculate nutrition, both offseason and pre-contest, there shouldn't be just, oh, contest comes around, time for veggies and fruits, and whatever else. There has to be this commitment, even Steve goes on about that, you're married to this lifestyle, of eating these foods year-round, rather than flip-flopping between phases. Yeah, yeah, but I think not everybody's willing to track their micronutrient intake. I mean, and doing it since I was 15 years old, just scrolling through the books about nutrition, and not only writing down the carbohydrates, and the fibers, and the fats, and the carbs, or the protein, but also going through the amino acids, and the electrolytes, and the vitamins, not everybody's willing to do that, but I think it can be really a game changer regarding your digestion, and also covering just the micronutrient requirements that you have, which definitely go up as you become bigger than average. Your B vitamin requirement, your vitamin D3, all these little things they contribute, and I think if you start tracking that based on your just regular diet, and then fulfilling particular micronutrient deficiencies with foods before you start supplementing, can do your world of good. But again, that's a whole other level of dedication. What do you use to track your macros, Steve? So you go to the USDA database, and then you have all the foods, so I converted that to an Excel sheet, because I found that all these trackers are not sufficient. So I did this 15 years ago, where I just copied everything. Yeah, and then I found the soluble, the insoluble fibers and the creatine content, and particularly, so I have a whole diet sheet that's maybe 50 columns long, and for each food source that I consume frequently, and then I would use that for the diet sheets of my clients. Yeah, but it took a long time to put that together. That's a process. Like, I personally still use chronometer. I think out of all the trackers, that's the one that I have found, for someone who, I'm sure they could pay Steve to help him with access, his tremendous Excel sheet. I think out of my fitness pal or some of the other ones, it's a little bit better. I notice his many discrepancies, but I think that's an excellent starting point to say, look at foods first, to fill in the diet, because I think what's a quote unquote good diet, it's probably one that is meeting all of your micronutrient requirements as well, and doing that through food first, and then where those gaps are, and you see gaps within discrepancies in your labs, that's where you fill in supplementation pieces, which it might be vitamin D, it might be some mix from magnesium, maybe zinc, but through foods you can do a lot. So yeah, now I agree. And for all the guys that worked office or are going to complain about meal prep, I worked office for seven years, being a financial business consultant, and I prepped all my own meals, and I brought them with me to the dismay of my colleagues, because I had to watch me eat multiple times per day, but I still got it done. So there's no excuse, honestly, and otherwise, I find somebody to do it for you, find a loving caring partner who can cook for you over the weekend. I tell like, as a general easy application of buy, go to the grocery store and buy two frozen bags of veggie medley. That way in each one, you're going to get like four different veggies, and then two bags of a frozen fruit medley. That way throughout the day, you can easily get like six to eight different fruits and veggies. You don't have to worry about them going bad. Typically they're also cheaper because you're not buying fresh, and sometimes even at higher nutrient content because of the seasons, that might be limiting your fresh produce. So easy way to get these in, and the meal prep's so easy. Throw it in a Ziploc and just take it with you. It thaws out and you eat it at work, whatever. That's easy. So all you have to do is cook your chicken and your beef and your salmon. If you have an air fryer or two running at the same time, you could, you know, or do it like what the Stein-Efforting vertical diets kind of plan to put everything in the rice cooker. You'll be surprised how many meals you can prepare for that day fresh in very little time. We're talking about 10 minutes, 15 minutes of meal prep for the day, which I think everybody has time for. I know guys that take longer to inject their cycle every morning. They spend 30 minutes on all their peptides. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All that castor oil takes forever from the primo. So yeah, I think it's a no-brainer for me. But again, a lot of people struggle with the nutrition, even at the highest level, because when you see, you know, when you see that the pros, they go through their day of eating and you look at it, it's almost cringe-worthy. And what they're doing with the fruit loops and the blended rice crisps, like fuck dude, what are you doing? Yeah, I mean, at some point, like I do have some guys, I have one guy that's on 1,100 grams of carbs per day in the offseason, which at this level, you have to have maybe some more content, like carbohydrate, fat sources. But as a percentage basis, like, I guarantee it's still aligned with like, our normal recommendations around less than 10% added sugars to a total diet. But when your whole diet's consisting of like, processed added sugars, and that's a big, you know, what constitutes your carbon intake, I don't think it's really needed. There's not something special around leveraging a big insulin spike around training that we know of. So for our goals. Yeah, you can get very far with rice flour. Just what I've noticed, you can get up to 1,000 grams of carbs in it, digest pretty well. That's what I do in the offseason in the past when I was eating so much carbs. We got about 20 minutes left. I wanna go over a list of things that are not needed. I mean, we kind of laid a pathway of people to think about, about the nutrition training and the PD, and the decision of the PDs. But there's a lot of compounds out there, and trust me, I've used many of them. I am, you know, have the biggest YouTube channel about these experimental compounds after all. But I think at the pro level, from the audience perspective, certain compounds are romanticized, and they think that the pros make it also all of them to get into that phenomenal shape. So things like D and P. Aidepultide, site enhancement, is that really required at the highest level? I think not. Not at all. I hope not. I hope not. No, no. It's, you're gonna see those things at the lower levels before you see at the highest level. And because most of these guys, the genetic proclivity to just advancing and responding to training nutrition drugs is on another level. And so you're not gonna see these guys trying to leverage these, you know, mystic compounds or research-based drugs because they wouldn't even need to. And I don't think they add to the basics of what they're doing because the basics are still what drive the ship forward to the largest degree. So like in a fat loss phase, D and P know it creates such a mess in a prep scenario from assessing and then also managing fatigue. That it's, I see it as more of a judgment to utilize. And also like the lethal dosing versus the effective dosing is really close. And I would hate for this sourcing to get off a little bit to where you run into problems and you might have your untimely demise using D and P. So D and P would be off the list. So there's three coaches who are now out of job. Man, too bad. Not David getting names. Adipotides, have you ever heard of this? I have heard of that one. And again, it's another one that we have just limited human data on over long-term safety, right? So it's an experimental aspect. Of course, we are a big experiment in our own selves. And I think there's a lot of drugs that are on paper that have potential that we're like, man, this could be better than some alternatives. But again, if we don't have that long-term track of safety records, I don't see it needing to be leveraged still. And just when you look at the biology of it, it creates apoptosis of the fat cells, which I would be very hesitant to use if it goes systemic. And I see people talk about it on Instagram and YouTube, like it's the next best thing that it creates localized fat loss. But again, if that goes into your kidneys or your heart, I mean, you're literally just damaging the tissue there, and using such a compound, just understanding the basic human biology, it's something I would avoid all entirely myself. Yeah, people seem to be quite high on it, unfortunately. But I guess I wouldn't assume that that's being used at the highest level. I don't know anyone that's using it. And I feel like that goes the same for a lot of these peptides, or even just research chemicals that are out there. Like, man, you're, and it probably aligns with like head, these top guys, it's who they're getting coached by, are a lot of the main head gurus, are kind of old school guys that aren't on the up and up on upcoming research drugs, or ones that are of interest. And I think there are some that are very interesting. But again, you just don't see a lot of that utilized in the higher level. But I think if you're gonna investigate something like this, is I would probably not want to be the first one to implement it and let others do it. And then if it is deemed to be reasonably safe and aligned with your physique goals, and maybe that is something to implement, but I wouldn't want to be the first ones to take on these new research drugs. So it's me and Dean, it's too late for us, Dean. Well, you did introduce something new. So Dean introduced a stack for mitochondrial health. Did you take it away? Yeah. That's actually being used at the highest level because I know they were all calling me at in between shows. Like, Steve, this really works. So Dean, please inform. No, well, a memory just come up on my phone from Instagram last year. So I'm taking SLUPP 332 now 12 months. So probably the longest running human experiment of it, which from blood work has shown no detriments. And I keep saying, that's how to say something negative is gonna happen in the future. But I think 12 months in, I can probably vouch for my own health that nothing has been observed other than positives. I mean, Steve saw me last week when we train. I'm still very, very lean post-show despite eating 4,000 calories most training days. So it's one compound I think will soon see move into human clinical trial, I think, based on the animal studies and the anecdotal experimental research that these compounds are gonna be probably licensed. They're gonna try and start moving these into human trial. And we had SLUPP 332, the Medline Blue, I guess a MOTC, the mitochondrial efficiency stack. If I could duplicate how my prep went this year when I come out of retirement, people would be snapping this up. Yeah, they do. I can see what the uphiliate sales, it's one of the biggest sellers right now. Just to play devil's advocate to myself and when we're looking at, hey, if you're only gonna use drugs that have been approved for human usage, that the current era that we're in, it takes, I would say, a lot more for some of these drugs to move through versus DMP was utilized clinically. In the 1920s, it's like, so does it make that okay? But even though that was approved at some point for usage versus some of these other drugs that there sees a lot of pre-clinical trial data on that very well could carry over and be safe for humans and have application, it's just that the era just doesn't lend itself to letting easy things come through that very well could be beneficial. My other devil's advocate thing approach to is, also from a coaching and assessment point of view, I think it's important to try to keep it as many variables as low and limited as possible so you can clearly understand what's happening. So like, Dean, if you add in, methylene blue and motse and SLUPP332 and three things all at once, and then you're on PrEP, and maybe you became a better bodybuilder. Maybe it was just that you're able to manage your fatigue better in PrEP and you're like, oh no, no, it was my three drug combo cocktail that gave me the best PrEP ever. If you're adding all these things in at once, sometimes it's hard to have the assessment of what's working and what's not and what to leave on the table, right? And so you end up getting my best PrEP ever, and I needed like 10 drugs to do this, but now you don't really know which one was really effective. So I would be the scientist in your approach moving through if you are going to be experimenting with one of these things, adding in one and holding variables constant so you can really understand what that effect is. Oh no, that's what I did do. I added one thing at a time from the offseason and then moved into PrEP, the final sort of piece of the puzzle was metal in blue, but like that, I added in SLUPP 332 by itself in a muscle building phase earlier this year. And then the next part, obviously prior to that was MOTC when I was doing like gut cleaning and stuff from the celiac. So yeah, it would have been MOTC first, nothing else. Then the next layer was SLUPP 332 last December into March with a muscle building phase. And then metal in blue went in around May when I decided to PrEP. And I was just seeing the change. And obviously, yeah, fatigue management and being a more experienced person towards fatigue management. But I think that still wouldn't explain when you line up how the PrEP went in terms of calories, in terms of fatigue management, mental clarity, everything else, competing back to back. I mean, I competed shows one week after the next. I'm still banking on those three things being the trifecta that changed PrEP because when it came to like even drug load with PrEP, it was a quarter of two years previous. And Dean, just to piggyback on that, I definitely wasn't saying that you're not the science-minded one to apply this. Because to hear Dean explain, I think for the listeners was important because Dean does track his variables very precisely to where he understands when each thing's going in what is occurring. And not to just say, oh yeah, Dean took all three. Let me take all three. But if you're like, Dean, you're gonna understand these applications and be able to pull out. Like, oh no, I really think this did merit weight. And so I think thank you, Dean, for clarifying that because I think it does give listeners the chance to understand how these things might be implementing when you're at a higher level of execution where you might be trying to leverage some more acute things. Yeah, of course. I mean, I know I was gonna say, Yeah, go ahead, sorry. No, I was gonna say like that's exactly it. And I mean, it was just when obviously we're competing and then being on the podcast, Steve, and even just my mental clarity of, what's the secret going on here? You've got shredded glutes, but you're sharp as a knife mentally. That it's just uncommon where someone is like, yeah, I'm gonna compete in three days. I'm getting on stage in three days with basically no, I guess, mental loads or physical load of prep. And that was, I guess, when I came back to how I viewed this year's approach to getting back on stage was optimizing the mitochondria both from a physical and mental standpoint. And then metabolically, I mean, I guess most people would kill to do a prep where you're doing 10,000 steps, 20 minutes of cardio, eating 3,500 calories on a training day, a body weight of 200 pounds. You've got all these sort of things stacked up where you start to see, well, like I even said, the stack, the base core, my stacked issue was one, two, five tomatoes and 300 pineapples. And people would look at that and go, you're not telling the truth, but that was the transparency of laying everything out there. When I came back to, like you said, fatigue management, being able to understand that I don't need to go in the gym and bury myself every week, or even every leg day, was a huge game changer. Being able to mentally just train through the whole prep, but two reps in reserve and never going beyond that. That was a big game changer in terms of like, well, you're metabolically recovering, and how well you're sleeping, how well you're switched on mentally, and then everything else on top of it, getting the mitochondria optimized through those three basic compounds really added a whole other layer to the whole prep. And probably being more focused keeps your emotional decision process a little bit better. Really like, man, I feel like shit today, like I'm just gonna push it. Like jump on to do some extra cardio. So I'm sure like the clarity of thought is huge in decision making. Well, I mean, it helps when you're just cognitively still present, because normally you would get some sort of prep brain towards the end, and Dean was not having any of that when we're doing these high level podcasts three days, one week before his competitions. Because I think we did what, four or five of these podcasts most of the time, you were like, I'm on week out, and you're totally happy, go a lot to your side of studies, and going through particular drug interactions and discussing the biology, like nothing was happening. And then by the time I edit the podcast, we got Dean's stage pictures to show that he was shredded out of his butt cheeks, basically, doing podcasts, and that's quite rare. I mean, I know that John is very cognitive when he does interviews a couple days before stepping on stage, but again, it's more rare than what is the norm. Absolutely. It is getting better in the bodybuilding space, because if you watch the Battle for the Olympia in the 2000s, 2010s, the Mitsuro Kabi videos, and you see the interviews, people are just not present. Yeah, you're a zombie. Yeah. And I've done preps definitely like that, and I think speaking on that peaking process and going back to drugs that you could probably leave off would be a vast majority of diuretics. And in bodybuilding, this is probably one of your highest risks, where we see a lot of people have unfortunately passed away from electric shifts and causing cardiac issues. So these rapid ways of trying to drop water weight for if you're trying to make a weight class, ribbon peak. I think there's a lot of new thoughts coming out and mastering your peak just through the manipulation of this carbohydrate and water. And to get on stage without even using a diuretic, or in some cases, maybe there is a very small amount used, but I haven't used one personally or my clients in like the past three years. And I get pretty peeled. Now I have a property that I can do it. Like I stay lean, but there's the individuals that the round bubbly guys that tend to home or water, I think there is more to be had with them, but probably that is to come with better PED management. And probably giving them a better timeline to assess that. But as far as like some of the high risk diuretics, I don't think those should have a place. And then you probably also didn't stop the growth hormone leading into the show. That's me, one day out and Olympia is a two day show, right? So yeah, every night was still banging away and ate I use a growth hormone. I only get worse when I take it out. And if I lower testosterone, I get worse as well. So I am that guy, but that goes to like, going back to like a true coach is assessing the need. And we don't go off of any like cookie cutter approaches. Like you always cut tests three weeks out or whatever it may be, your growth hormone comes out at this point. Some guys need those things to stay in. Some guys need those to fully come out. And that's where coaching should be happening on the PED front is assessing along the way and learning our individuals abilities of what they need in their stock. So if you had a time machine and you could go back five years to tell yourself, like this is what I'm doing now, would you be surprised five years ago of what has progressed in your own career? Because like a lot of things are changing the last five years. I mean, we see it at the pro-sort, and I see it with my clientele's, we're all introducing new concepts into the bodybuilding space. And I think five years ago, we couldn't have imagined where we are now as PED educators. It's changed quite a bit. Yeah, yeah, a lot has. Like looking back to what was kind of first done. Luckily, like I've always been, and probably like all of you, you're always a mindful bodybuilder. And so you're always intrigued on how and why things are working. And there was a lot of question marks back then because I had coaching and you're kind of, you do what coach says, but you still want to understand why it's working. And there's just a lot of gaps there where I couldn't really explain. And I think having the current John go back and be like, here's the explanations behind those. You'd be like, that makes so much sense. And it would be like a light bulb go off moment. And then I would look like super huge and be like, oh, well, you're big, so it must make sense. And then I would listen to big John. Yeah, yeah. So. And then things you're doing now that you think you would never do or you're still within the confounds of, doing everything responsibly. And you don't see anything that you're doing, particularly now that would be considered risky if you thought about it maybe a couple of years ago where you're pushing the boundaries of what you would consider healthy. Well, I turned pro when I was 30. And that same year I went into a gym in New Jersey and there's an old pro there. He's like, man, he's a hell of a thing to do this for. You know, it'll kill you, right? And I was like, man, when I'm 35, like that's it. Like I won't be a master's bodybuilder. Like that's where I'm cutting it off. And here I am, I'm 38 and I'm still in bodybuilding. And I think my health management has advanced so far compared to what it was, probably more so than even the changes in stack design that even doing what would be deemed probably back then as a riskier approach in my eyes. However, the health markers and everything tracking has even been proved. So I think that's been some greater advancements. I mean, what we have information wise is health monitoring and interventions earlier on. So looking back to what I'm doing from what I was, I don't think it would be too shocking, at least to me, like my weighing out where I'm at from a competitive status and now that this is a career aspect for me and it seems justifiable. I know from outside it all depends on your perspective that you very well might think like this is still not worth it. But at least in my eyes, like I'm living out  abut a dream life, and if that comes with an earlier demise of a few years off my life, I really have lived at the peak of the mountain than just looking at the base and being content, because I've had that life of working in nine to five, working a clinical job in the hospital, trying to make bodybuilding work, and that is not living for me, and I absolutely would take the risk of what I live currently at, but I still, I'm not stupid, as stupid as I could be, it's still stupid, right? But I just tried to mitigate those risks, so just because you are pursuing this doesn't mean you can't do it with intelligent design and thought process. No, that's, I think, a great way to close off this podcast. What I would like to ask all of you is, we're all basically at the highest level we can be, right? We're not all pros, I mean, I never even competed, but I think right now at this current point in time, we're all at our peak. What does it take for you to be at your peak? I want to start with Kurt, what does it take right now to be at your absolute best shape you've ever been in? Just as a quick elevator pitch. Well, 80% complying with diet, 80% complying with my diet, so my diet doesn't really change much at the year. I do leave room so I can have fun with my kids and my wife. I do cardio every day. That was an influence I got a lot from AJ, Sims, and from talking to John when I saw him in March, that kind of changed my mind about adding cardio back in. With the exception of that last cycle that I read for eight weeks, I just test and GH, like I'm trying to use a lot less. I don't need as much to hold anymore. The GH is really big ground rake, and for me, it allows me to use a lot less anabolic to keep the look. Sleep, I'm very focused on sleep and health, like fruits and vegetables, supplementation. My diet is not chicken and rice. Like that's honestly, I might have had rice once this week. I try to eat a variety of food, seeing doctors, getting lab work, just the whole approach to it. I don't think anything fancy. I think guys might over complicate this stuff. A lot of it's just time and consistency of just doing the healthy things for a long periods time. Yeah, true. Dean? Very similar to Kurt, I guess, from a physical standpoint. For me, I'm a little bit limited now being celiac, so my diet is basically chicken and rice. But not to discount the importance of antioxidant and mitochondrial health. That's what I think my biggest takeaway now of being able to stay on top of mentally and physically. My days probably this year was the last what if of being a competitive bodybuilder, so now it's just a matter of maintaining peak physical health for my own benefit and also my family's, and then focusing more on, I guess, mental aspects, where that's work, engagement, consults, and everything else, all your other sort of projects. John? Yeah, to just maintain this peak that I'm at, it's created just a lifestyle that has been catered to around being as successful and possible in bodybuilding and in my business endeavors, which I just try to wake up every day and make sure that every step forward and foot forward is moved towards trying to enjoy the process every moment along the way. And so if there's no work or whatever it may be, relationships that aren't leading me to that goal and that success, and what I deem successful was as an outcomes, it's more of this ultimate happiness in life, and those just aren't in place anymore. And so a lot of time is spent in having relaxation time or enjoying work tasks and projects that I like to take on and excited for training and having my training reflect around something that's sustainable or my diet reflect around something that's enjoyable that still aligns with my goals. And I love my bodybuilding lifestyle, and I think that's what keeps pushing me forward and being successful, especially as long as I've done it. And so I think just trying to move away from these cookie cutter type approaches that make bodybuilding miserable have made it more enjoyable, sustainable, consistent, and that drives the ultimate result. But enjoying and sniff sniffing the flowers along the way. And I used to think bodybuilding was about, you know, lone wolf, hood up in the dark gym. And it's also about trying to build relationships and enjoy that along the way. There was a show I was at where there's two 12 years competing, and there's barely one in the audience. I was just thinking, man, if I was here alone competing, there wouldn't be any joy in it. And it's truly like trying to enjoy the people you're with along that. So I'm trying to be more in the moment. And that's in harness and make these relationships improve. So that's, that's what's helped me become more of a peak in my physique. Yeah, so for myself, I started bodybuilding when I was 15. And I always made sure that I stayed in love with the process. So whether that's the nutrition or the supplementation or the training or the PDs later on, I just make sure that I really enjoy it. But I don't let it detract from business or relationship. And I found that if I really go 100% on bodybuilding, that it detracts from business or relationships is one of the reasons why I never wanted to compete because I know how I am mentally and going into that single direction. So I always made sure that I have a little bit of balance and perspective. That doesn't mean I don't treat it like a full time job, the health and the nutrition and all that stuff. But I found a nice balance for myself where I get the maximum enjoyment out of the bodybuilding thing and all aspects of it. In relation to all the other stuff that I need to do, because again, I don't make money bodybuilding directly. I make money talking about bodybuilding for other people to stay healthy. And I got typecast a little bit on YouTube. So I'm basically a professional drug user now, where I do the research, use the drugs and then talk about it and make money somehow. So that's the situation I find myself in. But for me, I found that the most enjoyable way is the most sustainable way. And that's why I still love it up until now, being 41 years old. Having been doing this for 25 years, I never took a break unless I was forced to and I don't think I ever will. I just love it too much. So guys, where can people find you? Let's start with John. Where can people find you? Well, I'm most active on Instagram. So at John Jewett 3, you can find me there. Also have a YouTube channel, personal, follow my bodybuilding endeavors. Also, the J3 University YouTube channel, we have our podcast there and I just put out education information as well. And then J3 University.com, that's where I have my course on A to B, A to Z, not just B, being a bodybuilder. And we have a female course and a training course. So anything you want to just be the most muscular, lean individual, that is where we teach it at. And that's where you can find me. Perfect. Dean. Instagram, Dean STM. And then obviously supplement needs.co.uk or SN Education, which is our education platform. Okay, Kurt. I'm most active probably on my forum at this point, which is forum.atomiclifecoaching.com. Instagram is Kurt.havens, YouTube is Kurt.havens. I wish I had more time to make more content, but this is pretty much the extent of it at this point. You're full-time coaching right now. Yeah. Yeah. And you have to come on about a ground table every month. We need to appear. No place I'd rather be. I think we got about one or 25% to do the questions I wanted to ask, John. So, John, can you commit to another two hours in the near future? Because I had a lot of fun talking with you. And I think this is this quadruplet of PED educators can make a significant difference in the bodybuilding space. So, in the near future, if you have another two hours, please join in, because I would love to talk to you some more. It's been a pleasure, gentlemen, and I hold all of you all in high regard. So, to be amongst and be part now in the anabolic four-way, weakwink, I really enjoyed it and look forward. I would love to come back and chat with you guys. Awesome. And for that, we are out. We'll see you next month. We'll discuss the, what is it, the fat burner tear list next month, because people are already begging for it. And then we can break some more hearts saying that Clem Boutros F-tier, because we've got mirror wick run now. And we'll find a suitable slot for John to come back and discuss some more hardcore and high-level bodybuilding, because my eyes have been opened quite a bit today. All right, guys, peace out. We'll see you next month. Thank you. Bye-bye.