What's up, guys? It's the Vigorous Q&A again. What a week. So much drama amongst the educators. Well, we'll get to that. First, we have some good announcements. I did a podcast earlier this week. Let me pull it up somewhere. It's uh down below. It's called Vigorous Steve. Everything about first cycle. I did that with David Czechovich from Poland. And uh that was a great podcast discussing on how to structure your first cycle. and uh a lot of other things came up. So, it was a huge great com um conversation uh as well. So, I would like you guys to give that video a watch because I think there were not so many views on that video yet. So, let me have a look where they are now because on the podcast with Jordan Shallow, we got a lot of uh views, but this one is only 1,000 views. So, do me a solid after we're done with the vigorous Q&A, you're watching this over the weekend, give that video a watch. I think it's uh I think it was very entertaining. We had a good discussion going. Uh let's see. Congratulations to Wesley Vissers. Holy [\h__\h] dog [\h__\h] And we lost monetization. Um absolutely great. I was watching yesterday with Desktop Bodybuilding where he was doing a live play by Bl. So, I was watching the live webcast and uh me, you know, listening to Xavier or Xavier um you know what his opinion was on the show and we're all um sitting there having a lot of uh fun analyzing what was going on. So, I felt that Earl Scalinski was a little bit overded and Roman Dino as well, but he was not as overdided as Erskinski. ers was really flat for prejudging and then Ramonino looked a little bit less poppy compared to what he was at the Mr. Olympia. Of course, these guys do two shows per year. You have to make weight for every show. So that's pretty tough on the body and you know Mr. Olympia and the Arnold Classic are pretty close. So now they got what six, seven months to go. Um, so I'm very happy that Wesley won because this was his best package ever and he was completely diced to the socks and dialed in for prejudging and I think because Ramonino and Erskinski were a little bit off. That's is why they gave the not even though Ramonino did improve a lot and Errol Scinski also did improve a lot for finals but Wesley was also improved and Wesley got b throughout the prejudging. So I'm very very very very happy. Iron Grid is already asking, "What do you think about Whistley's appearance?" Yeah, I couldn't stop looking at him either, man. He looked super good. He looked super composed, very full, heart, and dense side, shredded glutes, um, very confident on stage, great posing. So, it was just his night. And Raone Dino, I felt that he wasn't very confident. He probably knew he was off or he didn't really feel how his body was working. So, uh, I think that's why Wesley got the nod. Now hopefully uh he can repeat this at the Mr. Olympia and place second to um Chris Bumstead, which would be great, right? We've all been saying that Wesley should be in the top three and he's been slowly making his way up over the last couple of years, but now he made a huge a huge [\h__\h] jump. So I'm super happy for Wesley. Absolutely great. Yeah, I agree. He finally gets his recognition uh or at least he gets his recognition now and then hopefully at the Olympia. But then again, you know, you know how it is with these competitors. You know, uh you have one bad showing, Earl had a bad showing or Ramon had a bad showing and that lits a fire under there these guys' ass. And then they might just pull out all the stops for the Mr. Olympia and then Wesley is maybe, you know, top five, right? You never know, right? On the day of the show, it it it matters how you look and in between there is all speculation. Uh let's see what else did I want to report on. Okay. So, a little bit of drama between Ty Clark, Dr. Dean St. Mart and Curt Havens. Um, I I talked to all of them and I I told them to let it go because drama amongst the educators is never really wanted it, but I got myself into drama also. Uh, for the guys who were here last week, you might have remembered that there were a lot of trolls suddenly in the chat and I was like, what the hell's going on? you know, all of these disparaging remarks and uh so so you know, Iron Grid and Emperor Shriveie uh who is now moderator, you know, did their fair share of banning and then after after the vigorous Q&A, I saw that Dave Palumbo made a video and I was like, you know what, I'm not going to watch it because it's 3:00 in the morning, right? We first had that podcast with Paul Bernett for 30 minutes and then two and a half hours of vigorous Q&A. So, it was 3:00 in the morning for me with 1 hour left to go to bed. So, I decided not to watch it because of the remarks and the comments that were made and DMs that were sent. I figured, you know what? Um, if you mobilize your audience to send me all these weird messages, then I'm, you know, I'm going to let it slide over the weekend. So, I didn't watch it. Sunday, I didn't watch it. I didn't feel like it. And now it's Saturday and I still didn't watch it yet. So, I guess we're going to have to watch this video of Dave Palumbo. I already got it pre-loaded at the end of the vigorous Q&A because I don't want to take time away from answering questions. So, we'll do it at the end about two and a half hours from now. And if the the upload doesn't really work because usually when I play videos, it doesn't really work. At least I'll record it locally and then I'll just clip that out and show that video probably tomorrow or something. So, I will react to it. If there's a debate in there, I'm not entirely sure, but let's see. So, um, there were there were like 10 guys posting all kinds of weird [\h__\h] and new subscrib new guys obviously not not subscribers. Um, yeah, so I had to ban a couple of them, but after the liver king, um, I know that those comments are kind of meaningless, so we uh just let it go. All right, uh, let's start answering with some let's get started with some member questions. Uh, oh, yeah, thoughts on time. Clark saying Halo is the safest drug. I'm not entirely sure about that. I just started doing all of the literature review, but I believe that there's there's at least studies on PubMed and I didn't even get to Google Scholar Science Direct or Research Gate yet. So, I'm about 200 studies in on PubMed. Um, apparently Halotestin has undergone a lot of clinical trials in combination with Demoxifin regarding safety and efficacy. Now, that's in combination with the Moxifin, not solo, but I'll go through all of those clinical trials eventually or at least let's say the 10 most recent ones and then usually you can form your conclusion because as time goes on, um you know, testing parameters and and investigation kind of changes. And this is why I think Tyen Clark might be incorrect regarding his statements on halo because most of the studies that show that luteinizing hormone follicle simulating hormone levels uh don't decline are from the 60s7s and maybe early 80s and I remember going through all the halo testing studies regarding fertility and and after the early 80s that that practice kind of stopped or those investigations kind of stopped because they had better fertility medications in the form of human corionic gonadotropen and then later on human menopausal gonadotropin. and now recombinant follicle stimulating hormone. So as time goes on uh practices change, right? So you could say that halo is safe but maybe in the 70s uh but there must be a safer uh practice out there and and uh since halo testing is still prescribed there's also a but lot of studies that I need to go through. So please give me some time. It's next on the to-do list. Uh let's see this week I was super happy that I got those two videos out. Um, of course, YouTube was great to turn off all the comment section uh again. So, I kept turning it on and they kept turning it off and I kept turning it on and they kept turning it off back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Um, luckily the views didn't really suffer that much, but the comments certainly did because people couldn't comment. So, now um hopefully that doesn't happen next week. But for next week, I got um androgen receptor sensitivity, debunking that with all the scientific evidence and myostatin upregulation or down reggulation and debunking all of that. So that will be next week. I'm not sure if we'll be able to get the Halo testing video out by the time because I still have a lot of literature review to do. So yeah, so my sincere apologies that the comments were off. It's kind of annoying, but this is YouTube, not me. All right, let's start answering some questions from the let's see from the memberships. Let me turn this off. I'm already cold. One second. Sometimes it's hot, sometimes it's cold in here. We got to always adjust the aircon. All right, let's give that a try. Uh Isaac Danielson, hey Steve, I've had this bustling issue. Um I haven't had time yet to get blood work while in contest prep scheduled next 7 or next week. Taking 750 milligrams test e 300 milligrams Master 75 milligrams tremblan acetate uh 40 milligrams anavar per day I assume 2.5 milligrams superroll sublingual pre-workout. Holy [\h__\h] you must have epic workouts with that much that much oral steroids in your system. Let's see. 12.5 milligrams aromomasin. Is that required? Yes, maybe because you're taking uh only 300 milligrams of masterone every other day. Is that the Romin for the seven? I use GH 20 micrograms IGF-1 LR3. That's a little bit low, but feel free to increase that. Coach had me at 20 milligrams of Windstrol yesterday. Immediately I felt pre-existing gyno, a very small flare up. That's strange. Sometimes I add Winthro throughout the years and I get gano aggravation. As soon as I added more Romson, I had a tiny and a tiny amount of primeipex. The lump all but disappeared. Does this mean it's prolactin? Even at the measly 25 milligrams every other day of train well I I don't think um let's see where's this comment of Winstrol. I don't think that Winstrol increases prolactin levels and I don't think that it increases estrogen levels albeit that Winstrol is known to lower sexual binding global levels and in the process of freeing up more testosterone you have more potential of aromatization but you're still on mastrone which is known to inhibit the conversion of testosterone to estradile or some of its metabolites and aromomasin is a suicide inhibitor and at this dose I don't think estrogen is a problem so um this leads me to believe that your Winstrol might not be Winstrol It might be deanable, right? Which converts into methyl estradile when you take that orally because your intestinal tract also has aromatized enzymes. So um wind can block the progesterone receptor. So I don't see how it raises prolactin or aggravates gyno. But maybe in this cocktail, right, you're on a boatload of different things. uh what you should have done is just go for blood work and check your estradile and prolactin levels before you throw in more aromas uh inhibition and a little bit of primipex which all have additional um you know risks of their own. So uh I I would just advise you to do blood work and stay away from windstrol if you feel that this windstrol is giving you this effect right maybe the windstrol is not windstrol or maybe uniquely to you your gyno flares up um which I honestly on the stack I am surprised that that happens all right moving on so blood work right and and throw away your windstrol because it might not be winstrol next one Philippos Jim asks hey Steve I sometimes suffer from brain fog especially in the morning are there any supplements to get this under control. Uh caffeine that usually gets my day started. Uh what else? Uh maybe some axe, salank, cerebralin, even um you know uh the micro doing also neurotropic benefits. And then there's always fluoxamine and vortioxidine which is pretty potent regarding the upregulation of brain drive neurotropic factor and other neur neurotropic factors. So, um, I would start with coffee and and look into what you take pre-workout or before bed, right? If you take a bottle of GH or GH secrets or you take a bottle of melatonin or GABA or Valium or uh, I don't know, whatever sleeping age you're taking or ambient, yeah, you might wake up groggy because you you're not through the full metab metabolism of this drug yet. So, you know, it could be a multitude of different things, but I I would look into what you're taking before bed to enhance sleep quality or make you fall asleep, right? Not all sleep aids actually improve sleep quality. And um yeah, and then maybe take that out or make some sort of tradeoff where you can still sleep. Um but you take maybe a fast acting melatonin and a fast acting GABA um instead of a long acting melatonin. It's a sort of gabanurgic medication, right? So, so it can be metabolized by the time you wake up and maybe maybe look into sleeping according to your circadian rhythm. Maybe sleep with the window open or the curtains open so the light can slowly come up and slowly wake you up. Right. And multiple different things. But for the brain fog, I would say smack salank cerebralin and caffeine. Yeah, caffeine is great. Lethal Promotions asks, "Hey Steve, do you have any experience using thyolin and thyin alpha 1? Looking to bolster my immune system. Also, what do you have?" Also, do you have any immunity protocols I could follow? Thanks as always. Now, unfortunately, I'm not very familiar with thyolin or thyosin alpha 1. I'm familiar with thy beta 4 and TB-500, but not these specifically regarding immunity. And I I think there's a couple other peptides out there that help with immunity regulation, but I off the top of my head, I can't remember. So, I'm very sorry I can't help you there. Uh I usually don't get these questions. People want to know about steroids. And uh you know, there's some scientific evidence that primoballin increases white blood cell count if you're immuno deficient. Uh but I'm assuming that you're not one of those persons. Right. Almost done, guys. I'm going to start scrolling. soon. Uh, Ilar Ilcarac car Ila car asks, "What are your thoughts on HMG with ATG on cycled TRT?" So, I used to think that that was the best, right? HMG is FSH and and allegedly LH, but it's usually ATCG and ATG has HCG. Um, so, you know, back in the day, I figured that was the best way to sustain the function and help with libido. But now I'm not in favor of urine purified HMG anymore because we have recombined follicle stimulating hormone and it seems to be more potent and cost effect I think it's more cost effective compared to HMG on an IU for IU basis because again I figure that HMG would have some luteinizing hormone in it but every time I do blood work on HMG only FSH goes up and not LH. So why would you take HMG when it only contains um FSH and maybe trace amounts of ATCG to fulfill the LH pathway when it's significantly cheaper to run recominant HCG and recominant FSH right so so um I I would say before FSH recominant version was available um this was the way to go but now it it no longer is because there's better ways to do it and you know you don't need to have FSH or HMG on site cycle unless you really notice that you have a more favorable libido regarding and and of course semen volume and that's always a bonus more semen volume compared to HCG alone right I remember when I recommended HMG and HCG or HMG solo it was mostly in the context of uh libido and fertility um you know HCG will sustain testicular function and and increases your libido in many cases more than enough so I I would say with HM MG, you know, it's it's easier to source ATCG nowadays than HMG. And HG is already difficult to source, so I just take with the recominant versions. Yeah. Uh, Ilcar Elcara man asks, "If I'm already on the bivival and is it a reason to look into Thomas?" Uh, I don't think so, but maybe your blood pressure is still high and that probably means that you're magnesium or calcium deficient. Is there uh difference of mechanism of action? Well, nebival is a beta blocker. It lowers your heart rate and thus lowers um the ejection of the blood which downstream reduces your blood pressure. And it's a beta 3 adrenergic receptor agonist which increases nitric oxide in the blood to a similar extent that seialis does and thus dilates your blood vessels right and seialis is a pdf5 inhibitor but nitric oxide levels go up and thus dilate the blood vessels and talmisartan is an angotens receptor blocker and dilate the blood vessels that way so it's the bivivalone might have a little bit of overlapping effect and artan has a different effect um you can also dilate your blood vessels with calcium and magnesium. So um you you know maybe you can increase your electrolyte intake and come off the nibival in theialis and and no need for to do artin altogether. Uh last one is it true that mechano growth factor the non-pulated version have a halflife of only six minutes can't remember I think it was very short but I can't remember what the halfife was off the top of my head therefore it doesn't go systemic and provide sight enhancement um will be localized sight enhancement anecdotally but I've never talked to anybody who swore by MGF or pulated MGF themselves I've seen it being sold everywhere there's some scientific evidence that turn steroids increase MGF F levels including including primabolan. Um but how much of a net result you'll get out of that it's probably negligible. And of course if you start injecting MGF or pulated MGF um I think the drain on your wallet is more significant than the muscle mass that you gain out of that. Um let's see I remember you mentioned GSK copper for sight enhancement. Yeah I I think that that works very very well. And the arms I did it in a ter drop of my quads but it seems that most of those gains are gone already. Um, probably because I'm off cycle for such a long time and I can't really train as hard as I used to, right? I mean, you need a certain amount of intensity for quad size. And in the tricep, right, in the outer head, I think that let me let me see. I think can't really see it here. Here in this area, I put it. And I think that's enhanced because it used to be flat and now That's kind of pointy. Knees too pointy. Would not hit. So, but that was a lot of GHK copper, man. And I can't say that. Now, looking back on it, I still got like 10 vials. Now, looking back on it, I can't say that all the post injection pain was worth it. Yeah, but my triceps were [\h__\h] swoll. And make sure when you do GSHK copper for sight enhancement that let's say five milligrams per site or two milligrams to get started. Um you need a lot of deep tissue massage therapy and act active release therapy and grass tongue technique because it creates adhesions and it's it's brutal and after if you don't do that right you don't do the deep tissue massage therapy then I feel that your um muscularity will not be as good as it should. Okay let's move on because we're way behind. Uh, how valuable is injectable quarantine while on TRT? Also, you recommend ashwagandha and tokat ali while on TRT. So, tokut ali um I would not recommend because uh I don't think it's going to do anything additionally for your testosterone production. Asha root extract might still be good to lower cortisol levels, but testosterone already lowers cortisol secretion from the adrenals. And injectable alcarnitine might be good for fat loss. And you know there is one or two studies that shows that adogen receptor content of skeletal muscle increases with lcarnitine lart traitrate supplementation. And the reason why I know is because I just recorded anogen receptor deep dive dropping next week. So uh will be fully cited as every video should right nicely cited like all things should be. Um so yeah add it in. I I take all quarantine every day and I'm not even on TRT. All right, next one. If I were to start TRT and decided after 3 months to come off of it, what would my PCD consist of to gain normal testicular function? Uh, let's uh stop the TRT. After four to six weeks, you'll feel like ass because your testosterone estrogen levels are completely zero. Then you can start human corionic gonadotropen at let's say 1,000 IUs three times per week. You run it for two to three weeks. Then uh you go do your blood work, see where testosterone levels and estrogen levels are at. Hopefully they came back already. uh but they might be middle of the reference range like 500 nanogs per deciliter for example if you were shut down for so long on TRT and then you take the ATG out because ATG suppresses a luteinizing hormone and follicle simulating hormone secretion to a certain extent and of course the selective estrogen receptor modulators um the the sole the sole reason why you run those is to increase LH and FSH level so ATCG is not run at the same time um so that means you discontinue the ATG particular function is somewhat restored And then you use Novidex and Clommet at tapering dosages. Um you can follow the cookie cutter, you know, 100 milligrams of Clommet for a week and 50 or 100 milligrams of Clomid per day for a week and then taper down to 50 milligrams for one or two weeks and then taper down to 25 milligrams for maybe one to two weeks and then Nolv 20 milligrams per day for two weeks and then 20 or 40 milligrams per day for two weeks. Yeah. and then 20 milligrams per day for two weeks. And it may be a little bit longer if your serum testosterone levels and your luteinizing hormone levels proven with blood work are still not sustainable. But I have a dedicated PCD video about that. So, let me link that down below. Uh, which I also linked last week and I have an ebook on it, but I just basically spilled the entire protocol. So, I don't think you need I don't think you need it. All right, next one. No, this one we already answered. Yeah. Uh, you know what? I have Hadti. Hadti looked much improved yesterday. I didn't watch it yesterday. I watched it this morning after I woke up. Hadti was uh 10 times better at the compared to the Mr. Olympia, right? His back was dry, his glutes were shared, he was hard, his waist was under control. He could pull a much deeper vacuum. And Samson is also improved, but he's still 99%. He's not 100% sharp, you know, and it is the same to the Olympia and the same previous show. So, I I think Samson and um you know, Milos might have to pull the water a little bit harder and sacrifice a little bit of fullness to really get his glutes in, but his grills were 10 times uh better than they were at the Mr. Olympia. So, progress has been made, but Hadti uh doesn't need to make progress. He just needs to go back in time to a previous shape and then he's unbeatable. So, I think Hadti will win today. Um because that was the Hotti of old. And even though he's getting older, right? I mean, you can see some signs in the back and the rear delts and the quads. I mean, you know, both both of these guys are, you know, what my age around 40 years old, let's say 30 37 to 42 years old, give or take. And that shows some signs of age. um doesn't mean that they're not good. I mean, they're exceptional. Certainly better than I am um from a bodybuilding perspective. I don't have to compare everything. Um so, I would say Heidi wins today. But guys, let me know, man. I the show will be I guess um Oh, no. It will be while while I'm sleeping. Yeah, it will be while I'm sleeping. So, I guess I'll see that tomorrow morning. Spamfelder got the most part of him. Who the [\h__\h] would go after a boy? I don't know, man. I don't know what Dave Palumbo said. Where is the Bitcoin shirt? Um, soon. Soon. There. Good things will come to those who wait. All right. Uh, another beautiful Saturday. Okay. Let me scroll down. All right, here we are. Big house. Hey, Steve. Hope you're having a good Saturday. Yes, sir. Uh, I started doing subcutaneous. Let me remove this banner because I feel that it cuts my chin off. There you go. I can you can see some [\h__\h] Yeah, lean lean chin. Um, no uh no [\h__\h] chin here. All right. I hope you're having a good Saturday. I started doing subcutaneous alcarnitine home brute 500 milligrams for 1 milll with 0.1% benzo alcohol and I noticed red blue veiny spots or bruises at the ejection site. Is that normal? Um, no. That shouldn't happen. Maybe you're not putting it deep enough. Right? If I do my subcutaneous shots at 1,000 milligrams for 1 milll, but again that's pharmaceutical grade. I'm not entirely sure how much benzo alcohol is in there. But um I don't get any redness. I mean, it burns obviously. It's like gorrhea, but it's on the back. And then you try to wait away walk away from it, but it follows you. So, you just sit there patiently and you're like, you know what, whatever, whatever is going to happen, it's going to happen. And I accepted it because I want the carnitine in my uh booty. So, um, red and veiny blue spots or bruises. Sounds like hypoxia. Yeah, sounds like hypoxia. Um, I don't know, buy some pharmaceutical grade LC carnitine or or from a source that you trust and compare. If that happens also with a source you trust, then maybe it's you, right? Then you continue with your homebrew carnitine and maybe it will get better over time. But if it doesn't happen with another brand and it does happen with yours, maybe your source of lcarnitine isn't good. Maybe you didn't filter it correctly. Maybe uh the benzo alcohol concentration is too high even though it's 0.1%. So, could be multiple of different things, but maybe ask um what's his name? Uh Chase Irons, who has a lot more experience on uh homebrewing than I have. Jake Aboba, my SBG went from 46 to 29 when added in a low doanderone. Is SBG suppression a known effect of nandrone? Yes, that's the effect of all steroids, and I just made a video about that. Have you ever seen this before? Yes. Also, free testosterone did not go up despite the drop in SABG. Lab error. Um, no because nandrallone can increase the conversion of testosterone into estradile. And if your SHBG is lower, then there's uh more free testosterone, but now this free testosterone is unbound. And instead of floating around in the bloodstream with albumin or sexual binding globulin, it uh can slowly migrate to the estrogen rece or aromatize aromatized enzymes, not estrogen receptors. Jesus [\h__\h] Christ. Um, it can migrate to the estrogen aromatized enzymes. [\h__\h] And then convert into estradile, especially in the presence of nandrolone because nandrolone is a metabolic intermediate of testosterone into a estrogen metabolism. Man, what a brain fart there. My bad. All right, we're 15 minutes behind, but I'm trying to speed up as fast as I can. Muhammad. Hey, Steve. I'm on 120 milliliters. It probably means milligrams. testosterone enitate, 20 milligrams mastronate, and 10 milligrams primo. It's not milliliters. Uh unless you're doing it for sight enhancement purposes and you're after that Greg Valentino look, uh it's milligrams, not milliliters. Yeah, please. Uh 10 I use 20. I use Atlantis depending on carb intake. So I'm assuming that's in the morning. For I use form growth hormone. Could I run this year round? Uh it depends on your blood work and how you manage your blood work levels, right? I mean 120 test 20 milligrams. Is this per day or is this per week? I mean who who injects 10 milligrams primo? So I don't know Paul Muhammed if you're still here let me know if this is per day or per week because per day I would say it's very sustainable. You could also run 200 tests and and just leave it there. But if you're running 10 milligrams primo per day, that's 70 milligs per week and 150 milligrams mastron per week. And well, let me whip out the calculator for that one. 120 * 7 840 milligrams testosterone. So there's a bit of a discrepancy and I don't think you're running 120 milliliters testosterone and per week. So it depends on your blood work. Please give me further details so I can uh tell you if it's a good idea or not. Just found this girl talking [\h__\h] about men who moved to Thailand. Yeah. Yeah. They talk [\h__\h] That's why we move. We are sick of the [\h__\h] talking. That's why we move. And they they keep talking [\h__\h] But that's okay. It's like out of sight, out of mind, right? So, we're like here enjoying our holiday, enjoying our time. Ah, that's why sometimes when there's drama, it's just better not to watch the videos. Out of sight, out of mind, right? Why ruin your weekend over it? Maybe, maybe there's a learning moment there. Uh, let's see. Oscar Sup, uh, currently on the ball, blood pressure is always around 140 to 70. Want to lower it to 120 to 60. Die on point. No trash. You need a little bit of trash over the weekend, man. Otherwise, you're not alive. What would be the right way to address this? First, throw in more magnesium. Yes. Or straight go to telmasartin. No. So, tmasartain is like a band-aid in case um you can't manage your blood pressure with magnesium, calcium, sodium, and potassium intake, which needs to be stable for your body to adapt. And maybe you chronically magnesium deficient. And it it might take a while before your magnesium stores in skeletal muscle bones are sufficient enough for not for it to not pull it out of the bloodstream. And then magnesium can slowly dilate your arteries and take some time, right? Makes take some vitamin D3 and vitamin K with that for proper magnesium and calcium transport. And uh you know, maybe you're overtrained can increase your blood pressure slightly. Maybe your cortisol levels are high from uh stress or too much caffeine or you know whatever else overtrained state. Maybe you're not sleeping enough. All these things can increase blood pressure. So I would look into all of those things. Try to optimize the best you can. And if that doesn't work um and you really need a 10 point reduction um then yeah there's always 20 milligrams to start which can increase to 40 milligrams or 80 milligrams if needed. Let's see. Hey Steve, what are your thoughts on the lowest effective dose of growth hormone and in what increments can you increase the dose? Um, if I remember correctly, I think that a growth hormone replacement therapy in cases of growth hormone deficiency starts at what 1.2 IUs, two IUs. Um, so that would be the lowest effective dose, but that's in context of GH deficiency. If you're not GH deficient and you supplement with growth hormone on top, then you have maybe twice the amount of growth hormone, right? If you produce 1.2 to two I use growth hormone by yourself, you know, averely speaking, and you add 1.2 to 2 uh IUs growth hormone on top, then you have double the growth hormone. Seems pretty effective to me. So, um I I would increase with increments of about two IUs, you know, and in the beginning you you might experience a little bit of water retention on 1.2 IUs. You run that for two weeks, 3 weeks, then you kind of normalize, you increase that to two IUs, and then you have a little bit more water retention, but it's less dramatic than previously. Uh and then you bump it up to three or four or six, right? It also depends on your muscle mass. I could start with 10 IUs right off the start if I wanted to because I know how to manipulate everything that uh will happen when I go on that much growth hormone. Right. This is this is 2.4. Look at that. Yeah. Look at that. Good [\h__\h] All right. Sorry if I'm skipping a lot, but there's so many member questions and super chats and I'm I'm mad behind. So we'll do members and super jets for now. For MMA, currently on 150 milligrams testosterone, 150 milligrams primo and HG. I want to run a lot of VAR for long periods of time. Thoughts on using VAR on light training days and switching it for durable on hard days? Not tested. Uh yeah, could be. But if you're already on 300 milligram steroid, add in maybe 5 to 10 milligrams anar on top. That's another 35 milligrams or 70 milligrams extra, which is an increase of 10 to 20%. that could mean the difference between absolutely [\h__\h] great performance and kicking everybody's ass or um being gassed out of your mind. So, I would start low. Maybe start with terrainable first because um it it does seem to improve stamina anecdotally in people, but we'll have to get to the terrinal deep dive at one point or another. And hopefully I can find a lot of those uh those old studies in German performed on Tinibal. Fingers crossed. I I try to look for all the primab bone studies but many of them are not translated or not even available. So I did my best with the scientific evidence that's available. Um, so I would start with Tinabol and uh and then start with five milligrams and build it up, right? You can always build up. You can always build up. Maybe try five milligrams per day for two weeks. See if your stamina goes down and then increase it to 10 milligrams, right? You know, like look into ITP, look into data, look into all these things that are known to improve your endurance. Uh, milronate, hypoxin, emoxipene, methylene blue. There's so much more than steroids that you could take to improve your endurance. And you know, let's say you're fighting against one of my guys that is doing MMA. He would be on TRT and maybe a little bit of a tour in a ball, but all the things that are known to improve reaction time and hand eye coordination and grip strength and stamina and then you're gassing out and then my guy is choking you out. Watch the endurance videos. There's too many of them, but just type in endurance on my channel and then you're followed. Hey, blue collar bodybuilding. What's up, dude? Heidi in person was as close to 100% peaked as he can be. Simpson data could be dry for sure. Yeah, that's that's what I figured from the live stream. Oh, you guys are in here, guys. Don't you have an Arnold to enjoy? Speak for yourself. I refuse to get old. So, so uh yeah, Paul, are you as old as Dave Palumbo? No, you're 50, right? And Dave Palumbo is what, 55? You know, but Paul is so chill. Paul is so chill. He's so chill that, you know, I I would age him at like 32 years old. Yeah, he's just as chill as uh as Chase. But Chase is the most chill. He can even sit through two hours of uh Victor Black. I mean, I I I would sit there just being annoyed. Wondering how I could spend my time better. Um Bar Leo. Yeah, bro. Move that anor out of the way of my chin. Oh, this thing. Yeah. Yeah. All right, daily injections. Okay, so you're on 850. Let me scroll up. 840 milligrams test, 140 milligrams mastone, and 70 milligrams primo. Um, you might need an aromatized inhibitor. Um, and and I would do your blood work at least just every month in the first couple of months just to make sure that you got everything under control. And then if you feel comfortable with that and you know how to manage your blood uh work parameters and they're not getting worse, I mean your hematocate will be elevated, your lipids will be skewed, your liver enzymes will be elevated. Um hopefully your fasting insulin levels will not be too high if you take two days off lantis for it to metabolize. If your fasting insulin levels are high, that means you're losing insulin sensitivity. And then of course you can check your hemoglobin A1c to see if that lantis dose is sufficient to keep your blood glucose levels under control throughout because hemoglobin A1c is a much more accurate representation of your blood glucose levels over let's say 3 to three and a half months. So yeah um if you do everything right, I don't see a problem with running it that long. Um but your lipids will not be perfect. That's for sure. And your hematocrit might be slightly elevated. And again, as soon as you lose insulin sensitivity, maybe cut your carbs down by half and remove the lantis. Do a mini diet for two weeks, restore insulin sensitivity, and then you're good to go again. Right? Your your biggest intake is test, which I'm not against at all. I [\h__\h] love test. I love test. Fo cash flow. Hell yeah. Feet cash flow. Nice one. Some of you guys are mad. Um, original. All right. Le recent labs ASD and $33.33. I love that round number, man. Very, very good. All right. Recent Robs is an uh ASD of 100. LT is 104 units per liter. NALDD non-alcoholic fatty liver disease for the past 10 years. 34 year old uh male 5'11 230 lbs. Previous 280, but now only on 200 test. ATCG 15 IUs or milligrams tepid per week that's pretty high that's pretty high I would say to Thomasartanalaphil should I see a hepatologist or lower testosterone dose and stop this many meds how serious is this so if you have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease um right your triglycerides might be elevated your total cholesterol levels and LDL levels might be elevated and you could even have this high of um liver enzymes from strainous workouts now if you have diagnose non-alcohol non non-alcoholic fatty liver disease um then I would come off TRT and allow um endogenous testosterone production to come up somewhat and allow the stem cells of the hpatocytes to kind of restore and recover your non-alcoholic fatty liver disease where you'll undergo severe caloric restriction and nowadays you have tepidite for that right um I think there's some scientific evidence that that Thomas seialis uh cardarine I mean, glutathione and estylcyine. Man, there's if you go to liver talks, let me link it for you. That's probably the best. Uh I know and Dr. Dean was very fast to point it out. You should go to liver talks about 17 alpha alkalated steroids, bro. Say yes, I know. I know, Dean. Um yeah, link down below. Oh, Livertox is probably the best um website for uh liver information and not everything will work for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. I mean, I tried everything and then the best thing I uh could do was just to fast it off and then my liver was in prime condition again and it was brutal. It was not fun. I was skinny as [\h__\h] If you scroll through my videos from 2021, you see like me just looking like this basically. Um yeah and and but that was the the the way to get it under control. And if you have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease for that long uh yeah I I would take some immediate action because the longer you wait the more difficult it might be uh to get rid of it and once you got rid of it it also makes it easier to come back. So why do you think I'm always under caloric restriction and look so emaciated? Um because I don't want to permabul again and give myself non-alcoholic fatty liver disease because that was worse than coming off cycle to get my wife pregnant. Nah. So, see a hepatologist, do an ultrasound on your liver, do a fibro scan, see how bad it is, and then watch all my non-alcoholic fat liver disease videos. I think the last two is all you need to watch because that has the conclusion of what worked and didn't work. Let me link it down below. I mean, for $33, I'm uh I'm going to do the work for you, bro. Here, Steve lost all of his gains. Damn, I was so skinny. But I had hair. All right, let me link it down below. Give that video a watch. I think it will explain everything that I did at the time. What worked and didn't work. Uh Ken uh Haka 200 tests per week, 200 IO of GH per day, DHA and pregnant loan for cruise right now. Should I drop DHA and pregnant alone when I go blast for contest prep? No, keep it in, man. keep it in because it helps to keep you calm, improves your well-being, improves your libido, helps with sleep quality, and we all know that contest prep ruins sleep quality. Now, will DHA pregnant alone help with sleep quality when you're on uh the trembloney sandwich? Perhaps not, but I would still keep it in u until maybe the last two weeks when you need to manipulate your estrogen levels. Um, and then you take the DHEA and pregnn alone out, right? But it's only the last two weeks. That's what I would recommend to my clients when they were competing. Keep it in all the way through and then uh yeah, and then take it out if needed. But some people don't need to take it out. And at least it keeps the stress at bay. You know, the last two weeks of contest prep is always a bit stressful when you start scrolling online and you look at your competitors and you're like, "These guys are in way better shape than I am." Because they use filters. Olives on pizza, yay or nay? Yes, but it has to be a pepperoni pizza. And um yeah, I'm not against it. Does a prostate massage increase test? Allegedly. Uh but I wouldn't know. Allegedly. Stevie Young, my first blood on first cycle of test only 500 milligrams. Why is it so high? Why is your testosterone so high? I made many videos about this. Why? Why are you not starting with 250? Anyway, it's too late now. 500 tests split Monday and Thursday. Israel is at 100 pics per milliliter. Well, you should have watched my first cycle videos, dude. You could have prevented this. Uh, prolactin 400 micrograms per liter. Sites or ED, acne, moon phase, would injecting every other day, fix or use an AI. Um, I would start injecting every day and use an AI because in this much test, you need AI 100%. If you were in 200 test, maybe 250 on your first cycle, you pin every day, you don't need an AI. Maybe your estrogen is 50 picoggrams per milliliter and your prolactin is in range because your estrogen is in range or low enough um favorable enough for your prolactin not to be this high. Um yeah, so I would start pinning every day and and use maybe 25 milligs of romin to prevent the conversion of testosterone into estradile because your estrogen levels are now so high. So you take a pretty hefty dose and then you go to a maintenance dose of let's say um man you'll have to prove this with blood work four weeks into it but I would say 12.5 milligrams four times per week. So you do a single dose of 25 milligrams on Monday or to well yeah just to do it today and don't say that you have to order it because you should have this [\h__\h] in stock when you start your first cycle. I explained this in all the first cycle videos dummy. So 25 milligrams a day and then Monday you start with 12.5 milligrams Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and then four weeks into it before March is over you check your blood levels again. Check your serum testosterone. Check your serum estrogen levels, total cholesterol while you're at it, LDL, HDL, cacroooglobin, right? Prolactin levels, DHA sulfate, see if that's low, pregnnolone or pregnnolone sulfate or progesterone if you can test that, right? Do everything you can and watch those TRT videos. Um, you need to everybody's talking about pizza now. I'm planning to try adding on Primo to more TRT, but I tend to get irritable and anxious with DHT derivatives or when I let DHT go above 100 NOGS per deciliter. Is it still worth using a DHT uh derivative like primo if I need to use something to keep DH if I need to use something like salt pulmet to keep DHT lower? No. No. Because you'll still get a DHT like effect. So Primoblin, Master, uh Winstrol, Anavar, Anadrol, SuperDrol, etc. Right? All DHT derivatives. And it means uh if you're already using salt pomemetto to keep your DHC levels under control because it makes you irritable, anxious and perhaps uh causes you hair loss then you should not add a DHT derivative on top. You have two options left or three uh haloestine but I wouldn't recommend it um because that really makes you irritable but apparently it's it's totally safe. Well, I'll be the judge of that. Not after reviewing all of the scientific literature. Um, let's see. Uh, baldenone, but it might be kidney toxic and might cause you anxiety also, which you can mitigate to a certain extent with GABA supplementation. And then there's nanderlone or more test. When in doubt, just add more test. Right? Increase your cell pomemetto to keep your DHT levels under control. Um, right. And usually test makes people feel better. fuel cash flow. I became a YouTube member. I guess you liked my answer. Thanks for joining. Good evening, Steve. Is it possible to have nuts and nut grapes for running 90 or testosterone derivatives? That's difficult, but it really depends on the dose. I think if you run 50 to 100 milligrams and nandrolone alongside your TRT, so let's say 200 test and 50 to 100 milligrams at most or 250 test, I think it's still possible if you use HCG and perhaps FSH. And again, I have a video about this. Might as well link it. Um, but yeah, if you if you go to like 300 nandlone, uh I don't think that that's uh going to work. And with mint, I mean, it's designed as a meal contraceptive even though it wasn't successful. And tren man, that just shrinks your nuts. It's like, give me your protein, I need to build muscle. Give me your selenium, I need to build muscle. Give me your torine, I need to build muscle. Give me your zinc. I need to build muscle. And your testicles just gone. Yeah. Painful. And it's weird because trend makes you come really hard, but then nothing comes out. It's like a mist. Poof. Uh 23 or 4R. Do you know anything about testosterone cycles causing fibrosis on the heart? I have not investigated um steroids in depth regarding heart remodeling. Uh but I do know that testosterone and um I didn't find anything for primo. I didn't find anything for anavar but it could be um but dandelong and testosterone have of course been extensively studied. So I'm not entirely sure. Let me have a quick look on PubMed. Might as well right. Testosterone cardiac fibrosis. Couldn't find any studies. All right, let's try. Oh, here. Uhuh. Testosterone induced focal maracorditis in rats. Doesn't sound good. endomyiocardial fibrosis in but that's in elevated testosterone levels sudden cardiac death. Yeah. Oh, tell me about it. Uh oh, there's actually quite a lot. 64 studies. Well, if you guys were interested in how to keep your heart healthy videos, then I would do it, but nobody seems to be interested in that, unfortunately. So, I I would advise you to do your own research. Uh, I like the stream you slackers. It's not going to happen, man. Uh, does Paul have powumbism? Palumbalism? No, I don't think so. Paul looks like a Caucasian Tony Freeman. He's like the great friendly giant. What's up? Welcome for joining the Vicor crew. I thought I I added Victor Black to the spam filter. How is this going through? I need to update my spam filter. Um yeah. Well, what can you do, man? I'm sure like I'm sure there's many posts about me on his Instagram, but hey, talking about me gets you views. Apparently, in case of Dave Palumbo, he got uh 13,000 views in six days. Nice. That's about $60. Epic. Epic. He needs it, I guess. I know. I will react to it at the end of the video. Um, yeah, if he was really taking 120 milligrams, he would be dead already. Yeah. Well, you never know, man. Some guys pin a lot. I thought the liver talks is a fan-made site for liver king. Uh, no. This is actually a very good website. This is a very good website. Again, it's linked down below. All right, Octaven, it's it's useless, man. I I was watching uh Xavier's podcast or live stream yesterday and he had 500 people watching and he had like 30 likes. I you know the best thing I did for my YouTube videos is just Vicor Steve here and then you go right into it. I don't ask for likes. I don't ask for comments. I don't ask for subscribes. I just go right into it and if you like what I'm doing then you should like and if you like what I'm doing you leave a comment. But I'm not going to beg for it anymore because it doesn't seem to help. So I stopped asking for it and guess what? Views are up and revenue is up and comments are up if YouTube doesn't turn them off. All right. Sorry Sebastian to make you wait. I'm cutting currently at 15% body fat and TRT. When would you deploy anar during a cut at which body fat? Which ancillary would you recommend? And uh when do you add in the ancillary? Blood work is okay, but hematocrit is 51. Well, that's not too high. Next time you go in for blood work, make sure that you are fully hydrated. And then your matter might be two points lower at 49%. So u I would say 54% is high, but on TRT that's rare. Uh unless you have sleep apnea, so maybe you need to do a sleep study. Uh but let's stick to the question for now. So uh I would deploy the anavvar from 10% onwards because if you do it now your body fat levels are too high for the cosmetic changes to set in and ultimately we take the anavar for cosmetic changes. Um you might be able to get away with a low dose 5 to 10 milligrams right for performance even though that won't give you that much cosmetic changes but it will make you stronger. uh you get a better contractile capacity um you know mind muscle connection strength obviously and muscularity ultimately will go up and then uh you increase the dose of anavar when you're below 10% body fat when you can actually see the cosmetic changes because now you're just too fat for 25 or 20 milligrams anavvar right even though you will get strong even though you will improve your overall body composition um you can't really see the cosmetic changes that much so why would you subject yourself to an increased dose of anavar anavar which is going to increase your liver enzymes and skew your lipid parameters um well you can do that later right because it highly depends on what endpoint you want to end up at but I'm assuming you want to get down to 10% or lower right where you see all of your abs and then um you know you can take your pictures and spam those on Instagram and get all the the ladies the ancillaries I would deploy depends on how bad your blood work is right fish oil burberine citric bergam M they're all known to improve your lipid parameters and if that's not enough then you can look into a zetamide uh 10 milligs upon waking but it's not always required on TRT plus a low dose anavore um I don't think your blood pressure will go up especially if you're dieting then usually your blood pressure is under control but look into magnesium and calcium vitamin D3 and vitamin K to keep that under control and then otherwise there's always a sartan and liver enzymes might go up so look into tutka or atka and acetylcysteine uh a good amount of fiber with your diet And um I think that's about it. Yeah. So it's basically all the overthec counter the cookie cutter overthec counter supplements that everybody should deploy on cycle. Um and at one point when the supplements don't keep your blood work parameters in range anymore then you look into the ancillaries. Yeah I got a dry mouth today. Right. How deep all the way do subh? I got to mix in dad jokes otherwise everybody loses their attention span. Do subcutaneous injections need to be now that you mention it. I always try to make it shallow. I get some leaking too. Is 45 degrees with insulin pin uh uh deep enough or is that shallow? I I would do the 13 milllers insulins or 13 mm insulin syringes. Um I guess that's half an inch and and that would be deep enough for me. Yeah. Even at a milliliters per day, I would never get cage. Um so so maybe if you're using the 4mm or the not milliliter, millimeter, Steve, millimeter, if you're using the 4 millimeter or 8 mm insulence syringes that it might not be deep enough. Uh but 13 should definitely be deep enough. And I would do it at a 90 degree angle. So if your uh fat is like this, you go in like that. Look at this arm. Look at that. This is why I still follow caloric restriction because it looks too damn good. Um so uh imagine what it would look on a little bit of TRT. Oo, can't wait. So yeah, I would do 90 degrees, not 45, because at 45 you're not as deep as you could be with a 13 mm millimeter insulin syringe. Hey Steve, I got anonia from breathing too much air. Should I give up on life? Uh, no. No, because giving up on life is kind of selfish and there's usually people around you who need you. Um, so if you need some purpose to keep going, uh, look into your immediate surroundings and stay alive for them. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm not sure if you're serious, but if you're serious about this, then please seek some guidance for these kinds of thoughts. And if you're just trolling, you shouldn't really troll about these kinds of things. Um, yeah, some things are not worth not aren't troll worthy, I would say. But if you're if you're serious, then dude, just just talk with your friends, right? It's uh yeah, there's always a reason to continue. Is THC and canamino oil uh cardiotoxic? Can it be used on cycle? Uh I'm not sure if it's cardiotoxic. Uh but it it does uh impair brain function and increases your prolactin levels and lowers um your libido. And even though uh steroids increase your libido, maybe the net outcome is that you're just unproductive and stupid and don't want to um uh you know multiply or at least practice to multiply. So I'm not a big fan of THC or cannabol oil or anything. Some people swear by it, right? Some people like CBD with a little bit of THC before bed. Everybody's different and just because I don't like it um and don't really do research on these topics because I generally do a lot of research on things that I find interesting and having smoked many awe including recently here in Thailand. Uh I [\h__\h] hate how it feels. I have to say it. I just I don't like the feeling. Yeah. And it was after two two puffs. I was like, "Fuck, man. Shouldn't have done this. It feel [\h__\h] weird, you know. So, no. I I'll stick to whiskey. First pizza out of the oven. Hope my mom and stepdad love it. Oh, they better. Just put some [\h__\h] olives on it. If they complain. Uh, what would be a good ratio of IGF-1 to anabolic steroids? 50 micrograms daily to uh every 250. Man, I wrote this in the offseason cycles with biioidentical ebook. Uh, let me whip it up. because I can't remember off the top of my head, but I think that was a very good ratio. Uh, offseason cycles when you haven't used like your software for a while and then it goes completely ballistic with alerts. Uh, page What did I say for? Like there was a certain amount of steroids I think. Or is it on the other one? Ah, here it is. Man, this ebook's so good. All right, calorie intake. And if people didn't copy these ebooks all the time, I would update them. Uh, IGF-1 25 to 50 micrograms IGF-1 LR3 for every uh 220 to 250 milligrams of testosterone, including the Esther. So that's uh let's say if you're on 500 tests it would be 100 micrograms IGF-1 LR3. Yeah, that seems to be a good ratio but feel free to increase that. I mean I used 500 micrograms ink incre um you know and and that worked pretty well also. I'm off it now which sucks because now my workout capacity is kind of diminished. So yeah, it's it's basically 50 micrograms to 100 micrograms for every 250 milligrams testosterone or steroids in total. And uh so let's say if you're on a gram and you go towards the top of range that would be uh a gram per week. So that's 100 times 4 400 micrograms right so it's not reasonable to run 500 micrograms if you're on a a proper cycle of let's say 1250 milligram steroids per week and then you do 250 micrograms IGF-1 LR3 or increlex bilaterally in the muscle that you're going to train. I've did it post-workout, preworkout, um, with growth hormone, without growth hormone, in the morning subq, right? But it seems that pre-workout gives the best pumps and the best results regarding recovery, even though some of that IGF-1 might leak out of the skeletal muscle while you're training and go systemic, right? And then grow your organs allegedly. I don't know, I might I could still pull a vacuum, but I'm not on steroids, so maybe there's some overlapping effect there. Um, difference between this LR3 and increlex. I mean it has to do with the binding affinity for the IGF-1 binding protein 3 and the other IGF binding proteins and uh you know IGF-1 LR3 and increlex all have a localized effect but the half-life might be uh well different right uh this is let's say fast acting LR3 is long acting and increlex is intermediate acting all right Mr. B on 125 milligrams week testosterone replacement therapy. Would an oral such as anorobol be more effective if taken daily so it's always in the body? Yes. Is it pointless used opportunistically just a few times a week? Well, that's still better than not taking it. So let's say you take anavore uh five times per week pre-workout. That's better than not taking any anor. And the same goes for terinol. Usually I would say that oxymetalone androl has a more of a more acute effect um perhaps due to non-genomic responses. So I feel that oxymetalone is a really good preworkout where you feel that acutely. So I used to use oxymet like twice a week 25 milligrams 50 milligrams before leg day which I did twice per week right once per quads and once for hamstrings and glutes and adductors and calves. um and and then so that's 100 milligrams or 50 milligrams oxytocolone over the week but you take that in two servings whereas with anor I would say regarding the connective tissue and the collagen synthesis and overall muscularity I would still prefer that take that every day but if you want to give your liver a break or you want to space out your pharmaceutical uh oxandrolone and take on rest days like the other guy I mentioned then uh the MMA guy earlier on then feel free to do so I would prefer to keep everything stable. But of course, if you keep everything stable and you take 50 milligrams oxymetalone and per day, then uh you might be very very bloated. Yeah. Does trend make you go for big busty women? I can't remember. I haven't used it in like a decade. Yeah, it's almost a decade now. Yeah. So, I I was using trend when I met my wife and she was not a big busty woman and she was busty though, but not not like you would see online, right? Not like the the the the South American um or the South African BBWs. Um those are considerably more thick with many ACs. So, but yeah, I've heard guys go for fat chicks and I've heard guys go for lady boys or for BBLs or BBWs, right? I mean, it it appears that Trimble changes your sexual preference. Oh, I forgot one big house. Sorry. What are your thoughts on lodos before confidence requiring events? Guys, come on. Come on. Now, now we're just now we're just looking for excuses to run drugs, right? Uh you get a massive boost in mood when taking it. Get some sides, maybe mitigate for the estrogen bump. I mean, if you need it, you need it, right? There's there's a thousand ways or a thousand roads to Rome, but um I mean, you could take some neutropics, you could take some elenine, you could take some GABA, you can take some falodos Valium or neproxin. There's so many things to give you more confidence, including sublingual diehard testosterone. I mean, that will give you confidence and libido. [\h__\h] hell, dude. Holy [\h__\h] Um, so yeah, if if you feel that you need it and you want this as an excuse to run some dianabol, then after your confidence requiring event, you go to the [\h__\h] gym and get yourself a pump and put the Dian ball to real work. Okay. Yeah. But I don't see a reason to do it that way. Eric Carrier, uh, should micros change when starting to I use growth hormone. Currently on 250 tests per week, running 350 milligrams milligrams. Steve, 320 gram of carbs, 205 grams of protein. That five grams matter, man. 80 grams of fat. I'm 190 pounds. Hoping to recmp. Okay, so let's um keep the calories the same. drop the carbs to 250, increase the protein to 270,5 and keep the fats the same and then uh then I think everything will turn out well. But the macros will change not because of the growth hormone but because you want to recmp and recmping seems to go better when your carb intake and protein intake is uh somewhat the same or your carb intake is lower than your protein intake. ultimately you might end up with a ketogenic diet. Can too much HCG cause testicular damage? Yes, it can. Yes, it can. Yeah. And that's usually in the context of pituitary and where um a luteinizing hormone or or maybe even HCG levels are chronically elevated can cause thyroid cancer and testicular cancer. And I think that's that's documented albeit that I'm not entirely sure. Let me let me go to PubMet um before I run my mouth. ECG testicular cancer. Oh, it already comes up. Malignant terteratoma of the testes in subfertile men treated with HCG and HMG. A case report. Ouch. 30 93 cases of germanal testicular tumors with urinary gonadotrop and HCG values. That's hg. I don't know. I think I read some instances of of testicular issues with chronically elevated HCG levels. Oh, hg in monitoring the course of testicular tumors. 29 patients with metastasizing testicular tumors. Uh serial determination for monitoring 17. Oh, no. They monitor HCG and and I have to look into it because this search parameter gave me 1100 studies. Um, but yeah, I I think that a thousand I use HCG I think I researched that dose and it seemed to be reasonably doable for longer periods of time in the context of fertility protocols. But I think from higher dosages, let's say you do 2,000 IUs three times per week, I think some issues might occur, right? Most most of the from what I remember doing the research again it's a while back um elevated chronically elevated HCG or LH from pituitary adenomas where you just have over secretion can cause issues with your thyroid and issues with your testicles but it's been a while. It's been a while if you edge before prostate massage uh more gains. Yeah, I I would assume so. Yeah, you you might want to tell the prostate massage therapist to put on one of those uh goggles cuz if if they're too close and if you've been edging then uh I don't know, fountains. What was that scene from uh what's that movie? American Pie where the guy comes out of campus and just comes like a boatload. It's just like that. Poppy Dingus. Jesus Christ. Currently 300 milligrams testosterone dynameth methane calcium duclorate DHA prialone. All right. Sounds like as a vicor Steve protocol came down from 350 test to manage estradile sides moving to 250 milligrams test 5 milligrams of bar uh every day not erectile dysfunction. 250 IO HCG monst push me into the high estrogen sites. Yes, you can keeping the DHA and pregnant alone. Um, manage edge two sides. Okay, so I don't see any mention of blood work here, which I do advise you to get because you might be mistaking something else for estrogen sites, right? So before you start manipulating, just get the data, right? Do your blood work. You'll have the results in a week in most countries. And otherwise tell them to speed the [\h__\h] up so you can make the appropriate adjustments right at the same time. Um, right. If you think you have estrogen sides, then yes, reducing the test. Um, but adding in the HCG that will probably give you a net result of the same estrogen levels and um, you know, I don't know what your DHA and pregnnolon dose is. 500 grams of anavar per day will not have any suppressive effect on your serum estradile levels. I've never seen it play out on blood work even at higher dosages. Um so I I would do blood work first and then decide the next step because even 250 ISO HCG Monday on a Wednesday Friday could give you an equivalent of testosterone on top of the testosterone of 200 test and HCG compared to uh 300 test and HCG is pretty potent man can give you a lot of total testosterone from your testicles. So I know do your blood work and and maybe you need an aromatiz inhibitor. Maybe the dino methane and calcium to glucarate is not sufficient. You know finishing cut at 350 milligram testosterone cipionate weekly and oxandrol on 10 milligrams daily. Need to do TRT doc labs. How long for 175 milligrams testosterone recipientate weekly so I don't pop hot and lose the script. I pin daily. Uh let's see. Oxanderone I would say four weeks. Yeah. Yeah. Run your tatka, run your aetamma, run your fish oil, run your citrus bergamont. Make sure that um your lipids and your liver enzymes are not that bad and are representative of 175 milligrams testosterone cpionate per week. And even feel free to stop the testosterone uh cipionate from 350 to zero milligrams per week. Two weeks is usually enough to crush your serum levels quite favorably. And then you restart the the testosterone sipate at 175 milligrams per week. And don't tell me that you're going to feel crazy after stopping this much test for two weeks. It's placebo really. You can cruise for four to six weeks after your last shot and then you start to feel like a little girl. But two weeks that's not the end of the world. So make sure you run your liver supplements and your cholesterol supplements. Drop the testosterone cipate for two weeks and then you will start at 175 milligrams per week. And if you really want to improve your lipids and your liver enzymes, fast for five and a half days. It will improve your blood parameters tremendously. Yeah. or bring your brother who's not on TRT and then instead of sliding your arm in, you slide your brother's arm in from the back and then they take his blood and like, "Ah, I'm sorry. You look perfectly healthy. If only, right? H if only it was easy as uh you know, passing urine samples for the W doping officer. Is an AI necessary on 300 test with sides other than light acne? If I get sides, what does what should I start with for an AI? And should I keep my DHS impregnone in? Um well, acne could be from the injection frequency, not just elevated estradile. Most men do need an um aromatized inhibitor on 300 tests. So why don't we start with daily micro administrations, preferably subq for the most stable serum concentrations. Then do your blood work two to four weeks into making that adjustment. acne you can manage, right? Cut out the dairy, change the sheets, shower four times per day, right? Use, you know, the the the shampoos or or the facial foams or whatever that they're acne friendly and um and then do your blood work in the meantime. Check where your serum estradile levels are on daily micro administrations and then see if you need to use an aromatize inhibitor. Right? It's step by step. I'm sure you can persist another four weeks in light acne. I mean, I have light acne and and you know, my serum estradi levels are are 45 picoggrams per milliliter. My testosterone is 820 by uh nanogs per deciliter based on the latest blood work results. And uh it's not the end of the world, right? And and my my hormone levels are in range. So, and I think that the HCG that I inject subq has stable secretion. again. Uh you don't have to donate if you're already a member. You don't have to super chat if you already paid for membership, bro. But I appreciate it and thank you for signing up to the private Facebook groups uh back in the day, man. Those were the days, right? And then now I slowly uh release or I think I already released most of the important articles from the private Facebook group as videos. We had very lengthy videos about uh you know estrogen and very lengthy videos about endurance and very lengthy video about acne and I think I translated most of them but I just needed a private place um for article writing. So thanks for being a proofreader and thanks for asking follow-up questions because I learned a lot and I think those articles were great. Um but of course follow-up questions is where you learn more, right? because you didn't think about the certain thing, you didn't mention it in a particular article. And then the follow-up questions allows you to expand. Yeah, those were the days when I was unknown and I had privacy. Hey Steve, apologies if this is a newbie question, but I want to uh but I want perfectly accurate blood work. Do I take the week off fast cardio in addition to lifting? currently 6 days a week 30 minutes. Yes. So, so um I do know that lifting can increase liver enzymes uh for let's say up to seven days depending on the intensity. I'm not entirely sure if cardio increases metabolic markers. It might improve serum triglycerides obviously and and lipid levels right total cholesterol LDL and HDL ratio. Um, biotin you might want to abstain from because that can have uh an effect on certain markers. Maybe abstain from that for a week. But, you know, I always feel that if you want perfectly accurate blood work, then you should just do the exact same thing you always do because that's what you do most of the time. And you want to see what your blood work looks like when you um uh take that at a day that's representative of any other day. If you want to manipulate your blood work results for insurance, okay, take a week off, right? Don't take your biotin, right? Make fast for a week. It will improve your blood work parameters like I mentioned earlier. Um, then everything is in range. But uh you know if you want to know what's going on in in in inside your body then I would just do it from one day to the next you know and obviously you don't take your B 100 complex or multivitamin with biotin the day before and still you know you might still get uh a little bit of an alteration in markers. I'm not entirely sure. I think growth hormone is affected by it. Biotin blood work markers. Uh biotin can affect a wide variety of blood work. Let's see. Troponin uh help to diagnose heart attacks. thyroid hormone tests, thyroid stimulating hormone, thyroxine and T3 tests, uh parathyroid, cortisol, follicle stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, and vitamin D levels. All right, so it does affect a good amount. And how many days should I stop this? Uhuh. Uh, a few days before the test. All right, few days. All right, maybe next time I'll I I won't do my biotin and then maybe my FSH is like zero. No. What's going on? Where are we? Can you micro dose uh testosterone propane 20 to 30 milligrams three times a week to pass the wed test within 5 days of the last dose? Um I think the detection time is uh five to no it's longer. It's two weeks. Let me confirm that in my I have this here somewhere. One second, guys. I got too many files in my uh notes folder. Where is it? Dude, I got too many notes. All right. One second. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Testosterone propane two weeks. Yeah. Detection time is two weeks. So, no, you would not be able to pass in 5 days. That's a testosterone suspension. That's what was it? Four to seven days depending on the amount. Um. Yeah. Yeah. Or you'll combine it with epi testosterone. But for those protocols, you're better off scheduling a consultation. And that's expensive, man. Epi testosterone because you have to get it from those research sites. But then at least you know that your epi testosterone is really epi testosterone. Yeah, I did. Octavian, stop spamming me to watch Shogun. Um, so I saw that I saw it come by on the torrent website and I downloaded it, but I have a feeling that I want to marathon this series cuz I was watching Halo, right? I mean, the series is not that great, but what else are you going to watch? And then, you know, you go through the first two episodes or three episodes and then I have to wait every week. So, I [\h__\h] hate that, dude. So, I'm I'm going to download all the episodes as they come out so it goes nice and fast, right? 12 megabytes per second, baby. And then uh then I'll just stock them. uh for when I have time. Steve could answer that. He's the expert here. What's the question? If it's not a super chat or remember question, I probably don't see it because the the questions keep coming and I'm 20 minutes behind. Jesus [\h__\h] man. Uh same. Feel foggy and lazy when I smoke. Don't like it at all. Oh yeah, I'm really 20 minutes. Okay. Uh TK DOP, let me see if there's a question there. Oh, there it is. One second. I'll get to it. Uh cheek clap. Is romatization linear between natty and on test? Um if you only go on testosterone then yes but if you add in nandrolone then it's increased. And then if you add in uh reversely binding aromatize inhibitors in form of DHT derivatives or der metabolites or bolton or der metabolites then it's uh less linear because now you're inhibiting the aromatiz enzyme. But if you just go and test then yeah I would say that that's linear right but I'm sure there's probably some scientific evidence where you see that it tapers off because how much right if you're you're if if testosterone levels go up and you recmp at the same time and you reduce atapost tissue where most of the aromatization occurs because you keep your calories the same right so you didn't increase your caloric intake you start training harder and thus your body fat levels came down then your potential for aromatization goes down and it's no longer linear it kind of tapers Yeah, you'll be surprised how much tests you can run without an aromatiz inhibitor if you're like 4 to 6% body fat. Oh man, still people want to take 2.5 mill or yeah 2.5 milligrams let every day guys. Uh spot me, bro. I'm currently running 250 test 200 primo. I'm bulking right now. I want to add another compound to the stack. Is there anything you recommend that's not too wet or should I stick with what I'm on? No. Uh growth hormone. It's not too wet. If you stick to 2.4, two to four I use, but you're bulking so you might add a little bit of water retention. Uh SuperDrol, but it's only a two week love affair. Androl I would leave out unless you do it twice per week. And then well, Anavar, right? It's a golden triangle. Test primo anavar. All roads load lead to this stack. test primo anavor. You don't need anything else. So, of course, you won't see the cosmetic changes when you're bulking. Um, so on this cycle, I would add in 10 milligrams per day. Yeah, should be enough. Let the food work. Uh, thoughts on Whistley visors win. Uh, scroll back and I already commented at the beginning of this video. Terap uh taking 200 test e and 300 mg three 500 IOS three times a week. My body weight in for my blood work in four weeks albin was 48 grams per liter. I'm not sure if that's high or not. Uh let me see albumin reference range uh grams per liter. Okay, so that's within the normal range, right? Their normal range is 3.4 4 to 5.4 g per deciliter. So that I think yeah I think that's in the normal range. Estrad is high though that's the reference range goes to up 160 pics from per liter. So you're a little bit over that. SBG is low which is to be expected on this much mone. Progesterone is 6 point 1.6. That's normal. Prolactin is 64. Uh is that normal? Man, I wish you guys would uh include the reference ranges because there's many different um ones and I don't remember all of them. 64 I would say that that's low. Testosterone 58 nanomals per liter that's high and free testosterone 45. Okay. So uh oh here and I took a demesterone uh and it's not an option anymore and added in Romin 6.5 milligrams three times a week and kept the test as it was. What what do you think? Okay. So you're replacing I would add in more because your estradile levels are already superfological and you might might give you some issues later on. Uh so I would add in 12.5 milligrams of Romin three times per week instead of 6.5 or 6.25 25 to replace your 300 mronone. Yeah, because but later on you might have to reduce that. I know I I would start with 12.5 milligrams because your estradile levels are high now. The master will be tapering off over the next couple of weeks. So you still get some reduction in serum estradile levels. Um and then I would do blood work again in four weeks. Just check your estradi levels. D SHBG might be a lot a little bit higher and I don't see an issue with your progesterone, prolactin or testosterone levels. Um, and then maybe drop your orin again to 6.25 milligrams. Yeah, that's that's what I would do. Yeah, I got it. Don't worry, I found it. Uh, let's see. Terab, uh, no, I took out the master. Okay. So, we just answered that. Derek, is there a question with that? Uhuh. Uh, no, there's not. Thanks for the super sticker. Oh, here it is. God, love the content. Uh, it's been a ton of help. What do you think about 250 tests a week with 200 with 20 milligrams trainable? I want to stay athletic and have good cardio. I think I have a video about this if test and the anabol is a good cycle. But yeah, I think it's a fine cycle. All right, if you want to stay athletic and have good cardio, then Tyrinol is probably the best oral you can run because anecdotally a lot of people experience heighten stamina and trinibal was actually designed for athletes. Yeah, the only steroid developed for athletes. Baldone developed for horses and camels. Trembolone developed for uh cows, right as to increase feed efficiency. And baldo was also used to increase feed efficiency in some uh livestock. Uh nandelone has been designed for um what was it originally designed for? Anyway, there's so many steroids. We're not going to have to mention all of them. But trinabol was actually designed for athletes back in the good old um days of the bundes republic in Germany. Yeah. To beat uh all the all the other countries at the Olympics, right? America the ballal and Germany had tyrannol. So and I believe a lot of records were broken on tyrannol. It's oh did I miss is there a gap in the questions? All right, I guess everybody is went through the question. I thought I thought it was 20 minutes behind and now we're Okay, now we're only 7 minutes behind. Super chat's taking off. Yeah, man. It's just non-stop. It's just nonfucking stop. Yeah, maybe that's why Dave Palumbo is upset. Don't hate the player, man. Hate the game. Super physological dad. Uh oh, here's the question. I accidentally sent an empty super. No worries. I found you. I got you, buddy. Uh, what do you think about Scott Stevenson speak, dude? That's the best thing ever. I'll [\h__\h] link it down below right away. Scott Stevenson and I think he's a co-author. Uh, PubMet, he's a co-author because he pew recommendations for bodybuilders. This is one of the best [\h__\h] publications on PubMed, hands down. Uh, I'm going to write a full citation for it shortly. This is this is the best article you can you'll ever read, right? It's from uh Gilmo Escalante, Scott Stevenson, Christopher Bakarat, Alan Aragon, and Brad Shfield. I mean, those are some great [\h__\h] names. Those are some great [\h__\h] names. So, um, fat loading Sunday works absolutely great. Carb loading, uh, Wednesday, uh, fat loading All right. Carbs. Man, this is hard to decipher. Wednesday night to Fridays, cut sodium. From what I understand is that you do two day carb loads and then one day fat loads and then you manipulate your sodium and water um until But just follow the instructions, dude. Just follow the instructions. It will work. I use it on something extremely similar, extremely similar as this um stack with all of my athletes that were competing in drug tested shows. And here's another one because there's another study that helps with this. And I think um the guys from 3D Muscle Journey also published a study like this. What is his name? One second. One second. One second. Eric Helms. Sorry. [\h__\h] Can't believe I forgot his name. Eric Helms. He also had something similar published. Um, Eric R. Helms. Is this by date? Most recent. Yeah. Evidence-based recommendations for natural bodybuilders. I mean, days are good, man. when you can find three publications on PubMed, how to peak for a show and it's evidence-based and it's for naturals and enhanced lifters, right? What works for naturals usually also works for enhanced lifters, albeit that you might need to increase your carb intake because you have more muscle mass. So, yeah, give those a watch or a read. Oh, we're already at the end. Thank god. Finally up to speed. This is like a rush every time, dude. It's just like answering answering answering like, "Oh [\h__\h] I got two and a half hours. I got all these questions to get to." And uh All right. So, now we can talk a little bit less fast. Finally. Protocol for hair loss. If you blast 19-nor could you uh recover hair follicles during cruises year round 500 milligrams or minoxil? I'm going to be honest. I'm not too familiar with hair loss, dude. I mean, look at me. [\h__\h] look at me. I'm not the guy to ask. Um, so I mean I would not use oral minoxidil because it's a steroid genesis inhibitor. I would not mead to ketakonal or the min monoxil shampoo because it can even permeate the the skin and uh and cause systemic effects. So, you know, RU58841. Some people get a good response and that might be a good topical antigen receptor blocker and it it you know, a lot of guys mix in like their dutastride or what was it 0.5% dutastride shampoo with 5% kakonazole and then just use that sparingly on their scalp. Um, and if you blast with 19-nor, you know, if it's an andolone, allegedly that's hair safe. But if you blast mint and trim alongside of that, then it might not be hair safe. And then, you know, you have to look into the total and burden also, right? I mean, they're all steroids. So, uh, yeah, all roads leads two way. You either shave or you don't take so much steroids. But I don't think there's a middle ground. But again, I'm not I'm not too familiar with hair loss, guys. I'm I'm not the right guy to ask. Uh, fragrance man just finished 200 milligrams, 50 milligrams for myavore 8 weeks. Jesus [\h__\h] Christ, that's a lot. That's a lot. 75 milligrams tremble at per week, I'm assuming. 10 weeks. My lipids were blown out. Yeah, I'm sure. Just 180 milligrams test now. H40. So, I assume that you want uh a lipid protocol. Again, off the top of my head, fish oil with every meal. Citrus bergamont morning and evening, 500 milligrams. Bourberine, 500 milligrams before bed. Uh 10 milligrams zetamide, right? Increasing your healthy fat intake from avocado, macadamia, uh healthy sources of freerange uh beef or other livestock, right? Uh not too much saturated fat and potentially good amount of omega-3s because the chickens eat flax seed. add some chia seeds to your meal and then you're going to have to wait until the anavar and the tremblone and the surplus of testosterone of 20 milligrams per week metabolizes because everything takes time to improve your lipids, right? Keep doing your daily fast cardio, man. You're 40 years old and you can still run train. I'm jealous. I'm jealous. Let me turn this off a little bit more. All right. All right, Jason, what's up, bro? How would you structure your diet if you have a little uh early heart disease? I'm not a doctor. I I would discuss this with a cardiologist, Jason. Right. I I would do everything to keep my CAC score under control. And that might not have to do with my diet, but with nattokenise and lumbro kynise and ceropeptase and maybe very high dosages of vitamin K. I mean, my CAC score was zero in the last test and I I don't think I need to do that anytime soon again because I've been off steroids and I eat healthy year round. Um, so you know it's it's it's a little bit of an afterthought regarding my uh calcification in my arteries which there were none last time. Improvement the CT scan with contrast and that contrast can be more detrimental um for your kidney parameters also. So why overdo that all the time? Um, so I would stay away from saturated fats and I would stay away from high total cholesterol intake and then of course everybody's going to go crazy in the comment section. Total or chole dietary cholesterol has no um effect on cardiovascular disease and blah blah blah blah. But hey, you you can never be too safe if your CA score is already um over zero, right? So, so look into methods to reverse that and look into a diet that is known not to uh make it worse, right? And of course, inflammation can worsen your um plaque buildup because cedactive protein actually damages the inside of your arteries and now LDL foam cells can get stuck which then calcify and then um of course your CAC score goes up. But keep in mind, I'm not a doctor. I'm not a cardiologist. I'm not specialized in plaque. Um, so, so, uh, do additional research and discuss this with your cardiologist, not some random guy that you pay $5 online, right? This these kinds of problems, you don't ask me. You ask a cardiologist, please. But I, from what I've seen, it seems to be pretty reversible. Brendan, how much uh how many more times you going to spam this, or do you want me to put you in timeout? All right. Uh my feritin is at the bottom of the reference range but my serum iron is just above this reference range 50 hemoglobin 17.5 red blood cell count 5.35 250 milligram testosterone per week. Is there a followup? So low feritin, I don't think that that's um an indication of something bad. Um because it it's just a store and transport of uh iron, but it could still mean that your feritin is elevated in skeletal muscle or other tissues, right? You're reading it in the bloodstream, but feritin is found everywhere. So maybe serum iron is elevated uh because you're dehydrated. Maybe serum iron is elevated because you eat a lot of iron. And um how to increase feritin levels. I'm not sure if that's even possible. Uh low feritin. Low feritin can lead to iron deficient anemia. Yeah. Well, that's it's total picture. Isn't it malnutrition or something? Low. Yeah. So, it says that you should be anemic and you have low iron levels, but that's not the case. So, it could just be a temporary statement. Um, I'm not entirely sure. Not entirely sure. D3, you said you want to be back on testosterone replacement therapy since your test is at 800. uh niggs per dilator on ATG alone. I'm wondering why. Uh well, what will feel different? Just higher levels. Well, if you go from 800 in the morning to 1500 the entire day, that's a big [\h__\h] difference. Trust me. And of course, I have very fond memories of training insane, which I do miss. So, I would I would [\h__\h] be very happy with 150 milligrams testosterone a week now. Yeah. 2.4. I use GH uh a little bit of DHA and pregnant which I did did add in 25 milligs of DHEA because it seems that it's pretty low otherwise and my you know mood was suffering a little bit. So I added in 25 milligrams of DHEA. I added in 10 milligrams of pregnenolone but I saw that my progesterone levels were like two two and a half on some blood work results. So I took the progesterone or the pregnantone out again. So right now I'm on 25 milligrams DHEA um which as far as I can tell only has beneficial effects on fertility at least in men. In women it's to be debated but in men it does seem to have a beneficial effect. ATCG 1,000 IUs three times per week Monday 75 I use FSH every day 2.4 I use growth hormone uh before fasted cardio 1.2 and before the workout 1.2 and then I was on Increlex but I took that out because I wanted to save the remaining uh boxes for when I do go back on cycle. So, uh it's not the end of the world obviously. Uh but I noticed that motivation is a little bit less than it is on TRT. Um sometimes I procrastinate and of course it's not a good reason to take steroids. Uh but I I distinctly remember being on anything over 150 milligrams testosterone per week that life was better. Um, so after my wife is pregnant and we pass that uh trimester, that first trimester, then uh yes, straight to the [\h__\h] butt cheeks, man. Right away. Anything you can avoid taking at the same time as Tutka. I heard it worsens the effects of alcohol when taken at the same time. In the same way, say anavor and fluoxamine. Uh there's an overlap with anor fluxamine. I took that at the same time. I didn't notice a difference, but fluoxamine can uh inhibit the metabolism of a lot of compounds because it's a cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitor. Oh, let me adjust my nut sack. Talking about HCG, sorry. Sorry, Chris. Um so yeah fluoxamine uh inhibits the breakdown of many compounds but I can't say that my testosterone or anavar or whatever else was working more uh when I was running fluoxamine either after taking the modafyl out which is a cytochrome p450 enzyme inducer. Now regarding tutka at the same time as alcohol I'm not um I'm not sure about that. I mean, Toddka of course increases bile acid production and that might um you know speed up uh well it does it does speed up the the rate at which nutrients pass uh the uh intestinal tract. So you poop more and you uh and you might reduce the absorption of particular compounds that take a long time to uh absorb orally. Right? So if if some steroids for whatever reason have a very long time to absorb from the intestinal tract which usually isn't the case especially if you take it on an empty stomach or sublingual is better then potentially um it might uh reduce the bioavailability but I can't say that there's any scientific evidence to support that. So let me now I'm intrigued. Tutka alcohol. I know Google doesn't give me Oh, how long after Tutka can I drink alcohol? We would advise against taking Tutka before alcohol especially before excessive drinking as this can be dangerous. What is the danger then? Well, I I guess I'll have to do some research on my free time. Um because I do like Tatka and I do like a glass of whiskey here and there. Thanks. I just don't want to be a damn vegetarian. Yeah. Yeah, of course. Um Yeah. But I think if you like a carnivore diet, of course your your cholesterol is is quite high, but it's also uh right, your dietary cholesterol is is high on a carnivore diet, but your inflammatory state is generally the lowest it is out of all the diets. Uh certainly lower than than you know, a processed food diet. So I I would say clean up your diet and do a you know a food test for food intolerances. Remove all the foods that cause you inflammatory issues or digestive issues and then you're already well ahead. And then you look into nattokinise, lumbrokin, ceropeptase, iidos, vitamin K and and schedule, you know, some talk with your cardiologist to see what else you can do. All right, we've gone through all the membership member questions and the super chats. All right, now I can breathe. Right. Sorry guys for all the guys that posted questions in the meantime. Um, oh well. The show must go on. Uh, opinions on this plant stack. 500 tests weekly, four weeks of 20 milligrams trainable every day, eight weeks primo, 30 300 milligrams weekly, one to two weeks of 50 milligrams and anadrol the last two weeks. So you want to do a trainable kickstart with 500 milligrams of test. Uh then eight weeks on primo and the last two weeks 50 milligrams of anadrol. I mean, I'm sure it will work and I'm not against it, but you do need some aromatiz enzyme inhibition with this much test in the first four weeks because serinable as far as I can tell from blood work analysis doesn't really have a suppressive effect on serum estradile levels. So, you would need an aromatiz inhibitor in the beginning. I don't think that 300 milligrams of primo can suppress all of the estrogen from the 500 test that you're taking. So you might need to increase the dose of primo or lower the testosterone dose or still add in an aromatize inhibitor. And since anadrol um allegedly this is a very big allegedly interacts with the estrogen receptor um although I can't find any clear scientific evidence that it does and feel free to quote me a study guys but a [\h__\h] study that interacts with the estrogen receptors potentially due to its structure it might. Uh, but as far as I can tell, uh, the gyno that you might get from andadrol is just water retention and the gyno was already there. So, it just looks more puffy than it was before, right? Maybe it was puffy but not to the point you notice it and then you add in the androl and you get systemic water retention and your chest is like full as a house and then this gyno sticking out underneath just rearing its ugly head. So um you would need some aromatized enzyme inhibition and uh and besides that uh keep doing your blood work to see how that changes but I mean it's not a bad cycle. It's not a bad cycle but I would do 500 tests 500 primo and anavore but that's me. I'm not you that's me. Lucas 10 milligrams iicotine per day 30 days all good acne way better. Dermatologist prescribes 40 milligrams per day. Yeah, they want you to die. Uh 10 days in knees. Uh 10 days in knees are throbbing. [\h__\h] Yes, 40 milligrams is [\h__\h] crazy. Had to stop training, stop the meds. How long before my knees get better? That might take some time. Look into Boswelli extract. 500 milligrams six times per day. 3,000 milligrams total. And um fish oil might help. And besides that, I mean, hurrolinic acid injections obviously help with lubrication. Nandrelon helps to increase the synovial fluid. Stay away from Winstrol, that's for sure. Um, and otherwise, give it some time because [\h__\h] acne is brutal, man. Or Accutane is brutal. It dries your joints for a long time. I think boselli extract gives you the fastest relief in this context. and and and otherwise you might have to throw in a little bit of nandlong, you know, but that could make your acne worse also. So give it some time. Usually gets better after a while. But if if it's been 30 days and 10 milligrams Accutane, then maybe the 10 milligrams Accutane is just uh so let's say you did 40 40 milligrams for 10 days and then 30 milligrams or 10 milligrams for 30 days and then your knees are still [\h__\h] Okay. Uh h or did you do 10 milligrams iutane for 30 days and then 40 milligrams for 10 days and then stopped it? I I guess the latter, right? In this order. Man, it's getting late. I'm doing my best. Um I know. Give it some time. buy the Boswelli extract and then when your knees feel good again and you can train at the same lifting intensity without knee pain then add in the 10 milligrams Accutane again which again only a highdose Accutane can actually kill your ac uh acne permanently but you have to run that for months and in those months that you're running it you might cause uh a lot of damage. Yeah, you might got a lot of damage to your mental health, your libido, your connective tissue, and of course your skin will be mad [\h__\h] dry, you know. And if you live in a cold climate where the humidity is very, very low, then you have cracked lips and cracked skin, you know, when you wash your hands and like everything here is like all cracked. So, um, you know, I would do everything you can before you start mega dozing Accutane. And if you tried everything already, then this might be the only way to get rid of it. But a 10 milligram dose two or three times per week is usually enough to keep the acne at bay. All right. But it's yeah I mean then you have to run it indefinitely. Any thoughts on helping facial hair for women? Any protocols you aware of? Uh well androgen blockers spironolactone alactone that helps with uh you know androgenic side effects or what is it called? Uh androgen the acne, hormonal acne. [\h__\h] they should know that hormonal acne. Uh, but of course, purylactin also, you know, makes you treat a lot of sodium and it it might have, you know, negative effects uh somewhere else. So, and otherwise, uh, don't take steroids obviously if you're a woman or if you have PCOS, get that diagnosed and under control with medication. Um, and, uh, laser. My wife did laser and everything. And after about 15 sessions on the armpits and uh well, use your imagination. It's gone. Yeah, it's gone. So, I should do that, too. But I like to shave. Do you even lift? My super chats got lost in the mix. About eight back. All right. So, my sincere apologies. Let me scroll up. I don't see your super chat, buddy. No, here it is. Here it is. Okay, my bad. Uh, is it okay to mix water and oil-based gear in the same syringe besides it looking like injectable lava lamp? Cheers, Steve. So, I did that by my first cycle and I would not recommend. I didn't know any better. I had Desma or Zones uh Winstrol Depot, the pharmaceutical ones from Spain. Good times. My source was [\h__\h] legit and I had testol in ethyloliate. I didn't know any better back then. Um, testosterone propinate. So I did one cc of testosterone propinate and 1 cc testoic or desmma zomon winstrol because both are 50 milligrams per milliliter and I did that one cc per day and uh I thought I would get less post injection pain but the post injection pain was still brutal. So, water-based gear, I would do it subq. If if I had a time machine, and if I would make a recommendation, I would do water-based gear subq and uh and just leave it there because the post injection pain, winstrol, testosterone suspension, tremolone suspension or or injectable orals if that's water-based, it's usually an MCT oil uh or glycol, which smells terrible, so don't take that. Um and highly inflammatory. It will kill you over time, trust me. Uh so yeah I I would inject that subq and then the oil I would just inject it somewhere else whether that's intramuscular or subq somewhere else but not in the same syringe right learn from my mistake. Um of course people say that it might cause uh an infection but I think regardless if you mix it or not water-based steroids are just more likely to cause an infection because bacteria um seem to multiply better in water compared to oil. Yeah. So, I hope that answers it. But I would not mix it. I I did it and it it I mean it felt horrible. Luckily, I didn't get an infection because I was uh mad hygienic when I did my first cycle mixing oil best with water-based being stupid and uh you know it was all pharmaceutical grade which I always recommend. All right. Yeah. Don't do it. Don't do it, bro. Uh, the anabolic steroid side of side side of the force is a path. Okay, here we go. The anabolic andic steroid side of the force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural. People giving Steve all types of excuses to juice. Yeah. Well, I mean, even uh Darth Neotus is on hormone replacement therapy, so you know, it's all it's all the craves now nowadays. At least we have a couple channels where you guys can learn and make better decisions than I was able to make when I got started because I made some stupid mistakes going to the GH15 message board. Oh man. Oh man. Uh high-risk fitness. Oh yeah, that's heavy weights and low reps. Is there any long-term risk to using Atlantis for an entire 16week growth cycle? Now, at one point you might lose insulin sensitivity, but that's why I have the insulin ebook to tell you how to keep your insulin sensitivity going while using long acting insulin with various overthe-c counter supplements and best practices. So, I know people who run Lantis in the offseason for an entire year without losing insulin sensitivity. Uh, but they're obviously under guidance of a coach, right, to make these small adjustments. And then maybe once in a while when you see your fasting glucose levels uh come up or fasting insulin levels come up after two days of stopping the lantis, right? Otherwise it its lant is detecting as fasting insulin levels not not your endogenously produced insulin. Um so you have to keep track of your blood work parameters right. I mean you have hemoglobin A1c testers at home nowadays. Um is that true? I think it is. Or is that a hemoglobin meter? him. He A1c uh tester. Yeah. Oh, you even have combination A1c blood sugar. Yeah. So, you can test it at home. That's getting really cold in here. One second. Weather has been funny in Thailand. It's been really hot sometimes and then it's cold, especially at night. Um, well, and it's 2:00 in the morning, so it's going to be cold. Uh, so yeah, long-term risks, uh, losing insulin sensitivity, obviously, and that you can mitigate by taking the lantis out. Jesus, getting worse. Taking the lantis out, cutting your carbohydrates by half, and doing a mini diet. Mini diet to restore insulin sensitivity, and then you can continue. Yeah. And here we are. Steve, please say hi to the Gym Junkie Peptide Group. Uh, they know who they are. We're all big fans and appreciate all the gym you share. Gym Junkies Peptide Group. Well, uh, hi. Hi. Yeah. Hope you guys are doing well. Don't take too many peptides for the gym. Okay. Uh, hey dude. My man, love your shirt. Yeah, I love this shirt too. Best shirt ever. Vigilia. Vigilia Atus sounds like a Roman emperor. Uh, bold masteron trainable to add to 200 tests. 210 tests in 100 milligrams dick stack. Um, why not all three? But yeah, if you're on like this kind of TRT protocol, my preference, if you want after anabolism, I would go with 200 milligrams of bold or maybe 300 milligrams of baldone. Kidney issues aside, right? I have videos about that. And if you want more of a cosmetic appearance to keep the water from the nandon off, maybe 300 milligrams of master, right? Individual response determines and and some people respond better to master than baldone. So I would just do a month of baldon, do a month of master and then do a month of trinol and continue what you like, right? It's it's do those dependent individual. I can't really make that decision for you. Like my my preference would be Primo. I But that's just me. That's me. Just to add, my cardiologist is fine with pasteurized eggs, chicken, even butter. Okay. Butter has a good amount of cholesterol. He wants me to stay away from processed foods and factory farmed animals because of hormones and their feed is garbage. Yeah. Yeah, that's true. So, if you can get free range and uh you know, you go a little bit of paleo or um you know, keto or or you know, all natural, then I think that's best. I think that's best. Hope you can resolve it, buddy. But I see a lot of good success stories using the the supplements I discussed. I mean, Chase Irons was able to reverse his CAC score, but I can't remember what his number was. Can't remember. He got his wife pregnant and and and reverse his [\h__\h] score, right? He did that super fast and I'm still [\h__\h] plowing away. Uh wife's mom has been diagnosed with the global brain cancer. I'm not a doctor. I'm sorry. Like you guys come to me with medical conditions that I'm not qualified to give answers for. So please trust into the medical field and um and and ask them for guidance because I don't even know what that is. I don't even know what that is. And how, you know, what could slow the progression or make her feel better. I don't know. I'm not specialized in cancer. So, I really hope that your wife's mom um can find some suitable guidance. Um and I would advise you to do as much research as you can because I don't know. I don't know, man. I'm sorry I can't help you here, but I I hope you you find something. You not not me. You find something to um help her through that process. Um because I I you know I I talk about steroids here and and steroids are mostly in the not in the context of cancers. So I don't know. Sorry. Can't help with that. All right. No more super chats. There's a drink on me. Thank you. I'm a little bit more expensive than $10 when I go drinking, but You guys should watch this vices video. How I manage my vices. Didn't get any views because it was not about steroids. Uh 6,000 views. All right, that's something. I'll link it down below cuz when I go out drinking it's Man, it's expensive. So, I don't do it too often. But the last time I No, that's not true. I drank Wednesday. What am I talking about? I had one glass of whiskey Wednesday cuz uh I went out with Aaron and another friend Toga. Both I coached for like four years in total. So we went out for a cigar and a drink. It was great. Advice on postcycle therapy after years of HCG monotherapy. Okay, so testicular function is already taken care of. Um you might be able to get away with 25 milligrams and clomophene. That's just it because I don't think your estrogen levels are too high um causing terrible suppression of the HPTA. So yeah, I would assume that 25 milligrams inclin before bed for 4 weeks is enough and maybe you need to taper that to 12.5 milligrams depending on your LH, FSH, total testosterone, estrogen, SHBG, DHA and pregnnolone levels after those four weeks on enlomophane monotherapy. But um I think that's enough. I think that's enough. And otherwise follow the the typical uh Novidex enclam. I want to max out what my body can naturally carry, but I don't care going beyond that. Um, is it bad to use a cycle to speed? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Eat more. Sorry, buddy, but just eat more. Just eat more. 13% body fat is not too high. Just start a bulk. You can easily be 225 at that weight or that height. So, we're not going to use a cycle to speed that up. Uh, because once you go on cycle, you will be on cycle forever, just like everybody else. Nobody ever does one cycle. People want to use a cycle or ostrin or oral steroids to get to their natural potential. And then once they undergo a PCT and they're androgen deficient for a while and they realize that they're not as strong and not as um you know uh cosmetically appealing anymore. Guess what? Right back on steroids. So nobody ever does one cycle. Nobody ever drinks one drink of alcohol. Nobody ever smokes one uh stick of weed. You have to do it multiple times until you get sick of it. And for many of us, we never get sick of that [\h__\h] I'm dreaming, fantasizing about the next time I can use steroids again. So, yeah. No, just max it out naturally, man. There there so many resources now where you can learn how to train drug free. So many way more than I had. And even I got up to uh what was it? 88 kilos. 88 kilos. And that was [\h__\h] for n 195 pounds and I was 5'9. So that's what how many inches is that shorter? Three inches shorter. I was heavier and shorter than you. So it just takes time. But now there's so many resources. I think you can I think you can be 220 pounds in a year if you eat right and train hard. All right. Uh what would you want to know from precycle blood work? Everything everything I'll link it down below. Vigorous Steve markers before your first cycle. Medical screening before your first cycle. Is this about first cycle or next cycle? I just check all of it. Don't be lazy. I'm going to check all of it when I'm ready to start saucing again. just because I want to and can. Oral emoxipine dosage and duration. Yeah, that seems to be a little bit variant. So, it could be um what was it? 200 milligrams like once to three times daily. I think that was a dose, but I don't have my notes here. I usually don't talk or recommend the Moxipine that many times, but it's in the endurance videos, that's for sure. Uh, no. I don't have I don't have those protocols here. I think it's 250 milligrams once to three times daily, but I could be mistaken. Let me pull up the endurance endurance and link it down below. Uh, unlimited energy art, man. Which one was it? Endurance. blow fast like LS man the titles. Yeah, too bad those videos didn't do well because I put so much time into them and then nobody really cared about him. Okay, this is the one. Link it down below. One second. Fast like Lance Armstrong and Ben Johnson. Even though I didn't talk about windstrol in that video, I'm sure you can get some ideas. So the Oh, it's not here. I'm sure the emoxipine dose is there and I have time stamp so you don't have to sit through all the [\h__\h] Just use the time stamp. King David. I I like how you call him light, but I wish he could have seen me. But I was 155 61. Damn, dude. Damn, dude. But I was a junky kid, man. I was skinny fat until I uh went to So I was like like let's say 18 20% body fat when I started going to the gym at the age of 15 years old. Um and then I was just eating whatever because I was hungry from training. So, I stayed 18 15% body fat and then I just got bigger. Didn't get taller, though. I got wider. You can't be tall. You got to be wide. Uhuh. I'm increasing my calories during a blast, but now I'm also slowly developing girth. Any ways to get around this? Well, I have a video about this acid reflux. Crippling acid reflux using oral steroids. Where is it? Yeah, link it down below. Plenty of ideas. add apple cider vinegar to every meal and then usually um that solves the problem. And otherwise add some bet hydrochloride with pepsin that might solve it also. Well, technically it might work, but again there's no scientific evidence that anadrol um interacts with the androgen receptor. I don't think there's any scientific evidence to support it, but feel free to quote me a study um just because of the chemical structure or the speculated interaction. Um there might be some right estrogen receptor interaction causing gyno, but it's usually just water retention making the pre-existing gyno worse. And if there's already gyno, um then novidex is not going to do anything. You would need roloxifene who can which can shrink it by about 50% if the dose is high enough. And 120 milligrams of relax per day can also give you blood clots. So I would be weary. I would be weary. Uh the best thing you can do is prevention by doing your blood work frequently. Using uh a DHC derivative to keep your estrogen under control and maybe some of the metabolites can inhibit estrogen mediated gene transcription in the nipple tissue and thus there's no uh opportunity for gyno to form. All right. You're the best crypto, bro. Sold the bottom. Now, let's buy the top. I don't think we're at top yet. So, there's no buying opportunity yet. Um, and then when you buy uh let's say at the end of 2025, then make sure you sell about a year later or Yeah. Yeah. I would sell it. You buy it, let's say, 250,000 and you sell 30,000. I think that's reasonable. Yeah, I think that's reasonable. Um, oh, left that comment up. 10 people already left. Couldn't wait. Couldn't wait until I was back. Uh, you got to be getting close to a bot billionaire with all those Bitcoin run this week. Uh, well, we're doing okay. Yeah, we're doing all right. We are doing all right. Bruce Wayne, what's up, Batman? Oh, [\h__\h] What's up? What's up, owner of Wayne Enterprises? Uh, this is a pretty complete channel with very good info. Very nice. Yes, that that is the goal and plenty more coming. Winstrol detection time. Uh, I think oral was 3 weeks and injectable was six weeks because it remains in the injection depot, but let me confirm that. Uh Winstrol uh oh two months injectable windstrol uh is detection time for two months and oral windstrol is 3 weeks. Yeah. It's because the in the Winstrol uh in Winstrol injectable stays in the injection depot crystallizes and then it takes a very long time to metabolize. That's why generally speaking injectables just have such a long uh halflife and orals only a couple weeks. Uh Zorv, I'm 33. I'm on TRT for two years without HCG or inclapene because it gives me bad acne and hair loss. I'm planning for kids in the future. Am I permanently going to be shut down? Should I uh sperm bank it? Uh any other advice? So, I didn't I used ATCG maybe once per year or twice per year when I was off steroids. It's just an ATCG blast to kind of restore testicular function, which now in hindsight was probably not that effective. So, basically, let's just safely say I didn't use ATG for um almost a decade because uh I felt it wasn't really working on the cycles I was doing. I mean, I was doing, you know, high testosterone or high test and train and man, I did all kinds of crazy cycles back in the day. Um, and I did notice that on testosterone or testosterone or primo that my fertility parameters were still good. And is that from the exogenous testosterone entering up in the testicles and activating the certoly cells similar to how ATCG increases intertesticular testosterone concentrations and does um activate the soul cells in that sense? Um, that's to be debated. I don't think there's too much scientific evidence for it, but a lot of men don't experience complete aospermia. So, why don't you go check your uh semen parameters because you might still have some sort of fertility intact, albeit that your morphology and motility might be [\h__\h] Uh but the semen count might still be like 22 or 20 million or maybe even 30 million. I've seen that too. I was usually about 20 to 22 million with like bottomed out morphology and bottom out mortality. Um so so I had to come off cycle and blast HCG and use antioxidants and you know testicular function over the gun supplements like vitamin E, selenium, torine etc to kind of kickstart that again and then after a year my fertility parameters were absolutely stellar. So uh if acne or ifg gives you bad acne or hair loss then maybe ATG solo um without TRT is is a good approach. And again, I don't like long-term use of selective estrogen receptor modulators. 4 weeks for PCT, 6 weeks if maximum. I get it. But enlophene uh has not been disproven that it doesn't cause um has been proven that it doesn't cause blood clots like it does in um Clomid. And again, Clomid is what 2/3 uh enlomophane, one/ird zucchene. And so it might still cause blood clots, right? It it hasn't been investigated in that context. So I would proceed with caution you know especially now especially now the last 3 years I mean how many people have we seen uh die from cardiovascular complication. So if you know then why risk it doesn't seem to have that issue or at least less instances um so I would favor toward ATG and if you if it gives you bad acne and hair loss then take the TRT out. I mean, you should come off TRT if you want to have kids in the future because TRT even at a low dose seems to have negative effects on mortality or morphology, right? So, every time somebody sends me their fertility parameters on TRT plus HCG, their morphology and mortality is not as good as mine after coming off or or you know of otherwise healthy men who never took steroids to begin with. Yeah. All right. market maker. I like it. Uh first testosterone cycle 175 milligrams a week, 25 milligram subq daily, 5 weeks in. Total testosterone came back 2,250. Um very nice slow metabizer it appears. Estradiles 58. That's not too high. Um depends on your libido. Late scratch. Yeah, that's to be expected with exogenous testosterone. sides uh introduced ATCG 250 is three times a week at the end of the week uh four. Any thoughts? So you're one week on ATCG already. Your estradile might come up a little bit higher over the next couple of weeks. So I would maybe preemptively add in an aromatized inhibitor because once you hit 75 on your estradile, you might start noticing that libido goes down. And at at 40 to 50, maybe 60, libido might be extremely good. And then suddenly at 75 or 100, it kind of crashes, right? And everybody's different. It's your first cycle. So feel free to experiment and let it come up a bit. But, you know, then there's the the risk of gynecomastia formation from uh higher dosages of estradile. So why risk it? So maybe preemptively add in 6.25 milligrams aromomasin Monday, Friday. uh continue with this protocol of 25 milligrams subq testosterone andate per day and 250 I use ATCG three times per week with 6.25 25 milligrams aromomasin three times per week can be Monday, Friday and for another 3 weeks and then check your total testosterone and estradile levels again to see if that changed if it's favorable if you need to make further adjustments right to make sure you stay uh all good and check your DHEA and bring it alone because at one point you might want to add that in also. Yeah. So this guy is doing it right. This this this kinds of protocol I like. He start started modestly. He did it subq every single day. His testosterone levels are uh well three times as high as they used to be. He went to maybe almost four. And his estradile levels are not alarmingly high after five weeks on cycle. He added in the HCG uh after four weeks on being on testosterone. So step by step, market maker, you're doing a good job. Check your levels again in about 3 weeks on this stack. uh with aromomasin in the picture and then maybe add in DHM pregnant alone and then I think uh you are good to go. Let's see what GI supplements would you recommend to almost anybody who eats like a bodybuilder. Uh probiotic enzymes fiber seen so many different types of those especially probiotics got me confused. Yeah, it really depends on how much you're eating, but if you eat a boatload of foods, um probiotics are a good idea. Enzymes might not be a good idea because it seems that a lot of guys that take enzymes um frequently seems to downregulate their natural enzyatic production in the intestinal tract. So, I would I would only do enzymes if you go out to the buffet or you eat something that you normally don't eat that your stomach isn't used to. So you take like a broadspectctrum superenzyme formula from now foods or something else or creole 4000. Um it's a very potent pancreatic enzyme uh drug. I'll link it down below. Creole uh enzymes. Let me see if it's right or is it cron? Oh, cron rectal irritation. Maybe not. All right, I'll link it down below nonetheless. That's a very potent uh enzyme formula. RX list creon drug. Um and and then I would use that sparingly, right? Like if you really need it because you eat so much foods. We're talking about like 250 protein, 1,000 carbs and and 50 grams of fat or 80 grams of fat, you know, at the end of the day and you need some inmatic support with that. Okay, look into, you know, a broadspectctrum uh pancreatic enzyme formulation, whether that's pharmaceutical or over the counter. Um, fiber I would add in, but in the form of vegetables, right? Or chia seeds. I I always add a chia seed to all of my meals because it has a lot of omega-3 and it helps with insulin sensitivity and it has so many micronutrients. So, I still do that to this day. And probiotics are usually a good thing to do, but you can also eat raw food, right? Or or or kimchi, sauerkraut, um what is it called? Kombucha tea. So many opportunities to get some healthy probiotics. And it doesn't always have to come from probiotic supplements. And then apple cider vinegar, um beten hydrochloride and pepsin, uh which is a enzyme to digest protein that helps a lot also. Yeah. So multiple things. Tutka for, you know, to pass the food through or utka helps a lot. Uh, I think I have a video about this. I have. It's called vacuums for days. Vacuum. How to optimize your digestion. I was so [\h__\h] skinny back then. All right. Oh, it's linked down below. All right, next one. Coached by Roland. Is there a question attached to that? All right, coach. One week after PCD protocol is next week, I got back back some pumps at gym, but I still feel weak. Is GH the cause of the pumps or PCT went well? Uh, not sure. It could be growth hormone, right? You get a little bit of a pump from that. Uh, but it could also mean that that your testosterone levels and and lutinized hormone, follicle stimulating hormone, etc. are just back to normal range. So, uh, yeah, it could be it. Do some blood work, right? Do it next week and then see how it went. Hopefully everything came back at least normal. And then if PCT like if your testosterone levels are let's say middle of the reference range but at least your LH and FSH levels are coming up to let's say 3, four, maybe 5 mills per milliliter, um then you might have to give it a little bit longer time because sometimes it takes a little bit longer. All right, let's cut off the super chats. All right. Anything after this is uh no answer. Okay. Here we go. Uh pickles currently 8 weeks into 400 milligrams per week testosterone initate cycle Monday. Uh 250 IOS HCG mono Wednesday Friday. Okay. Remedex 0.25. Please switch to aromomasin. That's better for your lipid levels. Two times a week. All bloods look good and I feel good. Think about adding in 40 milligrams deanabol the last four weeks of the cycle to add mass. Uh well it will increase your estrogen levels because the antibol converts into methysterile which seems to be metabolism resistant and um yeah so that means that uh you might have to increase your remedex uh preemptively to maybe 0.25 25 milligs per day and I don't know what rate you aromatize but the 40 milligrams of DBL is a pretty hefty dose and on 400 test and 250 I use HCG and this ardics dose I would say that your estradile levels might be already at the top of the reference range or slightly over it. All right so so maybe check your serum estradile levels before you add in the dbol and then adjust your Remedics dose and uh and then throw in a dbol. Yeah, right. You probably already made up your mind so I can't tell you to take the reinol or anavvar. If you want to run the dbol, you have to do the blood work and make sure you have plenty of arimidex on standby, but preferably aromomasin to keep your estradile levels under control. All right, coach by Roland. Hey Steve, I tried testosterone lantel and it went uh great. Uh I wonder if I can do deca and lantis cycle no test opinion. Well, that's what Diane Clark usually recommends and then Deca only in Atlantis and it seems to work well for his uh for his athletes or or the guys in his membership forum. So, uh you can give it a try. Um but if test and lantis went great, then why change, right? Or maybe do test and lantis and a lowd do and alone for joint support so you can train harder on your next cycle, right? Then there's multiple ways to skin the cat. I just didn't have that positive aggression that I would normally associate with testosterone. All right, last one. Thank you very much, Steve. Any ended benefit of splitting 25 million subq into two daily doses? No, there's there's no benefit. No need. Just do once per day. That's more than enough. All right, guys. Uh let's uh react to Dave Palumbo. Let's see how bad it is. Let me get my thing out. So hopefully hopefully the internet doesn't lag from this point onwards. I got 19 minutes on my camera. Let me let me turn this off. A second. Right. So I got all the recording done. Let's see if I can share my screen. Uh uh where is it? Present. Share screen. Share entire screen. Can I do that? Share. Also share system audio. Okay. Share. All right. Look at that. Well, so let's uh let's have a look at the video that I posted uh so we have a reference. And guys, please let me know if you can hear the audio from the video so I know uh what's going on. So I I made this comment uh what is it two weeks ago? 200 primo 400 injectable windrol zero shutdown. Great results. And this guy's lost it, dude. He's so out of touch. I thought I thought, you know, like a couple years ago or maybe 10 years ago, I thought the guy was smart. I mean, a lot I learned a lot from him about the ketogenic diet and some early steroid advice, but a lot of these guys like Dave Palumbo, they don't really do additional research. So, whatever they talk about now, that might have been valid like 20 years ago, but not anymore. So, I would I would advise you to get your information somewhere else because these guys are just [\h__\h] behind, you know? All right. So, that's that's pretty rough. I'd be pissed, too. really [\h__\h] behind with the knowledge, you know? So, like if you're an old rambling man and you will get um entertainment out of the podcast that they have over at RX Muscle, feel free to watch it. But I would not waste my time. I mean, that that PCT protocol and that fertility protocol of his, that's [\h__\h] horshit. Columbboism is not named after him for nothing. Yeah. So, we heard enough. Let me see. Uh, where is it? Where am I? Here. Did you uh guys hear that? All right. Rambling old man. I guess so. Okay. So, uh I might have reacted a little bit too extreme for that question. The question was, let me see if I can uh pull that up again. Where is it? Uh Dave Palumbo. Man, first cycle. All right. So, so I saw this question, right? You see 200 primo 400 injectable windstrol as a first cycle claim zero shutdown. So, I saw this question. I'm like, what the [\h__\h] is this [\h__\h] you know? And and now I'm not entirely sure if Dave Palumbo said of just a comment from Dylan. Um, you got to remember that I stopped following Dave Palumbo. Let me let me pull this back up. I stopped following Dave Palumbo after uh that weird video that he had with Leo Longevity where he called him out for uh you know talking [\h__\h] about what was his name? I mean a lie, right? That that debacle. So I unfollowed after that. I haven't really followed Dave. And then once in a while you tune in and it's just drama, right? So I don't really follow Dave. And when I saw that question I uh I thought what the [\h__\h] is this [\h__\h] you know? kind of horseshit first cycle is that I mean primo n testosterone base serum estradile levels will be low injectable winrol will just give you a buttload of post injection pain. Um yeah so I responded the way I did but probably uh too much for Dave to handle and then when he saw my subscriber count he probably realized that there might be a debate there. Okay, so here's Dave's response. Dave Palumbo issuing a challenge right here, right now, anytime you want. Contact me. I'm an open book. I skipped this ahead. Here with another RX Muscle Rant. Today's topic is self-proclaimed experts in the bodybuilding world. You know what? Nothing irks me more than these guys who come online and pretend that they have some have these deep insights into the science and mechanistic actions of performance-enhancing drugs better than anyone else in the industry. and their only true educational experience is reading Wikipedia online and walking into a pharmacy and buying anabolic steroids and maybe injecting themselves a few times. It really really irks me because you know what? There's a lot of people out there who are earnestly looking for real knowledge. They want the science of what's going on. They want to know how to eat properly. They want to know how to take the right supplements to support the diet that they're eating. And they want to take performance-enhancing drugs in a safe, effective manner. And they want to know the science of how all this works. They don't want to they don't want to know a hyped up, trumped up version of what these people think they want to hear that's going to make it sound super sensationalistic like they have some tremendous insights above and beyond anything else that's already out there. And one of the things that really irks me that a lot of these self-proclaimed gurus put forth is that so you guys could see it, right? Um I I never proclaimed to be a guru and I don't think anybody um anybody ever said that I was a guru, but I I I understand my audience. They do want to see all the science and they do want to see all the Let me remove this real quick. They do want to see all the latest developments. That's why I do a lot of scientific deep dives. Now, I don't think that Dave um watches my channel and he doesn't have to. I mean, I don't watch his channel either because I don't think there's anything further for me to learn. I used to follow Dave, but after that debacle with Leo, I just, you know, I I stopped watching. So, you know, I understand my audience that they want to see a little bit more than the typically regurgitated bro signs. And I know I look like a [\h__\h] small piece of [\h__\h] right now because I've been off stairs for a year because I want to get my wife pregnant. Um, but it doesn't mean that I didn't coach bodybuilders at pretty high level, world championship level, IFBB elite and the WBPF. Never turned anybody pro. I never said I was a guru. I never said I coached anybody in the IFBB. Even though a lot of IFBB pros come to me for consultations, that not that's not exactly coaching. um including some of the IFBB guys that used to work with Palumbo but that's okay right I mean it's an open market so everybody right depends on where you want to spend your money now um I think if Dave took one vigorous Q&A you could see a lot of questions about uh what people want to see right we sit here for two and a half hours asking questions of people want to see and what I think people want to see is evidence-based information that's new and interesting uh that we can all learn from. Right? So, but yeah, to clarify, I never called myself a guru. Let's continue. There's a fertility protocol. The guys who came before them or the guys that are out there who are established people and wellresected don't know what the [\h__\h] they're talking about because they've been doing this a long time which is if you think about it upon uh initial glance, if you've been doing it a long time, you probably have a lot of experience and you probably not only have a lot of knowledge, but you have a lot of practical experience applying it. I mean, I've been doing this for 30 years now or pretty close to it. And that means I've been writing diets for people. So, I've been doing this since I was 15. Um, so that's 25 years. So, it's not too far off. It's not too far off, Dave. People and myself. I've been doing supplement plans. I've been doing performance-enhancing cycles for people. And I've probably worked with over 5,000 people, probably more than that. I I I I don't count, so I don't know. But so many so that I've seen every scenario for in diet, every scenario in in drug use, every scenario in supplement use that I kind of know what works now and what doesn't. Not to mention that I do have a pretty good educational background. I don't have to go out there and and tout it. You know, obviously I went to four years of college. I have a degree in biology uh from Franklin and Marshall College. I went to New York medical college, which is hard enough to get into medical school, but I did very well. I passed the first part of the medical boards. I did three years, and I decided it wasn't for me. It wasn't that I couldn't do it. I was one of the top guys in my class at the time, but I decided that wasn't the direction I wanted to go in. I loved bodybuilding. I love preventative medicine. I love telling people how to keep themselves healthy rather than treating symptoms. So, I I opted out of finishing medical school. It was my own decision because I wanted to be in this space where I am right now which is a a health provider, a health educator, a person who puts forth science so that you understand why you're doing the things that you're doing. Telling people how to diet, telling people what nutritional supplements to take are great, especially if you have a lot of experience doing it. But if you know why you're telling people to do it and you can explain to people why they're doing it, that's empowering. Because people love knowledge. When I sit down with someone and do it, I do probably, no joke, probably anywhere from 15 to 20 consults a month, you know, probably more than that. It's more like three to five. I do two per day. I do at least an hour. So, and that's usually three. Sometimes people pay one hour. Today, I had four consultations. Um, so, so maybe the demand is a little bit higher on my end than and and and you you guys know what I charge and it it just continuous just like the super chats. It's continuous anyway. Um, I don't want to take any money out of his pocket, right? He's a family man. He has multiple businesses. So, all right, everybody should have an opportunity to make plenty of money. That's a lot. That's just phone consults with people where they're asking me questions. They're showing me their blood work. You know, I probably read 10,000 blood works over the course of the last 30 years. I've seen every variation, okay, out there. I know what a bodybuilder's blood work looks like and I know what to be concerned about and what not to be concerned about, okay? I also know how to read blood work because I went to medical school and they taught us how to read blood work. I know what all the markers mean, you know? And any of you self-proclaimed gurus out there that are going to try to put me down and going to try to make it seem like I don't know what the hell I'm talking about, come on, come on my show. Let's let's have a a friendly debate. Let's have a fun little debate. You can pick the topics. Give me the topics. You can pick the questions or we can have a a third party moderate and give us the questions. And I have no problem debating you. I think you're going to have a big problem debating me because you don't know the science of what you're talking about. Anyone who puts down anyone out there, they're doing it for a reason because they're trying to validate themselves. I don't put down other people who are out there putting out advice unless the advice is wrong. Yeah, fair point. Fair point, mate. Fair point. I agree to that. He's a guy vigorous Steve. Oh, okay. That's talking about I don't know where he came from. He's He's from Thailand. He has Well, Dave, you made videos about me and the Liver King, so you I'm sure you remember. Self-proclaimed guru. He doesn't have any educational background that I know. At least none that he's willing to admit to. I'm a a knowledge engineering, information engineer at the host in Amsterdam. That's HBO. So that's not exactly university degree, but it's still a degree. I graduated when I was 21. I did five years, six years as a business consultant. Um, so I basically know how to piece [\h__\h] together. And whether that's anecdotal experience, personal personal experience or the scientific evidence. Um yeah, I I I'm basically trained on how to piece things together. And that's why sometimes I see faults with uh some of the things practices that people put forward. That's why I reacted the way I did to the 200 milligrams of primo and 400 milligrams injectable winstrol. Um because based on all the experience that I have after 25 years of bodybuilding coaching for over 12 years and taking steroids for 15 years and I know I don't show it but right yeah sometimes you have to come off to um get somebody pregnant then uh yeah you don't look so cosmetically appealing anymore but the the knowledge is still there right the knowledge is still there all right so let's continue before I interject his probably only experience is that he can go into a pharmacy in Thailand and buy steroids steroids legally. So, he's now a steroid guru and he knows more than everyone else. He can go online and he can read Wikipedia and and whatever, you know, other crap that's out there. He's probably a very good Tik Tocker, too. I'm sure because Tik Tok gives you Tik Tok is almost like a PhD nowadays. If you can go on Tik Tok and have a following on Tik Tok, then then you you know, you can put the word doctor before your name and and actually be validated by that. And this guy is putting me down saying I don't know what I'm talking about. You know, a lot of these guys like Dave Palumbo, they don't really do additional research. So, whatever they talk about now, that might have been valid like 20 years ago, but not anymore. Because I'm old and and because I don't have any relevance and what I talked about 20 years ago was relevant, but it's not relevant today because because we know more today. Listen, my my theories and and all my knowledge has evolved consistently because you know why? Because I'm in it every day. Every single day, this is what I do. But I'm not going to put forth [\h__\h] theories, okay? and [\h__\h] advice when I know it's [\h__\h] okay? Just to sound smart. And that's what these guys do out there. They want to sound like, "Oh, we got information that no one else had." Guess what? Anabolic steroids haven't changed for the last 60 years. Okay, we know how they work. The guys in the 90s knew how they worked. The guys in the 80s knew how they worked. Okay, in the 90s, GH came out. That was the new kid on the block. So, let me interject a little bit. Um, it's actually a lot of new studies. And again like of course we all want to be evidence uh based but also experience based right but if new evidence comes to the forefront that shows that things are not healthy um then you shouldn't recommend them anymore right like so for baldone there's now a lot of scientific evidence that it might be kidney toxic and even though you can really analyze the results I mean I did a two-hour deep dive on it um I came to the conclusion that personally I don't want to use it anymore even though back in the day I used plenty of baldone um but I didn't have access to those studies or I wasn't aware of the studies or the studies weren't performed yet. So I could um you know continue taking baldone and risk my kidney health or I could continue to recommend clomid and and you know have people get blood clots right so sometimes you have to use the scientific evidence to be ahead of deaths and I know Dave Palumbo reports on all the deaths so I'm sure he can agree if we can prevent some deaths then uh that is our responsibility as educators to do right So, every time I see videos from Dave where he recommends something, I see something that I don't always agree with. So, if I um responded uh in that little clip, you know, too um aggressively, then my sincere apologies, right? I would be upset if I see a comment like that also. But you have to understand when somebody sends me a protocol of 200 primo and 400 injectable winstrol as a first cycle, I mean, if it comes from Dave Palumbo, then it's a stupid protocol. And if it didn't come from Prolumbo and Dylan just posted something, then yeah, I I do owe him an apology because I might have responded too harshly for something he might have not even recommended. But when I saw that, I was like, "What the [\h__\h] is this?" You know, that's the dumbest [\h__\h] first cycle I've ever seen. So, all right, let's continue. Oh, let me share my screen again. Let's continue. We're halfway there, guys. Probably toward the end of the 90s, early 2000s, IGF-1 came out. in the last 20 years, the only thing really new that has come out is the peptides and we're all and that's that's the most exciting thing going on right now. And the next 10 to 20 years will be gene therapy. I can guarantee that and I'll be on top of that as well because there's science behind that and I can read a science article and I can give you guys the actual mechanisms of how these things work and explain it to you. Some people want to know, some people don't want to know or don't care. They just want to know how to use something. But it's important that you explain to people how things work because they're much more likely to follow it and feel comfortable following when they know the science of what's going on. So when I say that, you know, priabone or winstrol is not a DHT compound, it's not. It's not DHT, okay? It's a five alpha reduced compound that looks like DHT. Okay? But if anyone knows anything about Winstrol and Primabolone, they've reduced the androgenic or masculineizing component. Masculineizing component is the stuff that, you know, makes hair grow in your face as a man, makes your penis grow when you're a little kid, makes your hair uh your jaw square off on your face, makes your voice deep, okay? It makes your hair fall out on your head when you get older. Okay? that that androgenic component is reduced in in in these steroids and it has a much higher anabolic or muscle building component. So you get less side effects when you take these drugs. Okay. If you take a drug like testosterone or anadrol or dianabol these drugs convert directly to DHT dihydrotestosterone which is the most severe on the hairline and that's why they cause the most hair loss. That's just simple science. There's no debate there uh about that. Okay. So when I say that Oh, so does this mean that primabolan and winrol don't cross hair loss? Um let me let me interject real quick. Uh we made a video 55minute video about debunking the anabolic to androgenic rating, right? I mean the androgenicity of course we expect um you know viralizing side effects. Primabol and Winstrol do that very severely in women uh just like Master did. That's why it was discontinued as a breast cancer medication. That's why we use um you know other medications like tmoxifen. I mean there's even a boatload of clinical trials with tmoxifen and flu flu oxyrone halotestin in combination because it's a testosterone derivative not a dihed testosterone derivative or a modified version of DHT however you want to spin it. um the anabolic to androgenic ratings um are not in the presence of exogenous testosterone or estradiol when compared to the reference standards being usually testosterone or methyl testosterone and I mean it's all over the place so you can't really go by these anabolic to androgenic ratings because sometimes methyl testosterone is used which produces methyl estradile which has probably a different effect on the prostate and the seminal vesicles and the bulbo carnose and the other five organs that the anabolic to enerogenic rating is determined on. So that means the reference standard it's not just testosterone it's testosterone plus estradile plus dihydrotestosterone having an effect on the reproductive track and you can't really deduce the anabolic to androgenic rating from that if that's lower because if you replace the testosterone with primobolan or replace the testosterone with windstrol then obviously uh bio identical DHT and bioidentical estrogen is no longer present so there's a bit of a discrep Y there regarding the anabolic to andogenic rating. So if the anabolic to androgenic ratings are lower than testosterone doesn't mean they have less of an anabolic potential or they have less of an androgenic potential which we shouldn't really extrapolate the hair loss or acne or or other verilizing side effects because again it's been determined on the you know the the levator any muscle in the prostate. So I of course I mean [\h__\h] of course you can use these semantics to really go into it. Um but I I think people would want to know more about these compounds, right? That's why I do all of the research. That's why I let go of coaching so I could do more research and bring this information. I mean dude, we we've been in bodybuilding for such a long time, right? And why am I the only guy that reviews all of the literature of one compound and produces a comprehensive video on what the safest and effective dose is? Why am I the first guy who does that? I mean, everybody has access to the same [\h__\h] literature, uh, including Dave Volumbo. Why am I the first, right? I I I mean, William Levelin went through all of the anabolics and and some of that information in in William Levelin's Anabolics 11th edition is already outdated, right? And some of it might even be speculation. Some some of these anabolics andogenic ratings might be fictitious because I when you follow the references, I can't even find them. That's why I cite all my videos. Anyway, let's continue. Let's continue. I took Prima and Winshell for my very first cycle. I was 24 years old or 23 years old, whatever I was at the time. I got no side effects and I got no shutdown. I did eight 10 weeks of that. I went off of it. I I my testosterone turned itself back on no problem. I don't even know if it was even turned off from that. Those drugs, they're not very suppressive because they don't convert to estrogen. And estrogen is what shuts down the pituitary. True. We know that because when estrogen binds to the receptors in the hypothalamus of the brain, the hypothalamus stops producing gonadotropic releasing hormone which then cannot stimulate the pituitary to release LH and FSH which then can't stimulate the testicles to produce testosterone. It's all estrogen related. Estrogen shuts down pituitary and hypothalamic function which ultimately shuts down testicular function. That's a certainty. You want to come on here and debate me about that? Let's debate. Okay. DHT we know. I think we can all agree that there's no debate there because I agree with that. uh but you would still see shutdown because with that much primo and that much windstrol and you see it on serum only cycles who don't convert into estradile and make you testosterone deficient and estrogen deficient that lutinizing hormone follicle stimulating hormone and overall pituitary function and particular function is completely shut down. So um you know if you if he did a cycle like that 200 primo and 400 winstrol injectable and he had a good outcome good on him but of course then it's also our responsibility to say that that's not a good idea because of xy re uh z reason right I mean total cholesterol levels will change you don't have sufficient estradile levels for neurop protection or cardiac protection or potentially kidney protection as we can see in some of the bald on studies, right? I mean, it's important to understand that if you make a mistake that you also tell people that there's a better way. Now, I'm not entirely sure if he made videos about, you know, I did this cycle and it was [\h__\h] and there's a better way, right? I'm not entirely sure because I don't follow Dave Palumbo. I was presented with this cycle and I explained to you the reasons why I think it's not a good idea. Don't can cause hair loss. That's why taking finasteride or dutasteride really helps the hairline for a lot of people especially people who are high DHT converters. That's for certain. Does primabone bind to DHT receptors and menstrual? No, it doesn't because it's not a DHT compound. It is there a DHT receptor? I know there's an androgen receptor. that testosterone diotestosterone um and all the other anabolic anogenics there to bind to and selective and receptor modulator but I'm not aware of a a DHT receptor and yes primabol and wind straw will cause hair loss that's why we have andone only cycles which are crazy um but they are known to work right from experience it's just a five alpha reduced compound chemically speaking had it caused some hair loss I'm sure in people who are super super sensitive to hair loss genetically. Of course, anything, you know, anything that was anything can cause hair loss in people. You know, looking at a at a bottle of DHT can cause hair loss for some guys. I know. I never lost the hair on my head till I was 30. I was taking anabolics, all kinds. And then one day, all of a sudden, I started thinning. That's just the way that's called genetics. And that's why there's bodybuilders out there that have no hair loss. And they take everything under the sink. They're just not sensitive to DHT. That's their genetic gift. I guess it's a gift if you like hair. I guess I would consider it a gift. I wish I had some of the heads of hairs out there on bodybuilders that haven't lost it. But having said that, you know, let's take my another thing Vigorous Steve said about me is, "Oh, his PCT and fertility protocol is bullshit." That that PCT protocol and that fertility protocol of his. That's [\h__\h] horshit. [\h__\h] horseshit. Oh, really, Steve? Guess what? You want me to give you the thousands of people that have gotten their wives pregnant using that protocol? People come up to me at shows and show me their children that they had when they couldn't get pregnant going to a fertility clinic. But Dave's protocol worked. Why? Because there's science behind it. You want to come on the show and debate me? Let's go. Let's go. Let's debate the science here. You tell me why it doesn't work, and I'll tell you why it does, and I'll show you the people that it worked for. I love the debate. You guys want to challenge me? Come on. Let's go. Let's debate. Let's debate science. See what your internet education does for you. When you come on the show and you debate me on the science of what we're talking about, I have no problem. We could talk it. We could talk nutrition. We could talk supplements. We could talk drugs. You pick the topics. Come on the show anytime, any place. You know what these internet guys, you know what they are? They're bullies. They're internet bullies who try to make a reputation for themselves. They try to sound cool. Hey, I'm the toughest. I'm the new guy on the block here. You know what? If you're going to throw [\h__\h] around like that, you do that in the street, you better be able to put your hands up and and and and you know, throw some hands. When you do that on the internet, you better come on and be be able to debate that [\h__\h] Let's hear what you got to say. You're so smart. I'm so irrelevant. Come on, let's go. It'll be fun. I promise you. A Palumbo issuing a challenge, right? All right, so that's it, guys. Um, so he took a a what, a 90-second clip and spinned it into a 30 minute video. That's pretty long. Uh, let me let me sleep on it. Let's see. Uh the reason why I don't like Dave's PCT protocol and the fertility protocol is because uh the PCT protocol from what I remember is uh too short, right? I mean it takes a while for steroids to decline. It might take weeks to months. So why would you start HCG and then uh you know Novidex and Clomid when you know particular steroids are still in your system far longer than the end of your post cycle therapy. And regarding the fertility protocol, I mean 2,000 IUS of ATCG every other day, HMG three times per week and Clomid 50 milligrams per day I think until your wife is pregnant. I mean I think the HCG dose is too high. I think HMG is irrelevant because we have recominant follicle stimulating hormone now which is more cost effective and 50 milligrams of Clommet again with all the clotting risk that is associated with it and I can pull studies out of PubMed to show it. Um, there's plenty. Uh, I think it's just a risk. So, why would you run that much Clomid when you're already on HCG, which suppresses luteinizing hormone production, especially at 20,000 IUs. Um, HMG contains FSH, albeit urine purified, right? So, it might contain trace amounts of HCG and LH as well. And if you're suppressing LH and FSH from exogenous administrations, then why would you take Clomid in an attempt to marginally increase your luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone production instead of just doing a full PCT, right? If you want to start HCG monotherapy for 6 to 8 weeks or maybe a couple months after the exogenous steroids decline to sustain testicular function or restore it, I'm all for it. If you want to use recominant FSH during this time to have somewhat of sortly cell activation, I'm all for it. If you want to do a postcycle therapy afterwards with Clomid and Novidex for four weeks, I'm all for it. But if you're 40 years old and it might take you two [\h__\h] years to get your wife pregnant, unless you use uh intrauterine insemination or um you know ATCG stimulation or climate stimulation or uh let stimulation for um you know releasing the the eggs. It it might be a very long time and in the longer you stay in Clomid the more you risk getting a blood clot especially in these days when blood clots are almost free right some people were forced to do stuff against their wills which increases clotting risk so this is why I'm against the protocol like that you know and Dave I'm sorry if I offended you with the words I chose uh maybe I was not in the right state of mind um I'm not entirely sure why you want to debate me uh but probably it's because I have 110,000 subscribers. I'm sure if I had 5,000 subscribers, you wouldn't give a [\h__\h] I mean, I get videos like this and I never give a [\h__\h] But let's see. Let's see. Let me sleep on it. I I you'll you'll probably see that we'll agree on a lot of things, but also not agree on a lot of things. Now, the question is where do we debate? Do we do it on my channel or your channel or on a moderator's channel? Right? we should do it on the moderator's channel. So there's no alternative motive for subscriber interaction, right? Or is is is the root idea to exchange subscribers, right? Uh anyway, I wish all the best, Dave. Good luck. And uh let's see. Let's see. Okay, guys. Um let's Oh, stop sharing. Let's move on in case. Oh man, it's already 3:00. Couple more super chats. I don't want to leave you guys hanging. Oh, a lot. Oh god. All right, guys. No more super chats. It's late. Was Dave almost salivating when he asked me to debate him or was that me? But I don't think that Dave watches my channel. So, if he wants to call me a Tik Tok guru. All right, fair enough. Fair enough. Uh, man, where were the super chats? But don't don't post anymore. Okay. Uh, Matthew Greg, let me remove this. I don't need this [\h__\h] Uh, have you ever heard of injectable quarantine causing irritability, fatigue, and increased? Uh, no. I have not. I have not. I'm not not sure if that's a uh side effect. All right, Mr. Take the shot. Uh, no questions there. Thanks for your super sticker. Uh, oh, here it is. What supplements, peptides, or ancillaries like Seialis can be deployed for better nutrition partitioning? Well, Seialis, I mean, it increases blood flow, but does it improve nutrient partitioning? Could you make a longer video on this? I I think thyroid medication help with this and steroids help with nutrient partitioning. Trimlone increases IGF-1 sensitivity. It might even raise IGF-1 levels, but some steroids do that also. Um, but no, Seialis does that. Doesn't do that. And peptides, I mean, you could you could say that growth hormone secrets or insulin or IGF-1 improve nutrient partitioning. So maybe look into those. Can you mix peptide CJC upper and GSK copper together in the same needle? Um, I wouldn't do it because you know they all might have their specific binders or preservatives in the life puck and they might interact with each other and denatures others each other's peptide. So, um, I would just inject it separately. I I remember um drawing a growth hormone into an pre-loaded insulin syringe and then I literally saw it turn cloudy in front of my eyes. So that was two I use growth hormone or insulin uh wasted. Yeah. Shame. All right. Is that it? All right. Leon, last one. My carpal tunneler was resolved with a Romson. Thanks from the Netherlands. Okay. Um, I guess I saved another soul. Uh, all right. All right, guys. Let's leave it here. It's 3:00. We're going on for 3 hours. Uh, I hope it was fun. I hope it wasn't too much drama. I guess I went too hard on Dave for the point he felt like defending himself, which he did. Um, yeah. Let's see. Let's see. Uh, guys, I'll see you tomorrow or next week. Joff, what is going on? Uh, Steve, keeping you keep saying just as blunty as the questions call for. Yeah, sometimes you just got to be a little bit blunt, you know? I mean, I get blunt comments all the time. I just don't respond to it because it's kind of, you know, beneath me. But it's Dave. And I did go after him pretty hard, right, when I said uh when they when they asked me that first cycle. So, I I get it. I get it. My I'm I'm sorry, Dave, for going after you that hard. Yeah, I still saw some mistakes in your protocols though, but that's okay. All right, people can follow you. People can follow me, and they can follow both. It's all good. All right, guys. Uh, peace out. Enjoy your evening. Enjoy your weekend. Um, fingers crossed that the Arnold Classic is going to be a lot of fun. And, uh, I will be watching Dune part two tomorrow and I'm really looking forward to it. See you guys next weekend. Peace out.