 I think if you take that around the workout, it could be eight here, because you will really prevent your blood pressure from reaching alarmingly high amounts to the point you get a tomato face, or nosebleed, or hemorrhoids. Hey, it's not talked about, but after years of consultation, Steve, why every time I do a leg press, I get my a**hole explodes. It's not talked about, but it happens, man. It happens, especially during prep, where all these guys eating chicken, brown rice, and broccoli, there's no stool lubrication, and then of course it pops when they go crazy doing heavy stuff. It's not good for you just to eat chicken or rice every meal? It's better than eating McDonald's. Welcome to the Unabodded Ground Table, episode 14 with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Mart. It's been five weeks, six weeks since we sat here. I had a birth to take care of, but I was able to cut the cord. It was a lot of fun. So my daughter was born, and I got to squeeze her into existence after all the crying stopped and she was properly wiped. Interesting experience. Now, I'm a dad myself, so I joined you guys in the sun, basically, of being anabolic daddies. So now we should call it the Anabolic Daddy Podcast, or the Anabolic Daddy Round Table. So yeah, it's pretty cool. I've been doing a lot of daddy stuff, diaper changes, and bottle feeding, and nothing much else. Finally getting back into the gym, so that's good. But yeah, four weeks. It's a total life overhaul. Very interesting. Yeah, very interesting. So any tips? Even though we already talked for 20 minutes off air? It gets easier. It gets easier. And just cherish it because it goes away as well. My kids are pretty grown at this point. So one time I picked my daughter up from the crib, from like overnight. So I put her in the crib, go to bed, sleep eight hours. I picked her up the next day and like, did you just grow up like noticeably? Facial features changes bigger, heavier, I'm like, what the hell? It goes really fast. And when I compared, so I was there in the area where you can kind of observe the baby right after they're born, super small, tiny, moving around a little bit. And I have videos of that. And then I compare to now, four weeks later, and just like twice the size. Yeah. And if you do trenbolone 200 milligrams of acetate in the ear with the pellets, she'll go like 157% faster. No, it's the castrator for no, it's even go on the same amount of food. There's pellets that specifically say heifer on them. Just use the heifer ones. Don't use this. Yeah. I don't need the castrator for no, but it has to be in the ear though. It's only FD approved. It's in the ear. Yeah. She didn't get my ears though. So it's going to be different. I don't know if they would hold the pellets. Yeah. My ears would. She got my wife's ears luckily. She'll throw in the bottle across the room at you. Oh, yeah, yeah, dude. She'll be talking about Mastro non-stop. Off to a great start. Oh man. No, actually, she was conceived on just fertility medications. Unlike Dean, right? One of your sons was produced on the most aerotike. Yeah. Well, the end of one and then your room was off. So you can do boats. This is why I often bring up, well, you have to make a decision on what's most available to you, but most guys will choose to come off and stay off, but that has its own problems. Yeah. Staying on and then having the cost burden of fertility medication for months and months, because I guess the downfall of that strategy is you have to keep taking the stimulus like the FSH and whatever else to keep things elevated until you conceive. And it takes 12 to 16 weeks for sperm to fully mature. So you're sort of locked into a 12 to 16 week plan either way. If it's not longer, like it took me one year of trying and my fertility, dude, if you watch my fertility video, I had like 500 million sperm pre-jaculate. It was insane with the highest morphology and the highest motility, but it doesn't really go far when you're 40 years old and, you know, and the partner still has to be receptive of that. So after one year of natural trying, either should have done it when we were 25 or just did like whatever sperm I produced. And then I do IVF like nine months earlier. So I didn't have to undergo that, but you never know. Like I figured, you know, a ditch much semen, I could get the job done naturally. And we'll have a lot of fun, you know, inter-coursing around ovulation. After one year, you're like, fuck man, it's turning into a job. Yeah. I don't think a lot of younger guys take that into account before they start a cycle, that they might want to have kids someday. But it's weird. The younger guys, when they're like 22, 25 years old and their partners the same age, you can get up your partner pregnant like that. Just look at her. You know, because they're so fertile, younger women, but it gets into a problem when you're over 35, 40 years old. And honestly, looking back now, I'm so happy that we waited and that we did IVF because I was able to do the DNA testing. I was able to choose if you wanted to implant a boy or a girl. And even though I want a son really bad, we only had one son embryo and two girl embryos. So you have a spare in case it doesn't implant. And the implantation rate goes up, right? When you're with consecutive implantations. So the first time is like 74% and 78% and an 82% and an 86% for a live birth. So I figured, well, if the first one doesn't implant, then we always have one boy, one girl's pair. But first one stuck, because we're the best fertility specialist here in Thailand. So he threw the kitchen sink of his knowledge at it, hepper in and all that stuff and all little little vectors. So it's a lot of fun discussing the protocol with him because I do like polypharmacy. And then the first one stuck. And then right at the Mr. Olympia, I heard that my wife was pregnant. So now we're nine months later in four weeks. And it finally happened. So that means no, nothing else besides podcast stuff I've been doing. I did start a cycle again, though, I was on TRT and man, I was miserable. I was on 200 tests and fuck, this is not enough to function. You know, it's weird, like the older I get, the more I feel I need to run just to stay functional, which is so weird. I was on 200 tests, like 100 propranage Monday and Friday. And I was like, man, this is not cutting it, dude. Maybe that's, you know, the postpartum depression. You weren't getting dipped there? No, not really. No, I mean, the fluctuations, yet are noticeable. Okay, Thursday, you're like a little bit like, eh, fucking nothing crazy. But on Wednesday or Saturday, right after my shots, like propane, I peeked pretty fast. I was also not feeling it. I was like, I don't want to go to the gym. Why, why propane? That's what I had. Okay. So I vouched myself this year not to buy any gear. So if somebody wants to give me gear, sure. So I have all cabinets full with stuff that's like leftover. Because when Aaron left the United States, obviously couldn't bring his gear. So he gave me whatever he had. And it was all pre-contest stuff. So I ran first through my own gear and now I'm running through Aaron's gear. And then once that runs out, then I'll, I'll ask one of the affiliates to send me some gear again. But this, there's just so much there. Don't police, please don't come to my house. I'm not trying to incriminate myself. I'm trying to dispose of it as humane as possible. So the propane is finished and now I'm on a 300 tests, 300 deca and 150 mint. And then I might continue to mint. So I'm doing them together. Yeah, but I had gyno surgery. No, but how do you feel? I feel great. Okay. Yeah. That's why that's why I went on the stack because I did it last year for an offseason where I got too chunky and I'm still dealing with that. Still dealing with the chunk now to grow the gyno and get the most obese looking in gynecomastia tissue, which was fully removed and now looks beautiful. But I felt really good on that cycle. So I was like, you know what, I'm going to do it again, make myself look extra watery and then start cutting. So more motivated. Because now I look like a bag of smashed ash holes. With this much deca. This much mint and I'm controlling my estradiol, obviously, but still it's like too, too progestogenic, 19 North to make you look pretty watery. So my lower back is literally like, I don't know, it looks like a camel, two camels, both sides. I'm like, fuck this. Like my lats, it attaches to my lower glutes. Basically it's at one, one, one pillar. It's not nice. So, but at least I'm more motivated to get in shape now. And I noticed the last time I was doing this follow start and experiment and YK-11, everything started getting a little bit dry and squeaky. So I just want to not worry about my joints and connective tissue for a while while I try to get lean and then fingers crossed, I can get lean and then I'll pull the deck and the mint, replace that for Primo and a little bit of Mastron. And then, you know, the magic will happen, fingers crossed. So yeah, I'm just trying to torture myself right now. But I feel very energetic and very good and I'm strong as shit already. So yeah, that's what I'm on the off-screen. What do you weigh now? 107, 108. Okay. Yeah, no G, no GH. I don't want to be a little targic. That's stable too? That should go away. Yeah, it goes away, of course. But if I add the GH back in now, it'll be, yeah, it'll come back. It's going to be a violent time, right? Again, I have like five kids laying around of generics. So it's not going to finish itself. And that would be with us that the hormone replacement therapy does for parents. Four I use. Four. Four is what we set them. Times four in your case. So yeah, so if I do four, the GH will last until like the end of next year. So I could do like 10, I use generics. Generics, you just use a violent time. But then I'm really sleepy. And I was really lethargic after the full stathin experiment. And then the enginli creeped up to me and I was running some chagrinotide that made me very sleepy. So I'm like, you know, get me on the Dr. Dean stack and some offseason drugs and then I can function. So now I'm kicking ass and chewing bubble gum again, but I had like a four week dip of like, I don't know what to do. I don't feel like a body butter and I look like a fucking dad bot. But it's picking back up again. Yeah, it's pretty bad, man. We stayed in the hospital for like four days or something after my wife's birth. Yeah, because she had to cesarean. Yeah, she's there for, you know, she had to stay for observation. And here they're really, like my sister gave birth two weeks before I did, and they checked the babies in their home, you know, that's healthcare in the Europe. And here they're really, well, that's why we went to the private hospital here. They're really attentive. So they really took care, good care of us. But then you're staying in the hospital room for four days straight watching TV. When you're paying for it, that's why they'll keep you there. The insurance is there for it. They're not going to keep you there. Well, we had insurance. Oh, I'm just saying in the US. Yeah. So but the insurance, I think the entire hospital bill was $15,000 for cesarean and aftercare and private room. That was after insurance or before insurance? The insurance paid for the whole thing. Oh, good. Okay. Yeah. But we got insurance right before the implantation. So we need hospital insurance. Okay, we got the hospital insurance and now we can start implanting the embryos. We had that grace period, they have to wait. Yeah. So that on the one well, but we're here to talk about drugs, not about parenthood. I wanted to start a tear list again, but for ancillaries where we can talk about blood pressure management, tear list, kidney health management, tear list, lipid management, tear list, liver health management, tear list. And I'm sure we can come up with a lot of other tear lists. And I'm sure you guys will let us know in the comment section, do a XYZ management, tear list and acne management, tear list or a hair loss management, tear list, organic and master management, tear list, right? So we can keep going until the sun turns off a couple billion years from now. But I think for this podcast, since we always ramble and go scientific, let's try to do the blood pressure management and kidney health management, tear list, because that's kind of related. And kidney health blood pressure kind of goes hand in hand and then lipids and liver kind of go hand in hand. And then the acne and the hair loss. So that's probably estrogen related. So that kind of goes hand in hand. And then we'll figure out from what the audience wants. So regarding blood pressure management, let's just start with electrolytes, the overlooked method to control your blood pressure. And I know a dean is really on the edge of his seat to talk about magnesium. I think we're going to be shifting focus with blood pressure to potassium, me and Kurt have covered this. True. Yeah. Nearly two years ago, it was surrounding the importance of potassium and blood pressure regulation. So I guess what you've touched on electrolytes is hydration. And when we say the word hydration, people are like, yeah, but I drink three to four liters of fluid per day, or I drink two gallons of water per day, I'm hydrated. You're probably pissing out all your electrolytes with that much fluid if you're not taking the electrolytes with the water. So the water, water is neutrally charged. So it needs an electrical charge to be pushed in and out of cells. And that's where the ions, sodium, potassium, calcium, chloride, even to an extent, phosphate, they all help with pushing fluid in and out of certain cells or different transporters. And when we look at what regulates our blood volume, as in the volume of fluid in our blood, that's where sodium becomes important. So sodium will retain volume of fluid in your blood, which is where blood pressure will increase because you've increased the volume of your blood with more water or more pressure required to push that around. And potassium works in the opposite fashion that potassium pushes fluid into your cells through the potassium pump. So when we're looking at someone who is like pre-contest, getting ready to get on stage and all of a sudden, their flat, their muscles appear flat, they're not able to get a pump. They've done two things there. They've both gotten rid of sodium out of their bloodstream. So now their blood volume has dropped, which then in a certain instance, we'll put the breaks on diuresis where you actually start to retain fluid or you look much softer. And you'll have also lost some extent of potassium inside your cells, which deflates the appearance of the muscle. So if we're looking at managing blood pressure, the simplest task that we should be aiming for is a two to one ratio to start between sodium and potassium intake. The sort of golden numbers I often suggest is 4,700 milligrams of potassium, which is the RDA for potassium. And then somewhere around 2000 milligrams of sodium. In most contest, bodybuilders, it's actually way more sodium. They're salting every meal. They think like salt is key for a pump, which is true. But I think you almost understand the pump. So the pump is outside of the muscle cell, right? The sodium biosmosis pulls the fluid out and it's around the cell. But where does where does muscle protein synthesis occur in the cell? So the pump doesn't contribute to growth because it's not occurring in the muscle cell. You're just getting a visual look from it, right? And sodium in serum is very tightly controlled in the human body. It doesn't matter if you take in 1000 milligrams or 10,000 milligrams. Within a day, it regulates and then it's the same. So when these guys take this huge excess amount, they're not necessarily achieving anything. All they're doing is causing more excretion. So the body will balance. Right? You see the same level on blood all the time. Although as you'd be dead. Yeah. And it's not like you're just excreting sodium. No, you're then excreting everything, but you're excreting the rest also because it's not a salt just make any sense. No, like Dean said, 2000 milligrams is plenty. I think it does make a little bit of sense to increase your sodium intake if you train in the gym without air conditioning. So me, for example, I sweat buckets. So I drink about three liters of fluid during the session. I just cold water because I need to cool my core temperature down. I sweat profusely this entire session. When your carbohydrates lower too, you're going to excrete more. Yeah, exactly. Your diet takes that versus someone on a high carb diet doesn't need as much sodium. So that's true. I probably excrete more sodium also through urine because I have a carbohydrate deficient diet, basically. And then the sweating really depletes my electrolyte level. So my sodium intake is a little bit on the high side. But I wouldn't recommend people to do that in a country where they don't sweat profusely. And Dean, correct me if I'm wrong, even in athletes though that are used to training in that environment, though the kidneys get very used to still maintaining it. So your sodium loss is probably not as great as it was initially. So when you first went to Thailand and trained in that environment, you were losing a lot of sodium. And then after a period of time, relatively quickly, your body got used to that. So it's going to retain just to keep the balance again because it's all about keeping that balance in the serum in a constant range all the time. And then that being said, still my potassium to sodium intake is to the one like Dean said. So if I have five grams of sodium, that's 10,000 milligrams of potassium per day. And it's fairly easy to maintain that ratio with salt substitutes. Like guys often ask, how do you do that? Well, you find a potassium iodide or potassium chloride based salt. And normally these are in a two is to one ratio. So you have like 450 milligrams of potassium and like 200 milligrams of sodium. And so as you increase your salt intake from that sort of perspective, you maintain that ratio. So if you weren't even to account for any of the salt, sodium, potassium, and foods, we have a product in the UK called low salt orders disorder different brands of it. 11 grams of that works out pretty much to 4500 or 4600 milligrams potassium, roughly 2000 to 200 milligrams sodium. So even if you were in a contest prep diet, or even in general, and you're worried about maintaining this balance just weigh out 11 grams of low salt and distribute it across all your meals. But like that, like what you're covering about training, then you have to think about what you're losing with sweat. You have to think about rate of replenishment as well. So if you've lost a large chunk, like Kurt said, you've got homeostatic balance with aldosterone and anti diuretic hormone to try and retain sodium in your body. And obviously, we've done the pre contest talk before. This is like the basics behind sodium loading that used to be done years ago, you just ramp sodium higher and higher and higher. And then one day out from the show, you literally don't know sodium in hopes of you've pushed your aldosterone balance so far that anti diuretic hormone kicks in and you just flush all that subcellular fluid or subcutaneous fluid out of the body to have a dryer appearance, which you know, doesn't really work in practice. No, I just have guys measure, you know, starting in eight weeks out, just tell me how much sodium they consume in a day and how much potassium they consume a day and how much water. And I just try to keep it constant, right? Because it's the variations that screw up the look, right? Because then I can also add a little more, take a little more away if I need to change it. But if you don't know, a guy goes, he's in peak week and he has no idea how much sodium he's consuming or potassium. It's really difficult to, right? You can kind of guess by the look and what they feel, but it's, that's a really tough game to play. Yeah. And it's hard when they start switching their meal plans around. You have a couple days of depletion and then a couple days of loading. So there's a caloric difference there. And then you go from, let's say, six meals to 10 smaller meals. So how are you going to solve that? That's why I always put the electrolyte balance in my diet sheets. So it's easy to keep track of the removed, the column for vitamin C and vitamin D. That's kind of irrelevant in the peak week. But I feel it's very important because like vegetables and stuff and the most animal protein has a good amount of potassium in it and not so much sodium. And then depending on which vegetables or condiments you use, like if you add a pickle to each meal, you're going to increase your sodium intake. If you add soy sauce to each meal, you're going to increase your sodium intake. And these simple little things, it's just very hard to keep track of if you don't put that in a diet sheet with the electrolytes listed or at least measure everything consistently. You know, where you use like a cocaine scooper to measure or something. So very few guys measure accurately, right? And I found that. So outside of a handful of guys that are really accurate with what they do, at the end, I give guys exactly what I want them doing every day specifically because people assume, like even with macros, they're just off. Right? And it doesn't even line up at all. I often laugh at when it's like measured in grinds. I don'T4 or six grinds of salt on my meals. And I'm probably going to trigger a lot of people in the comments both your measuring your salt intake through grinds of salt. Have you actually ever weighed out what six grinds of salt is one, two, three, four? It's like not even half a gram of salt. So. Right. And it's the same with sprinkling and counting the seconds. I did two seconds of sprinkles. Well, with the sugar, the British sugar thing where you go one. And as sugar comes down, it's less. So you start pouring more. And that old school crystal sugar measuring device, that's my mom to do that once time. So how many times do you do that in your cup of coffee per day? So she started doing that. And she's eating like 100 grams of sugar over the day. So now you know where you're not in shape. So I guess with blood pressure, the very first thing is electrolyte balance. That's the easiest and simplest thing to start with is your electrolyte. Forget about angiotensin. Forget about ARBs or just angioterin. Get your hydration proper. And then from there, the second ancillary if you want to tear it is cardio. Just cardio volunteer. You don't just take a bunch of drugs instead of watching while you're eating and exercising? Or not going to sit in the sauna to bring the sodium down and then do the ice bath for the adrenaline dump so you don't get the vasodistric constriction? Cardio? Really? Haven't been saying this for the last 14 episodes. It was at one point called fitness. I don't know where that went. Okay. So simple tips aside, I guess, electrolytes, cardio. And then the other one, before even going near drugs, that would improve vasodilation and improve nitric oxide content of your blood is nasal breathing. So pay attention to how you're breathing because your biggest reservoir of endothelial nitric oxide synthase, enos, is in your nose. Oh, good. I thought it's your mouth. No, if you breathe through your mouth, you're actually limiting your enos. So that's where breathing through your nose, everywhere in nose strips and everything. As you breathe into your nose, the warm air that's coming into your nose activates the enos enzyme or so they believe. And so then that leads to higher levels of nitric oxide being produced in your bloodstream. So nasal breathing, if you're doing cardio, nasal breathing up to a point where then you're at an exertion level that you have to mouth breathe. But nasal breathing, combined with cardio is a surefire way to lower blood pressure from nitric oxide production. So those simple things, I guess, then you get into more fancy the ancillaries, where we start taking. We got to tear them first. So we got cardio. Don't skip ahead too much. We're doing S to F. So I think we can all agree that electrolyte management, including magnesium intake and calcium rich foods and stuff, and cardio, that's just certified S tier. You just no excuses. Off-season cruising, blasting your socks off, just watching this podcast and not really following bodybuilding. Yeah, you'll be surprised. I watched this podcast. I love the anabolic ground table and there's no anabolism in sight. So even those guys that are just here for research purposes, cardio and electrolyte intake stable, please, please, please, please, please, please, because I can't go through all these emails. You know, I started my anodual cycle and my blood pressure is through the roof and I ask, what's the diet and the cardio look like? Diet? I want to get big. All right. The basics. Yeah, start the basics. So S tier for both. I want to briefly discuss magnesium and calcium intake since it's part of the full Monty of electrolytes. So I supplement with about 200 milligrams magnesium bisclosinate with every meal five times per day. So that's a thousand. And then based on my dietary magnesium intake, it's also about a thousand from the animal meat sources and the nuts and seeds and, you know, the vegetables that I get, how, how bioavailable is all of that. You don't really know, but it's about a thousand milligrams magnesium. And then I get about 1500 milligrams calcium just from food. There is some calcium in the supplements that I take, like vitamin C, ester C. It's a little bit more highly bioavailable vitamin C formula with bio flavonoids and some calcium bound in there. And then apple cider vinegar has a lot of vitamin C in them all the multivitamin and some vitamin C. I take all of those with meals because they don't want that calcium to dump into my bloodstream potentially, you know, sticking plaque and stuff. Don't worry. I take my vitamin D and vitamin K and all that stuff. So it goes into bones. But I noticed that if I have a very stable intake of all of these electrolytes supplement with low magnesium, again, the sodium potassium that's mostly for flavor, right? And keeping everything stable that my blood pressure is solid up until I start pushing into the gram ranges. Yeah. And then when I go over a gram of steroids, I do need a little bit of blood pressure management, but that's mostly because my blood pressure shoots up during the workout. Not when I wake up. When I wake up, I'm 165 over 125, you know, regardless of how much shit I run. It just mostly to protect my kidneys during the workout because a lot of violence occurs when you're over a gram. Start up pretty sad. You go to the gym, you're over a gram of steroids, then a lot of heavy weight and a lot of grunting and a lot of pushing to failure and beyond. And that just increases your blood pressure. There's studies that show that where they put like one of those measurements into what is it? One of the arteries here and then mentioned the intra-vienus blood pressure during strain U.S. satin. It's just undetectably high. It's like 240. It's insane. So, and that's where you have like, you know, temporary pressure in your kidneys, which we're trying to avoid. So that's really the only reason why I'd run blood pressure medications. But with cardio and electrolytes and, you know, stable hydration, I can manage my blood pressure at rest just fine. So, STR for those two. What's, oh yeah, you said the intranasal breathing. That's, it's new to me, but I'm not a mouth breather. So I guess my E-nose production is pretty okay. Where would you rank that compared to cardio and electrolyte hydration? Nose breathing. I probably put it A, because you should be nose breathing in your sleep. So if you are waking up with a big dry mouth and you're snoring, nasal breathing is very important during sleep for reducing your blood pressure in your sleep. Would you say then on that topic, if there's several masks, right, for CPAP machines? I mean, I think 50% of our audience has a CPAP or needs a CPAP. I'm assuming 50% of you guys are biggest fuck. So you have the full face mask and the nasal pillows, it's like this. And then the little...  naysal, nasal mask, so that's the one I use. So based on that, I would say that the nasal mask is superior over the full-face mask because it allows you to nose-breathe in nothing else. Until you open your mouth. So normally if you do use a nasal pillow for a CPAP, you're probably better off doing the micro-pore mouth taping so you're actually closing the system because what will happen is when you snore, when you release tension on your jaw and you open your mouth, the CPAP pressure is designed to force your mouth closed again. One side that can be detected as an apnea on your CPAP, but the other thing is if you're sleeping beside your partner and you open your mouth and Ollie hears, the air is escaping out of your mouth, you're going to get a slap. To keep the system closed, that's why you don't hear these sort of hisses with full-face mask because the pressure is basically if you open your mouth, your mouth is closed straight away from the full-face mask. Right, so in both cases, it's probably best to take your mouth closed anyway. Just the way when you see crazy people, you all these sort of things with micro-pore tape and all you need is like a small little square strip, put it between your two lips and that's enough. What you're trying to do is psychologically train your mouth position to keep your mouth closed and keep your tongue against the roof of your mouth. That can have absolute wonders to your blood pressure like snoring, hidden hypoxia. It can ruin your blood pressure. When we think about it, when we're at sleep or the early parts of the night, the process is called dipping. Your blood pressure should be its absolute lowest during the night because your cortisol level is extremely low. It's wide and when you do your blood pressure in the morning time upon wake, your blood pressure is supposed to be its highest value upon wake. What we can sort of determine from this is who is at risk of cardiovascular disease through a process called reverse dipping. If your blood pressure in the morning says like perfect 120 over 80 and then your evening time blood pressure is 135 over 90, you've got this reverse dipping happening. It's signaling that something's not right in terms of the body's ability to manage blood pressure. It could be that you've trained late in the evening time like you've trained close to bed that can be a confounding factor. But normally if you've got two restful periods either when we wake up in the morning time to your blood pressure then, two hours before bed, wind down, blood pressure before sleep, it should actually be lower than the morning reading. Yeah, I think the only time when it can really be higher is post-workout. I've tracked out one of those Hilo bands or what was the name of it? They were called so at key I think was the company's name but they've renamed themselves Hilo which is a wrist strap blood pressure monitor that works off a laser diode. You calibrate it with an arm cuff so it is calibrated correctly with an arm cuff measurement and then it takes your blood pressure pretty much every 10 minutes when you're sitting at rest. You get this huge insight into your blood pressure of how it changes across the 24 hour period. I put it on my story loads of times. I suffer with low blood pressure and that's genetically from my mother. I put it up on my story before my blood pressure can be like 100 over 59 over 60 and guys like how would you get your blood pressure so low? It's like well it's just genetics. The reason why I put that content out is if I was to start drawing an ARB in or whatever else we're going to discuss about here I probably end up hitting the deck with high power tension or I'd faint and smash my head. You have to be very clued into your blood pressure and whether you need to manage it or not. Quite often I actually enjoy it offseason or pre-contest because I actually took my blood pressure from a low position to a relatively normal place where I didn't have the symptoms of heavy body, heavy head, lethargy. Something like that if you're concerned about your blood pressure probably for the big guys that are listening to this I think the cuff only goes up to about 17 and a half inches. I think there is plans for them to bring out an extra large cuff for the calibration. I think they were going to bring out an XL cuff so that they then had to calibrate the data for people to wear the band if they are a big bodybuilder. Unfortunately my arm size is just under 17 and a half so it just outfitted that arm. I can utilise that type of equipment to keep an eye on my blood pressure but this reverse tipping is very important to manage and the electrolytes and everything else we've discussed plays a big role. I guess the next part then is probably dietary supplements. We started with low hanging fruit as opposed to going straight to the pharmaceuticals. Like berberine? Yeah berberine is mostly for lipids and blood glucose management but the funny thing about these aerobatic herbs is they are super studied in India mostly, Indian studies and then there you can fix every ailment and usually those studies are funded by Himalaya or whatever company produces those aerobatic herbs. Carditone though does have some merits. I know Dante Trudeau is always talking about carditone because a lot of guys couldn't get their blood pressure medication so that's the one I kind of want to rank. It's just a herbal formula. So carditone basically actually has an active pharmaceutical ingredient if you want to call it that. Oh really? I guess the segue here is natural herbs still have medications inside them. Yeah, reduced risk for them. You know like when we're looking at herbs they can be just as potent or as dangerous as pharmaceutical medicines. At least with a pharmaceutical medicine you're taking potentially one ingredient and it creates one metabolite as one mechanism of action, one mechanism of excretion or whatever and it's very targeted. When you take herbs the standardization of the herb is important, the active components, the synergistic effect of the herbs also. So we have this synergistic effect where herb A and herb B can complement one another or they can create more dysfunction. So there is this entourage effect. I always forget that word. Entourage and you see this but like cannabis, the entourage effect between isolates and the full spectrum plant. The full spectrum plant has the entourage effect of all the things inside it basically. So if we're looking at carditone the active ingredient in it is called reserpene. It is actually a norepinephrine blocker or norepinephrine receptor blocker. There you go. And how it lowers your blood pressure is by lowering norepinephrine levels within the brain. So now we reduce the stress hormone on the brain which causes vasoconstriction and we have this knock on cascade effect where we reduce blood pressure from an adrenaline perspective. But unless we know that the blood pressure is being driven from a cortisol or an adrenaline conversion perspective it's going to be fairly useless for lowering your blood pressure. Now in saying that most guys have a lot of stored noregenalins so in the scheme of it dopamine converts to adrenaline or epinephrine and epinephrine converts to norepinephrine. Norepinephrine has vasoconstrictive effects. So taking reserpene you're blocking that off the brain so the blood vessels can actually relax again. And you do see anecdotally anywhere from 8 to 12 point reduction in systolic from this cortisol inhibition. So it is a useful strategy but it's very case specific. So if you don't have cortisol issues driving your blood pressure reserpene isn't going to do too much. Doesn't it also raise serum potassium as well? Yeah it is a good amount of potassium, carditone. Which is going to help that as well? Yeah it will. It will. I've never seen that. All I've ever looked at is the active ingredient which is reserpene. It is useful. It's available. Not like anything can't be available but it's available in a legal fashion as a supplement. It's like a try it and see approach. Like if someone has blood pressure of like 145 over 90, given the context of what they're doing maybe if they have a very stressful life or stressful job or anything like that you might lean towards reserpene first. But most people are going to go the other way and block angiotensin first to see what happens and if that doesn't create a drop in blood pressure then you know you're going back to adrenaline being the problem. So normally I would go angiotensin first and then the scheme of it go towards noradrenaline as another way of getting it down if the ARB or the ACE inhibitor didn't work. So case specific if it is a cortisol issue then I would say from a tiered perspective I'd place it quite high as a readily available supplement. But in that case emodein which actually inhibits cortisol production might be a more suitable solution to at least to the point you address the root cause of why your cortisol is chronically elevated. Yeah I guess emodein being a cortisone blocker so you're blocking the conversion of stored cortisol into cortisol that you're then upsetting like Kurt said there's always a dynamic balance between having enough stored cortisol and converting cortisol for like circadian rhythm, daily energy spikes, you know adrenaline output, blood glucose management that you see sometimes anecdotally that emodein just blunt someone's cortisone or cortisol too low and then that of itself has problems over the body. Yeah issues getting out of bed and then they're finding that during the day that their energy is dropping off because they don't have this lift and adrenaline. They're useful like I said this is where it gets interesting that we see these natural things and they do have side effects themselves. So yeah and keep in mind some of the formulas of cortisone also has rovolfina serpentina which contains alpha yohembin also known as the stereoisomer rovolsine which is an alpha blocker and that by itself in low amounts can actually improve blood pressure but in higher amounts. The dean has experience. Yeah. You all did and yo hem by what's that right? Not at full experience. No I could imagine. So that can increase your blood pressure. So with some of these things there also seems to be a dose dependent response. If you have one capsule of cortisone is good, two is better, so I'm going to take four and then you might be wired and cultured and elevate your blood pressure. That's a clear example of like it's like case specific from a mechanism perspective that if one capsule after a week isn't doing anything to your blood pressure it's more than likely not norepinephrine induced. So either continue taking it because you bought it or finish the bottle and don't buy more or figure out what's the next root cause to your blood pressure issue. I've seen at work I've seen guys who you see high like pre stage one hypertension and it's enough to bring them down. So could cartotone then be a good solution for training induced hypertension where you're chronically or you have chronic elevated cortisol levels because you're basically over trained or you have chronically elevated adrenaline levels because you train you know doc rep training or you have to be the logbook and you kind of psych yourself out increasing your blood pressure that way you look at the logbook 12 plates for 12 reps and it's 8am and you work out as a 2 and you already give yourself anxiety and high blood pressure just looking at the logbook. I mean we've all been there it's just for the next six hours like fuck me this is going to suck. So I think in that case cartotone really helps because you kind of do it to yourself and there is training induced hypertension you know from electrolyte depletion and you know this adrenaline that you kind of you know raise by yourself. You can say if it's and if it's a cortisol you could growth hormone will prevent the conversion of cortisol to cortisol as well. That's true that's true so that's where the replacement dose of 4IUs before bed comes into play. So would a replacement dose of 4IUs growth hormone before bed be more suitable? Border attention included we have to keep this one. And there's other benefits for the growth hormone? Yes. Right but I mean when I take a few more prednisone I need to take a much larger dose than some and not on growth hormone because I can't convert it. So if we're going with a tear list then technically we'd have to put growth hormone over cartotone as a blood pressure management method if it has to do with cortisol. If it has to do with cortisol the initial fluid retention is going to flip the opposite way for blood pressure but that should go away. But if your potassium intake is high which ester stuff you should do first, well we're going to put cartotone. It does work I've seen it lower blood pressure but it's not like it's magic it's not F. B or C. Yeah I'd agree with cartotone or B or C. I mean it's very like I said case specific whereas if we took probably the next two dietary supplements to tear it would be hot hornberry which is very rich in arginine which converts to citrulline or beetroot extract. And it also helps with the pumps tremendously. And that is where we see this synergy come from that if we look at some of the studies on hot hornberry by itself and beetroot extract by itself, yeah the lower systolic blood pressure may be by three or four points. We put the two of them together and we take advantage of the improvement in citrulline, citrulline to nitric oxide and then we have a direct source of nitrates from the beetroot itself. We see a reduction in blood pressure anywhere from like six to eight points so and that was like the that was the premise behind the kidney and blood pressure stack that I formulated years ago. Was this entourage effect when you looked at when you combine hot horn, standardized hot horn with standardized beetroot extract you're improving this availability of nitric oxide in the bloods. So if we're looking at like a more global approach again we're coming back to dietary nutrition or still you know someone could incorporate beetroot or beet juice or pomegranate juice. These specific foods that give this benefit and this is where obviously a supplement is supplementing this food into your nutrition. Can I add another one to the list that's not on there? Yeah. So I've already studied, flaxseed oil has a pretty profound effect on that as well and I on a side note that's why people need to be careful when they use the word seed oil right and they group them as this bad thing because seed oil is not actually a group of anything. I never thought about that. The vague term right so there are seed oils that are clearly not good for you and there's a lot of flaxseed oil. Those are people that are not puppets for the carnivore. They got Paul Solodino's hand in their ass. Yeah and so the two of the fats right two of the fats in flaxseed oil are the only two essential fatty acids that are needed in the human diet right that are then converted to EPA right. We just consider fish oil to be an essential fatty acid but technically we produce it right. We just don't produce enough of it so we take fish oil as well. But flaxseed oil is something I've used since the 90s and it's partially why my blood pressure is always low like Deans and it's partially why they miss my lack of kidney function because I they would expect you to have high blood pressure. No doctor ever picked up on this until I did organ scans to find this. I'm not diabetic. I'm not overweight. I don't have high blood pressure. And so all the classics. But you treat yourself right and that even with one kidney you can. Yeah drinking was the only thing I did that made the function go down the toilet. But you've all been young. But yeah so but flaxseed oil I think is something people should consider adding to the diet. What volumes are we talking about? I don't think I mean you could use a tablespoon a day. I don't think it has to be anything right that supplies almost 8000 milligrams of those fatty acids in a table. I mean realistically how much fat do you need in your diet especially if you're enhanced. And before before we start complaining about lignins inhibiting the androgen receptors the lignins while they're only found in full flax with the fiber. Yeah well I'm talking about the oil not the yeah no exactly so that's why I want to I wonder how much they block the androgen receptor if you're taking it. I talked about eating a bag of licorice and people were like yeah but Steve you said that licorice root extract is an androgen so you empower people to hold it against you. And it's the same with flaxseeds. I had some flaxseed meal to my meals and it makes it taste nice and rich. Yeah but Steve it has lignins in those inhibiting the androgen receptors. You got plenty I wouldn't worry about it. Yeah I got plenty of androgen receptors. Yeah and I think the deck has a little bit higher binding affinity anyway. Then flaxseed oil I would say so. Yeah no but there's no lignins in flaxseed oil. I'm sorry then flaxseed. Yeah just flax so before people start complaining you know don't worry about it. And one tablespoon again if it improves your blood pressure then all the more power to use less medications. Yeah and that's I would always rather go that route with at least my clients. The nutritional stuff versus throw my drugs. And I think that they show the same like with a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil or macadamia at all that it has some blood pressure lowering effects. Yeah I guess it's antioxidant based. Yeah you know when you're looking at what drives blood pressure and what increases the oxidative stress there's one thing that will contribute to vasoconstriction. And the arterial sharing is less because of the healthy fats. So the quality of the endothelium is better and then instead of there's a little bit of resistance inside the bloodstream. The blood can now flow and thus blood pressure is also improved. And all these little things contribute and that's why I always laugh when people go straight to you know Thomas Arta and because there's so many things you can explore that actually not only improve your blood pressure but your overall quality of life. Yeah well where did the Thomas Arta thing come from? I mean he looks very healthy. I mean that channel is very healthy to me. Yeah and he has stock in Buhringer what's it called? Engelsham or whatever. I think he has stock in Dunkin Donuts. Yeah. And then everybody needs a gimmick so. I mean even when we look at the recommendations for blood pressure management and I can send it to you after this and we can put it up on the screen. When you look at like the treatment strategy for blood pressure it says to begin with lifestyle intervention. Because the very first step in the guidelines is to move into lifestyle strategies. I will say let me interject. I've seen this happen once where diet and exercise did not work and it was with my wife when she was pregnant. She got pregnancy hypertension or prenatal hypertension and this is why she had to do a C-section because her blood pressure after the first contraction 185 over 145. Nice. Yeah and I'm like we're not we're sitting here for 12 hours trying to get your blood pressure down. You're going in for surgery because I don't want to have a vegetable because if you have like 20 to 50 contractions before the baby is born that's a guaranteed aneurysm with that much blood pressure. So this is because my wife has been training two days up until the pregnancy or the delivery not technically delivery was a C-section but up until she was supposed to be due two days before she was going to the gym and doing cardio and eating healthy and then her blood pressure started creeping up at the end. So that's the only context. Her estradiol was probably 50,000. Her growth hormone levels were like 15 to 20 milligrams per nanogram per milliliter. Like her hormone panel was sky high. We did blood work for her every month. You'd think she'd be on a full blown steroid cycle. How crazy. Yeah insane man. Her growth hormone levels were like sky high the entire way through. It's amazing. I said I have to inject so much stuff to have it that high. IGF-1 levels was elevated but that's you create an anabolic environment for the baby. My level so that's, can we back up? That's what I keep talking about estrogen and IGF. The reason why I was elevated in serum is because her estrogen was going up like this during pregnancy which binds the IGF and serum which keeps it away from the fetus. So the patient just secretes IGF-2 to support the fetus. If the fetus were to get IGF-1 from the mother then the fetus would grow too large and you would never be able to deliver the baby. That's why IGF serum doesn't mean anything. It's not an anabolic. It's not a look into your anabolism. It's used as a metric for disease. We're looking at chromegaly, giantism, liver issues with children needing prolux because they produce growth hormone but their liver doesn't kick out IGF. That's what the serum IGF test is used for. It's not used for bodybuilders or athletes. I remember Chase Irons, I remember what his number was on a bottle of sarastomid A. What was his IGF-150-200? It doesn't make a difference what your serum IGF is. You don't want it high because when it's on those binding proteins, each of those binding proteins will dictate where it's going to go in the human body and muscle is not one of them generally. It's going to go to bone and organs and other things that cause giantism. Okay. So that didn't mean that she was super anabol from the IGF. It would be intramuscular that you're concerned with IGF. Right. Okay. I think it's just the reason why her hormone levels were so high is that her blood pressure also sky high. And then of course, on drill and dumps during the contractions. Yeah. So that's the only time I saw that diet and exercise didn't work up until the last minute. Like it says here, I've got the international recommendations of hypertension guidelines. I can send you the citation and the picture, but like Kulitri says, for treatment, minimum standards of grade one hypertension is classified 140 to 150 over 90 to 99. And the very first thing it says is start lifestyle interventions. And then if concerned, start drug treatments and high risk patients, you know, those of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, risk, et cetera. But if you have stage two or grade two hypertension, which is obviously the highest one where you're above 160 over 100, it says immediately start drug therapy. It's not even like, because I guess we never even discussed this in the beginning. It's not when we look at blood pressure, it's not the blood pressure that we're trying to control. It's the diseases that come from the elevation pressure. So whether that's eye disease, kidney disease, brain disease, heart disease, the outcome of success with blood pressure management medication is reducing your risk of a heart attack, reducing your risk of retinal neuropathy, reducing risk on your kidneys, kidney failure. So the failure rate of the organ or the success and offset in that is what is deemed the most protective part of taking a medication. So in that regard, you know, coming back to the food and the lifestyle interventions, these are like even medically prescribed guidelines that we're talking about here at our core basics. Just take these simple boxes like you go to sleep. But the funny thing is with these lifestyle interventions, general population is less likely to follow those suggestions and those prescription medications are just being prescribed like candy. Whereas the bodybuilders, they should be doing that anyway, because without them they're not really, well, it was a drug culture now, right? Without them, they're not really in the health and fitness space. Because I would assume that most people follow a regimented diet. It's not true. It's not true. People treat their body like general population where they just eat out all the time and free cell meal together and then cardio is maybe once a week when they go shopping, you know? And then they're skipping breakfast. So it's fast cardio before they have like a crazy meal at the Cheesecake Factory. 20 minutes of walking from parking to where the Cheesecake Factory is. Yeah, that's the weird thing. I would expect people just to follow the lifestyle and then you see that it's very unlikely that you need these kinds of blood pressure medication interventions unless you really throw the kitchen sink of drugs at it. And when does that really happen? At the end of the offseason? You know, most people see, yeah, prep, but then because your blood pressure or your body fat levels are so low, you're so regimented, most guys go high-potensive. Yeah, no, I just meant as far as throwing drugs at them. Yeah, the drugs at it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but most guys are high-potensive at the end of a contest prep, you know, where you have to fuck, I got to reduce the masteron because otherwise they just lose so many electrolytes or they have to reduce the blood pressure medications because otherwise they get dizzy. So yeah, at the end of the offseason, it's usually where you see where people actually need it. And that's, and at the end of the offseason, it's the time where, you know what, I want to break a couple of plateaus, so I'm going to go on the anodual train, you know? Okay, then I get it. The body fat is a little bit higher, the fat is compressing your arteries, and then even though the lifestyle is still there, it's just, you know, basically in stage offseason where it is actually required. So besides the, where can we classify them? These supplementary blood pressure medications, cartotone, and Hawthorne berry in combination with beetroot, but that's mostly in the context of pre-workouts though, all right? Can you have it in that supplement of yours of the SNA supplement? Yeah, I think like what we originally said for cartotone, I think these are like B, B at the highest, C at the lowest, in terms like you're slotting them in to make up for a deficit in nutrition. So if you don't like eating beetroot or it's not in your vegetable intake, standardized beetroot concentrate or extract will give you this benefit. Sure, even taking L-sitrily and pure L-sitrily and 3-6 grams pre-workout is going to positively influence blood flow delivery during the training, but also offset some of the blood pressure management issues like you're talking about. And that is, that is probably one of the most highest risk points of an offseason or a very high level competitive bodybuilders. Today is doing task failure sets on a leg press or squat or max deadlift or whatever, you're driving up that internal blood pressure from obviously the strain that it's required to lift with the force required for the weight, that you're really looking at how can I offset the damage that this...  triennant session might be doing internally, because your blood pressure could be absolutely perfect due to 12, 14 hours of being awake, because you're just sitting around eating food, sitting on a couch, sitting at a desk, it's when you get in and start really pushing your body, and everyone's been there when you're sitting in a leg press, and you're gripping the seat, like full might, and your face is bright red like a tomato, you're creating that much pressure naturally from bracing and pushing the weight that you really need to think about. Your body's designed to accommodate probably a certain level of stress like that from a fight or flight perspective, but doing that day in, day out is going to create some level of share on your arteries over time that we're trying to offset. Yeah, I think cumulative, if you go to the gym five times a week, one hour sessions, and then let's say the last five seconds of your sets is elevated blood pressure, like alarmingly high, you could probably add it up to a couple minutes over the week, and over decades of training it's probably not a good outcome. That's a trend, but it could be a training also. I think it contributes. So I think if you take like beetroot and Hawthorne berry and L-sitrile and maybe Vasodriph AP, which has some angiotensic converting enzyme inhibiting effects, it's like some sort of proprietary blend of proteins, amino acids. I think if you take that around the workout, it could be A-tier because you will really prevent your blood pressure from reaching alarmingly high amounts to the point you get a tomato face or nosebleed or a hemorrhoids. Hey, it's not talked about, but after years of consultation, Steve, why every time I do a leg press, I get my asshole explodes. It's not talked about, but it happens, man. It happens, especially during prep, where all these guys eating like chicken brown rice and broccoli. There's no stool lubrication. And then of course it pops when they go crazy doing heavy stuff. It's not good for you to just eat chicken rice every meal. Okay, let's joke. It's probably better than eating... I don't know, it's what they say on Instagram. It's better than eating McDonald's, but is it... Yeah, better than eating sour patch kids. Yeah. What does your digestion look like eating chicken rice for six meals a day? I think the orange ruffy diet, at least it's a little bit... It has something that inhibits fat absorption. A sugar diet, you probably just shit all day long. Yeah, that too. My shits were legendary on fruits and honey. A lot of fiber, man. So, where were we? Yeah, so your nosebleeds, tomato face or a popping hemorrhoids. Yeah, it's not a good sign. But I think with some proper pre-workout formulas, you can mitigate all of that stuff. And I remember because I started training before there were pre-workouts, right? And then basically every... We would train during summer and then it's hot and you don't know anything about these electrolytes or managing your hydration and you eat like a whole bowl of oatmeal before you start squatting with the belt. And I would have nosebleed every time. It was just part of the game. And we just spit it all over the... Yeah, because you're breathing hard, right? So you have like a double nosebleed and you're spitting the blood all over the wall and we just preemptively had a bucket there. And it would happen all summer. We didn't know any better. We're 17 years old, man, 18 years old. Just egging each other on to do more squats. I mean, Dan, do you change pre-workout existed back then? Oh, yeah. What was it? Something orange? Ultraman orange. And Jack 3D with one 3D dimethyl... Jack 3D was after Ultraman orange, right? Yeah. Dan was like the first one. He had effedrine in there, I think. Yeah. Yeah. And then some other stuff. And then Jack 3D had one 3D MAA. And man, that shit. We used to order that from China. The Raw's and a make-or-own pre-workout and then put a little bit too much in there. Holy shit, man. It felt like drugs. Of course everybody knows. But it's the most potent fast with that later. You can put it in a pre-workout. Yeah. Your arteries look crazy. Yeah. Good times. So everything covering the natural route, even though... Did you have Promise, I guess? I've seen guys reduce their blood pressure 8 to 10 points per hour product. So, heart corn, beetroot, has its place because of what's inside it from a nutritional perspective to improve blood flow. There's other ingredients that we can incorporate, like I said, most pre-workouts now. Non-stimulant based pre-workouts or pump based ones are designed to improve blood flow, which would lower blood pressure. So I think tearing these, I'd probably... I'd be generous and go with B, knowing that they're readily available. Don't cost too much in terms of monetary costs and the benefit that you might get from reserpene and carditone or the nitrates and beetroot or arginine conversion from the heart horn. If it's going to lower your blood pressure by 8 to 10 points naturally, where you don't need to intervene pharmaceutically with the Andro-Tensin system, I think it's a nice place to enter low rather than have that mentality of straight-in medication. You're still staying in line with lifestyle and dietary management strategies first. Right. When you think we should... Lower risk with them too versus from the lower risk. Yeah. Unless you start stacking something like Grilla Mode Nitric with Cialis, then you might get hypotensive during your workout. I do think that if you take them in combination with lifestyle, so the diet exercise, electrolyte management, all that stuff, they could be like a C to B tier, but if you take them as a pre-workout to prevent hypertension during the workout, I would actually give them A tier because it could offset the needle between you having a nosebleed and then a hypertensive episode and just being normal. Because when I took pre-workouts, I don't really take them anymore because I don't train that hard anymore, but when I used to take them and I would go bolster the wall and do sets past failure, I would notice that my blood pressure would go up. Again, it's the only time that my blood pressure was an issue. Then you take a pre-workout, one or two scoops, and that issue is not there or your blood pressure doesn't increase that high, which again, in the long term, could probably protect your kidneys or prevent the nosebleed. Because I haven't seen any of these kids that are cracked out in pre-workouts, the pump products, have nosebleeds during the gym, whereas previously that was common in my gyms, but maybe I went to the crazy gyms. Well, EQ, nanodraw, those things. Yeah, yeah. A lot of guys don't EQ nanodraw too. I think it's a rite of passage that we've all experienced here in the middle of a set and you just feel this warm little drip and you're like, no, that's not a snot. You know, you're running to get serious. Now we're starting, now the set starts. I don't know if somebody with his flip phone digital camera takes a picture of you. It's like, just speak. Yeah, good times, man. All right, so that covers the supplements. And then we have a slew of medical interventions. We have the angiotensin converting anti-manhibitors and the angiotensin receptor blockers and the calcium channel blockers and the beta blockers. Now there's like 10 or 15 of each in each category. I don't think we need to address all of them. I think we should address the one that are either commonly used or has some unique characteristics. Back in the day, lecinobrille was pretty popular as a blood pressure medication. It got the job done. It was the only thing that people really ran because it was readily available, but people would get a dry cough. That's why people kind of went away from lecinobrille and moved over to telmasartan. And then this kidney and liver risk with it too. Oh, with lecinobrille? Yeah, I mean, not common, but it is like, and that's what I meant. It's versus the natural stuff. You're not running into the risk of. Yeah, with asinobrille and ARBs, if you have chronic kidney disease undiagnosed and it's not a good idea, you can't. Yeah, like I can't use any of those drugs. All right, yeah, of course, because you only have one kidney. And there's some, you know, very low risk that it might actually cause issues with your kidneys, and that's documented with most ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Again, it's a rare risk, but it's not unheard of. Now, a nalopril might still have some merit here and there, because it's secondary unique characteristics in that it controls a matter of blood cell count. So for the guys who have undiagnosed sleep apnea and use a boatload of EQ and anodryl, that might be some benefit there to keep their hematocrit in range. So if you have to go with the blood pressure medication and hematocrit and real blood cell count is high, and again, you're worried about that. Then an nalopril 2.5 milligrams, five milligrams might be eight here because you get two beneficial effects, blood pressure management and hematocrit control, even though there's a million different ways to control your hematocrit, but we'll save that for another tier list. Yeah, we could do a whole lot on blood because I think we misunderstand that whole. Right, exactly. It's good to do a reminder on that, but people are still worried about it. And again, you have the reference range, not everybody understands the difference in hydration and platelets and. One, and also ferritin, how that comes into play. Exactly. Right. So we'll save that. We do that another time, but the anaprolosa has risk of kidney disease. Exactly. Kidney damage as well. So they all, you know, so regarding the kidney damage and knowing that there's so many other compounds on the market, do ACE inhibitors still have a merit if needed? Or are we now pivoting more to ARBs? I would go with option B. Yeah, well, again, we can share this from that recommendation guideline, but they are moving away from ACE inhibitors being the first line. That you start with an ARB and then if you need combo therapy, you pick your second choice is either lowering the ACE inhibitions or you inhibit the ACE enzyme or use a calcium channel blocker, which then has other side effects as well. Yeah, you'll get that. ARBs are the first line now from a medical intervention. It should be prescribed to start. Right. And what, what you normally find now in terms of like general population, the most commonly prescribed one is low certain is normally what is generally prescribed to normal people, whereas we've sort of fell in line with the Talmus art and based on its, its half-life, its drug distribution, secondary benefits, you know, lowering, uh, and your 10th and two activation of the, the receptor and all the other antioxidants benefits, FAPR and whatever we've pulled out of space. But it, you know, it, it's the one that we've all favored towards. And, you know, it's, it's nice to see that we're thinking outside of like the medical community and what is more appropriate for our population of people. But like you said, when it, within each class, within a, a, or B's, they're like the Sartan drugs, there, I think there's at least 10 within the, the Andrew Tenzin, um, converting enzyme inhibitors, there's at least eight. We have a whole host of these drugs and I've moved through different generations, depending on how they partition in the body, how they're metabolized. Some of them act as pro drugs and then they convert to the active drug in the body. Um, if we were to pick one to start, then I think, yeah, starting to, to top and blocking the receptors is a, is a better strategy. In that, when you block the receptor, you still allow what has been produced and your 10s and two to move around the body and activate other and your 10s and two receptors. So obviously we're, we're getting down into the nitty gritty now, the two different types of receptors that exists. One being good, one being potentially bad, that you're still allowing activation of the good receptor. Yeah. Dean and I did a whole video just on that on my channel a while ago. Yeah. Yeah. I'll link it down below. And specifically why you shouldn't necessarily just be blocking that all the time, right? Cause there's good that comes from it as well. Right. And so when we're, we're looking at it, I guess it, it's again, by default, if we're going to choose this medication and we've got blood pressure over, you know, that pre stage one, like we're at 140 over 90 and you've done all your, you've done all your lifestyle intervention, all the easy things we covered earlier, you go in with the A or B expect and quite a dramatic shift in blood pressure, if it is and your 10s and driven. And what we're really leaning into here is genetics, genetic expression of ACE two in the lungs. And this is where, you know, you get into arguments around like everyone should be taken an A or B regardless of their status. And you're, you're disregarding that probably 60% of people don't have an and your 10s and two, um, problem in their genetic line and you're 40% to do. And then you're at 40% epigenetically from taking high doses of androgens are influencing that ras pathway. That yeah, people completely neglect them in our corticoid receptor activation where the electrolyte balance is altered, which you can easily manipulate. Dietary interventions. Let's say, let's say, let's say you're on a good stack right of steroids for anablysm offseason contest prep. Is it the Rinn and ankle tension, an old testosterone system that really gets fucked or the mineral or corticoid receptor pathway? I would say the second, the second probably depending on the more the yeah, depending on the judge, right? But in a stack, you know, of a couple of different compounds really aim towards anablysm, I would say that the mineral corticoids and the, the balance take your change regarding your electrolytes, which could have a negative effect on your blood pressure. And again, burning through magnesium and, and, and, you know, faster than usual because you have so much skeletal muscle contractions and, and losing the sodium and potassium because your dietary changes. I think that's more of an issue with body butters than an Rinn and angle tension on the testosterone system. People understand that they need to control the estrogen levels unless. Do they understand that? Unless there's a guy out there telling you to increase your estrogen levels does have a negative effect on your Rinn and angle tension, or testosterone system, and then prescribe a medication that modulate that. Interesting. Somebody has an agenda. Interesting. Anyway, anyway. Either way, the irony of what you've brought up there is either way, you have to take a medication, whether it's the evils of ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, which they're not evil. But then God forbid you say the word AI to control the estrogen to manage the blood pressure. So the iron, the iron is you end up taking a medication out of way. And you're, you're probably, I'm not going to say have less risk, but if you're going to control your estrogen, you're going to have more of a global effect over other parameters like mental health, blood pressure, fat deposition, anabolism, physical appearance, moods, just keep going on and on. I mean, unless you're transitioning, I don't know why you buy restaurants so high. I will, I will say one thing. After I did that gyno protocol, right, where I just let my estrogen run wild. And I think the highest I got was 225 blood pressure was in range. Yeah. I felt fine though. I felt fine. Like I might have to double check with my wife if was crying during particular movies are a little bit overly emotional. Mentally, I felt fine. Um, what was it? You were able to achieve a full erection. Yeah. I was able to achieve full erection. Was there a serious premature ejaculation occur? Yeah. I was able to grow my gyno to like legendary proportions or even a surgeon. It's like, uh, bro, now we see these on, uh, obese people. Um, I haven't gotten acne since. Since lowering it. I always had no since, since that time. So, and my wife noticed the same thing during her pregnancy where estrogen was undetectably high. Um, so everybody always, um, gives Estradao and myself included Estradao or hormonal fluctuations that, that it costs so much acne, right? My wife had zero acne during her pregnancy and now it's slowly coming back. Now that their estrogen levels crashed, I mean, that's an estrogen crash from like undetectably high and it drops 90% in three days. Insane. No wonder there's postpartum depression. Anyway, am I, I'm controlling my Estradao levels now, but I had my Estradao high for like four months, didn't have any acne and haven't had acne since. So there might be something to say in that regard. You know, grow your gyno, get rid of the acne. If that's an issue for you, I had one pimple here, some small one. So, but that's the only thing that I noticed. It may be at one point in time, you could ramp your estrogen really high if you can deal with the side effects. And then if you're acne prone, it might get rid of it. Possibly. I still remember possibly. Yeah. But two anecdotal of two, one on steroids, one. I would think the risks of the highest gem would outweigh any Z it threat. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that can also cause issues. Well, during the tear list, during the acne, it's probably a liver metabolism problem when you look at it, because when you have Estradao and you have Estrone and then you have the two hydroxy, four hydroxy 16, and they have the methoxy counterparts that COMT metallates. I know from personal experience, when my estrogen goes extremely high and that's just with 125 tomatoes that with with my mood, my mood completely changes quite quick because genetically, I've said it to you before, Steve, about having a very fast MAO A enzyme that just burns through serotonin. But one of the things that keeps up with serotonin's demand then, or most of estrogen is methylation. And then you end up with a scenario where you've got high estrogen and then you've got a blockage in your estradiol metabolism because you don't have enough folate metabolism. And I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, but there's times in the past where I've ran like 15 milligrams of methylfolate like max high clinical depression dosage of methylfolate to break through that methylation barrier while bringing estrogen down. That when you have high estrogen, you're putting huge demand on Sam E and your methylation to clear the estrogen as well. So that then causes all sorts of imbalances in your neurochemistry. So it's really important that, like we've said before, it's like golly locks. You want just the right amount that it serves your body physically, mentally, and everything else without fluctuating like a sky high. And now all of a sudden you've got blood pressure problems or mood issues or too low and your joints feel like absolute crap. Yeah. And for most people that seems to be towards the top of the reference range or slightly over it. So we're talking about 35 to 50. And then after that, most guys start to get side effects. I was surprised that I was mentally stable and that my acne went away. After the high estrogen. Now, I'm not sure how much the trust alone and the decade contributed, but you would say that on a stack like that, no AI, like high test, high decade, high trust alone, estradiol through the roof that I would be pimpled to galore, but that actually went away. So it's counterintuitive, but sometimes shit happens. So I'm actually happy that I did this experiment. Um, where were we? Oh, we were talking about Tom Sartre. Yeah. I guess, I guess if we look at, let's say someone does have the genetic basis. So they have angiotensin two issues straight away. Tell me certain from a tear perspective would be S. Like it's the most available drug to people are going to be shocked. Dean is recommending telling me certain and S tier. Somebody's screaming their pants in Thailand right now. 100% is going to clip this. Even Dean said it was S tier. Does he watch this? Oh, trust me, dude. He watches everything I do. So in that instance, that is perfectly suited for that case specific person, which is why I've said all the time from a pharmacology perspective, pick the drug to match the person. No, take the drug just because. So because you heard it on YouTube. Yeah, because shit flowing through XYZ. So in that regard, if they do have these genetic problems and another side point I've often said is we have two medications, I believe have been developed to address root causes of disease. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or receptor blockers go towards the genetic aspect of ACE2 and insulin. They're really the only two that go to the root cause of you've got type one diabetes can't make insulin. Here's insulin got genetic problems with ACE2. Well, unfortunately, there's nothing we can really do regardless of your dietary intervention and this that and the other. You are going to be hypertensive. So we'll block the enzyme or block the receptor to offset. What we covered was the risks of high blood pressure causing disease, not the risk of the high blood pressure itself. Right, right. And it seems that African Americans have a little higher likelihood to have this genetic issue than Caucasians do. You know, so dietary and lifestyle interventions aside, they're probably more likely to end up on a medication like this when they do heavy cycles. I mean, even personally speaking, my dad is African, he's from Mauritius. So I'm half African. Nobody would tell you. No, no. When people see the picture of me and my dad is like, geez, man, who's that guy? I still have a run and joke with a friend who still doesn't believe he's my dad. But anyway, honestly, I think if you like move countries and you post yourself a little bit to sunlight, not this UK son that doesn't give anybody a 10, I think you can get dark. I mean, remember last year, last year when I came back to vacation, I changed species. But like my grandmother and my dad have to take a combination blood pressure medication because of their genetics. And like just my dad, who's like 72, 73 goes to gym, eats right. Does everything, you know, typical sort of eight like Asian African diet. But like my grandmother, her blood pressure was sky high, even with medication. And I guess it comes down to then like the tolerance of the body to the high blood pressure and what diseases come from it and how the body's compensating for it. But then like the other side, you've got my mother, who is extremely low blood pressure that I've inherited that if I take any close to the dose of what my dad is taking for his blood pressure, I'll probably be on the floor or it have a very difficult time getting up out of a chair. So genetically, yeah, it looks like those of African descent have a higher risk of higher ACE to production. If I have to look back through my coaching logs, I mean, I didn't coach that many African Americans, but the large portion of them needed some sort of blood pressure medication and that they're following the lifestyle, just like everybody else. And so some sort of blood pressure intervention was in place. And that's why I always wonder, like some of these guys at the pro level, if they were doing that or not, it's why they seem more susceptible to kidney issues later on in life. You know, so that might be a genetic thing that people need to pay a little bit more attention to. And again, you can't do a 23 in me nowadays, but you can just buy a risk off and keep track of your blood pressure and see how that changes as you add in particular compounds. Non-accusable. Yeah. And again, some people don't respond well to telmasartan. And that's why we have Volsartan or Lozartan as alternatives. And then you lose out on these trace beneficial effects that telmasartan might have, like a PPR receptor activation and, you know, 0.05% additional fat loss or metabolic boost that you can get from the daily fast card. I guess to your side effect. You're fucking carderine, you know, we cancer. Did we ever, did we ever bring it up? I think I brought up with Kurt when we discussed it. Well, that air base, if they make you shit yourself, one of the side effects of air base that we potentially believe is leaky goats as well. They literally create junction gaps between the epithelial cells of your gut, which then opens up all other host of issues. So leaky goat is one side effect potentially of air base that if you're not, then there's liver issues like Ben Chow, for example, you started the issues as well. Yeah, I get the issues like Ben Chow, he got liver issues right away. Really? From the telmasartan. Yeah, it's just liven systems with sky eyes. Like you can't use this and then everybody give him shit. Yeah. But this is the medication to take. So well, shit, sometimes it happens. And there's a lot of drugs I can't take either. You know, I could take a lot of them, but not all of them. And then you just have to make the adult decisions. So this drug is not for me. I'm going to look for a replacement. And if that doesn't fall in line with the rest of, you know, the regurgitation in the fitness space, so be it. You have an individual body that you need to address individually with the medications if needed that match with you. That's why it's so much fun trying to figure it out. And there's always Seattle's like telmasartan. Again, it's S tier if you need it. And Seattle's is also great. I think that's S tier also, you know, it can lower your estrogen. It can improve your testosterone. It can give you massive boners. It can help with the pump. But it's a multifactorial blood pressure medication that has so many multifactorial benefits that it was prescribed as a dick pill. So a lot of people control their blood pressure with Seattle's a downside is acid reflux. You take your Seattle's with oral steroids. You're going to be burping acid the whole day unless you take a proton pump inhibitor or increase your stomach acid with B10, 100 chloride and apple cider vinegar. So that also comes with a little bit of an instruction manual. Load those five milligrams Seattle's 10 milligrams. If you're a big guy, I think you can do a lot of good, but also a lot of harm. Do you guys have any experience with Seattle's? Is blood pressure medications or recreation? I will, you know, everyone's trying it with the pump. It's it's an experience. If you stack another few things on top of it, it can be quite the experience training arms or training chest. Yeah, I think from a blood pressure perspective, yeah, the knock on effect of CGMP and raising, like again, endothelial nitric oxide production, you're probably only going to see maybe a drop in blood pressure of like four or five points. Now that might be enough to take it from 140 down into 135 or 135 into 130. But then you're getting all your potential benefits as a long half-life. It can be used maybe once twice per week. I see it quite often being prescribed by tier T clinics now as an adjuvant for blood pressure management alongside tier T, because in the UK, it's relatively cheap on a prescription perspective that adding one or two pills per week to a tier T dose gives the benefit of satisfaction in the bedroom, but also blood pressure management. And then you carry that into the gym. Yeah. Yeah. And a lot of guys are more like when they start this journey of tier T, they're probably more receptive to adding something like Seattle's because they heard about that. I think Tom Sartem, we all know about this in the bodybuilding space, but  dialysis, of course, legendary status with general population, where it helps with erection quality and might help with libido, because you have more confidence in your erection. And that sense, they've rather run that, and the blood pressure management is in warm added benefit, which initially, that's what it was designed for, but they prescribe it for its side effects, basically. You could microdose, what is it, Viagra or Levitra, you could microdose those, because they have shorter half lives, so you would need to take those once or twice per day, or twice per day, three times per day. There's dietary restrictions too with those, versus Cialis, right? Oh, really? You don't take Viagra with fat in a meal, it's not going to be food. Oh, right, yeah, because I didn't mean to. I'm just saying you have to time it correctly, there's, you know. Yeah. Yeah, Cialis you could take once per day. As much as you could use. Yeah, for sure. And it has a compounding effect. So what a lot of guys notice is that they start with five milligrams, and then after a week or two, it really reaches peak serum levels, and they get a little bit of this flushing effect, where the capillaries dilate, and they get a lot of blood flow through the face, and then it feels like you stuck your face in a hot oven. And you get the same effect with Tom Sartan when you start that, at, you know, 80 milligrams per day, or 40 milligrams per day, because you get that capillary dilation, and then your face gets hot. You can really feel that in your skin. So there's a lot of side effect that people don't really expect. And then suddenly that happens when they first use these medications, your body slowly adapts it out, or you adapt to the feeling, where this, this heat that you get through your skin is a little bit more pronounced than before due to the blood flow. Same thing from red wine, right? Well, but it's the resveratrol. So Dean, if you drink red wine, are you on the floor from hypotension? Me, I can't remember the last time I drank red wine, I was in college. Jesus, Tom was like 15 years ago. Right. So with red wine, you have the resveratrol, right? And it can also have a dilating effect, and then people get red ears from the capillary dilation. And that can also lower their blood pressure. And that's how a lot of alcoholics justify their wine consumption. It's nothing different than some guys. It lowers cholesterol too. It doesn't mean it's anything good for you. It's dissolving your body from the inside. The alcohol. So that's so what can we put? Cialis in the tier list. Do we put it over Tomasartan? Same rank, a tier. And it's eight. Yeah, I think it's eight here. I like it. Yeah, I like actually look into Cialis before looking into Tomasartan because it has more practical benefits. Yeah, well, I guess one of the things that causes impotence is high blood pressure. Ironically. Yeah, or ironically. So you're probably going towards that root cause taking something like this. And it probably falls in line like the pre-workout supplementation. As much as we see it as an erection performance boost and drug, as these benefits of performance based aspects in the gym, that people are biohacking with it from a PD perspective as opposed to even thinking of health benefits. And that just carries over. And when you go to the gym, like we're talking about your lowering your blood pressure from one aspect, just don't get sexually stimulated in the gym. Yeah. Oh yeah, you get the bonus in the gym. Yeah, now there's just so many only founds girls in the gym. So you really gotta select the way you do your training. Oh my God, man. Sounds fucking short waged up all the way. I'm here to train. If I want to see that, I'll go to Born Hub. Please stop it. Especially when you're a Cialis. Yeah, it's a loaded weapon, man. But yeah, I would rather have people look into Cialis as like the first line of defense of blood pressure management than Thomas Sartan. Because again, from a practical perspective, it has more benefits and the Thomas Sartan benefits are mostly on paper. It's a lot of mental masturbation when it comes to the benefits, the additional benefits of Thomas Sartan and how much that really plays out in the real world. Like people again, they hammer on the PPR receptor organism, but how much metabolism boosts or fat loss you get from Thomas Sartan? I think it's negligible. I think growth hormone is a bit of fat loss agent and that's a very expensive fat loss agent. You know, for what it is, it's not clean. It's not SLU. It's not, you know, these other fat burning agents that we have at our disposal. You're saying SLU versus growth hormone? Yeah, I think SLU burns more fat than growth hormone from a finance perspective. I would say pharmaceutical growth hormone, I would disagree with that. And the dose. Yeah. And the dose dependent manner. Yeah, of course, it's a dose dependent manner. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So pharmaceutical growth hormone, if you look at the cost of what you're spending. Oh, yeah, I'm just saying from a fat loss point of view, I don't think anything's going to burn fat and preserved muscles was far from. We're talking about serosteum specifically here, right? Or genotropin, omnitropin. Yeah. What you're saying, you know, you use enough pharmaceutical growth hormone and you can eat whatever you want. Yeah, true. Unless you were born with very odd genetics. That's also true. Yeah, but you really need to run a substantial amount. Yeah, we're talking about HIV, close HIV patient dosages. Yeah. And that's for most people, unaffordable or they can't deal with the carpal tunnel. So yeah, yeah, just say yes. I know I've been there and I will agree. Like if you if you go with the HIV dose, then you could just do whatever and still get lean and basically mutate. But it's either unobtainable, under unaffordable or the carpal tunnel, which potassium solves. Well, I was going to say, yeah. And with the pharmaceutical growth, there shouldn't be the side effects even at that dose. Let's go away. It's temporary. Really? How long do you need to run it? I don't know. I've been on it for years. I don't know then. Yeah, okay. Years. I wonder how long it would take for like for beginner to kind of ramp up the dosages and then go to carpal tunnel. When I ramped up, I went three, six, nine. I got to nine and then I go back to six. We're talking about milligrams guys. Oh, milligrams. No, somebody I use. Sorry. Oh, really? I went one milligram, two milligram, three milligram. Fuck you, Kurt. Nine I use and then three milligrams. Nine milligrams. Nine milligrams. Growth hormone. Nine milligrams growth hormone is a lot. Okay. The back to six for a couple of weeks and then and then it was transient on occasion. Like you'd wake up sometimes in one hand to be numb, maybe the way you were laying on it, but I haven't had numb hands in two years from it. Okay. But initially you had it. Initially you had it. But it goes away when I feel like with the UGL stuff, with the binders and stuff, it doesn't really go away. It seems to us that ramp the dosage gets worse and just kind of sticks around. And I haven't been below nine I use or three milligrams in three years. Okay. You eat whatever you want. I mean, I choose to eat clean. Yeah. I mean, could I, I'm sure I could if I chose to. I wonder what would happen if you go to Disneyland with the family and just eat. I lose weight. I'm going to get you. Yeah, I thought so. Because you're walking around and you can't actually eat enough food. It's just garbage food, but you're not eating enough of it, right? No. Because you can full eat that shit and then you're full for six hours and it can't even get the food in. It doesn't digest. Yeah. I don't know. I'm not, I'm the opposite. Like I'll lose weight. Even when I went to Vegas, if you guys, I lost weight. I got, I got lost initially and then I gained. Did you? Yeah, but I can eat like a fucking man. And it's, you know, I mean, I'm in the U.S. I gotta, I've like 10 days to eat garbage. So I'm going to eat all the garbage I can see and then I have to go back to Thailand where the garbage is not exist. Oh, there's garbage here, but it's not as garbage. Yeah, it's not as garbage. That's why I'm not going this year. So I can actually, you know, not get fat and I have to do a, you know, a binge and purge. Where were we? Seattle? Okay. So Seattle has put it in a tier. Even though I would say it's the first line of defense against high blood pressure if all the other stuff is not working, it's probably a better introduction into blood pressure management than Thomas Arton. Yeah, because then I mean from there on, you've got like the other things like less on a prayer like the ACE inhibitors, calcium channel blockers that from a mech mechanistic perspective, you know, the side effects that come from them, the actual outcome of how protective they are. To me, they're more like adjuvants that you require for combination therapy, but the combination therapy, you should only be really stacking like multiple blood pressure lowering medications if you're in that like stage two hypertension, which is like above 160 over 100. And at that point, if a lot of it is drug induced from high sky high doses of Andrians, probably reduce your dose right on. No, no, no, I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. Tell me get off the 150 milligrams on a drop per day. Come on, man, we're bodybuilders. We got to ramp up the dose and add more drugs, take ancillaries to do that. That means an ACE inhibitor and a bit of blocker and a beta drug. insulin and yeah, what's my drug side is already never use an AI though. No, never use the other 90 drugs to manage using those. Yeah. Yeah. Cover with the AI will close on. Tell us and tell me start and increase the wrong with us and some expression. Wasn't that yeah, increase estrogen. Yep. Yep. We brought that up before. I mean, isn't a paradoxical imagine you started a trend where you just set up the dose and as you keep up in the dose, there comes a point where it's an inverse curve where your blood pressure gets sky high that actually goes sky low. Same as cardery or the dose, the anti cancer. Yes, I'm serious. I did a deep dive on cardery and you find out that the anti cancer dose is higher than the cancer causing those. I'm like, what the fuck 18 studies show that it causes cancer at this dosage range and then the anti cancer dose is higher. So first you got to give yourself cancer and then you ramp up the dose and it can take the cancer away. What, what the hell? It's so proliferated. It eats itself. Yeah. You smoke the cigarette the normal way and then you flip it backwards and you smoke it the other way. Yeah. Yeah. You just blow through the cigarette. Yeah. When you keep the ash in your mouth. Yeah. Yeah. You keep the ash in your mouth. And they use methylene blue to kind of tame. Exactly. Clean it up. Oh, remember, you have more off-boards. They're really fucking high though. So I mean, you could just... Oh, yeah, yeah. The coatinine and the adipocene. Yeah, the metabolites and the nicotine itself. Yeah, it acts as an aromatosis. Why not? Yeah. And it has anti-cancer properties. And smoking definitely does not raise your blood pressure. No. No. No, not at all, man. No. That's why I'll be... That's why all these guys pop zins pre-workout. Yeah. Watch now, smoking seem to be a trend. Thanks to you. A lot of people still smoke, man. It's crazy. I used to smoke too when I quit. You smoke in Thailand? Is it big there? Yeah, it's a lot. It's a lot. They're smoking in front of the gym now. Oh, shit. Those are mostly Chinese. Okay. And I think Muscle Factory got into some sort of Chinese oboe or whatever app they used. It's like the best gym in Thailand. So all the Chinese people started showing up in the evening. Yeah. You know, if I can change smoking in front of the gym. And I just gave up, man. I couldn't... One time I went out with a barbell. I said, hey, do you... Next time I'm going to park this barbell in your mouth. See if you can smoke them, but I couldn't understand it because I didn't speak any English. And then the owner was like, hey, slow down. It's like, fuck these people have the property. That's what I have to deal with. So let's see what's last on this list. Oh, I have better blockers. Nebivalol, propanol, all that kind of stuff. I think those are really the last resort. I do like Nebivalol though, but again, it's only during the offseason. And that's not necessarily to control my blood pressure, but just to prevent laryngeal hypertrophy when the training intensity is so high. And then the downside of Tomasartan and Nebivalol and many of these blood pressure medications is hyperkalemia. And when you're taking a good amount of potassium, hyperkalemia can be a real concern. Mm-hmm. Now, what a lot of guys are going to do is then lower the potassium so they can take the Tomasartan and then the Nebivalol together. When in reality, it's just keeping your potassium intake consistent. So the excretion is consistent and it doesn't build up in the bloodstream. So we're circling right back to the electrolytes. Keep your electrolyte intake, your diet, and your low sodium potassium salt or your new salt or your heart salt intake the same. But then you're forgetting another class of drugs used for low on blood pressure. What? The calcium channel blockers? Dioretics. You just piss out. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Like those OB. I take laysticks every morning to control my blood pressure. Fuck you, fat bitch. I don't know why I pee so much. Oh, my hands are cramping when I play video games. if there was an educator out there just continuously prescribing you to take LASIKs. Someone's going to now watch. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean I do know guys that use Hadoq or Thaisat chronically. I mean look we've got an influencer that thought Halo testing was safe for women and children. Yeah, that's true. Yeah, I guess it never ends man. It's good. Do you guys go to TikTok? I haven't been on a long time now. What's on TikTok now? Don't. Just don't. I was talking with anabolic pharmacist, one of the sources, right, the affiliates, and he goes to TikTok and he's like, dude, it's like everybody copies the anabolic roundtable but they do it wrong. And everything you guys introduce and they get thousands of views. And I want to be, they want to sign up for my affiliate program and I don't let them fuck these guys. They're fucking trash influencers. They're talking about SLU and ModC and combining trend with Anadrol but they don't know how to explain it. He was getting so pissed. Nice. It's good to see we have an influence on people. Oh, we have an influence on the influencers, yeah. But they need to watch maybe two or three times before they regurgitate. Yeah. Yeah. So the Lasix, I don't think that's a valid or a but, diuretics, I don't think, I'll dark tone, right? I don't think it's a valid way to control your blood pressure. No, no. But in the scheme of it, when you're looking at combo therapy, like what we said, it's A or B, then an ACE inhibitor, a calcium channel blocker. And then the triple therapy is hydrochlorotideside on top. Yeah. But we're looking at general population here who don't manage their electrolyte balance or taking the diuretic to manage sodium loading from the nutrition. So that I was only joking about diuretics because we're talking about adding more and more drugs that diuretics should not be used to control blood pressure and put any influencer promoting them for low and blood pressure in the bin. Yeah. Yeah. Unsubscribe, unfollow that bullshit. Yeah. Well, I think the longer we do this in our space, the least or the less we even recommend diuretics, even for contest prep, because it just makes people fly it and it's very unpredictable. You know, and again, when you're truly in shape, you kind of don't need it. You don't need it. Where's water going? Yeah. It's from the muscle. If you get fat free, there's you don't have a ton of water under your skin. No. So the only real way of recommending diuretics is for people who did not get in shape or thought they were in shape and then the back stage like a mistake, right? Inflant. Yeah. Make a mistake with the insulin car loading. Okay. Fine. A little bit of injectable asics. It's not like I've never done that to people, but it's because they were not fat free. Yep. You know, and the guys that had to make a weight class and they're, you know, two kilos over and the only way to get them down is to starve them down. They're fat free. You don't need to use anything. And you fit into the class. I didn't just diuretics for the way and sucka. We talked about before, even with my own prep, like with varicose veins and vein as flow issues, using like a quarter of a tablet of diazide, the triumphantarine and hydrochlorotiolyte to get a quarter at some point in the middle of the night when you get up to go to the bathroom. So as a half-life of action of like 12 hours, it's just ensuring that if you do have varicose veins or vein as inefficiency, some fluid that might pull around your legs and blur some detail. As you start drinking fluid on contest day, you're matching the excretion of the ingestion of fluid. Exactly. Yeah. But like even then, like on contest day, coming back to electrolytes, last year I never ate anything on contest day. What I'd done was I drank like my intra-workout drink, which is highly, highly branched cyclic dextrin and then four servings of our electrolyte products. And then electrolyte plus had 510 milligrams of potassium per serving. So before I got on stage, I had 2000 milligrams of potassium from an electrolyte supplement alone that there was no way I was getting on stage flat because you're hydrating with the fluid, you're hydrating with the electrolytes. Yeah. Once the carbs are in, and I guess it's not like you're a mass sponsor where you're burned through the carbs, you need to replenish that. As long as you're resting backstage and your pump up is not crazy, then you're not going to lose any fullness from a glycogen perspective. Because most of the time backstage, well, what are you doing? You're just sitting in your ass, just laying down in your little inflatable mattress. Yeah. I get a mass monitor, okay, they're big, they need to eat some food. But for your weight, fasting up until pre-judging is fine. It's better to look at as well. Yeah. I think so. So less water retentive around the waist and no chance of having a digestible digestion crisis. You can pull a deep vacuum. And again, it's not like you need to top off the glycogen because there's less inactivity. And then you can fill out for finals. Okay, cool. Because you just had a couple of rounds opposing. Then you're losing some glycogen and some fullness. Plus it's finals, like some veins. A little bit of fun. Yeah. So I think like with the beta blockers, again, very case specific, rest in heart rate would be a big confounder to whether you choose to use a beta blocker or not, thyroid hormone status. It's very specific again because we're going back to maybe some level of adrenaline induced hypertension or catacolamine induced hypertension that we're trying to reduce stimulation on the heart so that everything slows down. But coming back to like Kurt said, like blood viscosity, we want to make sure that everything from a hematocrit perspective is optimal because the last thing we want is very viscous blood. So really high hematocrit low blood hydration. And now you're slowing the heart down in order to reduce work that the heart muscle is doing. But now it needs to try and compensate for that slow electrical activity by using more pressure to push the blood around. So it comes with a bit of a trade off when you go down the route of using beta blockers for offset like LVH or hypertension induced cardiomyopathies. Yeah. All the other stuff needs to be in place. That's why I would say an ambivalence basically the end stage option you need to look at. Because again, you can manage your heart rate with daily fast. And just to help you lifestyle. And if you use all these fat burners obviously, an ambivalence is not going to offset the heart stimulation effects from GLP-1s or thyroid medication. Okay, cliambitriol, sure. It's working on similar receptors. We have mirror brick for that. We have SLU. We have other fat burners that are non-stimulatory or minimally stimulatory. So if that's an issue, then again, you take a drug out instead of keeping the drug in and then putting an ancillary in place to prevent the side effects of that one drug that you're taking 120 micrograms of. Let's start rocket science guys. So I think they do have their place. But again, I would only use nabivalol at the end of an offseason where the abuse in the gym and the body weight is so high. And that maybe that daily fast cardio is not sufficient enough to keep your resting heart rates going because the body weight increase was so substantial. And again, you can grow slower obviously, but that's usually for seasoned competitors. In the beginning you want to get up to 300 pounds or 265, whatever. And then I think 500 grams nabivalol goes a long way. And we're talking about three months out of the year. I think you might have a beneficial effect out of it, assuming you check your potassium levels before, during and after because it can be an issue. So I would put it in C tier because it's like middle of the road. Middle of the road, not really sure when to take or, you know, just limited practical applications. And even then it's end stage application while everything else needs to be in place. Just cherry on top stuff, basically. And again, it can slow your metabolism and otherwise look at something like propanolol. So again, if your leg day is very violent, you're taking a whole pre-workout ritual and your journal levels are sky high post-workout and look into propanolol post-workout where you bring yourself out of this sympathetic drive and allow you to sleep and recover and rest faster. And then you don't really take it as a blood pressure medication, but it's more as a recovery aid where you bring the adrenaline down and the cortisol down. And then again, you take your propanolol with your growth hormone and then shut the fuck up and go sleep. I guess that falls back to the area. Pillars that sleep is another magic for lowering blood pressure and improving resting heart rate and heart rate variability that if we are jacked up on loads of stimulants and everything else, it's going to negatively affect your blood pressure. And that aspect, if you're not sleeping properly, cortisol rises, cortisol causing blood pressure problems. So yeah, sleep, your propanolol if needed, your growth hormone, other things to help you have good quality, deep sleep, your CPAP, put your mouth tape, we're going back full circle here. Yeah, so sleep, cardio and electrolytes and diet, all S tier. Yes. Some SART and we can put an S tier if you need it. And then everything else kind of falls under that. Um, again, somebody crimped their pants just now. Happy to oblige. You know, somebody needs a little win here and there after a decade of failures. And, um, yeah, I don't think we even have time for kidney stuff because it probably takes another two hours. So instead of addressing the kidney tier list, which again, there's not so much, but I'd rather spend the time on it next month than, than rush through it now because we're already two hours in. So maybe we can do like a, um, an F tier list for things that are deleterious for your kidneys. Now, of course, eating like an asshole. We all know that that doesn't help. And the opposite of not sleeping and not taping your mouth and, you know, not taking the electrolytes, it's obviously all F tier behavior, but maybe we can classify a couple performance enhancing drugs in F tier that are certainly or very likely to have a negative effect on your blood pressure, even if you're doing things right. So we're talking about high dose anodrol, maybe tremolone, right? Kurt's, um, in, in your opinion, which, which compounds should be respected when it comes to blood pressure? Yeah. Cause we're talking specifically blood pressure, then causing kidney damage, not the drug causing kidney damage directly. Exactly. Yeah. So I just want to clarify that cause people always make these assumptions that EQ causes direct kid, like that's based on like one case study. No, well, I did a deep dive on it. No, I'm just saying, but I want to make sure that it's clear. It's, it's usually blood pressure just regarding blood pressure. So, all right. I, I, I, I, I just asked for huge amounts, right? Yeah. Estrogen, obviously if it's elevated, uh, tremolone, anodrol, dbol. Yeah. What else would, um, Halo testing? Yeah. Well, pressure was always low. That point in prep. Halo testing probably has a pretty profound effect on blood pressure. If you take it during, uh, power lifting meats, then, uh, I was going to say the G for strength and yeah, it probably does. Um, that's a guaranteed nose. What else, what else am I missing? Uh, trust alone is blood pressure. I guess. No, it's not. Can two of the depending on the fluid level. So scientifically I was, I was actually preparing for like a little bit of a deep dive regarding blood pressure. Um, but it's, you know, with my rate of producing videos, I figured this was a little bit faster to get your, your guys opinion, chime in. Um, so scientifically testosterone, nanderlone, windstraw, windstraw, anivar, anadrol, bouldinone, trimbolone in, in some animal models. Uh, again, no scientific evidence to Rinnable, Deanna, but basically everything except for a prima ball and a masteron has been, and anivar, anivar. Also, yeah. And we're basically everything masteron and, um, let me see. Let me check. And primo was shown not to have, uh, yeah. So there, there's some scientific evidence that shows that even windstraw, because it is used for, um, what is it called chronic angioedema? Yeah. Chronic angioedema. And the funny thing is, uh, Tarenable actually acts as an aldosterone synthase inhibitor that's why a lot of people get cramps, which should technically modulate your blood pressure by promoting sodium excretion. You know, but in practice, it doesn't do that. Yeah. And in practice, it doesn't do that. So again, it's like nobody ever reported high potential until once on Tarenable, even though technically on paper, there should be some blood pressure lowering effects. If you're, you know, throwing the kitchen sink of, uh, sodium at it. So, uh, actually, uh, stand below also no scientific evidence. Yeah. But that's because there's no study. Same as diorobaldon, right? It's no scientific evidence anywhere to be found. But it's interesting then is this like from a mechanism perspective, uh, as acting as an androgen or is this like global? Because obviously, uh, as an androgen, you're looking at more so like angiotensin two or the angiotensin two receptor, but globally you're looking at factors like mineral corticoid expression or retention, uh, cortisol and dopamine and catecholamines, uh, oxidative stress or lack, lack of antioxidants to protect your epithelial cells or endothelial nitric oxide production, all these global things that I'm not sure if you could classify like one andrin over another, um, as being more because it's also dose dependent, right? As being more like after you take this and your kidneys, I guess from a blood pressure perspective, mostly from a blood pressure, but we'll save the kidneys for the next time because I want to do a whole list on that. And I don't think we have time for that already. I did recording for two hours with the  hypertension is like 2% right now. We appreciate you. We appreciate all of you 2%ers out there. I guess we're out of five-minute crew. From that aspect, like if you're going to put a bucket list, like a bin list for steroids for F-tier towards kidneys. No, no, blood pressure. Just blood pressure. Blood pressure, then you could pick. So let's put it this way. We run an effective dose of a steroid where we get a good response, minimal side effects. Which of these are very likely to give you high blood pressure, even though we're keeping the side effects low? I would say trim below. An effective dose of trim below will probably raise your blood pressure. Anegral. EQ. Wendstrom. Wendstrom. And windstrom. And I would add MENT alone to that. Those five. I would say, because my blood pressure increased after going on the cycle again. So I would say five compounds, nandrolone, an effective dose is what, 100 to 200 milligrams a week. I think blood pressure changes are minimal. TRT, up until 500 milligrams. I think you need to run a gram of tests before your blood pressure goes up. That's why I said testing a big amount. Yeah. And even if you control your estrogen, you can mitigate that. So with MENT alone, it seems that even if you mitigate your estrogen, it seems that it increases your blood pressure. But with nandrolone and testosterone, that's not the case. Now, premabola and mastrone, I think you're not living the lifestyle if it increases your blood pressure. Anivar probably not. Wendstrom, yes. Andadrol, very likely. At 50 milligrams per day, I think you can see some changes in your blood pressure, especially if you go to 100 milligrams per day, which is where the fun happens. That's the honest. And at prembalone, we're talking about 150 milligrams a week. I think you're the same as MENT alone, 150 milligrams a week. I think that's where most people start to notice like good effects. Of course, you can run 20 milligrams once in a while, or 50 milligrams a week, 25. I think at those cells, you don't really see blood pressure changes. But where most people start to notice the benefits, 150 milligrams a week, that's where the blood pressure starts to increase a little bit. So let's see. Trin, MENT alone, Anadrol, Wendstrom. Baldenone. Baldenone. And then Halo testing, can we put that in there? Sure. Yeah. And then the other ones I would feel are reasonably safe. And again, Halo testing is not something that you run longer. It's like a two week love experiment. Yeah. Or if it's a 10 day. Yeah, if it's not 10 days. And then again, since you're at the end of prep, it's very unlikely, even though, again, on paper with the inhibition of cortisol metabolism and all these other side effects that Halo testing has, it's very unlikely that you see blood pressure increases because you're so goddamn lean at the end of prep. I never recommended Halo testing so many times to competitors. And I never ever seen them have elevated blood pressure. That's why I didn't think of it. That's why I'm not Halo testing. It's not been an experience because I would only use it during prep. Exactly. So if you use it at the end of an offseason, for example, which I would say would be. When you're using it at the end of a prep too. Yeah. And then it doesn't really do anything to your blood pressure. So many people stay leaner. It's possible that people stay leaner. They wouldn't have high blood pressure. But I like to eat, Dean. Kurt, I like to eat. Then use more growth hormone. Oh, yeah. But then I get sleepy. Use more stimulants. You could for a long time. Use more stimulants. Constrict my blood vessels. And then the last one we should discuss are the fat burners. Some of them increase your blood pressure a little bit. Clembutrol seems to be a little bit person dependent. And dose-dependent. Yeah, dose-dependent. For me, my blood pressure always went lower on Clembutrol. But again, I use it during cutting phase. Yeah. Yeah, prep. Offender, you'll raise it. Offender, yo-him-bi, an entire dose juice. Caffeine. And then, yeah, and then some of the neutropics, like bromantane, ritalin, modafanil, Adderall, if you consider that neutropin. Crystal meth. Yeah, crystal meth. Yeah, crack cocaine. Yeah, so from the ones that people generally use, I would say that some of the Clembutrol that really an effigy, effigy, that really cause elevated blood pressure. I think effigy more. That's why we got the ECM stack. That's why we got the ECM stack to kind of help bring blood pressure down with the aspirin. And that's about it. Yeah, well, there'd be aspirins in there to prolong the half-life process. Yeah, but it also lowers blood pressure, too. Yeah, lowers blood pressure, also. And then out of all the other performance enhancing drugs, I think it's mostly the steroids. The real good hardcore steroids, they're fun to use, that increase blood pressure. But from the entire slew of performance enhancing drugs, peptides, melanotent, too, maybe? It's sort of, I guess, from a, well, but you get with melanotent, too, if you go to, I wouldn't say like an extremely high dose, but let's say like one milligram of melanotent, too, which should probably puke your guts up with. Yeah. The vasodilation effect that comes from that dose probably has blood pressure lowering effects. Right, yeah. I think that's about it, man, that you really have to be paying attention to. And then in most cases, the dose is the poison. The lack of the lifestyle and the dose is basically the sole determining factor. Pretty much. If you need blood pressure medication or not. You know? And I hate to say it, but taking these medications prophylactically the entire year. No, Dina and I talked about that, too. Not a good idea. How about we do dieting cardio prophylactically the entire year? And with that, and with that, the end of all the ground table is done before we really turn it to a half percent audience retention. So next time we'll do the kidney tier list. What I had on there, maybe we can tease the audience a little bit, hydration and electrolytes, yes, blood pressure management, like we just discussed. And then there's actually not much you can do for your kidneys. You've got astrogalus, root extract and mitochondrial compounds like SS3, 1, SLU, Pp3. Maybe you should discuss that in 30 minutes. Do you guys have 30 minutes to discuss the kidney? Because it's actually not much. I have a call. You have a call. Okay, fuck it. We'll do it next time. I think there's other things that we can add on. And we can do it offline like gliothion, cordyceps, mushroom that I've got all those things towards the kidneys that kidney disease, what we'll circle back to is oxidative stress and offsetting the impact of... Not again, Dean. Yeah, not again. Offset oxidative stress at the kidneys and then lowering blood pressure so that you're not basically punching holes in your kidneys that will never hurt themselves. That was basically my conclusion of the ball that I know deep dive regarding kidney health, oxidative stress and lack of estrogen. And with that, we are done. Guys, the links are down below for these two beautiful gentlemen with a little bit of hair and a little bit more hair. Dean, your hairline looks immaculate and Kurt, it's slowly coming back. Slowly. Slowly, good to see. Are you going to, like once it really grows, are you going to do a hairstyle or? I don't know, yeah. I'd like to have some hair again. Okay. Yeah, I like it like this. I like the wing done much. I look at it too good, it's nice to have the option. So... Take better care of my hair. GHK Copper, bro, look into that. I used to... Oh, really? So you're on the peptide bandwagon, okay. I used to do that years ago before it was a... Really? Probably before it was popular. Yeah. Oh. Just come by the pharmacies that made it here for me. Yeah. I'll do one for your hair. Yeah. GHK Copper. And one for your nails. Combination with high-dose growth hormone. You'll be cutting your nails and cutting your hair like twice a day. Exactly. It's like that scene from Indiana Jones, the Holy Grill. The Raiders of the Lost Ark, where he ages super fast and his hair grows super fast. You guys remember that? It's around our time, right? Yeah, we remember that scene, right? That's how fast it grows on GHK Copper and growth hormone. But your skin looks youthful. So you get a youthful appearance, but your hair grows really fast. Too off topic. Guys, this was a pleasure. We'll see you next month. Let's give it four weeks. This will drop on Monday very fast because I have nothing else for my editor. And then let's see, maybe the next episode on the Vigor Steve YouTube channel is another Annabelle Groundtable. I gotta get the Daddy Duty out of the way. Guys, I'll see you next month, okay? Thank you. Take it easy. Take care. Ciao.