Well, this is a great start of the vigorous Q&A. Um, I have some bad news. I was sick all week as you might hear from my voice. Um, so I didn't record any videos. So, next week the videos are going to be a little bit sparse because some days some videos take time to prepare for, right, from my editor, but he was also on holiday, so he didn't edit and I didn't record. But I did script. I did script for um the the best dose of Prima Bolan video. So that script of 25 pages is now done. So all I have to do is record that. And I made script for two other videos. So at least the scripting is done. But I was not in any way, shape, or form um capable to record YouTube videos. But I'll get those out of the door next week. Uh the reason why I'm late is because Paul had his birthday and of course as a good friend um I have to wish him a happy birthday at the expense of you guys. But we're still going to go uh for two and a half hours. So get your questions in. Hopefully the audio is uh good from now on. Let me uh first load in some questions from the members that posted it before I forget those. You know what? We'll do those at the end. We'll do the membership questions at the end when I won't be taking any super chat uh cues anymore. Okay, let's do some uh questions from members first. I guess we're going to have to cut out the first three minutes of this podcast. You know what? Let's do some other updates besides me being sick. Um, I did a uh podcast with uh David de Yeah, David Czech Czechovich I think. Hopefully I pronounced that correctly. So I did that yesterday and Friday. It should drop on Monday. His Instagram and YouTube channel is down below. Please subscribe to his YouTube channel. David uh David Czechovich. We discussed anything from first cycles to, you know, safer practices of performance-enhancing drugs, a little bit about my backstory, why I never competed and that kind of stuff. So, it was a very cool and very fun interview. David is a very uh good host. So, we had a great time. So, hopefully it all will drop on Monday. So, please subscribe already so you get that right when it lands and I'll link it on the next Victor's Q&A when it's already live. Uh, what else is new? Oh, yeah. There's some some guy impersonating me on Facebook is also linked down below. So, do me a solid and report those accounts for impersonation because those accounts are not mine. I have a Facebook account, but that's purely to manage um automated messages on Instagram which seem to be no longer working. So, the two Facebook accounts linked down below, please report those. Let's get rid of them because they're selling uh PDS which I'm not affiliated with and and brands that I would never [\h__\h] endorse. So, let's get those channels or those Facebook pages deleted ASAP. And um because last week there were so many kids in the live stream, right, asking oral only cycle questions and height questions, we're going to age restrict the vicorous Q&A going forward because I'm kind of sick of uh having all these kids um ruin the chat, right? So, um it would be morally um impossible for me to answer those questions. And of course a tremendous liability on my end to start answering height qual height protocols or only oral only cycles for kids. Um so from now on uh during the live stream it's 18 plus and after live stream I'll reverse that back and then everybody can give it a watch. But during the live stream I want nothing to do with it. Nothing to do with it. Uh let's see. All right let's start answering some questions. Dov good evening Steve. What reasonable body scan uh can one do before first time growth hormone use? So let's say thyroid, abdominal area, ultrasound B has no history of cancer in a few generations. Thank you. Um yeah, so normally you kind of separate that between the thyroid, upper abdomen and lower abdomen. So I would do all organs, you know, and do an an X-ray of your chest, right, for your lungs to kind of see what's going on. Now cardiac cancer is does that even exist? I'm sure there's some sort of instance of metastasized cancer ending up in the heart and causing issues, but um from all the research that I've done, it seems that cardiac cancer is either uh impossible or extremely rare because I've never encountered it. So I don't think you need to do an MRI in your heart or CT scan in your heart or an echo cardiogram on your heart um to see if there's any cancer present but an an abdominal ultrasound and a thyroid ultrasound and a chest X-ray for your lungs that would be advised if you're worried about cancer doing your cancer marker uh screening with blood work every year is advised and um and of course you know making sure you stay away from things that are highly carcinogenic like smoking and stress and you terrible lifestyle choices. I think that's worse for you regarding cancer growth like oxidative stress than a little bit of growth hormones. All right, let's scroll down. We have liftoff. Woo! All right, Kashia, welcome to the Vigor Crew, bro. Yeah, all the bandwidth went to Paul, that's for sure. All right, let's start answering some more questions. Uh, hey Steve, I've heard TRT can help reduce feritin levels, but I've also heard TRT can increase iron absorption. Uh, what's been your experience with it? Um, maybe TRT reduces feritin level as in lowering liver inflammation because now you start to eat better. So, I would say that that's a secondary effect, but TRT can also lower feritin levels because you have less iron storage because now all the iron is in your hemoglobin within your red blood cells. But yeah, steroids can increase iron absorption, especially if you um you know supplement vitamin C with food sources that are rich in iron like beef, salmon, uh spinach, albeit that most of that iron and spinach is not very uh highly bioavailable. So um and of course uh TRT can increase hematocrit and rob blood count. So um you know if you come off TRT or you're lower the dose then this increased iron that you now absorbed during TRT um will then be liberated from the red blood cells and metabolized from the hemoglobin and then end up in the feritin for storage for later use. So it can all go up, right? That's why it's very important to self diagnose if you have sleep apnea or not and get that under control because sleep apnea is also terrible for your uh hematocrit and uh red blood cell count. And of course iron you know if that's high you can always donate or fast or do um you know what is it chilation therapy to get that out or simply reduce your dietary iron intake or take um IP6 right choline hexa phosphate to inhibit iron absorption. So there's multiple different ways to kind of get that done. Marco Marcel coach when to check sperm markers after postcycle therapy. uh I would waste at least 3 months but uh it seems that for most of the semen analysis that I've seen after PCT it starts to get pretty good after 6 months or so. So that means if you want to come off to get your wife pregnant then give yourself at least 6 months but it might take longer. Yeah. All right. Kobe, welcome to the Vicor crew. What's up buddy? Let's see. Good for you, Steve. Finding a middle ground and solutions for the live stream. Yeah, we have to uh the show must go on, right? But not the expense of um you know, getting myself into legal trouble from disgruntled parents because then it's suddenly my fault, you know. All right. Five bucks. Yeah. Yeah. the the super chats don't work that way, Leon. Thank you for all the life-changing information. My pleasure. My pleasure. Hey, Steve. The real dosage of water and salt in peak week. Um, well, it kind of depends on what you've been doing before, right? I would keep my water high and my salt intake high and then maybe taper it off the last two days after carb loading has already took taken place because you need water. You need salt for your carb load to be successful. So we don't cut water um during the the depletion week and then cut it even more while we're start loading carbs and especially not salt. And then you wonder why all these guys are constipated and balloon stomachs on stage because all the rice that they ate or the potatoes that they ate are still within their intestinal tract. So, high water, high salt, and taper that off on your cleanup day, the day before the competition, where you generally do a fat load instead of a carb load. And fat is very easy to [\h__\h] out because it lubricates your intestinal tract, allowing you to pass it through, right? Especially if you take some tutka and oxile to kind of lubricate the entire thing even more. Carbohydrates are kind of dry, right? I mean, if you eat a boatload of rice and a boatload of fish and not so much fat on the day that you're carbloating, uh it it's very likely that that gets stuck internally. So, you need a little bit of tutka and you certainly need a buttload of water to pass it all through because constipation kills your shape. Uh Chase Hobs, another member, how do I super chat? Well, there's a little um dollar sign below the comments and then uh you fill in a number and ask your question and then it will appear. Octavian, optimal carbohydrates, protein, fat ratio uh ratio while bulking. uh also difficult to say because it depends on which phase of the bulk you are in. But generally speaking, protein can come down as carbohydrate intake goes up and fat kind of depends on how fast your um uptake like digestion of carbs and protein are because too much fat will slow digestion too much to the point you feel full all the time but not enough fat will like I mentioned before will not lubricate the stool. So you can't pass the food through fast enough and uh you know high fat intake might be associated with reduced insulin sensitivity. So some people do best with you know majority of carbs and protein during the day. When I say majority of the protein is actually low protein, maybe 200 grams of protein and like 1,000 grams of carbs, for example, and then a good amount of fat is at the last meal to kind of lubricate everything through and not have a tremendous negative effect on your insulin sensitivity because most of the carbohydrates have already been consumed and the lantis is already take tapering off, right? That's one of the methods you can get around to it. So, um, yeah, it really depends, man. you watch the step-by-step cycle design video where I dis, you know, kind of discuss how to increase your calories and increase the drugs in a step-by-step fashion and what you need to pay attention to. But there's no ideal ratio, man. You just got to do what works for you. And it might work for a while until it doesn't work and then you need to make an adjustment. And that's why we have coaches to do that for you if you don't know how. Hey Steve, thanks for not taking breaks even when sick. Yeah, the show must go on, dude. Even though I didn't record, so I feel a little bit stupid for not having everything ready for my editor who was going to work on Monday. But maybe Monday we can get another uh video done. Um I would like to record that best dose of primabolin, which was a lot of fun to prepare for. All right. Uh let's see. Does uh growth hormone have localized IGF-1 effect when injected in certain muscle groups you want to grow? And if so, have you tried it? Uh yes, I've tried it. And yes, it causes a signaling of IGF-1 lo loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc loc locally. So that's within the immediate vicinity. Um I injected all my growth hormone to my right chest for an entire year and it didn't do anything to you know break up the imbalance and it was all pharmaceutical grade. So um that being said injecting IGF-1 into my chest uh when I was still running ink that made a significant difference. Yeah that made a significant difference. So I I would say that the localized IGF-1 production even at higher dosages of GH let's say 8 IU per shot is marginal compared to a small administration of IGF-1 LR3 this or real ink IGF-1 recombinant version. So um you know it's it's it's expensive and and if you want to get some sort of localized IGF-1 for recovery purposes uh why not inject it intramuscularly. The problem is with all these intramuscular shots over time you do lose a little bit of definition even if you just use a slimp pin and even if you only eject small amounts of water because you're constantly you know piercing the skin and constantly breaking up the the the skeletal muscle tissue and that scar tissue kind of fills in the def uh yeah fills in your striations. So that's um you know that that's a bit of an issue unfortunately. But I I'm not going to compete. Um so I just pin where I want it. So I did most of the IGF-1 in my chest. Um yeah, I think the effect is still there. Still feels hard, but I won't be using any IGF-1 until uh it's actually time for a real [\h__\h] cycle because all it does is potentiate some fullness right now. And uh I'm not drawing. So Oh, the super chat function is not open really. Maybe that has to do with the age restriction. Let's turn the age restriction off then. Well, I I gave it a try, guys. Uh visibility done. Maybe it's the age restriction that you doesn't allow you to super chat. I know. No, I've never age restricted my videos. All right, save. Okay, I I removed age restriction. Let's see if you guys can super chat now. I was wondering where the super chats were. But you might have to refresh the page, obviously. Bet it doesn't feel as hard as when you're on actual testosterone. Um, hard as what? Oh, you mean the chest? I don't know. It's pretty hard, man. It's pretty [\h__\h] hard, but it's not as full and as strong as being on actual testosterone. All right, so [\h__\h] man. So, now it works. So, I can't even age restrict this [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Otherwise, I don't get super chats. Yay, super chats are back. All right. Well, iron grid, I don't know where you are, but if you see some 16year-old or 18year-old or hide protocols, just autoband them. I don't have time for that [\h__\h] anymore, man. I'm running out of patience, right? I ran out of [\h__\h] which counts as cardio also. All right. Uh, let's start scrolling a little bit. Danny Steve, I had a pituitary tumor and my testosterone was a female level 19 niggs per dillure, but DHEA was three times the reference range. How to lower DHEA sulfate? Okay, so it might be that um one of your hormones that metabolizes DHEA into testosterone is insufficient. So I would recommend you to watch the stereogenesis inhibitor video because I can't remember which exact enzyme that was. and it has timestamps. So, I'll link that down below uh underneath the day with Cheshovich or Czechovich Instagram page. There you go. Right there. Because it it might mean that you're not um converting DHEA into testosterone. Now if you have a pituitary tumor then I would suspect that lutensing hormone follicical stimulating hormone and HCG levels and maybe even growth hormone levels right all the pituitary hormones are sky [\h__\h] high. So it it might mean that your um yeah it might mean that something is going wrong or your LH and FSH is basically zero and this is why your testosterone levels are low but your adrenal glands are still producing adequate amounts or maybe even uh bolt loads of DHA sulfate. So I would have to look into your entire hormone profile to kind of see what's going on. Um, but yeah, if you have a tumor there, then obviously run that past the doctor first to see what you need to do to get rid of that. Well, you can't get rid of that, but how you can live with that. All right, it works. Well, I guess no age restriction for us. Sorry, guys. If any kids show up, it's I I tried, right? I tried. Uh, does rubber stopper blunt needle in any meaningful way? Um yeah, I noticed this myself a couple times and it really depends on what kind of rubber stopper. So if you um get underground labs for example that just use the very thick rubber stopper and use the insulin syringe to kind of draw then it feels less sharp. But if you put the insulin syringe in into this very nice poly polyurethine stopper or another kind of um silicone or silicone stoppers, those are the best. They're just transparent. You can look straight through them. Those uh really go um you know go in like butter. Basically, the insulin syringes, those don't blunt the needle, but those cheap rubber stoppers that the underground labs use, yeah, they blunt it. So you you put the insulin needle in and then it it kind of hurts. But if you put it in, you know, the GH like a genotropen pen or a size cartridge or Omnitrop cartridge for example, it doesn't blunt it at all. So it kind of depends on what you're piercing it through. Um, and with a 25 gauge or 23 or an 18, well, it doesn't really get blunt because those gauges are way higher. But I think it's only the case with insulin syringes. Marlin asked the liver king, I need peptides. I think I think I should um Ah, yeah. Marlin is spamming. Okay, so we're going to have to ban Marlin because Marlin is uh needy AF. All right, I'd use her from channel. Goodbye. There'll be a fish somewhere else. Uh yeah, good comeback. Ask the liver king. How to get 18 I use of growth hormone prescribed in America you can. Yeah. In America only. All right. Uh Mel Fredo after one month ATG monotherapy total testosterone went from uh 800 to,00 uh doubled. SBG 6153. Okay that's not bad. That's actually sometimes it goes up during ATG monotherapy, but it doesn't happen to you. Estradal 28 to 68. Yeah, that's to be expected. Um, do I need an AI? Yes. And should I try Pvar to get more free T, feeling great, not size or do a cycle? You can either do an AI or proviron because proviron does lower SHG and reduce estradile. So in this case, it might be suitable to give that a try. So you will have you can take one compound but get two results that you're after. Or you can take an AI and by reducing your estrogen you also get less production of SHBG. So provide will inhibit the SHG from binding up testosterone because it has a higher binding affinity and it inhibits the conversion of testosterone into estradi by um inhibiting the aromatiz enzyme temporarily. But if you take aromomasin, you block the aromatase enzyme permanently because it's a suicide inhibitor. Um, and reducing the estradile sends less of a signal to your liver to produce sex binding globbulin. So both will get the job done. Um, but you already started HCG monotherapy and I think proviron is going to be the gateway for you to transition into real [\h__\h] steroids. So go ahead. You have my blessing. 12.5 milligrams per day. Um, yeah, I think that's enough. And then recheck your SHBG and estradile levels maybe two weeks into that because it goes down quite fast. Um, to see if you need 25 milligs per viron. If you do need 25 milligs per var because your SHBG and estradile is still a little bit too high. Um, and and you want to see what's behind door number three because you already did door number one ATG monotherapy and door number two now being a low dose per. And if you want to up the prof and proceed to door number three, then feel free to do so, but get some [\h__\h] blood work again, right? Blood work first, then make the adjustment. And then maybe two months or three months down the line, you say, "Fuck this." You take the ATG out and you go to TRT and you can join the club, join the rest of the bros, Leon. All right, it worked. How to get rid of tingling sleeping hands fingers at nights. I'm on 250 milligrams of test and 20 milligrams anavar when I'm natty. I don't have this problem. If I can't get rid of it, is this carpal tunnel surgery worth it? Okay, so this is rare because most guys would only get this from like six I use a growth hormone and upwards. So it's good that you're not at six I use growth hormone. Uh it's also unfortunate because otherwise I would be able to tell you stop the growth hormone for a while and then slowly ramp it back up. So there's a couple things you uh can do. Maybe on this month's test you have too much estrogen, does too much water retention, and does you experience symptoms of carpal tunnel? So maybe do some blood work and see if you need to bring your estrogen levels down or um uh you know increase your water intake, increase your sodium intake. Let that normalize to the point you're always excreting, right? Maybe you're not drinking enough water or getting enough sodium and thus you're retaining water because your eldoststerone levels are skyhigh which you can also bring down with telmarten a blood pressure medication 20 milligrams 40 milligrams um depending on how high or low your blood pressure is currently right if your blood pressure is low now um then uh but your water retention is high from high estrogen then right Thomas might not be a good idea you need to increase your blood pressure by increasing your sodium intake so there's a multiple different directions that you can go into. And it could be that you're simply sleeping on your um your veins, right? So, if you sleep like like this and you're cutting off this vein, then you're cutting off the circulation to your arm, including the oxygen and then after a while it starts to get numb and tingling and uh you know, paristhesia feeling at night. And if you don't have to during the day, then obviously you're cutting off blood circulation or uh you know maybe you just go to bed like a bloated mess. But that brings us back to the water retention issue. So multiple directions you can uh now proceed into. I hope you get it fixed. Um, but yeah, do some blood work, check your blood pressure and and see how you can manipulate your water retention and maybe uh, you know, get a bolster, you know, like or a body pillow that you can hug and then you don't lean forward too much into your shoulder to the point everything cuts off and the other arm can kind of hug the pillow as well. I mean, I've been using a body pillow for 10 years. Um, sometimes it's my wife, sometimes it's a body pillow actually. Uh, and I don't have any tingling or numb harms uh, even when I take a bottle of GH. Yeah, Kratus, what's up? If I'm taking 160 micrograms IGF-1 LR3 two to three times a week, intramuscular and weak body parts, can you be taken without weeks off on cycle? Also, does it make sense to sometimes use alo glipin versus govia with LR3 to longer halflife? Uh yeah, you can experiment with that with the depthal peptidis 4 inhibitors to prevent the breakdown like the the reason why I usually recommend govia is because it has a short half-life um so you can get some experience and not have this uh prevention of breakdown of insulin because a lot of guys also use insulin long acting insulin. So if you use long acting insulin and a deep peptidase 4 inhibitor uh and you're preventing the breakdown of a long acting insulin while you're sleeping that can be risky. You might not wake up or you wake up in a puddle of sweat and you're [\h__\h] confused and instead of eating you go into the shower. Been there. Been there. It's like, "Oh, I'm so sweaty." You go to the shower, you start showering and after a while you're like, "Where the [\h__\h] am I? What is going on?" And you're like, "Oh, yeah. Hypoglycemia." And then you walk down to the kitchen naked, dripping with water, eating the cupboard, right? Which you should have done obviously in the beginning. So again, this is one of the reasons why I recommend DPPIs with a shorter half-life until you have some experience. And if you do have some experience and you know exactly how your blood glucose levels are going to change and how they're going to be upon waking, then take a DPPI with a longer halfife that might overlap into midnight, you know, because IGF-13 is of course uh active for what 32 36 hours after the administration. Um, regarding the the the sensitivity, you know, I think if you use it three times a week, you might be able to extend it, but it really depends on what else you're doing, right? If you're blasting the insulin and you might lose insulin sensitivity alongside the reduction of IGF-1 sensitivity, then you might still need to take a week off. Uh, but I'll be the first one to say that I ran incorrect for like 80 days straight and uh I didn't take a day off because it it kept working. it kept working. But I haven't really talked to people who had access to that much ink. You know, they maybe were able to buy a vial or two and then I would tell them to, you know, do the the full protocol, but this is in the context of steroids and just preventive preventatively take uh, you know, the last seven days or 10 days of the month off to at least ensure that IGF-1 sensitivity is sustained because they had limited supply and it was [\h__\h] expensive when they bought it. Um, but again, I got lucky. I I was able to buy a good amount and I didn't pay so much for it as most people do because well I guess I'm uh lucky in that sense. So I I ran it for 80 days straight at 500 micrograms and I did not lose sensitivity at all. So still kept working. Uh it sucks that it's out now though. Let's see. Hey Steve, what do you think uh Haney Ramot uses all these different types of potatoes to peak his clients? Also, where do you search to get your nutritional information from? Chronometer is not the best. Yeah, I used to go to self.nutrition data or nutrition data.sself.com, but I think they pulled their entire nutritional database out. So, now you have to go to the um USDA database, but since I don't do client diets anymore and my diets are all like pre-made, I got all the data that I need, you know, for my Excel sheet. And then you know you can you can Google the ORAC values the the antioxidant values of particular nutrients and the the creatine and the carnitine content. There's websites for that. And then there's soluble and insoluble fiber websites. Um maybe should link those below because I know you guys are going to say I can't find it. Steve throw me a bone here. All right let me see. Orac values super foodly. I haven't checked these websites in a while, so if they don't work, no complain. Uh, what else we got? Fiber content of food preo pre-biotin. I think it's all on these websites. Uh where is it then? Do I have the I don't have the creatine content of food. I can't remember what Dr. Burke Oh, give me a break. Uh, I can't remember what the website that was. I'll I'll search it after the show. Let me make a note here. There was one more. USDA nutrition database food data central. Is that the one? quite let me see if this is the correct one. It is it I think this is the one. Looks exactly like the clinical trials website. Yeah, it is. All right, let me let me link this website down below. So, here you can kind of piece it together, bro. All right, refresh the page. And uh what Honey Rambo does to Pikas athletes. I don't think it's just potatoes. I think it's more than potatoes. Yeah, it might be anadrol and superrol and halotestin and uh and injectable adenosine monof phosphate as a vasod diilator. You know the rumor mill regarding uh henny rabbot's practices are very strong uh but he's never confirmed any of it. And I think he'll take his protocols to the grave, but he might talk about nutrition, which is just part of the strategy, of course. Uh, hey Steve, what size syringes do you recommend for cerebralizing injection? And do you uh need a filter for drawing out the ampule new to injectable trying to get it dried? Okay. Uh I would just draw straight from the ampule um with a 20 no with a 18 gauge one and a half inch because those 5ml uh or 10 milll ampules are quite big. Um and then transfer that over to a five or 10 ml syringe obviously depending on the size of the the ampule. Then you remove the 18 gauge because that's our potent size. You can literally stab somebody to death with that uh gauge. And then you replace that for 25 gauge 1 and 12 in. Right. Then you inject 5 milliters or 10 milliliters or 2 milliliters, whatever you prefer. Intramuscularly in the glutes, in the lats or in the quads. Those are the biggest muscle groups. Those will hold the largest injection volume. And since cerebralin doesn't really cause any post- injection pain. It's probably the smoothest injection you will ever do in your life. Um, besides maybe sterile water, which why would you inject that, right? I mean, it's inert. Um, but cerebralin is the smoothest injection I've ever done in my life. And I've done a lot of shots. Yeah. Yeah, I'll tell you that. So, uh, 25 gauge, 1 and 12 inch, nice and deep. That's what she said. Hey, Steve, any thoughts on BBC 157 as a liver an ancillary? uh you didn't watch the BBC57 video, but yes, it might be uh practical for um several liver related diseases, but not something I would run 24/7, even though it does increase growth hormone uh receptor density and growth hormone response in uh fibro, excuse me, fibroblasts. Um, but it was not shown to be a preventative ancillary for liver health, but it might heal your liver if there's an injury there. Again, watch the BPC57 deep dive because you [\h__\h] ask every week um about BPC57 and I'm sick of it. That's why I made a video about it, bro. You know, so I didn't have to answer BPC-157 questions, but I'll take your $10 regardless. Yeah. Yeah. This is all going into my BPC-157 fund. Good job. Keep up sharing the good information. You and Dr. James are the guys. Yeah, I wish Dr. James would make videos a little bit longer though. They're too short. Great on editing. [\h__\h] funny. But I would like to see like double the length. And I get I understand completely why he does it, right? Because audience retention is [\h__\h] abysmal nowadays. And uh I mean it's it's definitely working for the growth of his channel, but I I already see that he's getting too many client requests and that's why the frequency of his uploads have gone down. Eventually I'll figure it out that he shouldn't coach so much and it's better to make more videos and then maybe get a couple sponsors on board. James, if you're watching right, you're in Dubai, you can start asking for sponsors because you have 20,000 subs. Maybe she got Dr. James on board. and ask him why he took a Tony slogan, you know, that natty day wasted. What a day. Natty is a day wasted. That sounds cute. But when you have 100 10,000 subscribers, you got to be a little bit more um your slogans have to be a little bit more intelligent. Don't say that, you know, cuz I'm not antiatty at all, man. Where are you posting the links? It's down below in the YouTube description section. I do that with every video and then I save it. I saved it like 100 times because there's so many referrals to other uh uh videos. Let's see. Still got two more ampules to do this month. Can't wait to inject. Yeah, I know the feeling. But all I inject is 8CG FSH and growth. It's so boring. Uh Joshua McGarity uh 25 m M 25 years old. I know that 635 is testosterone. He tried to squeeze in as many characters as he could for a super chat. Okay. I'm not sure what the M stands for. M 25 M. I don't know. Which hormone is that? Methanolone. All right. 635 total testosterone 12.5 picoggrams estradiol 21 SHBG. Low energy and libido. Started HCG monotherapy. 300 I use every other day 5 weeks ago. Bloods with me in the beginning of December. Nothing noticeable yet. How long before feeling any noticeable improvement? Uh you should feel it right away. And if you don't feel it on 300 IUs uh every other day, I would just increase to a thousand [\h__\h] IUs every other day. Um because you should feel something already. You the SG monotherapy should increase your testosterone levels, your estrogen levels, and your SHBG levels. So um and again, if you're 25 years old, that's your age. I'm assuming that's what the M stands for. And otherwise, if some is somebody already screaming at the screen, 25 male. Okay. Male. Male [\h__\h] It's male. 86 location. Yes to the S. Uh location is right here. Yeah. Uh the age is 40 though. It's not very appealing. I'm in a good specimen. Anyway, uh so he's a 25 years old male. uh good testosterone levels but low estrogen levels somewhat low SVG levels low energy and libido um and it's it's a HCG monotherapy isn't really working so I would increase to a th00and I use HCG um if your health care provider at Mer Health is against that just tell them Coach Steve said said it's okay I paid $10 super chat to Coach Steve and he said it was okay go ahead run through your script and and otherwise um you might have to get additional ATCG not on the script to uh to make a dose the ATCG to 1,000 IO three times a week so you can feel good again because on a thousand IOS ATCG right now I can tell you that my libido is [\h__\h] stellar uh and I'm a 40-year-old male with 820 nanogs per dill total testosterone and what was it 45 pics per milliliter estradile I think My SG was like 45, something like that. And my energy is high. My libido is [\h__\h] high. So, uh, maybe you need to triple the dose, bro. And then you can join the vigorous libido club. Yeah, if you're with uh Dr. Adam Hotkus, I'm sure he will agree with my recommendations. Hey, Steve. Uh, for the past two to three months, I have consistently gotten sick every one to two weeks. Jesus, that sucks. Sounds like you overtrained. Uh, my CRP is 2 milligs per distillery medoxy. It's normal. Yeah, two. Two is still within acceptable range, but it could be from being sick. Try changing nutrients, pits, supplementation, lifestyle, still sick. Uh, diagnose for Lyme disease, mold poisoning, something serious, right? Uh, gastrointestinal problems because if you repeatedly get sick, then that's an autoimmune condition. And of course an elevated CRP slightly 2 milligrams per diliter is not that high. Um is just a result of an impaired immune function. So I I would ask further with your doctor said please test me for Lyme disease, please check me for mold poisoning. Please check me for other issues with the intestinal tract. Maybe your gut microbiome is completely [\h__\h] up. Um maybe do a stool examination, right? And and you could change your nutrition all you want and the PEDs and the supplements and the lifestyle all you want. But if the mold is in your house or you got bitten by a tick, right? Or or your gut microbiome is completely [\h__\h] up, then you need real intervention. So this is just surface intervention that you can do. You've already tried that. You're still sick. You know, be be a little bit more aggressive. And if your doctor is like it's normal, [\h__\h] the doctor. Find another guy. Right? There's plenty of doctors on the planet. You just have to find one that is willing to help. If none of them are willing to help, fly to Thailand. I'll send you to the right hospitals. And then while you're sick, I'll also send you to the right [\h__\h] bars so at least you can get your dick sucked and have a great holiday. It'll make you feel better. I promise. Yeah. Uh, this is true. Asks, don't have GH or GH6. What's secret you'd use? Uh, melatonin. Melatonin batch. Not saying that to you, but that is probably the best growth mode secret you can get. And yes, uh, Dr. Steve, no, I'm not a doctor. Um, Steve, your online steroid daddy secrets. Don't even know how to [\h__\h] spell it anymore. Ip morelin. I have a video about how to maximize girth secretion, but it didn't get enough views. But remember, you [\h__\h] can watch it now after I linked it down below. All right, third from the top. Um, so I would do I would do tessimelin. That seems to be the most favorite combination. So maybe 150 micrograms iplin twice per day and and 1 milligram tesamerellin twice per day to activate the ghrelin and the growth hormone releasing hormone receptor of the pituitary gland and then make sure excuse me that some of the statin levels are nice and low because you didn't eat so much um and and you took adequate took adequate time between um growth hormones then you take your 3 to 10 to 30 to 100 milligrams milit tonin before bed with amino acids and then uh yeah and then you spend all this money and you put all this effort in and you realize that I should have just gone with two I use growth hormone man would have been cheaper only one shot for better results but you'll you'll you'll have to learn the hard way I'm sure is it a bad idea to get back on TRT after being off when I did blood off for a year and found my cholesterol LDL high insulin 14 mill uh for the first time. Well, it sounds that you have some dietary interventions to do and then when you have your cholesterol, LDL, and fasting insulin levels uh good again, then go on TRT. I mean, I I can't wait to be back on TRT, bro. [\h__\h] Yes, Friday went to the gym and so I've been off TRT now for well, basically a year, right? And I dabbled with growth hormone IGF-1 in the meantime. Uh, so I wasn't really fully off. Um, and it just felt like [\h__\h] yesterday. Of course, you're sick also, so that doesn't help. But I'm like, why the [\h__\h] am I doing this? This is not even fun anymore. So, I feel your pain after being off TRT for a year. Um, but first, first things first, get yourself healthy because if you go in TRT, then your cholesterol levels will get worse. And if you go into your routine and you start to feel better, but your cholesterol levels are worse, then uh you're probably also not going to do uh the things you need to do to get your fasting insulin levels under control again because you're like, "Ah, I feel better." Ah, we have a celebrity in the house, David. What's up, bro? How have you been? So, we had yesterday we had a podcast that will drop Monday on his YouTube channel. His channel is linked down below. We had a great conversation. Looking forward to it. Yeah, I actually even though I was there so I don't have to watch it again. But I'm looking forward for the um for the responses of uh the podcast dropping on his channel. Uh that make a great logo for t-shirt. Um man, I already forgot. I already forgot what I was saying. Oh, I'm really far behind. Already seven minutes behind. [\h__\h] I got to speed up. Uh, thank you, Steve. Made it so far with chronometer, but now have to work uh have to do more work on my Excel document. Yeah, Excel is ba man. You can fit all the uh data in. Yeah, can fit all the data in. Sension Martinez. Hey Steve, TRT about 6 months ago at 200 milligrams per week. I bumped it up to 260 test and addited master intate 100 milligrams a week and I'm getting migraines. H okay. Well, let's take the master out first. See if that solves it. But the problem is masterate uh will stay in your system for another two weeks at this dose and then it slowly starts to taper off. So it might take a while before the migraines go away. And I'm not entirely sure why you're getting the migraines. Is that the synthetic carrier oil that the masterate is suspended in? Obviously not pharmaceutical grade. Is it highdosese benzylbenzoate and benzo alcohol benzo alcohol where a very small amount of the people are allergic to? But it could be you know like if you go from one cc a week to let's say two two and a half cc's per week um then you also increase your benzoenzo and bzo alcohol intake and and for some people that can move the needle, right? It's not nothing about the hormones. It could just mean that they're uh intolerant to it, but it's a very small percentage of the people. That's why I didn't really include it in the car or deep dive because I rarely see people being allergic to BB or BA. Um let's see. So, uh or or that your blood pressure went up, you know, from increasing the test and maybe the master inate isn't masterate, but testosterone propinate. I mean, that happens also. So, um, maybe go back down to baseline for a while, right? The 200 milligrams of test that you were on that worked and then see if the migraines go away and then slowly increase the test first, see if the migraines stay away and then uh, see, you know, what you can do to add mass in and of course control your serum lipid levels because at 260 milligrams of test a week, serum estradile might go up. So, yeah, hope that sends you in the right direction. Hey Steve, I'm at 40 milligrams of Accutane one times daily. Oh man, I'm going to Dubai in two months and want to protect myself from the sun. Any advice? Um, sleep during the day and go to and wake up in the evening when the sun is low and uh and party all night. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of cool stuff to do in Dubai. Plus, it's not so [\h__\h] hot. So, you do basically the exact same thing I do. you wake up late, you know, you do all the stuff uh that you want to do um you know, at home work-wise and then you only go out when the sun goes down. And if you go in two months, that's basically like scorching hot [\h__\h] season in Dubai, just like it is in Thailand, right? That's what April, May, May period, you don't want to be outside, you know? You don't want to be outside. So, and and otherwise, uh keep in mind that the desert air is very very dry. So bring some lotion, you know, some high quality vitamin E huronic acid um lotion to uh kind of hydrate your skin on that much Accutane when there's no fluid in the air and your skin is already uh you know dry as [\h__\h] basically. So yeah. Yeah, that's what I would do. Let's see. Cratus. Uh let's see. 5 57 230 lbs 2 grams of gear 8 I use growth hormone 160 micrograms IGF-1 uh LR3 two to three times a week trying to limit organ growth but maximize muscle growth what is a good cap for IGF-1 LR3 dose your organs are going to grow man it's it's that simple like growth hormone IGF-1 is not muscle specific you inject it and and part of that goes systemic so I I noticed when I added in the iron curlex and the GH even at a low dose that my waist got a little bit wider but it's not as wide as it used to be when I was mega dozing gear and megasing GH and there's no way to block the growth hormone receptors of the intestinal tract or the IGF-1 receptors or the insulin receptors of the intestinal tract. Um what you can try to do is avoid like foods that would bloat you and that are super fast to absorb. um and deposit visceral fat in that sense, right? Um and and just try to grow slowly. You know, I think on this cycle you should be growing pretty well. Um but yeah, your organs might might grow along with that. Then again, you know, how much can your organs grow? Um if it's not if you're not increasing food that much, right? I mean, there's a cap on how much organs can grow also because they won't be stimulated with a Perth. Now, that's not entirely true because like the intestinal tract where the food passes through that that's smooth muscle also. So, if you eat a fuckload of food and it all needs to be passed through then just like a cardiac enlargement from having your heart contract harder against elevated blood pressure or um you know temporarily elevated blood pressure while while you're training insane during strenuous sets. Um that is a hypertrophy response also. And it's the same with food. If you're just eating and eating and eating and eating and eating eating, then I think um your intestinal tract is just going to grow also. So maybe incorporate some fasts and some breaks, which of course you're probably don't want to do because then you're missing out on fullness and gains. It's it's a very tough balancing act, man. Even the best of the best, they have, you know, somewhat distended wastes, you know. So So eat the food that really digest well for you. Make sure you follow elimination diets. everything you can do to optimize digestion and um and maybe take breaks here and there and do some fasting, you know, to kind of take the pressure off the organs. That's what I did last week. I could pull a deep [\h__\h] vacuum was great. Do you have any special protocols of getting over the common cold quickly? How long would you wait to get back into the gym? Uh, I wish I I did like a whole afternoon looking for how to get over the common cold quickly and nothing uh seemed to be uh effective. So, uh sometimes you just get unlucky and you get a common cold. I was I could barely focus last week. I mean, I'm I'm getting some brain fog here and there during this [\h__\h] cons uh Q&A. So, it it's just part of the game sometimes. It happens. And I took a week off. I took a week of risk. I was not fatigued, but I still got sick. So, um, I went to the gym anyway. I'm like, "Fuck it. I took a week off. I'm going to go to the gym." Sick or not. I just didn't talk to anybody so I could keep the sickness to myself and not, uh, you know, be an [\h__\h] and spread that around. So, I went to the gym. I trained at 50% um, excluding a couple machines because I still wanted to touch the heavy weight. So, I still did six plates on the leg press. Nice and slow, but I did half the reps. Yeah. Instead of 12 reps, I did six, but I did two sets. So, I got still got 12 reps in. I'm crazy. Um, yeah. So, I'm a little bit sore. Uh, but I I would just still go to the gym. If you don't have a D load scheduled, you know, if you have a common cold, usually you feel bitter after the gym, you get a little bit of endorphins, you get a little bit of blood flow, you walk around, you get out, you know, away from the couch or the computer screen where you're mostly glued to when you're sick. So just uh go out and about, wear one of those um you know those uh face tampons, face hugger tampons and uh so you don't spread it around and then uh then just have it sit there. It's still better than sitting at home, man. I already sat at home for a week fasting and not eating. Not going to sit at home another week trying to get over a [\h__\h] cold. [\h__\h] no. Uh protocol for high white blood cell count. um anti- uh gluccocorticoids prednizone you know I I just reviewed the scientific literature for primabolin I mean if you have HIV or some sort of other um autoimmune condition then primabolan might be able to increase your white blood cell count to somewhat normal levels but that's coming from like subclinical like borderline death to somewhat normal levels. So if you have at the bottom of the reference range and you add primobalin in, it's not going to go any higher, right? You have to be in a terrible state for primoballin to increase your white blood cell count. I think fasting increased white blood cell count. Um I think that's about it. Yeah. And gluccocorticoids, right? I am immunosuppressants and um maybe primo, maybe fasting and zinc is good good for the immune system. AC ATG versus inclin for cruising or cycle assume no ATCG is in stock. So if ATG is not in stock, then all you can do is cruise or inclenine, right? I mean, why why are we talking about ATCG if you can't get it? You know, in a perfect world, I would write ATG monotherapy, but I can't [\h__\h] afford it. Can't find it. Sucks. Uh, is inclin better versus prenal on DHEA for mental well-being? Maybe uh FSH and LH info bad online. Yeah, the the way you formulate your question is also very bad. But it's okay. We're going to power through. um I would do a cruise because in clomophene based on all the research that I've done I don't think that there's any clear scientific evidence that the clotting risks are not there that the ocular changes are not there that some of the side effects associated with clomid which contains enlomophene and zucophene and you know the bolore is saying that zucchophene is the the terrible stereoisomer and that's the one that causes all the side effects but the scientific evidence doesn't prove that the all the side effects which are associated with clomid are coming from zucophene Some of them, yes, but not all of them. Um, and I can't really find a head-on comparison in gapine versus glommit, you know. So, I would do a cruise with DHA and pregnant alone. And if you want to increase your FSH and LH levels, um, use FSH and LH or FSH and ATG, right? But of course, if you don't have ATCG in stock, then yeah, it's it's it's going to be tough, man. I don't think a clomophene is sustainable. And I know there's plenty of guys that are prescribing it, the doctors that are raving for it. Uh but I'm not a doctor. I'm a [\h__\h] hardcore bodybuilder. And uh I would not take anyone anything that could increase clotting risk unless there's clear scientific evidence that it doesn't, which there isn't as of yet. Uh, Trenomax, uh, another reason to come to Thailand. Doc said, "Since I recover every time, it's no, um, autoimmune issue. My gut microbiome is good. Kir probiotics." Yeah. So, you need to find another doctor, dude. Yeah, it's it's fine. You recover. It's not autoimmune. It's not been [\h__\h] diagnosed. Don't listen to these [\h__\h] [\h__\h] that send you home with issues. I'm I'm dead [\h__\h] serious. They did this to my mom for three [\h__\h] years. She almost died from a heart attack. Oh, you're fine. Yeah, you just a chest pain. Go home. She had a block coronary artery for three [\h__\h] years, right? So, don't listen to these quack [\h__\h] [\h__\h] doctors. Find another doctor who can do the testing for you until you're 100% diagnosed and see what is going on. If you're sick every two weeks, there's something wrong with you, right? and your gut microbiome should be good because you take kayfir and probiotics and oral BPC-157, but you haven't done a stool examination yet. Don't be lazy. Be proactive. Get it fixed because nobody's going to do it for you. Really, I care more I care more now about your physical health than your doctor does. [\h__\h] your doctor. [\h__\h] that guy. Oh, you're fine. No, you're not fine. You're fine until you're better. You're fine until you say you're fine. Come to Thailand. Those doctors really care and they charge way less than your shitty doctor does right now. Tim Halpert 20 bucks. Now we're talking. With 400 milligrams testosterone recipient in a week and 300 milligrams bolted on per week, would there be more muscle accretion and less DHT by adding in 200 milligrams deca rather than upping my test by 200 milligrams? Which would be worse for my HDL and hemoglobin? Okay, so we have a fictive cycle of 600 test plus 300 baldone versus 400 test 300 baldone and 200 deca. um you would have less DHT that's for sure but you'd have more estradile cuz now I think 200 deca on top of 400 tests even though that ratio is good 2:1 uh the 300 baldone that you're taking might not be sufficient to inhibit the conversion of testosterone into estradile which nandrallone is now accelerating because nandrone is a metabolic intermediate in that process and of course 610 test 300 balden would also not be enough. So I think in both instances you would need a little bit of an aromatiz inhibitor or you lower the test to 300. You increase the baldon to 400 and you add the deca in because then you have 500 uh aromatizable compounds 500 milligrams test and mandolon together. And I got to scratch my calf. One second. And then you have 400 baldone to inhibit the conversion which I think will be sufficient. So uh maybe you look in that way. Now the problem is that baldenone might raise your hematocrit. Yeah. Nitrohemoglobin I wouldn't worry about that too much. Um and regarding the HDL, I think the androgenic or the anabolic load of let's say 900 mgs per week um will all lower your LDL I think to a similar extent albeit that you'll get more estrogen 400 test plus 200 deca and 300 baldone obviously which might have a favorable effect in your HDL but I don't think it's going to matter that much if you lower the test increase the baldone and add the deca on top. I think HCL is going to be very very very comparable and if you need an aromatiz inhibitor still then your HCL is going to be a little bit lower which you can compensate for with fish oil citrus bergamont bourberine daily fasted cardio cardine if you watch that video even though cardarine um I don't think is going to improve your HDL that much on a 900 milligram anabolic anogenic steroid cycle um so take that with a grain of salt and uh and That's all you can basically do. So, I'm not against it, but uh do your blood work in between and and maybe adjust the dosages a little bit and then see what's going on. And again, if you're worried about hair loss, then uh that's why you're asking about DHT 400 test and 300 baldone. Even 300 test and 300 baldone uh or 300 test and 400 baldone, hair loss is pretty much a given. Yeah, I heard a guy mention a study that after sessation of stairs 90% recovered the baseline at 90 days and 100% at one year. Are you familiar with this? Yes, it's a Harlem study performed by a couple Dutch scientists which I think was horribly performed because um it was an observational study and they did um uh let's see analysis of the steroids that the subjects were taking and many of the steroids and potentially the PCT drugs um were not what they said they were. So they were underdosed or faked or contaminants or whatever. So even though they um specifically listed all these guys were on this drug and that drug and they were going to do this PCT and that PCT, they knew that the steroids were not real or a large portion of them. They uh you can then assume that the PCG drugs are probably also not real or not functioning as they should be. And they still let these guys undergo PCT like a bunch of [\h__\h] [\h__\h] This was a great opportunity to test what kind of PCT protocol would work. Right? Group A, we put them on Novidex, Clomid, and HCG. Right? Group two, we put them on clment and an aromatize inhibitor. Group three, we put them on monotherapy. That is what real [\h__\h] caring scientists would do. But no, it's an operational study. Let them throw them to their own devices. We don't care about their bodybuilders. we want them to suffer for an entire [\h__\h] year. And this is why I give the PCT information out for free on many of the videos, right? I don't have a dedicated ebook for it. Um, so that study showed that everybody recovered after a year. Um, because the variables were [\h__\h] The variables were absolutely terrible. I've seen guys recover within 90 days on a post cycle therapy, uh, let's say 90% of the time. So, you know, and that's basically the same the things that they did and 100% after one year. And it of course everybody recovers or most people recover, but you don't need a study to prove that. And and yeah, I I think the study was horribly performed, dude. I'm very familiar with it. But I will say this, some of the participants of the Harlem study were able to get hormone replacement therapy prescribed through some of the researchers. So, I can't hate it too hard because if you're willing to give somebody a script, I'm willing to be forgiven. Yeah. I hear another 15 [\h__\h] year old. All right, Jorge, you're [\h__\h] out of here. I don't want any to do with you stupid kids. Jesus Christ. believable some people. This is why I want to h restrict. Iron Grid, where the [\h__\h] are you, dude? I'm going to report his ass also. God damn. All right, moving on. Oh, there's another guy that's 15. Where are all the Where are all these messages? One second, guys. I can't do it from Streamyard. So, I gotta got to go to the live chat here. Yeah, I got mods, dude. But I don't know where the [\h__\h] Iron Grid is today. I should just do members only, super chats only. can't even post if you're not a member. All right, sorry guys. I'm way backed up on super chat. So, we're gonna continue. Where are we? All right. FAS uh hey coach Steve for somebody interested in add on to TRT for collagen at a low dose indefinitely would you prefer 2.5 to 10 milligrams of anavar or baldenone I would prefer anavar because the balden studies regarding collagen synthesis are not that stellar and anavar is used clinically exactly for this purpose so it's very simple 2.5 milligrams to 5 milligrams to 10 milligrams anavar depending on how you respond and I I just made an anavar deep dive which I'm sure you didn't watch, so I'll link it down below. With all the unique characteristics and outcomes of the human studies showing that Anavar is like one of the safest oral steroids you can take. So give that one a watch. Oh, 400 Thai bot. Hell yeah, that's a free sandwich. Thank you, Liam. Hey, Steve. Three years ago, I had 500 testosterone and 25 estradile. Today I tested I have 975 testosterone and nearly same as your Dal. So double the test estrogen the same. Can be imbalance issues. Well also get SVG and free testosterone to see how much extra tea my body is using. Um I guess uh you've been watching the channel for 3 years and and thus you were rewarded with double the test and the same amount of estrogen. Even though I would say that your estrogen should be a little bit higher if you're top of the reference range on your total testosterone. I would also assume that your estrogen is around 40 pics per milliliter. So, um Liam, what are you doing? What are you taking? What are you not telling us about? So, you know, all these things uh contribute and uh why is there so much [\h__\h] spam in the chat? Sorry, guys. Emperor Shre, you want to be a mud? There you go. Emperor Shre is now mod. Delete these fools. Yeah. Let's go, man. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. It's like there's it's like a flood of spam. Holy crap. What the hell is going on? Must be some bot going on. Emperor Sharie, I'm counting on you. Use the force. Let's see. Where are we? Sorry about that, guys. People are [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Okay, so I think we pretty much answered this question. I mean, it could be a moment in time. I lost it there. So, you could have like 500 tests on one day and then 900 tests another day. Um, because serum testosterone levels kind of fluctuate. So, it depends on what you're doing, how well you slept, uh, how well you've been taking care of yourself, what you've been eating, which supplements you've been taking. Right? And if you recently started a test booster or HCG monotherapy that you're not telling us about, then yes, of course, you can kind of double your testosterone levels. So yeah, here another one. Steve, is your hair tattooed? I know. Does this look like a [\h__\h] tattoo to you? I would shave it off, but it grows back really really fast. Uh, common cold remedy. Uh, juice an entire lemon girl. Yeah, these these these things don't work, dude. I'm on a boat a lot of antioxidants, which is one of the reasons why these common cold remedies usually work. But uh yeah, I don't uh I'm not going to gargle a garlic and white onion and then fart up a storm for the remainder of the day. Uh is it a viable strategy to use a single syringe for multiple injections? No. No. single use only. Don't be a junkie. That's what junkies do, right? Only switching needles. Um, you know, if you want to use a single syringe twice because you have to store an ampule because you do half an ample injections and you're switching needles. Okay. But it's it's, you know, just use it maybe twice. Okay. That's what you're asking, right? So, I thought you were meaning using needles. So, yeah. Okay. If you want to draw into a syringe a full ampule, inject half, switch the needles, and then inject the other half. I'm okay with that. But just don't [\h__\h] draw and pin and draw and pin with the same [\h__\h] needles. That's what junkies do, right? Don't do that, please. All right. Where are we? Okay, here we go. Uh, if fat loss and athletic recovery are primary goals of using growth rone and how many IUs are there diminished results and what should my dosing schedule look like? um diminishing returns. And I know it depends on what else you're doing, right? If you're taking 18 of growth hormone, but you're not taking any steroids with it, then it's probably not a good idea, unless you have an autoimmune condition because you have HIV, right? You know, there's synergy between these compounds. I I figured out a long time ago that 250 milligrams of steroids per week is has good synergy with about 1 to two IUs growth hormone per day. So if you take a gram of steroids per week, regardless of what it is, four IUs, five IUs of growth hormone seems to offer the best synergy. Now, as the dose of the steroids escalates and you add in uh insulin, then you might be able to break through that ratio and take more growth hormone. But you know, fat loss and recovery, I would say that 2 I use is already enough. And and it seems that based on scientific literature, the maximum dose of fat loss uh you would get from a single administration of growth hormone is like 1.2 to 1.5 IUs, right? Um so if you do two shots of 1.2 or 1.5 IUs growth hormone per day, three I use in total, I I think you get all the fat loss and athletic recovery benefits out of it already. Yeah. Uh TB-500 detection time. That's unknown. As far as I know that there's no detection time, but if I go if I get to the best dose of TB-500 video, then I'm sure I'll find it. I found the detection time for Primobolan um as well in the literature, which is way shorter than what most bodybuilders would follow. Detection time of 5 months. The detection time of primabolan metabolites only 40 days, but that's after a single administration. Yeah. grid. Yeah. Why are there so many [\h__\h] in the stream? I don't know. Because you you didn't show up. I don't know what's going on. And the channel is too big. You got a lot of haters. This is what what happens. But Emperor Shrie is now a um is now a mod also. Let me see if I missed anything. So, I keep banning them, man. These people are expendable. HS for president. There we go. All right. Where are we? I completely lost track of what's going on. Uh, if running only 200 milligrams of testosterone per week and nothing else, is it worth to use more than two to four IUs of GH? I would say two I use. Yeah, I think two IUs is more than enough. I mean, I wouldn't use more than two IUs right now cuz my testosterone levels are uh well top of the reference range basically and I don't think it's uh worth the you know the increase in GH. Um, even the 500 micrograms of IGF-1 was a waste. You know, I just got fullness out of it. I didn't grow any better because there's no steroids in the picture to make me grow. So that's why I stopped using it after that last vial. Say king of both. What is it? Carnitine king and the homebrew king. Yeah, there you go. Oh, now you're king daddy, right? And the gh king. Yeah. Yeah. Mr. 18 I use per day. Well, Chase is a king daddy now. All right, let's see if I missed anything. Joe Reynolds, I got a lot of haters, but also a lot of lovers. Yeah, but I only got one lover that actually delivers. And a lot of a lot of lovers that are in line, but they will never get close. Yeah. Uh, let's see. Are they finished already? Big Paul's podcast. [\h__\h] man. I still got an hour and 50 minutes to go. I'm not as cognitive today. Ask me something fun. Wonder where all those fake accounts came from, cuz there were like five of them. Zdub. Um, Steve, what do you find is the best way to grow your legs? I don't know, man. My legs suck, but my legs were the biggest when I was u doing time under tension uh a lot and high high uh rep ranges and eating a boatload of food. Yeah, right now I do high rep ranges, but I don't eat so much. Um, and I do a lot of time under tension. So yeah, it's Victor Black sending the spammers. I don't think he has enough money to hire people to spam. I thought I I blocked Victor and Black in combination. I thought it was added to the spam filter. How the hell did that get through? Uh Chase, I need to get in your sleep schedule, Steve, with this baby. She wakes me up all night. Yeah. So, so I mean I I I think what every self-respecting businessman will do, right? Your wife is still working, right? Or probably going back to work at one point. Um why don't you just go to bed at 4:00 or 5:00 a.m., you know, and you do our your you do daddy duty all night and then your wife can sleep and then she'll be on uh wifey duty, obviously, mommy duty while you sleep. I I I think that's the best way to do it, you know. And then you have like six hours during the day or eight hours during the day that you can spend time together that you're not both exhausted as [\h__\h] and uh and and you know you might lose your tan obviously because you're not awake during the day to get your sunlight exposure in. But yeah, I I think that's I mean that's usually what we're doing, right? I mean we don't have kids yet, but we have cats who also make my wife wake up at 4:00 in the morning because they're hungry. So when I go to bed, I feed them and then I go to bed and then my wife can sleep until about 7 8:00 in the morning and sometimes she wakes up but you know usually she sleeps out and then it kind of overlaps that way you know I mean after 10 years together I mean you you can you can you know as long as the hours that are together are high quality uh then it's better than spending 16 hours together and then also not sleeping together right because you can't sleep because of babies and cats and all that [\h__\h] So give it a try man. Just go to bed late like we used to do. Remember when you were single and you go to bed at four o'clock? Do it every [\h__\h] day, dude. Great. Great. Uh, does Steve listen to music when he trains? Um, yeah. Yeah. K-pop mostly Twice and uh what is it called? Uh, Girls Generate. Now that Nobody listens to that anymore. Uh, New Jeans. No, no. I listen to a metal music, dude. Christian Elstrom and Inflames and all that good stuff. So, I actually went to an Inflames concert two weeks ago. It was [\h__\h] cool. Yeah, we had a lot of fun. An entire group of guys going to Inflames and uh screaming. Yeah, it was very uh very metal. So, I listen to metal music. Joseph G, do you have any experience with tetrahydrogistry known? I hear said to be 10 times more potent than Android trenone. Any studies that you're aware of? Um, I don't think there are any studies on well there are some studies on tit tetrahydrogestry known um because I I'm starting to do research about androgen receptors, myocatin inhibition and uh and that kind of stuff. Um, and I saw one study come by on tetrahydrogest known. Uh, but I didn't really read it because it wasn't it didn't really contain what I was looking for. Um, but I don't have any experience with it because as far as I know, it's not really available. You might be able to buy it on some of the chemical websites, but then it's like $600 for a milligram. So, it's one cycle is going to set you back a lot. And I uh I asked Bob Sap. I asked Bob Sap said, "Hey, how what what about this THG? What about the clear? And he said he never used it. So it's Yeah. So it's I I I I don't really know anybody who's used it unfortunately. So maybe it's 10 times more potent, but you know, if you can't get it, what's the point? You know, same as with this myostatin inhibitors. It's Yeah, it's like best thing ever, but you can't get it or it's too expensive, then why why why romanticize about it? It's like this uh Lamborghini is the best thing ever, but you can't afford it. So, you know, why why torture yourself? Uh phase velocity, 80 milligrams testosterone replacement therapy uh per week. Took me from 300 to 500. I keep having to donate aides from dietary changes, any protocols like fasting, supplements, injection frequency that help um sleep apnea. Get that diagnosed ASAP. That's probably the underlying cause why you have to uh uh dump your hematocrit blood cell count. Um and and besides that of course you can use uh IP6 choline hexophosphate or enough hexaposphate but uh to inhibit iron absorption but that can also cause issues in the long run because if your iron levels are low your body is still going to produce red blood cell count and hematocrit but then the size of the red blood cells are smaller because the hemoglobin content is not sufficient because you don't have iron and then you really have a lot of red blood cells to increase the oxygen carrying capacity, right? That's with chronic IP6 uh administration because your iron levels are so low or overdonation. You see that also where your iron levels are just being donated away. So uh I I would find the root cause and not not look for a band-aid in the form of fasting or donation or supplements. I would look for the root cause because I don't see a reason on 500 nanogs per diliter total testosterone that you keep uh that you need to donate continuously unless you have sleep apnea. Right? So this is why we have doctors to kind of guide you through the process of getting diagnosed and I have a video about how to self diagnose your sleep apnea. So let me link that down below. app with the best thumbnail ever. Yeah, if you see it, you'll know it. All right, it's linked down below. So, look into that. Yeah, we'll be vampires. Yeah, vampires. And then we show up at the Mr. Olympia, you know, like [\h__\h] baggy eyes, you know? I I I probably have to do IUI or IVF, man. It's taking forever. So, uh, as soon as we make an appointment with the doctor and have a timeline, then I'm going to start planning because I'm It's driving me nuts. It's driving me nuts. Oh, there's another one. There's so many guys in the chat. Don't forget to put them in the timeout, dude. Jesus Christ. Somebody's having a bad day. Matthew Rich super sticker. Let me see if there's a question attached to that. I don't see it. Let me keep looking for it. Joe Reynolds, don't forget to like the stream. Yeah, that would be nice. How many likes we got? We got uh 73 likes, 200 people watching. Why even bother asking for it? It's too much effort, man. Does the coach play with Legos in his free time? No. But I do watch Lego channel. There's a there's a very good Lego channel. I'll tell you that. What is this guy's called? Uh, let me see if I can find it. I'm not subscribed, but then once in a while I get it in my recommendation. Lego mockup. I can't find it like this. There's this German channel who builds like an entire city. And I've been following him since the beginning. I can't remember what his channel is called. Brick. It said BricksCraft. Yeah, Brickcraft. All right, I'll link it down below. That's a great channel. So, once in a while, I watch that. I got still got all my Legos from when I was younger. Uh, my mom made me keep it. So, I have like well thousands of euros and gilders of Lego back at home. So, when I have kids, I'm going to pick up all the Lego and then slowly give it to my kids slowly but steadily. Right. Not all at the same time. Right. Here's a start with a little car and then you can build a house and then you can build the city cuz yes, I did have a [\h__\h] Lego city when I was younger. Yeah. It's nothing to be ashamed about because it helps you uh solve problems, you know. And then you of course you model your Lego city in Sim City 2000. Hey. Yeah, you didn't think about that, right? To make sure that all your roads and your water and your electricity is solid. You model your your Lego City and Sim City 2000. Make sure that it looks cool. Then you get one of those uh with 2x4s or one by twos depending on your fuse meters just big enough to slide under your bed. And then you build the entire Lego city based on your mockup. Yeah, that's what we used to do. That's what all the cool kids with no girlfriends used to do. Yeah. Uh, is cupping therapy useful for recovery? I don't know. I never really done it. Uh, unless we're talking about a different kind of cupping, then I've done I might have done that. Um, but sorry. Oh my god. Um, but the usual like the, you know, the sucking the blood to the skin and that kind of stuff. I don't know. I mean, I'm sure it works because I've seen bodybuilders do it and they swear by it and, you know, I do active release therapy and I do occasional um, you know, grasson and and acupuncture and that that works also. So, if it works, it works, but I've never used it to say that it uh that it works or not. It's my birthday. Please don't hate uh on the next blast. Uh all right. Happy birthday, Andrin. Oxandrin. Happy birthday, buddy. Uh,000 test, 700 trend, my sweet spot. 100 MP, 200 2 to six. I use growth hormone. Uh, what would I get out of adding 200 m? Um, [\h__\h] you. I had 700 master in. What are you talking about? Masterone should be one to one ratio with your trembolone dose. All right. So, yeah, you won't get much out of 200 mronone. Like, if you're already blasting, just blast properly and add 700 m in, right? 1,000 tests, 100 MP, 7 trend, 700 trend, 700 m. I don't think you need an AI. And maybe increase the growth hormone to eight I use, right? and then come back your next birthday and tell us how big you got. Now, if you're going to blast, then blast [\h__\h] good. Oh god, somebody figured out how to bypass. I don't know, man. I'm not following. Maybe it's uh Russo's goons in the chat trying to say uh terrible words. You never really know, man. Did his teeth bend and his hair fall out? I think he just takes poor care of himself, you know? I mean, you can clearly you could you could always see that. It's not a guy that follows the lifestyle. He just takes arms and and experiments. And it's not I'm not against that, but you know, if you get yourself into a terrible mess, then it's through your own doing, you know. So, I hope he he pulls his [\h__\h] together. Really, I really hope he pulls his [\h__\h] together, but you know, it's it seems like a downward spiral for him. Yeah. And now he's pissed off so many people that nobody really wants to help him anymore. So that's his own doing. Actually, Vlad Dracula had a brother named Radu the Beautiful. Oh, really? Radu the Beautiful. I just watched uh Dracula the the most recent movie. I just felt like downloading it. It was pretty good fun. Uh let's see 10 milligrams test proprinate TRT is that per day heart rate 160 or that's blood pressure mom to what could be the cause? Uh I I think your blood pressure is fine. So I don't know what you're asking. you have a resting heart rate between 60 beats per minute to 130, then that's pretty too high. Could be the synthetic solvents that you're taking or your uh inability to do cardio every day, right? I mean, cardio per day reduces your wristing heart rate. I mean, my wristing heart rate, if I'm not talking, is like 50, 45. So, but I do daily fasted cardio and I treat my body like an athlete does. Yeah. Ranic. Uh, inject less more often. Switch injection. Switch to a higher G. Oh, this trying to uh give advice amongst each other. Man, I'm getting slow today, dude. Holy [\h__\h] William Fanning 10 bucks. Any questions with that? Missed one from uh somebody sent the super sticker, but he didn't ask a question. One second. Got so much spam today in the in the chat and so much profanity. Must be people from 4chan or Reddit. I got nothing better to do. Let's start spamming the live stream. And I can't even find it anymore. Oh, here. Myth. You're rich. All right. Let me see if you answer the question later on so I don't get overwhelmed. Like, you forgot my super chat, bro. What the [\h__\h] You're rich. Didn't ask a follow-up question. All right. No, William, I'll look out for you. Dutch Capone with a suit in all. Yo, Steve, all uh just started arm wrestling and find it hard on the ligaments. Thinking of adding TB-500, BBC 157 half a milligram per day each and 20 milligs per day indefinitely. Yeah, that will do it. I would also add in a low dose in Androidone to kind of lubricate the joints. I keep in mind the TB-500 and BBC 157 don't really strengthen the joints but they reduce inflammation allowing you to recover faster from the arm wrestling and the strain that you put on your tendons and ligaments. It's the anavar that strengthens it and the nandelon that increases the synovial fluid and the overall you know protective layer around your joints and ligaments um you know making you less injuryprone. Then of course collagen, hurlonic acid, vitamin C, you know, good amount of calories, um, and and and a good amount of training and and growth hormone will all help to keep everything uh nicely mobile. Um, and then maybe besides arm wrestling, pick up something like rock climbing because that seems to be one of the best ways to kind of strengthen your forearms and your overall um, you know, connective area of your shoulders and delts and and grip strength and all that stuff. I think that's a very underutilized tool in the armor wrestling community. Um, just to do occasional rock climbing cuz I mean if you want to, you know, move your opponent, first you have to learn how to move your own body just using your own hands. Sim City 2000 was awesome. Yeah, man. I played that to death. Yeah, with all with all disasters turned off though. Too much effort. All right, here we are. Aaron Hurl, uh, did a underground lab uh, testosterone 250 milligrams a week after five injections, did blood work, total testosterone 4,26. Holy [\h__\h] Estradal 78. Okay, that's still okay. Uh, seractive protein 39. Uh yeah, so it's very likely that you're injecting inflammatory [\h__\h] So stop that ASAP. How long for the harsh uh UGL to leave the body? I would take about depending on the the synthetic carrier oil that you injected, I would say it takes about a week and then it takes another week for C-reactive protein to really come down. So give it two weeks after the last injection and then test your levels again and then in the meantime try to source something better you know because um this undergrad lab will clearly give you cardiovascular disease if you use it longer than you did now. Yeah. Be careful man. This is why I put this information out there so you don't have to make this mistake. And good on you that you did blood work after five injections because you've also could have done blood work uh you know 6 months into it and then you had six months of inflammatory issues going on and CRP of 39. Man that's crazy. Joseph B adding in 2500 gigs per hour to TRT now feeling face pressure and anger coincidence or related? Um, face pressure. I guess I sometimes get pressure on my face. That joking coming. Yeah, but it's for a good cause. And then uh yeah, if I have trouble breathing in that context, I might be a little bit angry, but it's also highly erotic. So, it's all good. But it's not from the proviron. Okay. Uh, and in your case, I don't know. Take it out. See what happens. You know I the provaron is a DHT derivative. It could increase uh irritability but I I I don't think that 2500s proviron can increase blood pressure to the point you get face pressure unless you're allergic to the binders that are uh being used in the proviron. Maybe it's using some sort of cheap binders that you have an allergy to and now you have a small allergic response um metastasizing face pressure, right? I'm just trying to piece it together here. Uh but that's that will be my uh most logical uh you know um explanation. So take it out, see what happens and if you feel better uh throw the proar away. Uh, Alex Alexensual. Alex Sensual. H, I think that would be a good Only Fans name. What's your Only Fans? Alex Sensual, baby. Yeah, kind of fun question, I guess. Quick protocol for extreme amounts of ejaculate. Well, [\h__\h] As the name implies, uh, extreme amount of ejaculation to impress the misses. Is there anything people usually don't know about? Now people know about the um you know fruit right you you take uh what is it pineapple can actually make your semen taste a little bit fruity and uh sweet then you have clomid which is very good to increase your semen volume um phospid no soy uh soycetin can increase your semen volume um torine selenium and zinc all help with testicular function I mean ATG can increase your semen volume can increase your semen volume and and a little bit of semen retention, a little bit of edging. So, leading up to impressing the message, um you know, halfass your masturbation to the point you're almost coming, but you're not coming obviously because you need to retain the semen. Uh make sure you eat plenty of um you know, pineapple in the meantime. And then blow your load uh you know uh from uh let's say middle to top. Make sure you, you know, get a couple drops in her mouth and then and then she can be impressed like, "Holy [\h__\h] you shot so far and it tasted good, too. Double thumbs up." Right? So, that is the way. And I have a video about this, of course, because uh Steve always uh delivers on all the commonly asked questions by sexually active men. It's called vigorous loads. link it down below. H my god, never serious. So yeah, uh when you get your 50 million in the bank, what vigorous activities will you keep doing? Uh bodybuilding, obviously, and then being a daddy. That's very vigorous also. Um, I have a couple videos here and there if I feel like it. I don't know, man. 50 million you can retire, you know. So, it's uh maybe I'll keep watching videos or keep making videos. Maybe I'll, you know, buy a big fat house somewhere and travel around a little bit. I don't know, man. I'll decide when I reach that number. And for now, whatever investments I have um are there until I reach that number. Maybe I throw my hands in the air and delete all my existence on social media and say, "Fuck it. [\h__\h] it. I'm out." You know, and then it's just like a one year where after one year everybody forgets about you and then I can go to the gym without having it to turn into a Q&A again. I don't know, man. I don't know. I don't I don't think about it too much, right? It's a goal and when I reach that goal, I'll I'll decide what to do with it. But I will be working significantly less. Yeah, that's for sure. Uh because you don't need to because with 50 million that money works for you and you just put it in good investments and and not look at it for a couple years and then you when you look at it it's like oh [\h__\h] it's like 50% or higher and then you know even if you only put five million in if it's 50% higher you got two and a half million over like two years that's a million a year. What what more do you need than a million a year? You know, like unless you have stupid hobbies or you get addicted to drugs and you blow all your money on cocaine and ochres and champagne parties, right? It's always a wild fantasy. Uh but when you're married and you're a dad and you're a bodybuilder, you just don't do that. And I don't care about material positions after traveling for a year. I mean, this shirt is like [\h__\h] three years old. I wear the same [\h__\h] shirt on the vigor skew and I really don't give a [\h__\h] I Yeah. So, I'm not a big spender. I'm a good earner, but I'm not a good a good spender. That's for sure. All right, William. Sorry to make you wait. I saw an analysis that Zen nicotine pouches have methylate. Uh, you would have to consume about 60 pouches in order to get an equivalent dose of 300 milligrams of aspirin. Effects on blood and health. I have no [\h__\h] idea. Sorry. I have no I have no idea. So you might want to retract that super chat because I I I can't help you here. I mean I sila silate 60 pouches. I mean you would never get that. And even if you take 20 pouches to get like a baby aspirin dose. Um you know you would also not do 20 pouches. Plus, I think aspirin is [\h__\h] for blood pressure and and blood health because you can get the same blood thinning effects from fish oil and vitamin E without the stomach ulcers. So, yeah, just just make sure you you weigh out the beneficial effects or the negative effects, right? Uh, have you ever tried to use a PEMF machine? I'm going to have to Google that machine. Uh, what is that? I have no idea what that is. Is that one of those electrodes? Pulse electromagnetic field therapy. Is that what they do? Uh you have those all these bodybuilders that are connected to the electrodes and then they do workouts and then you see them a year later and they look exactly the same. In that case I think I did use one of those where it was like a small box and you attach the electrodes to your uh to your abs and then you just you know squeeze it all the way to 200% and you delay cramping with your friends and laughing your ass off. One of those I've used. Yeah, but one of those professional machines. No, never. and this far ahead in my bodybuilding journey, I I'd be happy to be 100 kilos again and I don't need to use special equipment um to uh you know to to be like 1% bigger because I don't really care about that. Uh oh Jesus Christ. Do you ever feel like Russell's potential might be something that is underestimated? I don't know. I never really follow what the guy was doing until he started having a problem with me for I don't know for whatever reason in his mind. So, I don't know, man. Alec Matriffy tried to coach him and it it didn't really go somewhere. So, you know, I think everybody has potential, but there's also a lot of unrealized potential. And uh you know, the guy needs to literally get his head out of his ass to kind of sort his life out. And I hope he does it, but it will not be with my help. He can figure it out all by himself. Let's see. Messed up. Post it again, Matthew. And then otherwise I have to scroll. Let me scroll real quick. Yeah, I don't see it. Post it again. Matthew, don't have to super chat again. I'll look out for your name. Podcast with Dr. James. Uh, yeah. Why the [\h__\h] not? Why the [\h__\h] not? Post F in the chat if you want to see it. F in the chat if you want to see a podcast with Dr. James. I have his Instagram so I can shoot him a message. I'm sure he will be delighted. And then I'm going to ask him where he got his [\h__\h] disclaimer from. Yeah. Looks exactly like mine. But I got my disclaimer from Derek who got the disclaimer from his business partner uh who got the disclaimer from uh his lawyer. So it's it's airtight. But I I asked Derek for permission. Yeah, I did. All right, let me scroll a little bit. Logan member for two months. Holy [\h__\h] How do I get a full body imaging done in cancer marker tested at the US at 21 years old? Uh, my mom just beat cancer. Dad currently has cancer. I'm sorry to hear that, dude, but I'm happy your mom just beat it. Okay, so cancer is in your family. You're 21 years old. Um, look into the preruvo prouvo.com. I think that's a full body MRI. I think that's a great way to start a scan. problem is uh it was like 3,000 bucks. It was like 3,000 bucks and otherwise um you know maybe contact Mer Health, explain your situation and say, "Listen, I have cancer in my family. I want to do at least cancer marker screening. Um are you able to do that for me?" and you just write them an email. You don't have to spend any money. just ask inquire said hey is this a possibility that you can do a cancer marker screening in my state you know because they don't cover every state I believe and otherwise uh contact your your local hospital and just ask them said listen cancer is in my family I want to do my cancer marker screening and I want to do a full body MRI are you able to do that for me and if they say yes but it's going to cost you x amount of money and you feel that's expensive call around call around just keep calling around until you have a good picture of how much it's going to cost you Then compare that to a flight to Thailand, a week in a nice hotel and calling a couple of the hospitals here because you might be off cheaper to fly to Thailand, stay here for a week, have the uh full body MRI and cancer marker screening done within the first day, waiting for the results a couple day while you party your [\h__\h] ass off and have a great time. And then you get your results. Uh hopefully your results are good and then you're good for the next couple of years and then um you go back home with a great [\h__\h] story, right? You uh are cancer-free for now and you had a great [\h__\h] holiday and you didn't spend so much money. So yeah, Iron Grid uh nine months already. Wow, it's been a wild ride. Nice work. Where were you at the beginning of the chat? We had a lot of uh trolls. probably playing with the cat. Uh, dedicate this message to all of you to join the channel membership. You won't regret it. Steve made me take my health seriously and not take uh stuff and not take stuff. Love the crew. What kind of stuff? I thought I'm a bad influence on taking stuff. But yeah, welcome to the group, man. I think uh membership has been here for almost 12 months and then we start seeing some cool [\h__\h] golden badges. I think it's a golden badge that you will see when you're here for a year. Bigger Steve's steb bro. Serious Steve. Yeah. Yeah. Not as serious as serious Sam though. I don't see Matthew I have to look out for, right? It's 10 bucks, dude. It's only 10 [\h__\h] bucks. Uh, Terrone Fury. Hey, Big Steve. When women take PEDs, do they also get shut down like men do? It depends on the dose and which PEDs they take. So, I've seen women with completely normal HP uh OA uh hypothalus pituitary ovarian axis on up to 10 milligrams anavvar per day, right? And the studies in the in the in the men show that um even up to 20 milligrams oxandrolone uh HPTA is intact. Now of course women are a little bit more resilient when it comes to their HPOA because their estrogen levels fluctuate you know sky [\h__\h] high. Um so low dose anavar or even a low dose uh DHEA doesn't really seem to have a negative effect. But of course with long-term exposure um chronic dieting to the point they're anormic right where their period stops um and that might cause some sort of shutdown because the you know that they've been dieting and not eating enough beef. So their iron levels are low or their body fat levels are simply too low and then the protective mechanism of the body is to say no more period because it costs too much energy. Right. And you don't have so much energy stores in the form of body fat anymore. Um but if women go on testosterone Yeah. They shut down. Yeah, that's why TRT for women is exactly that, replacement therapy, either postmenopausal or if they uh were under the guidance of a terrible coach and they can't get their period back, which happens also. And then they might need a little bit of testosterone. Yeah. And we're talking about, you know, like the half a milligram, one milligram the every other day or per day, right? It's it's a starting point and you can build your way up based on response. Steve, did you see Logan Chitwood reach five million subs? Yeah. Yeah, he did. So, me and Chase actually met Logan Chit with at the Mr. Olympia, and Logan was a huge uh uh fan of Chase Irons. Um, yeah, maybe we should start cosplaying as a One Punch Man. Do a lot of graphics. It's the steroid content will not get you big. We both know about this, but it will get you loyal followers. Like honestly, Chase, I think you and me are doing more money than Logan is. Yeah. But I I could be mistaken, but you know, we create some sort of um loyalty with our audience, right? And you sell products and I sell products, but Logan only has, and I could be mistaken here, but he he has what, two sponsors. And and I don't know how much he converts, you know? He barely advertises. So, but I hope he's doing well. Obviously, the guy deserves as much money as he is making, if not more, cuz it's not easy to get 5 million subs, and he puts out hilarious content. Yeah, I asked him for a podcast, but he never replied. Maybe he didn't want to talk about steroids. Too bad. Uh, it's price dependent per country. No, I think it's 10 bucks for the membership everywhere. Andrew Garcia, how old is too old to pursue bodybuilding as a career? Uh, it's never it's never too late, man. I mean, I see people competing and making money. I mean, Paul just started. He's 50 years old. He just got back into it. He's he's coaching. His YouTube channel is exploding. He's making good money, right? So, it's it's never too late, man. It's never too late. Um, but you also have to m be mature enough to uh realize when it's not working out as a competitive bodybuilder to throw in the towel. So, it it it really depends on um you know how how it goes for you. But if you want to give it a fair chance of like say 5 years and you're 50 years old already, just [\h__\h] go for it. Just go just don't kill yourself over it obviously. Um but I think you're never too old. I mean, I've been doing it since I was 15 years old. So, I've been doing it for 25 years already. And uh I I go through phases of having extreme interest in phases where I'm like, "Yeah, whatever, man. I feel, you know, I want to do something else." And I still go to the gym and but I just, you know, I don't take it as serious training wise or supplementation wise. And it it kind of cyclical at this point, right? Also, because I don't take the PEDs obviously. Now, I'm sure if I go on a little bit of TRT, I'll take it more serious. Um, and even if I say I take it 50% serious, it's still like 200% more serious than most people who consider themselves bodybuilders. Um, so man, just [\h__\h] go for it and see where you land, man. If you're having fun, if you're having fun, you love what you're doing, it's not work. All right, so everybody wants to see the Dr. James podcast. Cool. I'll reach out. They will talk about the exact same things. Yeah. Uh man, what a username. It's like somebody slammed their keyboard on the I need a username today. Hit the head on the keyboard. Good enough. Uh would this be considered a good beginner cycle? Testosterone and 250 milligrams weekly with provarin 25 milligrams three times weekly. cannot find anything else far from a grade in my country. Uh I would do 12.5 milligrams proviron per day and but do daily micro administrations of testosterone annotate. So that's not not 125 milligrams twice per week but daily subq uh let's see 250 divided by 7. I know it's a little bit more cumbersome. It's like 36 milligrams per day. But if you do daily subq your rate of aromatization is quite low. And um if you then take 12.5 milligs pervy, then I think you can keep your estrogen levels in range, right? But you I think you're leaving India so you might have a diet full with phytoestrogens. I mean the Indian diet isn't great. So you know uh make sure you do everything you can to control your estrogen levels and and in India you can do the blood work very very easily and very cheaply. So it's not an excuse not to do it. And how far behind I am I? Five minutes. Okay. Not too far. Uh Steve, great. We'll look into Thailand. All right. See you in a few weeks. Yeah. A minute. If your doctor doesn't want to do it at home, just do it somewhere else. And if the country doesn't want to do what you do, you go pay taxes somewhere else. That's cast your vote, right? You know, oh, I can't do what I want to do. Okay. I keep my money and spend it somewhere else. Bye. Um, thoughts on testosterone gel DHT for beard growth. Uh, you must be below 18 years old. So, I'm not going to answer that question. I'm sick of this [\h__\h] Let's see. Where are we? Hey, Steve. Got a little situation with prolactin. It is high, but my estrogen is in the normal range. Tried vitamin B6, P5P, P300 milligrams, but nothing happened. Any tips to reduce it? uh first pinpoint what the root cause of your elevated prolactin is. Is it the weed? Is it theratom? Is it other recreational drugs? Is it chronic masturbation? Is it um dopamine depletion through scrolling on Instagram, right? Maybe vitamin B6, B5P is not enough because you're not supplementing with altarine to increase your dopamine levels. Uh maybe look into that. So uh and if that doesn't work oh then there's always cable goline have a quarter milligram 0.25 milligrams once to see if that crushes your prolactin sufficiently in many cases it does so you take 0.25 25 milligrams per lactin and and and if you have a noticeable beneficial effect on your libido, okay, then you know that with a single dose of K or Goline, you might be good for the next two weeks. That's how potent it is. And and and you know, you don't have to start taking it every day obviously to keep your prolactin under control. The best thing you can do is just figuring out what the root cause is, right? just Google into um or Google for uh reasons for elevated prolactin and you'll see the exact same reasons which I just mentioned right I mean uh uh wheat cratom recreational drugs uh a lot of sex and and and dopamine depletion from social media can all increase prolactin levels and you know if you're taking tremblone or nandrallone maybe take that out right this can also increase prolactin levels finding masturbation. Yeah, I mean it's it's more likely than you think, dude. Uh, Tyrone or Tyrone Fury, do you have any videos or maybe sell an ebook on all the details that go into prep? Would love to see a full breakdown of prep week. I think I'm [\h__\h] rusty, dude. I haven't prepped anybody for like over three years. So, even though it sounds like a good idea to make an ebook, which people are just going to copy and steal, um, so why [\h__\h] bother making more um, and making a video about it? I don't think that people would listen to me at this point. Um, because I'm small and I I never done a show and it's very very hard to put everything of prep into a video series. Um, especially now that the information is a little bit old. Like I wouldn't feel comfortable taking somebody's money now to prep them for a show. I'm [\h__\h] rusty and I don't I don't think I have the eye for it. like when I was actively prepping athletes, like hundreds of athletes per year, that's all I did. But now I I do research. I do YouTube videos. It's it's a different mindset, you know? I don't think I have the eye for it. Like somebody in the gym asked me, there's a couple shows coming. Actually, there's a show next week. They asked me in the gym, how do I look? And I looked at it, I'm like, I'm getting [\h__\h] rusty in this [\h__\h] you know? I didn't even know what to look for. So, I I don't think it's a good idea, man. I mean there's plenty of membership websites where you can sign up you know with with various levels of intelligence regarding their approaches and um you know there's a boat but lot of details that can go into prep but that's why we have prep coaches you know the prep coaches are very very experienced and you would not be able to put everything into a video series because let's say I do that I put all the hardcore stuff in there right loading with insulin using insulin for fat loss and then it seemed on a phosphate protocol. So I had the 10ml synthetic or synthine, however you call it, injections uh in the glute on the morning of the show to fill out for its fast dilating effect, you'll see like this kind of [\h__\h] we do in the bodybuilding community, the hardcore [\h__\h] And then as soon as you make an instructional video about that, people are going to do stupid [\h__\h] with it. So it's it's prep is risky. That's why we we keep it in the niche, you know. But right now, I I don't feel comfortable in my abilities. And I I also don't feel comfortable in my abilities to help people beat the drug test because the the the the new um the new parameters are slowly being rolled out. And by the time the Olympics hit, I'm going to retire from drug testing advice. It's that simple, you know. I mean, my my my life and and interests are going in a different direction. So, certain services need to be closed. And it also means that you know you might not be able to uh to offer those services ever again because you need to be in the like the loop for the ser for the service to be really really good. Oh chronic masturbation again. I'm 24 years old. Why do you think I'm below 18? Oh well that's usually a question that below 20 20 year olds ask. And of course a below 18 year old would not say that they're below 18y old. Um, thoughts on test gel DHT for beard growth. I don't think that works, but look into minoxidil instead. Minoxidil has been proven to improve beard growth. Yeah, if you want to use DHT gel, use it on your penis to grow your penis. Uh, how much masturbation is needed to call it chronic every day? Yeah. To the point you get blisters. Yeah. Here, there you go. Listers. Your dick looks like ball rug. [\h__\h] I just imagine sitting there. You're like, "What is that smell? Holy [\h__\h] my dick is on fire. Uh, all right. Thank God we're at the end. Oh, we got 30 minutes left. It's going to be a long day today. Where's Matthew's question? You said it's above and you messed up, but I can't find it, dude. Did you post it again? Oh, here it is. All right, Matthew Rish asks, "I mean on enlomophene uh citrate 12.5 milligrams per per day, DHA and pregnant from pharmacy. What peptide do you recommend for muscle growth? How to tell purity and safety?" Uh well, the only peptides that really potentiate muscle growth are either growth hormone, insulin, IGF-1, or a growth hormone secret. So, you can choose from those. And I don't think that any of the other peptides really potentiate any muscle growth, albeit the TB-500 and BBC57 might improve recovery, but if you're not on steroids, then I don't think they're going to do anything for muscle growth. And of course, discounting the malatin inhibitors, which are way too expensive and you don't have access to it. So, we're not going to bother going over that. Like, I would start with the growth hormone secrets, man. Right? That's a good entry level. Again, I already linked a video down below on how to maximize your IPLin and testin and what dosages to look for. Um, so I would start there and how to tell purity or safety. Um, well, if you get it from a compounding pharmacy or TRT clinic in uh whatever country that is still willing to prescribe it. Again, in the in America, it's a little bit wash wishy-washy due to article 503 A and B uh limiting the compoundingies from prescribing growth hormones of created dogs. But there's still a couple clinics out there that are willing to prescribe it. Um so, so maybe ask around and otherwise go with a reputable uh website, which unfortunately I can't link anymore because then YouTube will delete my channel. So, yeah, you're going to have to read between the lines there. Yeah, go with a one with a good rep. All right, we got that question answered. Alexander Carrera, I just logged on. Welcome back. You're late. That's okay. We're still here for another 30 minutes. Uh, DHC gel. I just speeds up shedding, leaves my fave patchy. Minoxil is the best with my Oh, it's for beard growth. Yeah. I don't know. I don't understand people's fascination with beards. I never got it. I never got it. I know. Without a beard, people just treat me well. Also, you know, I I feel like itchy. I shaved yesterday. Now it's already back and it already feels uncomfortable. No way. Uh, Ranic, in my experience, just testosterone by itself already increased my beard growth exponentially. However, that might be coming at a cost of my hairline. Yeah. So, if you go on DHC derivatives or testosterone, the hair migrates from this area and it kind of falls and then it ends up here and here like on your chest. Like, this is only [\h__\h] dude. Like, look at this crap. Look at this chest shelf. Oh, wait. Look at that. Covered in hair. Disgusting. Well, tomorrow is uh trimming day. Takes a [\h__\h] hour. 30 49. Holy [\h__\h] man. You're just as old as Paul. I got nine years left. Actually, no. Eight and a half. Yeah, eight and a half. [\h__\h] Uh, always had a baby face. Yeah, me too. Oh, now it's not as bad as it used to be. But man, when I was like 21 years old, they would still ID me for being 16. Say, are you are you over 16 before you can buy beers, [\h__\h] I'm 21 years old. It pays off when you're old. No, if I'm if I'm shaved, I look okay. Yeah, but the day after shaving, I already look like patchy and oxidized. Sucks. All right. Did I miss anything? Guess we're kind of done then, huh? Well, let's answer those questions from the members then real quick so they don't feel left out because they couldn't make it. All right. Lethal Promotions asks, "Hey Steve, any ideas on improving uh estimated glomeial filtration rates? Last bloods showed normal levels 77 million per milliliter or yeah the 77 uh blood pressure uh was a little bit on the high side the last 24-hour monitoring. UA 7.6. Oh, that's moles. Uh running HRT. Uh no no no also full mitochondrial support stack. Okay. 48 years old always. Thank you. Okay. So in your casein is a little bit elevated but your eGFR is based on your creatinin. Um so I would do your cyan C test and not count too much on the E and the estimated colomial filtration rate because it's based on your creatinine levels. Even though you're uric I'm not sure if that's the correct range though. Uric acid the correct range. [\h__\h] Whoever thought it was a good idea to have like two units of measurement. Okay, Yuria is on the high side. All right, this should be slapped across the face. Oh, it's kilometers. Oh, it's miles. And then on blood work, it's all different, you know. No wonder all the doctors are confused. So, yeah, you're running a little bit high. I would get your blood pressure under control. Um, you know, there's multiple different ways to do that, obviously, which I mentioned a boatload of time, so let's not waste time there. Um, what you need to do next time is check your cyst and C. And if that is elevated, cyaten C is a true indication of kidney function. If that is elevated, do a 24-hour urine collection test where you measure your uh blood creatinin and your blood cyanin C levels to your urinary creatinin and cyanin C levels to get a uh a proper glomeial filtration rate, not an estimated one, a real glomeial filtration rate. So that's what I would do. I would leave your protocol exactly the same, right? Your testosterone, DHA, pregnnenolone, HCG, that all looks good. Um, if you're running the full mitochondrial support stack, that might be a reason why your creatin levels are elevated, which I think I mentioned in the mitochondrial support stack like PQQ is known to increase serum creatin levels and thus lower your eGFR. Um, so in your case, I think your kidney function is totally fine, but confirm that with a cyad and seed test and then take it from there. Haven't had a drink in almost 3 months though. Yeah, it's been two months. It's been two months since the last Victor's Q&A. And likewise, I haven't had a drink since. Yeah, I haven't had a drink since. This is true. Is muscle hyperplasia really a thing with GH? And what would be the best dosing protocol of GH if it's going to suppress natural GH production? Well, it only suppresses it for like a day and then through IGF-1 and then some of the statin levels come back down to baseline and you secrete it again. So, I've never met anybody that used GH chronically at higher dosages that didn't get somewhat normal GH and IGF-1 levels within a week of stopping it. Um, hyperlasia is not only with GH, it's also with training and nutrition and that kind of stuff. Um, I can't remember what I think IGF-1 does the hyperplasia though. Uh, and GH might cause it with autoon signaling of elevating IGF-1 locally at the site of administration or through systemic increase of IGF-1 being produced in the liver. But of course, it's not only the GH, so you can't really put a dose on it. I mean it's training related, nutrient related, insulin related, IGF-1 related and growth hormone dose related and time related because hyperplasia doesn't happen overnight, right? A couple cells might um divide and uh and and you know turn into two cells, but that's only two, right? You need millions basically for the cells to for the muscle to grow. So uh I I think it's a real thing, but I have to dive into the scientific literature to see how much of a real thing it is for growth hormone alone. And of course the synergy between the steroids and growth hormone and IGF-1 and insulin has never been investigated in the context of bodybuilding. So we'll have to extrapolate. Yeah, Octavian, if you start smoking weed with your train, that's a great way to increase your prolactin levels, right? I just let let me do the advising. Okay? Leave it up to Uncle Steve. So, no, don't do that. Don't take train tren. And uh if you want to smoke weed, uh do it once, not chronically. I don't like weed though. Uh all right. This one was from Alvaro JD. Hey Steve, what overcome supplements would you recommend a decently active 84year-old man not on TRT for overall well-being and also aid in brain function? So he would actually benefit from DHA and pregnnolone which has been shown in the elderly to really improve well-being and brain function. Um maybe a lowd dose alpha GPC with new pept of course add in the new pept after adding in the alpha GPC or maybe start with urodine monof phosphate and um I know a little bit of GH I I think you know start with DHEA and GH I I think that would be good and the overall brain function I mean you know there's so many things that could be beneficial. You know, anything that increases brain drive neurotropic factor, whether that's a max or new peptor or or cerebral lesson, right? SAX is just a nasal spray. You could say that it's for allergies. Maybe after a week, he's like, "Oh, I feel pretty good." And DHA and sax together is good for libido. So maybe you'll make your grandmother happy with that stack also. Right? But of course, I I I don't really guide people that are 84 years old. I've never had a consultation with somebody that old. I think the oldest person I've had a consultations with is 75 years old and that was with thorough screening of blood work. Um so I would I would proceed with caution but yeah DHEA pregnant alone alpha GBC maybe new pept maybe growth hormone that's something I would look into and we have one more question type it in here. Another big [\h__\h] big [\h__\h] wall of text. Well, might as well. Jeez. Four posts. Adrian, [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Uh, Adrian asks, "Hey, Steve, quick question." It's four post, Adrian. It's not quick. I keep getting post injection pain, deep aic soreness, hardness, vententral glute areas as well as feeling though I've had systemic inflammation response. Uh constantly elevated body temperature, my fevery feeling only injecting two things. Bosch datestyl, sesame oil, and underground lab primo, MCT carrier oil. Uh yet track down which one might be doing it. Well, I'm sure we all know that it's the underground lab primo. I got to get more fictitious about recording about sight injecting several days track injection two times a week. I should add that taking each side one point and 2 milllers primo. Okay. So Adrian take the primo out and continue with the derestyl because it's pharmaceutical grade and sesame oil and um that is not known to cause post injection pain. And then um instead of uh using underground lab primo in MCT oil which probably also has ethylolate uh that they're not talking about or or migial 840 as a solvent uh try to source some Bayer Primobolin or or go with another underground lab that that produces Primo, right? Or start making it yourself. So that's what I would recommend. Come on, you know better, dude. You know better. Take the Primo out. It's never the pharmaceutical grade unless it's in a rut's oil. All right, last question from the group. If you want to super chat, better get those questions in because uh it's time to throw in the towel, bro. Uh Cod Dog Styles asks, "Hey, Steve, I've been using a for last 5 months to control LDL. LDL is now in healthy range, but HDL is slightly below the reference range. Supplementing daily with fish oil, vitamin E. I read that a zebomide also blocks the absorption of good fats like fish oil. Yeah, I read about that study also. Um, but I've never seen it to play out on blood work results. Unfortunately, here in Thailand, you can't check for your serum omega-3 levels, but I I, you know, talked with Derek and some people that can test this over at Merrick Health, and they said that there was no observable effect on serum omega-3 content. So uh you know maybe the scientific evidence shows that it inhibits omega-3 absorption but in the real world it seems not to have any delotterious effect. Uh any recommendations to increase HDL currently in 140 tests per week now. So you're already doing everything right. What you could do is daily fasted cardio and increase your fat intake and maybe look into cardarine which might cause cancer. So that's about it. That's about it. Yeah. You're doing the fish oil, the vitamin E helps. Citrus bergamont uh bourberine daily fasted cardio and that's it. Yeah. Have you helped any pro MMA fighters boxers pass the drug test? What compounds do you think they use? Uh I'm scripting for a video just about that. So yes, I've helped pro athletes beat the drug test. Obviously we're not going to talk about who that is, but yeah, I've helped a couple and uh I'll I'll make a video about that. It's in the scripting process. I just uh got busy with, you know, Prima Ball and research because there's like 270 studies on it. And I'm not the kind of guy who would review one paper like all those phony influencers do. Oh, look at this study. It's so interesting. And this abstract says that it's, you know, now we'll review all the scientific evidence, you stupid [\h__\h] But not you, Dylan. But that's but that's what I got busy with, right? So I I review everything and then I'll open my mouth. So um yeah, I'll make a video about uh MMA fighters and boxers because it's from my perspective, it's pretty much the same thing. Uh but it will involve uh lowdose TRT methods to increase uh oxygen carrying capacity with EPO amoxipine uh use of diiso uh [\h__\h] disocchloroacetate the data, right? We talked about that with the the podcast with Jake Benson and a couple other things. And uh yeah, let's see how that does cuz all these guys are mega doing and addrol and halotestine which is just going to ruin your stamina and gas you out. Mitochondrial function. That's what you should need to look and oxygen carrying capacity. Yeah, that's what you need to look into. What are uh are there any things to keep in mind when trying injectable ATP and AMP? Um well it's a parotin vasod dilator am and ATP can convert into ATP. So if you do go with the injectable route besides the post injection pain that most of these companies have. That's just part of the game right so you inject it before you go to the gym you start training and this way you mitigate some of the post injection pain because you're kind of circulating all this active pharmaceutical ingredient and then dispersing it through all throughout all of your skeletal muscle. Um but the faso dilation might go systemic. So you might get a little bit of hyperventilation, but from my experience, I think these are the best. You know, unfortunately, we can't mention the the brands anymore, but when I was using them, man, 1 cc, two cc's per side. Holy [\h__\h] Oh, good [\h__\h] man. Chest is like like here or shoulders like [\h__\h] balloons. And it stays a while, too. So if you if you load up your muscle with incorrect and injectable ATP and AMP and you have some intramuscular or intraworkout essential amino acids, glycerol, creatine, and some high brand cyclic dextrins. Oh man, that's some good [\h__\h] Yeah, I miss it. I miss it. Guys, you have we have eight minutes left and I'm going to throw in the towel. I'm not as sharp today. I hope you guys don't mind. But, uh, I'm doing the best I can. I guess all the questions are dried up. Let me scroll up a little bit. [\h__\h] it's 3 o'clock in the morning already. nothing new. Arthur, uh, what city in uh, which city do you live in in Thailand? I would like to train and live for some weeks in Thailand with supervision. Okay. So, I don't I don't supervise anymore. I live in Bangkok, but there's plenty of coaches like Aaron, for example. But you you would also not supervise in real life. Like, if you want to have somebody to supervise you, you probably need to go to Padia where there's uh you know, some deputy coaches, like beginner coaches that probably still have time for that. Um, and it's also a fun place to train and live, you know, and deal with all the side effects because there's so many women you could pay money to. Uh, but I live in Bangkok, man. That's where all the serious people are. And, uh, yeah, come to the gym. Come to the muscle factory. You might spot me there. There's people every day now in the muscle factory recognizing me. It's crazy. Yeah. By the way, if you need a paper in can get it on cyher herb have an Elsir account. Yeah, I asked uh I have some people who have accounts at certain places as well. So I usually ask around if I can't find a particular paper and then sometimes people can't even find it. Like I was looking for some primo studies and then even Kurt couldn't find it, you know. So that was pretty a shame. But just wait three years and then it will be on Science Hub. Man, I almost had a heart attack because Science Hub was like offline for a week and I was like, "Fuck, it's like the best source to find everything, you know?" And again, like when I do literature review, I review hundreds of studies. Like when I did the Anavar video, I went almost through all the all the studies, right? Same for testosterone, almost all the studies or the ones that are relevant in the context of exogenous testosterone. BPC, all of them. Cardine, all of them. Primo, all of them. So, when Science Heab was down and I was preparing for the Carterine video, I almost had a heart attack. I was like, where where am I going to get the information, you know? So, thank God it's back online. Uh, did I hang out with Jared Feather? Yeah, we uh I think we went to Cheesecake Factory and we went to have hamburgers and we had a couple messages here and there. Jared is a cool guy, man. It's a shame that I didn't get a chance to meet um Dr. Mike Israel when he was here. Um, but you know, I'm sure we can hang out at the Mr. Olympia when I see uh see these people there. Yeah. So, um, and I'm sure Jared will be back. He had a great time. So, you know what they say about Thailand. Uh, you never go once. I think Ian Valier also had a great time in Thailand. And, uh, but I didn't get to ch didn't get a chance to meet him. I shot him a message, but I guess he gets too many messages and uh, you know, so it's all right. Maybe you just wanted to be uh you know left alone, have a holiday, not meet people. That's totally cool. Also, I have my moments. But it seems that everybody that comes to Thailand has a great time. So, I'm sure they will be back. All right, guys. Let's wrap it up here. I'm a little bit fuzzy today. So, my sincere apologies. Hopefully, Monday I can get a video out and then uh we can get the ball rolling again. But next week will be a little bit less video. So, please bear with me. Uh, I was on a good roll, I think. Um, let me check my analytics. Check my analytics real quick. Yeah, 4,700 subs in the last 28 days. So, with this uh pace, we're going to break 150,000 subs easily at the end of this year. But next week, let's see. Anyway, uh thank you guys so much for hanging in there with me. Yeah, I'll go to sleep. I know. I got to go. So, I'll see you guys next week. We'll start at the usual time. This week, I just wanted to congratulate Paul Bernett with his 50th birthday, which is tomorrow. So, tomorrow, guys, uh go to Paul Barnett's Instagram page and wish him a happy birthday. Remind him that he's old as [\h__\h] I'm sure he'll be he'll appreciate it. I'll see you guys next week. Take care.