 there's kind of a loss of fitness in the fitness industry, and people are really in the weeds with the lack of stuff, as we're going to. And so I think we both kind of got to a point where we realized that I think people need a little more help than ejection 87 things. Should we just refrain from calling it the fitness industry, but call it the drug industry? Yeah, it's strengthened that direction. Not sure if it's partially my fault, but hey, I started my YouTube channel with bodybuilding. I did nutrition videos, and I did supplement videos, and training videos, but nobody wanted to see that. So now it's all drug videos, and now we have a whole new generation of TikTok and Instagram influencers making one minute drug videos and trying to educate people that way, which is all a derivative of this podcast. Let's be honest here. Gentlemen, it's the Anabolic Groundtable Episode 13. It's two days ahead of Friday the 13th, so we should have waited two days to make it a double whammy. But last episode was not too long ago. I've been very, very lazy in the meantime. I've been taking care of things that I've been procrastinating about instead of making YouTube videos. But I'm happy to have you two on board again. Kurt Haven's Dr. Dean St. Martz, back for another round of the Anabolic Groundtable. What's up with you guys? Kurt, you're wearing a very nice hoodie. Or a nuts and hoodies, what's this? A skullier hat? It's cold in here. It's cold in here? It's cracked up. It's hot outside, air-conditioned. It's hot. You're wearing winter clothes in the air-conditioning. I should do that as well. Any updates on your cycle or just cruising along? No, I've been cruising. I've just been pushing more cardio and stuff. I'm just trying to accomplish different things. I ran 20 miles last week. Oh, wow. Just for the heck of it. How's the needs? I've run most of my life, so they're fine. I figured I would try different fitness goals. Yeah. Sometimes you need a new challenge, right? Yeah. AJ Sims and I are partnering on some online education stuff, not specifically. Kind of a different take on fitness than what's out there. We're not really discussing anabolic. We'll go into some TRT or TRT plus stuff, but it's more geared toward being an optimal man. So it's geared more toward men and just what it means to be a leader, a father, a husband, a partner. Where fitness industry is that? There's a huge market for that. There's a huge market. There's been, really, I guess, to sum it up. There's kind of a loss of fitness in the fitness industry, and people are really in the weeds with the fitness stuff as we're going to. And so I think we both kind of got to a point where we realized that I think people need a little more help than ejectionate themselves. Shoei, should we just refrain from calling it the fitness industry but call it the drug industry? It's strengthened in that direction. Is that okay? Yeah, it's strengthened in that direction, so we're going to try to work. I'm not sure if it's partially my fault, but hey, I started my YouTube channel with bodybuilding. I did nutrition videos, and I did supplement videos, and training videos, but nobody wanted to see that. So now it's all drug videos. And now we have a whole new generation of TikTok and Instagram influencers making one minute drug videos and trying to educate people that way, which is all a derivative of this podcast. Let's be fucking honest here. Let me emphasize, let's be fucking honest here. It's all just copy and paste. I get my own information regurgitated back to me, but wrong. Isn't that? I'm like, what the fuck? Anyway, so I think we can call it the drug industry now. And contributing that with some masculinity and how to behave yourself and how to conduct yourself, I think we'll be a warm welcome. Because I'm a bald, and I keep unsubscribing more, unfollow more than I follow, restrict their height. Yeah, and I'm not even on trend, dude. Like if I was on trend, I would get it, but I'm just on TRT now, doing a test. I had a running load of this in-gen lie experiment, which is fun. A little bit watery, but it's not too bad. Yeah, so not sleepy though. I would expect to be sleepy all day from this in-gen lie, but so far so good. I know Cortez has his own ideas on it. Give me 10 more days, then I'm running on a third pen. I'll do some blood work, and then I'll see what the results were. What's the dose? 10 milligrams, or six milligrams per day. So if you discount for the ATG subunit, it would literally translate based on the molecular weight, to 10 I use growth hormone per day. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, so I'm taking basically like MK-677 for three people, without the ravenous appetite. Well, I had ravenous appetite, but that was after three days of sugar fasting. Not a good idea, we'll discuss that too. But so far so good, yeah, I'm full. I'm slowly getting leaner, as you would expect from growth hormone. My hair is growing super fast, my nails are growing super fast, because I haven't used growth hormone for all the entirety of the year, because people want me to do that follow start and experiment, that pick out the gene. YK-11 and the follow start in 344, which is something else, my God. We'll discuss that maybe, and otherwise we'll leave video about it soon. But yeah, buying back on the growth hormone now 20 days, yeah, I like it. I like it, it does something. Unless a deem around my ankles and hands, compared to 10 I use generics, or 10 I use pharmaceutical. Maybe it's because it's a longer acting one, or maybe because it's shit. It's really designed to, it's what's designed to mimic the placental, so the retin, which is not IGF one, it's IGF two. It's to protect the fetus, right? So as women moves on a pregnancy, the estrogen keeps going up and up and up, just like modern body builders, and the IGF, it's basically binding the IGF to prevent it from harming the fetus, and it's also preventing it from causing muscular growth in the mother, because that's not advantageous in a state where you need extra calories to grow another human. And then the placenta will then excrete IGF two to the fetus, not one. So if the placenta was secreting IGF one, the fetus would grow too large to deliver the baby. So it delivers IGF two, which is not gonna have the same muscular effect that IGF one will have. We're really not sure what even IGF two does. And that's what that drug was designed to do, is just to mimic. So while you could call it long-acting GH, it's not necessarily mimicking the response that we're looking for. That's fitness people. That doesn't mean it won't do something. I don't know. I usually tell people just to avoid it, because it's not, I don't think it's gonna do what. It's like any of these other things. Everyone wants to jump on this new and fancy. Yeah, that's half the fun, Kurt. You gotta keep expanding your portfolio of drugs, because it's a drug community. We can't just talk about drop sets and super sets and reps and reserve anymore, because there's no new science there. Well, some people think that there's new science, but I think the try and improve in heart training still stands. So we gotta, you know, okay, we've got a sugar diet and a carnivore diet before that, but the drugs keep evolving. So that's why we gotta put our efforts to, and in general, as one of them, man. So TRT and in general, for me, albeit adults for three people. Dean, I heard you're on the Trimbalonni sandwich again. We are, what is it? Three weeks, four? I don't remember now at this point, maybe four. Neurotoxicity, man. Yeah, I'm starting to slowly forget. I think it was four. I can't remember when I started to diet now, to be honest, because before it's just day-to-day. I think it was like four weeks before episode one, so it's been like 14 months now. 14 months. I'm 20 minutes against Trimbalonni pre-workout. And that's actually, we were juice. Remember, we said we'd go from 40 to 20, so it's 10 twice per week, and the train is chew-chewing along as it's supposed to. So we obviously put the photo up from last week's training. You know, fullness is back, getting leaner. I want to see how far I can push without having to do structured cardio, and just a baseline activity, which is like 7,000, 8,000 steps. We've got nine weeks to our vacation, so I'll give another two weeks. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. You're taking Trim for your vacation? Well, we did say. I'm gonna start to spot this off with so much cynicism. Yeah, well, we'll see, obviously, that the experiment was to keep the tea or tea as it was, and to prove what could be done if you add in a small little bump of it, a very androgenic compound for training, for moods, for lipolysis, add in the 25 apples four days a week as well, and then see what that synergy between... Well, there's two kinds of apples. There's very round and full apples, and there's very hard and dense apples. I was thinking, he's talking about hard and dense. Yeah, I think it's a hard and dense one. That sounds like a good dose. Like, the round and full, they're like, yeah, about half an apple too short. I was gonna say that's at least about four apples, be sure. Now, we might put in some super apples towards the end. If we really did take the absolute mickey on the beach. But so between that, it's 245 total per week, which is like someone's tea or tea. Yeah. I'm gonna be very interested to see, obviously, bloods, I expect bloods to change slightly, and also probably lipids, but so far so good. So far so good. I mean, the physique has changed, and no change to nutrition. Like last year's prep, food's still high. I had that trace gluten exposure two weeks ago from... So obviously in the house, you can't say to the kids, you can't eat gluten, because daddy can't eat gluten. So I was eating my dinner, and he was eating a cereal bar beside me, and I think some of my crumbs got into my food. I wasn't paying attention, but I literally woke up the next day on Monday, and I was eight months pregnant. Yeah, I showed it to my wife. She's like, full term now. She's like, oh, congratulations, Dean. Looked more breakout in her. I mean, breaking it into it, I kept putting it off for a minute, and you're like, I must do a five day fast. I must do a five day fast. Just for gut health. That morning, I was like tomorrow, okay, yep, no eating until Saturday, which obviously kickstarted the whole diet, because I was like right now, I can start the diet from Monday. I've regulated your fibroblast growth factor 21 with no carbs. Without eating a lot of Harry Bose. Yeah. Which we can get into. But obviously the fast this time around was a bit strange because towards the end of the fourth day, in my mind, I had it set that I was gonna beat my record, which is like five and a half days, five hours, five days, 13 hours that I said, right, that's like Saturday, midday. If I get to like Saturday evening, I broke my record. And then Friday heading into Saturday, my mood that evening just started to tank, which obviously is genetics. So I've got very fast MAOA genetics. So my serotonin turnover is really, really quick. By that point, not feeding my body protein and amino acids, my turnover of neurotransmitters started to tank and my mood was starting to become rubbish. And I thought, I can't last until Saturday evening feeling this way. So I thought, okay, Friday evening break my fast, which at that point was five days, which was more than enough time. Yeah, the most I've ever gone to was six and a half days. And the last two was horrendous. And it's with some L-tropithane in there and phrovoxamine just to keep me going. So yeah, you just, all you want to do is sit on the couch and watch TV. You can't do anything at that point. You're so depleted. I asked the chat GPT, what's like the ideal ratio between fasting and a ketogenic diet. And it came to the conclusion that fasting for two to three days, followed by three to four days over ketogenic diet is basically the best for fat loss. Yeah, but that's chat GPT. Which is interesting because for correct, like mitochondria function, you need glucose metabolism to happen, which is where there's like a trade off between a ketogenic diet improving instant sensitivity, but on the other side, making your mitochondria slightly less efficient because of you're not really going down that glycolysis pathway for oxidative phosphorylation. It's free fatty acid oxidation, creating pyruvate and NADH through that met. So what about if we just hammer the SLU and the PP332 and the MOTC and the methylene blue and no carbs? By real weight supplements, you can buy those over the counter, right? For a stack of four. I think, you know, like that with anything, if you have the knowledge there, that's sort of where historically ketogenic diets would get you so far. And then you start running to some issues with mitochondrial efficiency of having to bring calories down to keep losing body fat. Regardless of a high carb diet versus a low carb diet. And that's where in the last, probably a year and a half, two years, the whole thing of keeping carbs as high as possible in a contest scenario is what a lot of people are doing, finding benefit because of improved training performance from glycogen, improved mitochondrial function because of glycolysis and feeding into the electron transport chain. It's very rare you see guys, unless they prefer, like if fatty acid oxidation is that person's preferred energy pathway, then, you know, everyone has their own individual biochemistry, a low carb ketogenic diet might suit your biochemistry better. But we're seeing that shift away from like having to go extremely low carb on purpose when that person's body might actually favor carbs and glycolysis as the way of creating energy to allow them to perform and train better. I mean, as a whole humans would prefer glucose. Yeah. Exactly. So where do you guys want to get started first? This sugar-foss diet or the Shreveggrumup and the Gretosmup, what did you get more direct messages for? Let's start there. For me, it was the GDF-8 and the active inhibitors, but let me know where you want to get started. Got me a lot of texts. Yeah, Dean, you too? Split between the two, obviously between my fast of eating, nothing, and then someone going, well, why don't you eat a load of sugar during your fast? I think we can go either way. I think let's start with the monoclonal antibodies. And I guess this is a whole order dimension of compounds we're heading into that from a pharmacology perspective would be classed as biologics, which we're going to see very, very expensive biotechnological drugs that most people need medical support or medical, I guess, referral in order to get the funding to take these compounds. Yeah, so I already did the research on how much it costs. Basically, if you want to stick with the clinical trial dosage, the safety and efficacy study, not the clinical trials, but I look at particular muscle wasting diseases or other kinds of issues where it was shown to be beneficial, just in healthy individuals, in the men who are shown to be beneficial at the highest dosages, we're talking about six to 10 milligrams, and then sourcing that through some of the online chemical websites where they have high purity compounds, all costs you want to have million dollars for 13 weeks. Yeah. So, fund it. So, you can deal. Fund it, guys. Yeah, start to go for me and Steve will climb. I will gladly do it. I mean, I'm sure. So I went to Sigma Aldrich. He can't find it there. Let me just share my screen real quick so you guys know exactly what's going on. So I found this website, Medchem Express, and they sell a travel group up, a Regen 1033, and five milligrams cost you $1,500. Now, I'm sure you can get a better quote for 10 milligrams or 50 milligrams, but you have to contact them. So if you divide 1500 milligrams or $15,000 by five, you get about $300, all right? And for Gretus Mop, Regen 2488, the price here listed is $1,650, which was actually lower before. So they bumped out the price. So it's $165 for one milligram. But if you go to the clinical trial dose, just let me see, this is the one, and guys, I'll link everything down below, obviously. So here you can see this is a single dose blockade of a GDF-8 and active in A antibodies, monoclonal antibodies. So that's travel group up and Gretus Mop, increasingly lean body mass and increased fat mass. This is in healthy individuals who did not exercise, so that's promising. And then here you see a change from baseline of thigh muscle volume determined with an MRI. If they combine anti-active in A, which is Gretus Mop and anti-GDF-8, that's travel group up at 10 milligrams and six milligrams per kilogram of body weight, you see the most change. And then you see that across the board when you combine both of these compounds at the highest dosages, you basically see the most change in lean mass and let's see, other things. So if you calculate that to something that's useful, so if you go with travel group up, the anti-GDF-8, aka anti-myostatin, highest human clinical trial dose, just six milligrams per kilogram of body weight intravenous every two weeks, which means based on what I just found on this MedChem Express, at $300 per one milligram, a three month supply injected six milligrams per kilogram of body weight every two weeks, for a hundred kilogram body builder, would run you $1,080,000. And that's just one compound. Gretus Mop, the anti-active in A, monoclonal antibody, the highest human clinical trial dose is 10 milligrams per kilogram of body weight, intravenous every four weeks, so at least the administration is less often. Or at $165 per one milligram, a three month cost for a hundred kilogram body builder would be $495,000. So it's basically one and a half million dollars to run the dosages which were shown to be efficacious in the clinical trials for three months. For three months. And that would be like a cycle. Of course, these studies are like an injection at week one, two, four, six and eight, or one, four, and then follow up for up to 20 weeks, where the results were quite pronounced. And again, that's incinitary individuals that are otherwise healthy. So not people who are obese, and then take somicrotide to get the obesity under control. That's an animal model, where you lose insulin sensitivity, obviously on the skeletal muscle, shrink a little bit in that process, in a high fat, high fructose diet. Your muscle shrinks a little bit, and then it would take somicrotide, and Travegrumab or somicrotide, and Gretusmab. And then the fat mass would go away, and the lean muscle comes back to a certain extent, or maybe higher than baseline. Or there's less lean muscle loss due to the somicrotide. Now, these animals, they don't exercise. These animals don't take high protein diets that are not very similar to us. And even these healthy individuals, macronutrient intake was not tracked. Training was not tracked. And even then, it shows that lean muscle mass goes up. And again, these healthy individuals, they don't have insulin resistance, or they weren't fed a high fat diet, high fructose diet. So in this case, there's no loss of insulin sensitivity on the skeletal muscle, but muscle actually goes up. You see the same thing with SARMS. You see the same thing with ACE083 and ACE081, or 31, which were, let's see, there were fallostatin, or myostatin and hemorrhage as well. I did a deep dive on that. And even with fallostatin 344, you see similar results. Now, I ran fallostatin 344 for three fucking weeks at one milligram per day. And even though the results were good, they were not as good as steroids. Does anybody know anybody that took steroids and got muscle mass and fat loss at the same time comparable to these results? Raise your hand. Yeah, pretty much. These results resemble TRT, dude. I mean, when you look at what changed there, even on the first graph, it was a 6% change in time mass. So let's say you've got a 100 kilo male, and for even sake, if we have about 40% of our body weight in our lower limbs, and each leg weighs 20 kilos, it's not a lot, 6% of 20 kilos, 1.2 kilograms that you've gained, which when you actually look at what 1.2 kilograms, which is what, 2.2 pounds, 2.3 pounds of muscle tissue, what that actually looks like as a piece of meat going on to your quads, it's not a huge amount for 1.5 million. I don't think you can see the difference visually. That's 1.5 million to add in theory from this result, you know, maybe two, three pound of muscle tissue. You might notice it if you wear skinny jeans. That's it. No, okay, it's without training, right? That's without training. So it is promising, but I think if you go on TRT, you'll gain that 1.2 pounds or kilos also in your leg. Yeah, depending on how androgen deficient you are, you know, your metabolic flexibility, your ability to train, recover everything else, like that IGF-1 turnover, it's interesting, but it's gonna be more interesting which wins them between this or bio-glutides, because at the end of the day, bio-glutide is coming in with the IGF-1 peptide aspect attached to glip, GIP and ghrelin, glucagon, sorry. Yeah. That, you know, have a compound that stops this muscle wastage that can occur with not eating properly with GLPs. And I think bio-glutide will hit the market well before teragromop or gretus mop hits because I contacted all the sources to see if it was available at a cheaper price and not in the pipeline either. Well, the problem is monoclonal antibodies are very difficult to produce. You can't, like someone can buy a peptide synthesizer and basically give it the recipe, have all the amino acids in the vials and you literally just tell it to a coupling recipe and it just builds it like building a cake. To do monoclonal antibodies, you have, well normally in the past, they were used ovarian hamster cells, so C-H-O's. And you basically grew these antibodies so you gave the recipe to the antibody and then you purified them from these ovarian cells. And they're biologics for a reason because they're then as a high potential for contamination risk. And obviously with misfolded proteins, we can have high risk also. Peptides more so don't have that necessarily risk because the tertiary structure of a peptide doesn't interact to the same extent as a protein structure. It does still have a 3D structure and a tertiary structure but it's not as critical if you take a misfolded protein substance, which is like a prion that you're gonna end up with problems. With these monoclonal antibodies, if there is a small change in the sequence within the antibody protein, now you're gonna start targeting other things and not what you're targeting to block because really what these antibodies do is they block receptors. Yeah. So you have these monoclonal antibodies that block receptors and they have A031, A0383, those were decoy receptors for myostatin. So it's basically pholostatin and then modified. And if I remember correctly, A0383 was rapidly deactivated in the bloodstream. So they would administer that in a baller shot of 240 or 120 milligrams intermuscularly and that was shown to only cause localized muscle growth but not anywhere else. And what I'm wondering with these monoclonal antibodies is that if you take that systemically, again, all these clinical trials are done intravenously, if you take this systemically and you combine that with something like semi-glutide or retrotutide, which is what basically in the pipeline is, they wanna combine this with GLP ones and prevent muscle wasting because these people don't eat correctly and don't exercise, which is actually highlighted in one of the discussions of the studies, I can show you that later on. What happens is with semi-glutides, there's a put-ide retrotutide, your resting heart rate goes up. And then what starts happening if you start blocking the active in the myostatin in your heart? Do you now get heart enlargement? Hasn't been studied, but that will be my first concern. Now I take clean and stimulants and of course already have LVH from steroids that I took, but this would be my main concern for general population that doesn't exercise, doesn't do cardio to keep that ventricular contraction and injection fraction under control. If you start increasing your resting heart rate at five to 10 points by mega-dosing semi-glutide or retrotutide later on and then combining it with these kinds of medications, sounds like it's a recipe for heart enlargement, which you're not going to mitigate by doing your daily fasted cardio. And then what's the next combination medication, a fucking beta blocker? Right? So it's not, it has been investigated in any of the clinical trials regarding resting heart rate, where I try to look through it at all the clinical trials that investigate these kinds of medications. Cardiac function is not investigated. And do you really want to block active in? I mean, it's going to stop stem cell proliferation, right? I think one of the concerns is bone density as well. Yeah. And tendon laxity. I mean, yeah, I mean, I like how do you think that's going to be outside the box, but monoclonal antibodies, I think are more, in my view, more beneficial for targeting a specific pathogen or something like that where we can go in and like, with before the mass rollout of what medicine was rolled out in the 2020s, one of the theories that I've suggested was, why aren't we making a monoclonal antibody against this problem? And it was cost. It was a lot more difficult to scale a monoclonal antibody against the ACE receptor of this problem that we had in the world than it was to create a transcription product that we give out to everyone. Yeah. So here's just something I'm going to show you in one of the studies. So here, this is the investigation in the animal model. So they use mice and what is it, macaque monkeys, to see how these monoclonal antibodies behave in the context of a high-fat, high-fructose diet. And here they say in the discussion, while it has been shown that moderate exercise can lead to healthier weight loss with JLP1 receptor agonists, it is difficult to get patients to adhere to such regimens outside of controlled trials. So this doesn't fall within the fitness community or the drug community, where most of us actually do go to the gym. In addition, there's some evidence that patients started on JLP1.  GLP-1 receptor agnes may actually decrease their physical activity. Thus, widespread use of GLP-1 receptor agnes may result in widespread public health concerns. So by prescribing glp1s, people exercise less because they have less energy because they eat less, where in reality you just need to put them on a diet and exercise program and then use GLP-1 later on. Let's see, causes widespread public health concerns, particularly in individuals with obesity or low lean muscle mass and the elderly. So it's hard to get people to adhere to exercise and clinical trials because people are lazy as fuck. Well, that's the pill for an ill and what can reverse environmentally induced problems. Obviously, we've touched on before, yes, there's some genetic aspects to it, but if we're going to use these to combat muscle wastage in GLP-1 use, we already see that once glp1s are generally stopped, people regain most of the weight they lost if they never addressed the dietary habits and things that happened in the first place. Yeah, and with glp1s, it's very important just to change your dietary habits because if you suppress your appetite, it's very important to at least get the protein and the healthy fats in and then at least provide your body with nutrients. But you see this over and over again, I went on semi-glutide and I lost bone marrow density, yes, because you kept eating the same garbage that got you fat, but now you eat less of that garbage and now you don't even get calcium in your diet. When in reality, you should be eating your proteins, your vegetables and healthy fats and maybe some carbs to fill up the micronutrients and shut the f**k up and then live a healthy lifestyle. But people don't do that, that's what Genome Population does, they go into GLP-1 and then they go to McDonald's less. You know, they go to Cheesecake Factory less, which is great, they lose weight that way, but half of the weight is coming from muscle mass, they don't change their lifestyle, they don't go to the gym. And I think this muscle loss that occurs with GLP-1 is purely because they lack the knowledge and the perseverance to go to the gym and eat healthy, which in reality- How they got fat in the first place. What got them fat in the first place and yeah, no, it's true. I mean, it's a lifestyle disease and how they could get themselves out of this fat and obese and disgusting lifestyle by eating healthy and going to the gym and then when you do need to control your appetite later on, okay, use GLP-1 from 12% body fat onwards or something or 10% when you can't control your appetite, when it's been six months on a diet. Yeah, I don't know if I said this last time, there's 900 soma genes that control the EMI, but yet 96% of obesity is lifestyle related, so they're doing it because they're lazy and using glps, sorry, might be lazy. I think hunger signaling is very important when you diet, right? So when bodybuilders use it, that feedback is needed. So you understand what your body's doing. I think that there's very few examples that it's warranted. I see lots of guys try to use it when they're at some mediocre level of body fat. If you can't get pretty darn lean without using stuff like that, perhaps that ain't the sport for you. Yeah, I'm sorry, but guys have shredded glutes way before these silly drugs existed. I do think it's warranted in certain contexts where you have a lot of responsibilities and you'd want to take away the food noise, like some people have worse food noise than others. But you need to learn to condition yourself to that. Yeah. Right, that's, and that noise is your body's telling you you need to learn how to deal with that and cope with it, right? And most people, I interact with thousands of people, I see very few people who are truly starving, right? You see a body that are doing 3000 calories and he's crying about how hungry he is. Most of the world doesn't even eat that much. It's gotten to a place that, like I said before, we've completely removed fitness from fitness and now we're just trying to take as many different chemicals as we can to bypass any sort of responsibility about our health or fitness, right? We all want to look a certain way, but no one's willing to actually do the work to get there, right? Let's take it. Thank God, thank God for TRT and GLP-1 to accept their eigenes, man. Everybody can get results. Which we still don't see. You've got a Disneyland, you still see fat people. Yeah, of course. It's not a change. When those people come off the GLPs, they're going to be just as fat. Yeah. They didn't ever learn how to eat, right? Like the study shows, they don't exercise. When is that groundbreaking stuff that if you exercise, weight loss is healthier? I mean, do they even eat? Yeah, like does that even need to be written? Yeah, it's weird, huh? It's weird. And then it seems like every, you know, Mike Yestertape made a video about these compounds and everybody lost their shit and started flooding my inbox. But it's the same thing that happened with SARMS, with Osterine, where you saw these kinds of, you know, dramatic changes where without exercise, where muscle mass goes up and fat mass goes down. You see this in TRT studies, where fat mass goes down and muscle mass goes up. You see this with follow-stop and studies with ACE038A031. And at least those are available. But this is not available. And they're costing a billion dollars, even if they're available. No, but somebody, everybody that's raving about this shit says that it's the next best thing, but they haven't even fucking tried it yet. So why are you opening your mouth? I hate to say it, but why are you opening your fucking mouth? We haven't tried this stuff yet and then praising to the God that this is going to be the next best thing, at least use it first. You know? I mean, what I don't understand then with these biologics is the share cost. So if we are if we are giving this to a human to reduce obesity, we are looking at someone who is like morbidly obese, who has no potential way of moving if you wanted to put it that way, that they literally just sit and eat all day. That we're giving this drug to stop them from eating, to preserve the muscle mass in their body so that they don't waste away from no appetite. It cost a 1.5 million for three months. You know, this is a 100 kilo male. So let's take someone who is critically obese, 140, 150 kilograms. We're going into a territory where that cost even starts going up. And like Kurt said, then with biologics, you normally get an exemption and it's paid by your public health funds. You make a cause like we have some monoclonal antibody compounds. So anything that ends with MAB is for monoclonal antibody map. And there's just loads of them. If you search up, yeah, there's loads of them. Formulatory books, you'll see all the monoclonal antibodies and be honest, some of the names get crazy. I don't even know how half of us remember but they are very specialized compounds that need exemptions to be prescribed. So I just, yeah, it's great hype but I don't see a filtering into the fitness industry. No, unless it's like $10 a bottle or $50 a bottle. But I don't think it like, but follow statin is 80 bucks a pop like on the gray area market. If you go get it in China, it's maybe $17 to $25 per file depending on the quantity. So and even that is expensive. Because compared to GH, let's say you run, let's say you run, you need to run a valve of something to get results like a valve growth hormone 10 years, a valve of IGF-10 or 3, 1 milligram, a valve of a follow statin 3 for 4, 1 milligram. And the follow statin 3 for 4 is the most expensive and you get the least results. Well, because who said myostatin is the ultimate rate limit in this process? It isn't. It's a total picture. It's a total picture. Right. And when you're in the house and if you want to, if you really want to do like a myostatin, follow statin cost of benefit comparison injectable YK-11 wins hands down out of all of these compounds because it's recently cheap. It doesn't really skew your lipids. It doesn't really skew your liver enzymes. It's readily available. The post injection pain is minimal. And it's just an antibiotic step, anabolic steroid, which, okay, YK-11 is two or three studies on it. But you know, anecdotal experience, it's been around for what five to 10 years now. There's a lot of anecdotal experience that we can learn from and I get great results. So cost of benefit, I would say injectable YK-11 wins out of all of these myostatin modulating compounds, including a picatogen and follow statin 3 for 4. And these are just the latest things that you can throw in the pile. But I don't think you would get that great of results, even if it was $50 for a month for a bottle. And again, if you want to spend $1.5 million for 6% gain in muscle mass, to give that shit to me, I'll coach you through it, and I'll put you on TRT and you'll get 6% additional muscle mass with maybe a little bit of growth hormone, and I'll put the rest in Bitcoin and laugh my way to the bank, you know. It's funny how one video can send this entire fitness industry to crazy and then, you know, I make a video about so much wrong, which actually has a lot of promise and scientific evidence. Nobody watched MOTC same thing. And so you PPP, okay, people burn that now, but stuff that's actually promising that actually works, we can actually use it just completely overlooked. And then this is hyped beyond belief when nobody can use it. And again, guys, if you've used it, let me know, let me know down below. If you have the money to run it, let me know down below. And if you don't want to run it, but you have the money, send it to me, I'll gladly run it for you. Oh, wait, Elon Musk is calling, he said he used it. Yeah, he would be, yeah, he needs some, he got a black eye recently, we're talking too much shit. Yeah, he could do with some monochrome antibodies. But yeah, I think this is just one of those things that looks promising right now based on one study. There's several different studies, there's animal models, there's one human clinical trial, which looks promising. And that was the same for SARMs, and that turned out to be a fluke. So seeing as believing until that time, please stop deeming me about this shit. Because, you know, there's been multiple compounds like this on the market, and none of them really did anything worth your money, besides injectable YK-11. I've tried all of them so far, you know. So yeah, I hope it ends now, but I don't think so. Hey, have you looked into Travorker's Mup or Gretel's Mup? Oh, man, I'll link all the studies down below so you can read them yourself. It is very interesting, very promising, but until it hits the market, don't get your hopes up. And even when it hits the market based on all of the compounds that I've tried so far in this category of drugs, I would say don't get your hopes up. And remember that, what is it, the $20,000, $25,000 follow-up in gene therapy that's running around? All the guys that I know that tried it, that got it for free, said it didn't do shit. Literally didn't do shit. So what's the point, you know? Use some fucking steroids and shut the fuck up. I was gonna say, why don't we just stick with things that have been proven to work. Go read the Basin study and then shut the fuck up. I mean, all that CRISPR technology looks great. Going in and splicing sections of your genome to insert. Maybe we don't use AI design drugs. Yeah, bring your rats back. Yeah, I know a girl who can do all the intrapartial injections. She's very popular on Instagram. All right, so with that out of the way, let's go over to the sugar fasting diet. It's making the rounds. Mark Bell is an advocate. Chase Irons is doing it right now. It's getting some good results. I did it for three days as per instructions of a fuel to thrive. What is it called? Yeah, fuel to thrive 2.0. That's the e-book that Jobin Lee wrote, the owner of Project AD. He's been around for a very long time. So he cordially sent me that e-book. I read front to back three times and then the diet. I had some good results regarding body composition, got full, got a little bit leaner the first two days. And then by the third day, I went into a blood sugar roller coaster where I was hypo and hyper and I didn't feel good. And then it took me a week to get out of the cravings because my metabolism was boosted to the point that I couldn't stop eating. So first three days, I got leaner and then I got fat. Yeah. Yeah, it was fun though. Eating a lot of fruit and honey, manuka honey, very expensive manuka imported. And then finishing the day off with some licorice from a hurry bow. Good stuff. I mean, where's the common sense? I mean, it does make sense on paper. If you do the research about fiber-brow cloth factor 21 and the, you know, upregulating mitochondrial function, improving insulin sensitivity and then using, you know, the triglycerides and free from fatty acids that are being liberated to kind of burn away the excess, right? In the chlorine difference that you're making, it does make sense on paper and there's plenty of people who get results from it. I just don't think it's sustainable. And I don't think it's suitable for everybody because my blood glucose levels were all over the place by day three. And that's following exactly the adherence of what needs to be done, you know? And of course, I come from a ketogenic diet, my insulin sensitivity might be a little bit different than other people. It might be good to do one or two days a week. I had a horrible taste in my mouth. Is that just car cycling? It is. Yeah. At that point, it's basically carbs. Except for the shit protein source. Yeah, there's no protein. You basically take collagen protein because you have to avoid isolucine. Yeah, isolucine suppresses fiberglass growth factor 21. And that's where this metabolic increase metabolic boost comes from. Now fasting also increases FGF 21. So I would make the case that why don't we fast one time per week and then get an FGF 21 boost one day a week, which is something a lot of people do. I mean, John Minow's advocated the one day fast. I've done one day fast sometimes. I think Roman Fritz fast one day per week. He doesn't struggle with his body fat levels. But I think if you want to upgrade FGF 21, either inject it or do it once in a while. I think the premise was to make your mitochondria more efficient. Obviously, we touched on having a higher carbohydrate diet for mitochondrial efficiency and improving lipolysis. But I just, if we have a natural athlete doing this, then I can see all hell breaking loose. And that if they are taking modified hormone assistance, their muscle protein breakdown is going to be a lot lower than a non enhanced person. Their enhanced testosterone levels going to have improved IGF one, that I guess this is going to maybe work for those who are in the assisted community. But those who are in the assisted community will be on that. I guess even the different sugar sources. So what's advocated is pretty much sucrose, like straight up sugar, glucose, or a combination of glucose and fructose from home. Yeah, about 40, 50 glucose and fructose. Yeah, that's pretty much what they recommend. And then you're, you're hoping that you don't have gut dysbiosis, because now you're feeding a lot of glucose into your gut. And most people's gut health is atrocious. And you're also relying on there being adequate insulin sensitivity that when that glucose is emptied into the small intestine and absorbed into the body, the pancreas doesn't have a feeling like maybe what you see where it's so unpredictable that you've got a baseline glucose intake from I guess starchy carbohydrate sources, vegetables, like your standard baseline nutrition. And they're just having a free for all with simple sugars that your woman or your pancreas thinks, okay, it's, it's fairly predictable and what's coming into the body. And now you have either a hyper insulinogenic response where you produce too much insulin and now your blood sugar completely falls. And now your liver is having to make glucagon to get your glucose level back up again. And now you're trying to restore glycogen within the liver and everything has after that that it looks great on paper. But like you said, why, why not just fast for four or five days or 72 hours? Like if you're skeptical about 24 hour fasting, go beyond the 24 hours where you know autophagy and my topology to break down a mitochondria starts occurring. Yeah, that's what two or three days. So that's that's why, you know, it seems that fasting for two or three days seems to be the most ideal for fat loss without down regulating your metabolism without down regulating your thyroid levels without down regulating your mitochondrial function. And it's at least with fasting, that's where most of the FGF 21 increases occur day two and three. And then it kind of slows down again, and then protein catabolism picks up. So you get a lot of these free amino acids in the bloodstream converting into gluconeogenesis and it might suppress FGF 21 as well. So this is the reason why they like to sugar fast, because if you exclude particular or a certain amount of protein, especially isoleucine, and excludes direct dietary fats, which you might still get a lot from a lot of fruit and, you know, candy, basically, can have a lot of fat in there. But if you limit that to below 50 or 30 grams per day, then this FGF 21 is just continuously upregulated. Now, the glucose would, of course, be protein sparing, right, because your mitochondria prefer, you know, the glucose is why high carb diets work so well, you can reduce your protein intake to 150 grams per day. I just wonder if if you do this for like 21 days straight or one week straight, how would it outweigh versus normal fasting regarding your overall body composition? Because I get phenomenal results in body composition from full fasting and digestive health goes up tremendously because my digestion takes a break and my pancreas and my gallbladder and my liver, all kind of, you know, relax and detoxify and intestinal inflammation goes down. But with this, after three days of this fruit diet, from the lack of fiber in the fruit, right, and I would eat like rice, I asked Chad GPT, give me, I have these 10 fruits that I've access to, write me a diet where I combine five or six fruit sources for about 100 grams of carbs, which this much breakdown in glucose and fructose and this much fiber. And then I felt up the rest with a little bit of a manuka honey. So I got about 100, 125 grams of carbs, and then I had six meals per day, right, for 600, 800 grams of carbs and a little bit of protein, a little bit of fat for or a little bit of protein and trace amounts of fat from the protein at the end of the day, for about 2500 to 3000 calories. Got a great diet. I got some melon, I got some banana, I got some mango, right, and then a little bit of honey on top. And the first two days it went well. And then after that, my blood sugar was all over the place. Holy moly. And it, that uniquely happened to me. I don't see any actual reports that happened to other people. Some people swear by it and they continue this for months on end. They're all small though. Because how do you build muscle with no, with a branch team amino acid missing? Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. I don't think, I don't think this is designed for like most, I think this is just for pure cellular metabolism. Yeah. Like to exist, basically. These people would do very well with Travacromop and Carretus mukha. To prevent muscle loss while they exclude, you know, essential amino acid. But like, I mean, the other side of it then is, if, if isoleucine is the main one you're excluding, why aren't they excluding leucine and metionine, which are two other ones, you know, leucine in terms of mTOR, which then is a, a mechanism that doesn't occur during fasting. Obviously, we're fasting. We're boosting A and PK and everything else that feeds off it. But you'd probably make the argument that you just go pretty much no protein, which I think that's what I did see as well, that you, you basically just rely solely on sugar. And then this, this major mitochondria is super efficient. You've got lipolysis occurring and then those fatty acids are going in and being oxidized. One thing that I can see occurring potentially is time in deficiency. Like vitamin B one is what feeds into complex one to keep NAD turning over and the electrons spinning out from NAD. That how, how do you get obviously for fruits, you're going to get, you know, some vitamins, minerals, but unless you're taking like a supplement, which there's no rules against, I just, I'm finding it difficult to see with just a strict sugar based diet. And I wonder what happens with aldosterone levels because salt intake is also minimal on this diet. And what you see with a lot, how do you absorb any fat soluble vitamins? True. So like your vitamin D level goes down to nothing. A, E, A, so you, no fish oil. You have no shortain fatty acid production, right? You get a little bit from maybe apples or bananas perhaps, but not enough without fiber. Fiber is probably one of the most important things you can eat. Yeah. I mean, what I noticed is a lot of what you see the before and after pictures you see these guys, they get leaner overall, except for their lower back. And I'm not sure if that's water retention from aldosterone changing or some sort of insulinogenic response where, of course, the lower back is very receptive to insulin, right? So obviously insulin levels go up. I didn't check my fasting in insulin levels. There are about 2.2, 2.6 on a ketogenic diet. My blood glucose levels never went over 130, but I had periods where it was like 50, 60 in between meals. It was not good. And if you're in ketosis, it's fine because you're, your brain works on ketones. And if you're, yeah, you, you know, you do phycetocardial and your blood glucose like 55, you know, you feel fine because your brain works on ketones. But with this, it really went from 50 to 130, not 150. Luckily, right? I'd still have good insulin sensitivity and good insulin release from the pancreas. But yeah, at the last day, I was going hypoglycemic like three times per day. It was not fun. I woke up hypoglycemic. I'm like, fuck man. It's not what I want. And then you start eating a little bit more fuller foods. I had some beef and some rice and some avocado and some whole eggs just to kind of hold you over with a good amount of vegetables. You have protein, carbs and fats together. And then just kept stuffing myself. So I, yeah, probably gained a lot of fullness. I felt very full. I turned out this food. Should have done it with Richard's side. Then I could have controlled my appetite a little bit better. And you would have improved your insulin sensitivity. We're even like that approach, we're waking up with like a hypo. That's probably like insulin dumping coming out of like your sleep. So you've got the, the dawn effects with your cortisol rising. When I was starting to try and combat that dawn effect, you just pumped out too much insulin, which then you wake up pretty awful like looking to consume whatever's in front of you to save off that low blood sugar. No, it's not fun. It's not fun. And it could be from like a genolysis from the liver that, you know, you get the cortisol dump, kind of wake you up and then you get this blood glucose release or the release of glucose from the liver and they get this hormonal fluctuation in your insulin. And then by the time you actually wake up, you're just full blown out because you make and the word fuck am I, you know, it's, yeah, it's not fun. So, so I'm happy to be back on ketogenic diet. I feel a lot more cognitively sharp, not impaired anymore. Like a day three, my, I was fucking brain fogging here. This guy's on the, you know, the sugar fasting diet say that they're pretty brain fogged at points, which some, yeah, it sounds kind of productive to productivity. I mean, do you really want to go through all of that where you just feel like some guys have a lot of energy, they need to stop coffee. Other guys just say that they're brain fogged, especially after meals. So I guess, you know, it's worthy of a shot, basically, but I think it's pretty extreme. I think it's more extreme than a carnivore diet. To equal. Yeah, I mean, they're both sufficient in serious things. Yeah, it seems that a carnivore diet is a little bit more sustainable though. Yeah, I just, I mean, it's not sexy, but what if people just ate a balanced diet? Yeah, I mean, it seems so crazy, right? But then we have this type of magic diets that work in tremendous ways. Yeah, but you look good all day and get shredded. Isn't that more fun? Yeah, but are you really going to get more shredded eating nothing but fruit all day? Probably not. I think the only guys that really get shredded are the ones that also do a lot of exercise on this diet. So you see some cyclists that are fruitarians. Of course, you know, they're the upper legs as big as my forearm, if not smaller, zero muscle mass. But I do endurance sports and it seems to work. But besides Chase, who just started this, it chase basically the biggest guys and all the other guys that really advocate this, they don't really have that big physique. Mark Belsby jacked, you know, Joe Binley is pre jacked, but they got there on steroids and heavy lifting and but the body but a lifestyle or the power lifting lifestyle. And now they just have to maintain. And again, I would like to see their physique. Joe Binley has been doing this for a while, but I don't think he's putting on any size. So again, if you're just trying to sustain, right, a nice TRT plus physique, that's very fuckable. Then obviously it works. I just wonder the sustainability of it in the long term benefits. There was one guy I'll link that podcast on below. So one guy went into all the science of FGF 21 and he said, it's probably not healthy to sustain this for longer periods of time because it just shows some deleterious effects in the animal models where long term upregulation of FGF 21 causes all kinds of problems. Yeah, I think one time a week is okay. I think fasting one time per week is also okay. And then you go with what you enjoy the most. Of course, I would enjoy eating food all day and then finishing the day off with a kilo of Haribo. Hell yeah. But yeah, fasting is cheaper. This is a lot cheaper. You don't have to do anything for a juice, you don't have to cut any fruit, don't have to peel shit, don't have to spend an arm and a leg of Manuka honey. If you're gonna go with honey, you gotta go to the best one, right? The antioxidant and the antimicrobial and the fancy pansy. If you're gonna do a fancy diet, you gotta go to fancy honey. And then you can't go with the cheap candy that you get to scooping out. You gotta go to high class Haribos, the six dollar bag Haribos. And you're made out of biologics. In my dollar traffic remaps. I mean, I even get questions like with the five day fast of I put up that during the five day fast. I'll have our electrolyte plus that has the Roy Bose in it and like, oh my God, it's a carb. And you're like, well, it's a non insulogenic carb or non glycemic carb. And then you put up all have an energy drink. What about the sweetener and an insulin response? I'm like, all throughout the day, you're having an insulin response. If you didn't, you'd be dead. So try not to do much. You know, asking questions about sweetener and an energy drink causing an insulin response, stopping the beneficial effects of your fasts. That in order to keep you alive, your pancreas is continuously balancing your blood sugar with insulin.  stop that huge tie. Don't you wish you could do power slap over the internet? Like you charge it through the screen? Through the screen with the sound effects? Man, yeah. It's like you don't mean to be captain obvious, but you're like, if you're really worried about the insulin spike of an energy drink, maybe stop breathing. Like that is how nuanced that the arguments are becoming in the industry of if you have to sweeten it, it's going to stop your intestine from having autophagy because of the insulin. Yeah. No. But the guys that question all these silly stuff don't even look good. They're not healthy. It's the ones that get stuck in the weeds with all this stuff. Yeah. Any other things going on that are wrong, right? But they're focusing on this. They're worried about the energy drink, but nothing else in their life is right. Maybe fix that shit first. Yeah. Then worry about the energy drink. Maybe get some sleep and won't need the energy drink. So, sirs, yeah, sleep ride, do some fast and cardio, eat healthy, eat a balanced diet. But it's not sexy, man. It doesn't sound sexy. You've got to do the new things. It's consistency community. That's how we should call it. That will be the real name of it. But drug community sounds better, man. Drug community. Yeah. And then people are super worried about these, you know, what is it called, the sweeteners. And they go absolutely nuts on that. I mean, I don't really consume sweeteners myself, but I don't think it's an issue, unless you really overdo it. I mean, what was that in our study, Dean? What was the equivalent dose in a human? It was like a dump truck with a sweetener. Oh, it's, I mean. The one with the gut microbiome actually showed an improvement in the microbiome from the sweeteners. Oh, yeah. I get it. People that told me on the title that it changed your gut microbiome, but I've actually read the study, it improved it. I, people ask me these questions all the time about sweeteners and you look at European food safety authority, EFSA, that do all the health studies to speak or for human safety of certain food ingredients. And of course, everyone's gonna have their own opinions on biased research and whatever else. So close, we have to study rats with the teratogenicity, where it affected DNA in huge dosages. Yeah, I was gonna say, what was the dose? Or it causes changes to the gut microbiome. So it was breathing in a lot of polluted air or electromagnetic frequency radiation. You've been talking about fruit all day. You know, so you started and like, when people questioned these things, I was like, there's so many variables here, aspartame leading to methanol production in the body, which yes, there is research that suggests, perhaps if you're pregnant, you should not be having a lot of aspartame because of the methanol and the toxicity that could have to a baby. But again, that's a very special population. You have monk fruits, which is like, this is another thing that drives me nuts. We don't use any artificial sweeteners in our products, but as stevia has monk fruits. And then you look at the research and they are both gut toxic and change your gut microbiome. If you really want to be nippy, you'd use nothing because then you put sugar in a product. Why you put sugar in the product for? Yeah. Well, what I would like people to do is just to eat healthy six and a half days a week, cook all of your own meals, and then half a day on Sunday, you don't give a fuck. And you can have your monk fruit and your artificial sweetener and your vinaigrette and your pizza and suggest for some normalicity, right? So you feel like a normal person and you can have my sugar cake in this week. You want to eat some Haribo? Sure. But the rest of the time just eat a healthy balanced diet. Throw your calories up and down, do your cardio, take a Dr. Dean stack and shut the fuck up. At least that's affordable. Yeah. I mean, people just don't want to do that. And it's weird, we just introduced something new that really, really works for most people and they now want to go to the next best thing. Because it didn't outdo the damage they were doing with all the other crap. Right? You can't get six percent of your quadriceps with Marcy. Drink a beer and use an SLU. And they're like, well, how come I'm not shredded yet? Well, this is exactly what I was going to say. You get, well, I get messages all the time. I've tried what you've trialled, Dean, and I've seen nothing. And you're like, well, if you're seeing nothing, then what question should you be asking yourself? That I do with Dr. Dean, then. Not even that, you're a mitochondria. Like you're taking this thing to improve your mitochondrial efficiency. If your mitochondria are already operating like rubbish or crap, you've just made more of them that are working like crap. Like, you know, it's, and they're like, oh, well, I was expecting more out of this. And it's like, this is like the cherry on the cake that once you've got everything optimized, you're going to turbo charge it. It's not that you're coming in to take this and it's going to instantly change the landscape of your metabolism. No, and not for nothing, lifting weights will down-regulate mitochondria, right? And cardio will up-regulate it. So why don't people start there? Like balance the two of those things out first before taking a drug to try to make more for no reason when they're not doing any of the basic things. You know, you don't get this as much. You know what increases MOTC levels? What's that? Exercise. Yeah. Look at that. High, and then high intensity cardio causes mitochondrial migration. So like people don't realize this as well, that your mitochondria move around your body. They do not stay in the same cell. If your body, so if you have a heart attack and your heart now requires a lot of energy, what happens? All your mitochondria go towards the heart to try and keep that alive from ATP. So depending on if you do high intensity interval training cardio, you up-regulate the mitochondria in the muscle cells of your leg or within obviously your aerobic system. So looking at these like not fancy things, like telling someone go and kill yourself on A-50 in second wind gate sprint, you know, five or six times. I knew that four times per week on top of your lifting. It's not as sexy as I'll take 400 micrograms SLU and your mitochondrial massively increase in number. You know what's funny? If you do that for a month, the wind gate sprints are high intensity cardio or just training both to the wall and then you add this stuff in, then you notice a fucking difference. Because- You start with fitness first. Like I remember like a week ago, I introduced it a couple of years ago, like just take a little bit of a week when you're pre-workout. Yeah, but it's an antioxidant. We'll lower your metabolic response. Okay, shut the fuck up. You little minted piece of shit. But people that train fucking insane, they're like, holy shit, this is such a difference. But you need to train insane first before you notice a difference. Before you notice this mitochondrial up-regulation and electron transport chain improving and the respiration improving. And so a lot of people might complain about new things that we introduced that doesn't do anything, but the foundation needs to be there first. And again, this is the anabolic round table. So if you're not anabolic, you're not doing things that you need to do to be anabolic like training hard and taking a little bit of TRT and then some and eating a lot of protein. And yeah, what's the point? What's the point of myonostltriparaphosphate when you have no muscle to oxygenate? Yeah, rent over. So Kurt, would you like to try the fruit fasting diet? No, thanks. I think I'm good. I think I've got the diet thing done, Pat, I think. I think you got it locked on. I'm good, I'm good with it. Dimi, you've got to change your pre-contest or pre-holiday stack to improve more fruits. Plenty more anabolic fruit. Yeah, anabolic more pineapples and bananas and apples. The hard apples, not the full ones. Well, the whole set of pharmacy of what we're doing now at the moment is to try and keep here as safe as possible. So pineapple for me with the low estrogen is no longer a delicacy I can enjoy. So we have to do things a little more intelligently. But yeah, I don't think I'm going to be changing my diet to be eating harrybows and fruits and excessive sugars just to increase my FGF 21 when I do 72 to five day fasts, a couple of times a year. I think what I'm going to do next time is when I get sick of the ketogenic diet, I'm just going to schedule one Sunday to eat like this, like a sugar fasting diet, or just fruits and honey and candy. And then I'll make it in the context of upregulating my FGF 21 and fat loss when in reality I just want to eat candy. Right? It's like all those guys that, like, I'm not trying to shit on a diet, but people go on TRT, I need to increase my, you know, this and that. Just say you want to use the arrangement. Just say you want to eat candy. I'm not trying to eat candy. I'm not trying to eat candy. I'm not trying to eat candy. Just say you want to eat candy. It's fine. Just call it for what it is. Cheap meal rebranded. Yeah. And it's, again, it's, you know, people have been doing this for a long time. You guys know about skip loading, right? There's also some sort of high carbs. That's been around for decades. And the guy would just customize, like, can Skipp Hill, would customize your skip loads week by week, starting with a four hour eating window to six hours to eight hours to 12 hours, and then design the entire carb loading protocol around that about the foods that worked for you and every skip load looked different. So I think this is just very nuanced skip loading with fruits. And if it works, it works great. I don't think it will work for anybody. I don't think it's very sustainable. But if you want to do it for a week or two, sure. Go ahead. Go ahead. I really wonder what happens with Chase after about two weeks. He's pretty in tune with his body. This is his blood work. And he's probably the biggest dude who's ever tried this. Yeah. What's his cycle? What is he on while he's doing this? Test on retrototide probably, in GH. And MOTC in SLU. Are we counting GLPs as part of the cycle now? It's a compound. I don't know. We're in same area. It's like half a milligram GLP retrototide monowenzofride. Let's see, here's another one. We talked about dietary fiber. So, short chain fatty acids produce GLP, GLP-1. So, perhaps if more people ate a balanced diet, they wouldn't need the GLP drug. Just saying. Let's see. Propionate is what improves your GLP secretion. Yeah, but that's too simple, right? Eat right. Does it? Oh, maybe that's why the testosterone propionate is working so well right now. A little different. Yeah, it's a little different. Oh, you eat the propionate. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The fatty acid. Yeah. Yeah. Hilarious. Not the testosterone propionate would work. It does work. I mean, it's still pretty saucy. It's not bad. 235 pounds, baby. It's all that fruit. Yeah, it's all that fruit, but it's still stuck in there. And I really would wonder what happens to people's liver with all this fructose coming in. I think it's gotta be fantastic. And the funny thing is I get carnivore diet is also a great way to get non-alcoholic fat in there. Sweet. Yeah. Aren't the same guys that are preaching this? Aren't they the ones that were just doing the carnivore diet? Yeah, yeah, so Mark Bell got great results in the carnivore diet, but of course, like if you follow a strict carnivore diet with the carbohydrate refeeds, then you get some out of control dysfunction as well. And it's the free-from-fatty acids that eventually ruin your insulin sensitivity. So of course you can mitigate that with injectable quarantine to kind of clean up the free-from-fatty acids and then triglycerides and stuff and cardio and exercise. So again, how much scientific evidence says that you create insulin resistance by going on a carnivore diet or ketogenic diet? That's not in the context of exercise. No, and I was gonna say, more salt the opposite, the high-fat diet can destroy insulin sensitivity. Yeah, so that's what I mean. Yeah, it causes insulin resistance. It causes insulin resistance, yeah. And I noticed that myself as well, if I don't do the cardio and training, that if I just follow a ketogenic diet, actually lose insulin sensitivity and I get flatter and softer, especially in the legs. And that's what's causing the gluten-for-translocation. Exactly, yeah, so I need to keep doing that on this ketogenic diet, but I also know that I need a little bit of glucose uptake post-workout to keep those close for activators going, you know, keep the metabolic process going. So I have about 50 to 80 grams of carbs post-workout. And then, well, whatever the fuck I want on Sunday, because on Sunday, if I wanna eat a pastrami sandwich with fat, saturated fat, full with it, and then some high-fructose corn syrup from ketchup, of course I'm gonna go for it, man, I got a life. When it's my moderation. I got a wife, I got a life, I gotta eat. Yeah, all these things of moderation still are okay. Yeah, once a week, it's totally fun, man. It's totally fun. So yeah, I'm not against people trying it. I just wonder what the long-term thing is this, but then again, you know, the long-term with a ketogenic diet and a long-term with a carnivore diet or, you know, vegan diets, yeah, it's all kind of double-terries. Well, there won't be a long-term because we'll try the next diet that comes out in two weeks from now. Oh, all right. Should we just like come up with the anabolic ground table diet? Why don't we do our own diet? Yeah, it was so boring. Yeah, I don't think no one's going to prescribe to our healthy eating standards. What about two eggs? What about the French fry diet? French fry diet. French fry diet. But you can only have two fries a day, that's your entire diet. Right, there's no ice to lose to me either. So you'll upper regulate all these other fiber-rich food, that's your... Yeah, yeah. Yeah, rare guys remember the potato diet? Potato only diet was very popular in the 50s and 60s. People lost crazy weight on that as well. Last dean, I mean, in Ireland. That's... I'm sure if you don't feel a lot about it, you'll be in Ireland in a place. Open my front door and shout over to the neighbor in the next place in the field. Fuck man. Like in Vietnam during the war, the war they ate taro, and that's all they ate, and that has even less nutritional value. This is just all they had during the war. I can't remember, was it Cosmopolitan magazine or one of these women's magazines where it was the wine diet, where they were allowed to drink two glasses of white wine per day, waiting saying fat loss results. Well, it's not even God was wrote to rolling. Just... Just... Just... Just... Just... Dean, you asked Chad GPT some very interesting questions about relative binding affinity and... And... Androgen receptor mediated gene transcription. You got some great results. Yeah. Please spell the beans, because it was very interesting when you wrote it out in the group chat, but I think everybody should get a chance to listen to this, so... Take it away. So obviously we have team Premo, team Mastron. We've... We've... Well, I mean, to be on one team or the other, you're missing the whole point of choosing one or the other. Yeah. But... When I asked it... Sorry, is there a team Mastron? Really? Yeah. Well, you're gonna have one that favors one compound of deodorant, I think. No one really seems to want to use both. I can only think of one that favors Mastron, but... I can think of three. Oh, three, yeah, right. You're right. Instead of using them both, perhaps? So it's a large... It's a large percent of the population. You can use both, but Premo needs to be the foundation. Yeah. So I asked it based on all the published research, so I had to do a PubMed crawl on Mastron. And one of the craziest things, obviously, with chat GPT is that it crawls everywhere. So even if you tell it, I want you to crawl PubMed, it will go and crawl everywhere. So obviously online, when we ask for the relative binding affinity of Mastron, it returns that it's five times testosterone from... But we don't know the relative binding affinity. Absolutely, because it's on Wikipedia five times. So it pulls it from Wikipedia. And then I questioned it. I said, well, that's not correct. Can you do a search again? And then I came back and said, oh, we do not know the binding affinity, but it is purported to be five times testosterone. Okay, that's fair enough. I asked it some questions on uses that Mastron's been done. So obviously we have all the breast cancer research and women. And then I asked it to explain to me the mechanisms of how it interferes with estrogen positive breast cancer. And then it starts to really show you how perhaps it interferes with estrogen metabolism. So we start looking at the androgen response element when we activate that. So people always focus on you've got your androgen, you've got your androgen receptor, the two don't bind together. It's what happens after that binding that's important as opposed to the affinity for the receptor itself. So the androgen response element is then what tells your genome, this is what I want you to do. But activating the androgen response element can tune down the estrogen response element, which obviously then will down regulate how the estrogen receptor is expressed or functions. So when we're viewing perhaps Mastron having anti-estrogen effects were perhaps interfering with the estrogen response elements as opposed to directly at estradiol from aromatase. The other thing that I question it was, well, here's Premobolans structure and here's Mastron structure. Which one do you think is more anabolic? And I came back with surprisingly, based on the body of research, Mastron is more anabolic. And it started to explain that Mastron is a more flexible molecule. So obviously from this perspective, it's made the assumption that the ligand binding domain of the androgen receptor would be more accommodating for this more flexible molecule going into it. And prior to all this, I'd given all the research on the ligand binding domain, the N-terminal and the DNA binding domain. So I gave all the research known on what modulates the anion receptor to make its decision from. And then following that, I said, well, if anecdotally Premobolin is more anabolic than Mastron in males, what do you think would be the proposed mechanism of how it does that? And its first like iteration back was, well, one would assume Mastron is more anabolic because it is more flexible, having a better androgen binding affinity. But if anecdotally Premobolin is more anecdotal, here's the reasons why. And so one of the suggestions was that C1, C2 double bond makes the A-ring more plain or more flat. And now for that to duck into the ligand binding domain requires less entropy. So there's less chance of chaos interfering. So now it's in there longer and it's also more, even though the affinity for the ligand binding domain is lower if that is true versus Mastron because it is less flexible, because of that flat planar bond and also resonance from C1, C2 double bond into C3's carbon-oxygen double bond, you're making that oxygen on C3, more electron donating or better at creating a hydrogen bond, which is what drives that interaction in the ligand binding domain as well. So it was able to say perhaps that flat structure reduces the entropy or the complex that the molecule forms with the androgen receptor is a more favorable shape to duck into the androgen response element, to turn on genes associated with anabolism. So now you're going beyond, oh, a list structure fits the androgen receptor better. It's now more so when it goes into the nucleus to the gene response elements, that primobolans androgen receptor complex is a better shape for turning on muscle protein synthesis. And then you're heading into the path of SARMS or like tremolone being a interior selective androgen receptor modulator from a muscle building perspective because of that flat planar shape of TREN being able to duck into these elements of the genome to turn on muscle protein synthesis or nitrogen retention, whatever pathway we want to play from and then interfere perhaps with the estrogen response elements that interferes how your estrogen perhaps binds to the estrogen receptor or how you produce estrogen receptors themselves. So you were mentioning that the androgen receptor and estrogen receptors use the same cofactors for gene transcription. And then if you really bind the androgen receptor tightly with these cofactors, these cofactors are no longer available for the estrogen receptor. So this is where the estrogen mediated gene transcription becomes inhibited because it simply doesn't function correctly. And this has been proven for that at the Stahlström in various breast cancer studies where the Stahlström uses these cofactors and are no longer available for the estrogen receptor. And vice versa, Xenoestrogens will block the androgen receptor. Block the androgen receptor, right, right, right. So that means that of course, pre-mobolin and mastron are similar to that of the Stahlström. So it would make sense that something like that could happen for these kinds of compounds. Yeah, I mean, it was interesting because it was really trying to make the assumption that mastron being more flexible should in theory have a higher binding affinity for the androgen receptor. But I think now moving forward and some of the research we were discussing about stereo-oleasmers, where you change the conformation or the 3D structure of the protein, the androgen in space will change the structure of the androgen receptor complex as a protein, change its 3D structural shape. So now it's able to dock into different sections along the genome better. So for able to create steroids with different stereocentres, so a stereo-oleasmers basically you have a carbon and then off that carbon, you share either one part sticking up, one part sticking down. You'll have different substituents playing off that carbon, so it doesn't have the same substituent off any position. You can then change those stereocentres to change the conformation of the molecule in space. So that was the research that you shared that you then start heading down the pathway of potentially creating muscle-specific anabolic steroids with better anabolism and avoiding some of the side effects that can come from classic anabolic steroids. Yeah, because how many polymorphisms are there for the androgen receptor on a 67? Down, I thought over a thousand. Really? There's over a thousand known polymorphisms that I'm aware of. Okay. So yeah, if that can all be indexed and then use AI to design a compound, to only interact with the once-in-a-skeletal muscle. Yeah, now, but it does make a lot of sense that slowly piecing scientific evidence together that again, we're ultimately after response on the DNA. Not how the relative binding affinity is just an interesting number. Yeah. Androgen. Like, nandrolone binds more firmly than testosterone, but is what's occurring in the nucleus any better than testosterone? Exactly, yeah. It's irrelevant. And of course, if you're using testosterone and nandrolone together, the testosterone has a certain domain where it binds to, and that might overlap with the nandrolone, but nandrolone might overlap with other domains that testosterone doesn't overlap or bind to. And then the synergy between these two compounds, and then it's about finding your individual cocktails so you can get the best of both domains in individual ratio regarding protein expression that works for you. And that's why some guys like low-test, high-premo and vice versa, high-test, low-beta-premo or low-beta-train to get this favorable protein expression for them, because again, the protein metabolism downstream is going to be different for everybody as well. And that might take a while to figure out. Now, maybe with a DNA test, you can figure it out more with the GACRP test that Merrick Health offers. You can figure it out more. It just sent me one. Oh, right, so you're going to do it. Okay, perfect. It just came today. Cool, perfect, perfect. Let us know what your results are. I'm still trying to figure out a way to get it here. Of course. Yeah, sending the shit to Thailand is a nightmare, man. I mean, even covering from that, if we can do a genome sequence in an isotope tracer into an isotope tracer steroid, you could try and track the genes that are switched on from primable and the genes that are switched on from mastron. I think one of the other things that it suggested was you could do an assay to profile those coactivators between the two. So again, we're seeing what coactivators are being expressed or initiated from primable or mastron. But I think moving forward, there might be some more questions to ask beyond just the aneurysm receptor and going more so into the DNA. And even then someone's DNA, depending on their chromatin structure or the histone and the acetylation of the histones, certain people's genetic responses from a DNA perspective could be completely different, which again adds why someone might say, oh, mastron give me more anabolism than primable. And the shape of how their chromatin has been wound together if you want to put that way with histones and acetylation, you might not be able to duck correctly in with something like primable versus mastron. So I think there's a lot more complex questions to be asked that, yeah, anecdotally, we all observed primable and being the more potent of the two. But then the other hypothesis that chat GPT even come up it was, well, primable and probably lowers SHBG a lot lower than mastron. So now your testosterone is staying more free, which now you're enhancing your ability of your own, I'm not gonna say your own, your testosterone based that you're using to work more effectively in the cycle, which again will have a known effect on your gene transcription. Yeah, and then it converts the estradiol and DHT, which might have some overlap effect regarding your DNA transcription. DHT is said to be not very anabolic, but I'm sure in combination with real anabolic, it elicits some sort of additional response. That's why some people swear by injectable DHT, right? I know some in bed reached out to you guys as well. You wanna buy some DHT, Enetype, bro? So I think in the end, it just depends on individual response. You have to try what works for you and you don't have to be all exclusive. Like,  for me, mastron is purely a cosmetic enhancing drug. It doesn't really do much anablysm-wise, unless I really go to 2,000 mN a week, which I have no intention to do. That's fucking 10 mL per week. I'd rather run 10 mL per email at 100 mN per mil. And it's probably cheaper also than 200 mN per mil of mastron, innate. And then you also got to think about the molecular difference, because if you compare methanol and innate versus drostinol and innate, with methanol, you get more molecules, if you both do 100 mN per mil liter. So these things also got a factor. What is the 10% difference in molecules? Oh, it's huge. It was like 660 trillion billion or something. Yeah. We looked at it that, you know, even on the surface, this was someone said to me before about two and a half milligrams of anivar for a woman. And it's like, again, it's in the trillion billion molecule number. And you're like 2.5 mL, looks like a small number, weight-wise. But it'S-23 zeros, baby. Yeah. You know, you look at how many molecules. How confident would you be taking that many molecules of cyanide into your body? It's only two milligrams of cyanide, man. Like, you know, the weight has got nothing to do with the number. You take a higher weight because it has more molecules. Two milligrams of clen. You know, like it's two milligrams of clen. Good luck. 20 micrograms, all right. Too much Jesus Christ. Like, I think when we're when we're looking at even that, that comparison between the number of molecules and a standard dose, that's even where it becomes complex of like someone's trying to compare 100 milligrams of primo 200 milligrams of masteron primo is already trillion billion more molecules that you can't unless you want to work out exactly how many molecules would be in an equivalent dose between the two and then try and run that as an experiment. Primo is much more. Favouritism towards having a genomic effect because of the sky eye number of molecules as on masteron. Yeah, it's it's it's a close to 10% difference. I think if you inject 100 milligrams versus 100 milligrams, it might be a 5 to 10% difference in molecules. I did a video about this, about, you know, you discount for the Esther and then even if the concentration is the same. So everything is 100 milligrams for one milliliter. If you discount for the Esther and then the molecular weight, there, there's a discrepancy of like 20% between different steroid molecules between it's just also appropriate and tremolo and acetate, something like that. And that's that's what a lot of people forget, you know, if you boil it down to molecule for molecule, there's a huge range. Even if you count for the same, same amount of milligrams. And I mean, even like that analysis with Chet G P T, I asked it like molecule per molecule. They didn't say here's 100 milligrams of Primo is 100 milligrams of masteron. I asked of the two of these. If I had a molecule, which one is creating more favourable? Anabolism. Did they, did they ever investigate the residency time in the anabolic, the androgen receptors? Not to, not to my knowledge in terms of the time. I guess when you look at the kinetics of what happens, it's very, very quick. Like androgen binds into the androgen binding domain, the ligand binding domain and then the chaperone, Hitchcock proteins, associate and a shuttle into the nucleus. Once it's in the nucleus, I think it's pretty much straight away. If I, what it needs to do and start and start gene transcription. But how long is that gene transcription process? Is that once? Or is it multiple times? For you to be just once? Once. So one one. One. Saptor complex. Docking in and triggering off like translation of a protein or trans transcription and translation. And then the, the androgen is kicked off the androgen receptor. Correct. So the, the two will dissociate and it basically leaves and goes off to be metabolised. So it doesn't necessarily have to be metabolised by three alpha hydroxy steroid, eogogenase or another. It could technically leave the nucleus, go back to an androgen. Right. Rebind. Yeah. There's nothing to say that it only gets one go. It'll create a ligand complex, go into the nucleus, create an effect, dissociate. And like you said, if it doesn't leave, yeah, if it doesn't leave the cell into the bloodstream and arrives at the liver, it's got a code and tear. You create another interaction and go back into the nucleus. So let's say you have a premium ball in the picture that's, you know, producing all these beautiful proteins for an ableism. And you have mass run in the picture occupying the three alpha hydroxy steroid eogogenase, preventing premium ball from being metabolised, allowing you to rebind to another androgen receptor. So now we've got a synergy of two, like it, there's, you know, it's, it's not straightforward when you look at it this way. There's so many what ifs that all this theoretical questions you shut and just discount that one's better than the other. Although we do have the anecdotal evidence that for some premium ball and will crush the estrogen, which might come from this estrogen response element part. And masteron, in my view, being more flexible can go into the gatekeeper of aromatase like we've seen before and block the aromatase binding site from testosterone entering. So you lower your estradiol from that blocking of the aromatase gatekeeper. So. For them, when you look at blood work, certain people end up a crashed estrogen with masteron another is end up a crashed estrogen with premium ball is not straight up. No, it's not straight up. They both do it. And it's now you're starting to make it a bit more complex with this androgen response elements, interferometer, estrogen response elements. Yeah. And I think we were one of the first people to actually report this five, six, seven years ago, that because who would always ask her people to do blood work, right? So you can see, oh, you're on a TRT. Yeah. And it's a premium. Oh, estrogen goes down. And then you see that happen in 99 out of 100 people or 95 out of 100 people, you draw the conclusion. I mean, it's axis and aromatase inhibitor. And I got to find you a study. So, hey, look at the study where they do bio transformation on premium ball and then there's actually two metabolites that prove it. I will those be produced in human body. We're not really sure, but at least there's some scientific evidence that it's shown. And for masteron, there's no scientific evidence besides the bot work. So there's anecdotal evidence and then there's plenty of people that it happens to, but not everybody. The estrogen positive breast cancer where that you're given the androgen to the woman because of it interferes with the estrogen receptor expression. Right. So, I mean, it's two separate things again. Actually, because you have the estrogen receptor being expressed less estrogen levels might go down and then these co factors that contribute to estrogen mediated gene transcription. So you have three steps. And then you might have a deleterious fourth step where mass thrown inhibits the sexual money global and along testosterone to convert estradiol more, which you don't see estradiol levels don't go up when you add in the mass stroke. Nope. Unless the mass thrown is testosterone. It's going to say unless the past one. I would, I would wonder if you, when you see estrogen go down from that's not that's not either. So it could be one of the metabolites or who knows? It's so hard, right? Because you, you see clear changes on blood work and they have to kind of pinpoint what's going on with scientific evidence that has been updated in 40 years. You know, our relative binding infinities have been established for most of these compounds and if they have been established studies from like 1978 or using computer models. So that's or in vitro. Okay. That's great. But is it, is it humans? No. So it's, yeah, it's, it's sometimes very frustrating and difficult to kind of piece it together, but individual responses kind of key here. And for that you got to experiment a little bit and then try both, you know, see which one you like. I'm not against whatever works for you. You know, but based on, based on what I told it, what was funny is it didn't argue back when I said to it, well, if prima bolema is anecdotally more anabolic, why? And then it started to think, okay, well here's the, the certain mechanisms that could play into it. I mean, it's a pity if we had someone that could do computational models of showing docking into that ligand bound and domain, because we have these crystal structures, relatively straightforward computational chemistry, but if anyone hears in the comments and has access to There are, there are people who are interested, trust me, there's people watching things like reaccess. If you have, if I had access to stuff like this back in a academic environment, I'd no doubt be trying to satisfy some curiosity. Now, but there's the high level people watching this podcast that are, that might be able to do that stuff. So they'll probably reach out to me after, or you, or Kurt's after this podcast. I'm sure you guys had it like last, last month also, like, hey, what about this? You know, where people just start to send you like a life story of, you know, have you thought about this? Have you thought about that? It happens, man. This is a lot of high level people watching this podcast now. So it wouldn't surprise me if somebody reaches out that has access to computational modeling and then can run those things on some sort of special software that they have or a special computer system. Wouldn't surprise me at all. And just kind of feed them the information if you have time for it. But yeah, very, very interesting. And we don't come any closer to the answer. No, no. And that, and that is why, I guess, you know, we're never going to have ball opinions of like you're either on the team or off the team. It's, we think one, one works better than the other, but it's not saying the other doesn't work at all. It just in, in our tier list, one just anecdotally performs way better. So why, why change, you know, why change? And it doesn't like, you know, if you're like blacks or blondes, you know, brunettes or blondes, you can have both unless you get into a relationship or you're, you know, you can have two at the same time. It's not unheard of either. I mean, Paul, Paul Burnett got his pro card on test primo and masteron. And he looked absolutely fantastic. And maybe some windstraw tea and windstraw. Yeah, windstraw too. But I mean, there's, there's the difference between my 22 prep and 2024 last year. Last year I didn't use masteron. There's no difference in my view of how I looked two years before that versus last year. Maybe that's where you're so full and not flat. Yeah. Shots fired. They should have this time. Let's see if you can get skinny on the beach, you know, yeah, we do a reverse experiment and all my hair falls out because. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, true. Yeah, you better think about that for me. But wait a minute, that masteron was her safe. What are you talking about, man? In the, in the, uh, as a very cliff note sponsored by syntax, there were no over-reliasing side effects observed in these females with zero estrogen. None, none, zero, no hair loss, hair safe, totally. Considering estrogen is very important for your hair, which is probably one of the mechanisms why my hair fell out on top of. Genetic, genetic, androgenic alopecia. You crush your estrogen, good luck. Your hair is going to fall out. Simplest that. That's why you let your estrogen run rampant. Yeah, until I start crying watching TV. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you can actually identify what it is to be a woman and start loving, you know, the Me Too, Disney, the MCU movies. Oh man. Oh man. Yeah, so that was a very interesting topic that you brought up on, on the group chat. So thanks for sharing. It's just wish we could get closer to the answer. But again, I think self experimentation is just key. And you try a little bit of this, a little bit of that and see what sticks. Like for me, for me, testing Primo, a little bit of Masteron is fine. Other guys like Lottest, Hi Masteron and maybe a little bit of Primo if they can afford it. But man, the prices of Primo, Masteron have shot up. Holy shit. Holy shit. It's back now. The producers are producing. Steve, I ordered 700 kilos of Primo. It's going to be back at Starks. Yes, 700 kilos. It's how much they ordered. I like, holy shit. And then you look at the price list, you're like, Jesus Christ, the prices have gone up tremendously. So at least it's a prize. They're picking up the supply again. So the dryness is soon to end. And the steroid drought. But prices are. I don't know, but the dollar is not worth much anymore. I hate to say it. It's not DXY is coming down from 117 to 99. So maybe that's why the price are going up because the value of the dollar is going down. Start printing, man. Start printing, Kurt. Start printing those dollars. What else do we want to discuss for this podcast? I had like, we can discuss Palloximer. Real quick. Sure. We, we had a little bit of a boo boo last week, our last, last podcast where we went for Boloxone. That's my fault. Yeah, that's okay. It's, it happens. I said to Brahman standalone for a very long time instead of Drommel standalone for Drostan alone. So sometimes you get a boo boo in your brain and then it sticks. Why can't I find it? But it's Palloximer 88. Let me see. What was that? And so we did find, I did find Boloxone 188 in certain places. Okay. It was patents where you went into the patent and it just sort of ended in a dead end. And I was around using these polymers to stabilize growth hormone complexes. But other than that, it was like we discussed, there's just no search of what we're done, what we're seeing on that tread of ingredients for growth hormone subtypes. One of them having Boloxone. I tried looking at polymer manufacturers who would make Palloximer 188 to see would they make Boloxone or Boloximer as well and couldn't find anything. So you found the Palloximer 88 and you also sent me a link. I can share it on the screen. He's a very fragile of the growth hormones that contain that kind of stuff. So genotropin. You can see here what it contains, the excipients and it actually varies per formulation. Now, genotropin is no longer really available. And apparently that's discontinued and replaced for in genula. There's somatrogen gila with the ITCG subunit. But then here you see an omnitrope in the 2.8 or the 5.8 milligrams per vial. It contains a couple of excipients, but then the five milligram pen cartridge. It contains Palloximer 188. So it even varies between their different formulations. So in the vials, it's not contained of omnitrope, but in the pen cartridge it is contained. And let's see. Humatrop doesn't have Palloximer 188. Nutropin doesn't have it. Seizen doesn't have it. Seizen being one of the best, obviously. And then noritropin does have it. 188. And serostim doesn't either, but it's not listed. No, it's not listed here. Yeah. So Seizen and serostim, if you want to avoid the Palloximer 188, that's... Oh, actually it doesn't contain it here. Seizen also contains it in the 6 milligram formulation, the 12 milligram formulation, and the 20 milligram formulation cartridges. So it seems that the Palloximer 188 is mostly found in the cartridges. Right. This is a noritropin cartridge, Palloximer 188. Seizen cartridge is 188. Maybe it has to do with some of the plastics. That the cartridges come in. Genotope, I don't know. It smells like plastic. Yeah. But they don't have it. Oh, good point. Yeah, they don't have it. It's not that it was weird that the genotropin's spelled like plastic though. It smells like hospital. Legitimately. Yeah, like insulin. Yeah, same. Same. So that's pretty interesting that several of these different growth hormone formulation, again, it's linked down below, guys, in case you want to read it, that they use different excipients and maybe based on the excipients, I think that's worthy of a deep dive, I'll make a video about it at one point, based in the excipients, we might be able to select the best brand of growth hormone because all growth hormone is 191 amino acids. But we clearly notice different results between different growth hormone formulations. And I think, Kurt, you sent me something about the UGL, the generics, right from China, that one of them contains Palloximer 188. We can't mention the name anymore, otherwise it goes out of stock. So, Dean, you found that the Palloximer 188 might cause some kidney damage. Yeah. Yeah, that's what we say. There's a pump-in protocol on it. It depends on which Palloximer 188, I guess there's different grades. Yeah, there's a P and an N. N, or something, or S, I thought. Oh, P, you're right, P188. Yeah, and an NTE, I think. And the P was more deleterious for your kidneys. Now, we're talking about milligrams upon milligrams being administered in an animal model. And then, unfortunately, here in the Excipients, they don't really mention how much Palloximer is contained within a cartridge of Omnitrop or Noritropin. I've seen it in clients. Again, we don't know the amount, right? But in the JOS, when the JOS went above in some of the generics, you know, above six I use, the creatinins level started to rise. And then they worked back down within weeks, went right back down. And you saw it in an animal model as well, where creatinins shot up at like 10 milligrams Palloximer, 188 P. Now, is that transient, temporary? I'm not going to take the risk on someone's kidneys with it to try to figure that out. You saw clear, hysteros, histological, I thought you pronounced it way, it's a logical right? When you take an image of the, you know, the kidney tissue and you see clear, you know, nephrodic tissue or changes to the nephrons. And I would consider that to be permanent. Yeah. Well, the NF is more toxic than the P. Oh, the NF. Renal dysfunction, adverbent clinical studies of P188-NF is not observed in clinical studies of P188-P. So I'm guessing the Chinese companies are probably using the NF because it's cheaper. Or I would guess it's cheaper. Right. I don't care. Wouldn't surprise me. Yeah. And we don't see that in the table 13 of, you know, that PubMed article or what is it called, the books from the National Library of Medicine. We don't really see the difference. I'm sure we could figure it out. I think I'll see which pharmaceutical growth hormone is the most kidney toxic. That would be a fucking good video, I think. Oh, man. I think what I sent originally when I looked into pharmaceutical why P188 is chosen is because of it is a surfactant. So basically, it just makes it more stable in solution once it's reconstituted. And that's probably why, again, the cartridges tend to be reconstituted cartridges you load into the pen. If we think about it, P188 from what I remember reading into it, it's 188 for a reason that so many polymers are within it. And obviously it's a huge, if you want to put a bluntly huge plastic chain, if you wanted to say it that way, like a polymer tends to be a term used towards plastics, which are just carbon based molecules anyway. Now, your your kidneys have to filter that out. If it goes into your bloodstream and, you know, passes through the liver and passes through the kidneys, your kidneys will either be able to filter it or they won't. And if they can't filter it, it'll get forced through and cause some damage on the way way past. So I guess it is probably the concentration of the ploximer within the product that like when you look at peptide manufacturing and Kurt talked about this before as well, certain manufacturers will bulk up a peptide product with Manitol. Like I said, have an excipient, you know, if you've got if you've got a vial of five milligrams BPC-157, do you think that whole white puck inside that vial is five milligrams of BPC? It's had to be suspended in solution with Manitol and other excipients and then it's freeze tried. And then you're left with a puck of powder that you can actually visibly see and dilute and make soluble. That it's probably the amount that's in it. And if you have, you know, Chinese manufacturers, they're looking for quick ways to make a more stable product. They're going to add more ploximer to the product to make it more stable and solution. So it doesn't rapidly break down. If someone suspends it put in the fridge, it'll have a shelf life in the fridge of three or four days. Yeah. And I would say where I see the difference between the pharma and the the UGL stuff is not necessarily the lower doses, right? It's kind of hard to tell what's even occurring with lower doses. But as the dose goes up and up and up, the pharma keeps going, right? And it's effectiveness where the UGL seems to flatten and almost go the opposite direction. Like when Chase and I both used whole bottles of that reputable underground lab, we have the opposite effect that serostom has. The weight, our weight start to drop. Like your muscles start to get flat and stringy, probably from too much manateal and things like that. But the effects are totally different, right? Whereas like on a lower dose, you could probably justify using it, you know, for some level of fat loss or something, but it comes to using a dose for hyperplasia, just not occurring. Yeah. And finally enough, if you do serum tests in UGL or pharma, it's almost comes back similarly now. And with the Boulton C.B. 98 to 99.7% between UGL and pharma, it's pretty comparable. So I have, I have generics here that, or UGLs that give me 34, 36 nanograms per milliliter after a 10 IU shot in the shoulder, two and a half hours before enjoying blood, which is comparable, very similar to what I would get for pharmaceutical grades. But I think the binders and excipients gives you some sort of altered response. Yes. Yeah. Just because it's showing the blood doesn't mean it's doing the same thing. It's like the end of the culture. Yeah. Just because it binds to the end receptor doesn't mean that things are occurring at the nucleus. No. And I just, you see that time and time again, not, again, not that there's no place for the UGL stuff. I think there is, right? There's supply issues of pharma, there's major cost issues of pharma stuff. No. And for most guys, they don't just don't need to run that huge of a dose of GL, GH. So four to five IU's. That's your UGL. What does it really matter? Yeah. But when the guys are to creep it up, I think that's when both you see the issue, the health issues go and you see lack of results. Really, the guys using 10 IU's of UGL growth and he doesn't look pretty crazy, GH is junk. I don't care what your test shows because at that dose, you should look noticeably different day after day. You should look full as a house 24 seven. Your pants should be falling off you. True. I guess they're seeing in the comments on the last one, we were asked about like speaking about subq and IM growth hormone. Do one minute. And obviously the, obviously the serum level and when we look at the studies of 10 IU IM versus 10 IU subq. What I interjected with as a comment was when you get a peak plasma level of a drug, the drugs residency time. So you get a big massive spike and the drug residency time is only three hours. Yes, you've got a super physiological serum level. If you do it subq, you have a smaller peak level with a prolonged residency time of 10 hours. When you compare the two as in the area under the curve, which is the amount of space underneath that peak, they're roughly the same between a subq and an IM shot that IM gets in and gets out. But the other thing that you have to consider is a plasma level is how much of the drug is in your bloodstream, not inside your cell. So the amount that's inside your bloodstream that can interact with a growth hormone receptor. What's more important is the IGF one outcome. And again, when you compare the two, the IM versus subq IGF response, whilst one is an immediate super physiological increase, overall IGF one conversion levels are pretty much the same between subq and IM. Other than subq has a more balanced circadian output. So if you want to, no doubt, if you want to have super physiological levels of growth hormone all throughout the day without relying on circadian pattern, you could do IM shots of growth hormone every three or four hours, get a big spike. But who's going to? So, no, who's going to? IM shot eight to 10. I use a growth hormone every four hours of the day. Well, can I give you three reasons why that doesn't make sense? So one, you don't want to be multi dosing it, right? Because then you're going to become insulin resistant. That's why every pharmaceutical brand of growth hormone, the doses one bowl is at night before bed. It is nothing to you're not supposed to be taking it throughout the day. And for what you said also, so you get these spike, but you're not getting this. You get a much nicer curve when it's taken on big bowls. The other two issues is growth hormone is a cytokine. The receptor doesn't translate. The growth hormone receptor doesn't translocate into the cell. If you inject growth hormone into a cell, the body sends it to that cytokine attack and your immune system will destroy up to 20% of it. So especially now you're using a generic growth hormone, let's say it's 50% weaker than a form of growth and they stick it in their muscle. Now you got another 20% that you just lost, right? So again, it doesn't matter how fast it peaks. It's not doing anything. It has to go subcube peptides should always go subcube. They should never be ejected in muscle. You wouldn't stick insulin in your muscle. That's just not the way to use it. Unless you want to go into a coma, that's what would occur if you start using that. I am, but you don't, you don't inject. You don't do growth hormone. I am. Yeah, I think what I was coming off from mine then is like the absorption profile. Even though one is longer acting or slower releasing, the actual amount of plasma growth hormone you get from an IM shot versus a subcube. Whilst they're on different time scales, the overall growth hormone response is still in line with 10 IU's being administered. Just one rapidly hits you and your other matches your like 10 to 12 hour release into your system. Yeah. Isn't there like the growth hormone binding protein that's a truncated receptor, right? So it doesn't seven on, yeah, of course. So it growth hormone doesn't have to dissociate from these binding proteins. It can actually bind to the, the cell surface. Some depends each binding receptor. Yeah. I mean, that's a different destination. So, and that's also when you're testing serum IGF, that's really all you're seeing is the bound stuff. That doesn't mean it's going into muscle. Again, it depends what's going into muscle that's acting on the muscle. Not going into the muscle. What's interacting with the growth hormone receptor on the muscle. Right. It's like certain binding.  proxins will send it to the kidneys or to the bones. Like that's what the issue is, right? Because in acromegaly, you see these IGF numbers of 1,000, 2,000. These guys aren't muscular or lean. They have massive hands and deformed heads. And big feet. Those binding proteins are, it's not advantageous to have them bind to those. And the higher the estrogen level, the more binding proteins are produced. Again, it's kind of body's way of protecting what's going on. Nature doesn't want females to become overly muscular, muscled. No. Well, so you can see it in my wife now, right? She's pregnant, estrogen is sky high, undetectably high. Grytherin levels also undetectably high. Didn't gain ounce of muscle. Yeah, of course. Why? You should use more pros than before. If estrogen was anabolic, people would just inject estrogen. Yeah. Good luck with that. Good luck with that. Unless your estrogen is low. And then you can always take the anabolic. Not the end of the world. Take a look at the anabolic. Take a look at the anabolic. Yeah, at least it's anabolic. Yeah, so what I'm wondering is between these bolus injections and the subq injections, if there's also some sort of change on how the growth hormone binds to the growth hormone binding proteins and limits the rate of anabolism that way. That's what I was always wondering. Yeah, I mean, even some of the discussion would be around an IM injection to a child versus a subq to a child. But more so, subq, because of its pharmacokinetics being across that 10-hour period, you're giving a for growth hormone deficiency before bed to mimic what would be produced in deep sleep. Yeah. And to prevent blocking of glucose uptake as well. Right? If you take it in the morning, you're blocking your ability to eat. Right? And the bodybuilder's compensate by then taking insulin. And it's just this vicious cycle. You're just going to go from one like that. You're going to get insulin. You're blunt forcing it with insulin. Because people ask, which dose of growth hormone do I need to start taking insulin? If you don't need to, you just need to time your growth hormone intelligently and to do a lot of activity to improve your insulin sensitivity. Because if the freeform fatty acids inhibit insulin substrate 1, then insulin doesn't do anything. Adding more insulin will make you more insulin resistant. Exactly. Which is counterintuitive. And I think this is where basal insulin, if you're not taking growth hormone and you're using basal insulin to take some offload to pancreas, like 20 I use. That would be your basal response in the background. For a longevity perspective, perhaps we covered this before. As soon as you start adding in growth hormone, where you're potentially becoming insulin resistant, this increased insulin from your basal use is just going to create more problems. As soon as you start seeing HBNC issues or glucose sensitivity issues of growth hormone, you have two choices. You either lower your growth hormone dose or you stop it, correct the insulin sensitivity problem, and restart again. I think that was when people asked me about why I choose three or four days for my training days. It's for that exact reason, my rest days and given my glucose tolerance a break. I do think with activity and a little bit of carnitine, you can mitigate a lot of these insulin resistance problems from growth hormone. That's why you don't really see insulin resistance with guys that are physically active. Because they take care of the freeform fatty acids and they're not always glycogen loaded. They don't have a boatload of saturated fat in their skeletal muscle. So their insulin sensitivity is sustained even on higher doses of growth. And then especially if you take metabolic with that, the SLU and the MOTC and whatever, I mean, you can eat a bottle of carbs and take a bottle of GH and still stay insulin sensitive. Until you do overdo the carbs and take away the protein and go with fruit only. That's a massive bit too much. Imagine if you do a long acting growth hormone and sugar fasting. We're just putting it. And then BAM15, bro, throw the DMP at it. To offset freeform fatty acids. Yeah, I think we're heading into another, I think renaissance of mitochondria and coupling with BAM15 becoming more available. What was once like a forbidden chemical, it's slowly becoming a bit more mainstream. People throw the M15 and the MOTC in there. So you and I'm like, what the hell are you doing? You don't understand how the shit works? Yeah, but this study showed that it doesn't have that much free radicals. So you're fucking dumbass. I mean, I'm all for experimentation, but I gotta draw the line somewhere, man. What about adipotides? If you wanna kill your kidneys, go for it. I think like DMP, there's probably some intelligent scenario to BAM15 and mitochondria and coupling. But again, you have to really understand what you're doing in the grand scheme of it by uncoupling and basically producing a lot of unspent energy by your body. That I think there's other ways that can be done. That's not to say you can't use it, I'm sure we can design a protocol where it's perfectly safe and very effective. I just don't want to. I mean, in the past. I'm gatekeeping that fucking information because I already looked at it and I know exactly how to do it correctly. And I just don't wanna, I gotta draw the line somewhere, man. Just like high protocols and know exactly how to do it. When you're 12 years old to 16 years old, I know exactly how to gain foot. Just gonna gatekeep it because I don't wanna be responsible for somebody doing it wrong. And then their kids end up fucked. So there's limits to what we can do, man. I think, yeah, no matter how intelligent, sometimes the chemistry is best kept to ourselves. Yeah, and just otherwise ask the B team. There's a B team of educators out there. Just ask them, they'll gladly for $100 consultation. Sure, man. They'll gladly tell you, fuck up your kids or fuck up your health. They'll gladly do it. Just on me. Yeah. Let's, let's, like, yeah, should like that. Yeah. Let's see what this comes up with. I'm on chat. No name calling, Dean. No, no, please. So the funny thing is, if you want protocols like this, you just ask chat GPT. You don't even need to ask an educator because chat GPT will write out a protocol for high protocols, which is pretty accurate. Especially to ask perplexity with a paid version where it integrates GROC and the latest GPTs and all together. That's what I have here. It's pretty fucking good, man. Let's see what it says here. I've asked to base them on what I know. God. It's not bad. Need some nuance, need some dietary adjustments, but it's not bad, man. Five more years, nobody watches the Anabola Ground Table. Just type it into perplexity and then get exactly what you need. And they're like, these fuckers just said, they were limiting the information. Wow, this is scary. I know, right? Not that I'm condoning. Anyone goes and does this, but what is it? Whoa. The way all three of us can retire from consultations in a few years, that's what I do know. All right, court's got a busy day. So let's wrap it up here. It's been two hours, guys. It's been long enough. I hope you got what you paid for. We had a Bully Ground Table. Next month, middle of August, July. Hopefully I'll be a daddy by the time. She's fucking crazy. My wife's like, yeah, I'm Jew. So when? Yeah, soon. I've been waiting like two weeks. I think I gotta wait another week. But next time I'll be a daddy and then I'll join you two in the sun of being the most handsome anabolic daddy's on the planet. So any parting words for this episode? Don't do fruit fasting. Don't do Trevor Grimup and Gareth Smup. Yeah. Just take TRT plus growth hormone, shut the fuck up and maybe avoid the ones with the Palloximer 188. So you can prevent kidney damage. I think this is a takeaway for this episode. And again, guys, this is no Trevor Grimup in these cannons. It's not bad for, you know, having not done crazy cycles in a while. Still 230 pounds. If you're less than 230 pounds, thinking about these compounds. I got news for you. I got all those. Yeah, yeah, just get building our status first and then I'll source it for you, no problems. You can find all their social media links down below. Kurt's got a forum, Dean's got a website that are available for consultations. These guys know a fuckload. Some, some things more than me. That's why you get them on every week or every month. So I can learn something new. Steve, I wanna be on about the ground table. No, I got curtain Dean's snuff for me. Guys, this was a pleasure. Kurt enjoy your consultation soon and we'll catch up soon. Okay. Bye guys. Thanks guys. Take care guys.