Choose either or. So if you go with optimizing glucose oxidation, go with meronate and data. And if you want to optimize fatty acid oxidation, go with cardarine in combination with carnitine which helps with the shuttling of um triglycerides into the mitochondria again for energy production. Vigor Steve here. Welcome to the sixth part of the optimized endurance deep dive video series which is already the fourth part of the performance announcing drug segments and it might actually be the last part because it seems that attention span and interest is going down with each consecutive and honestly I think we covered the majority of the performance drugs which are known to boost and optimize endurance and stamina. But I'm open to suggestions if you want to see a seventh part. Let me know what I forgot in these previous video series or if there's something else you would want me to highlight specifically. In parts one and two, we discussed the overthe-counter supplements. In part three, we discussed hormone replacement therapy and optimizing mitochondrial functioning. Part four was about optimizing oxygen carrying capacity, which I actually forgot. One uh performance-enhancing judge, which we'll highlight in this video. In part five, optimizing cardiac function. And in this part, we'll discuss how to optimize skeletal muscle function and optimizing lactic acid removal. And then in part seven, again, if you would like to see it, we can discuss how to optimize the central nervous system with stimulants or neutropics. But I think it's better if I just include that in the third part of the optimized entrepreneurial neutropic stack deep dive video series, which is now slowly being released. I can also discuss how to reduce inflammation with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroids, gluccocorticoids, biological anti-inflammatory agents which are specifically used for autoimmune and inflammatory conditions and then even the unclassifiable performance-enhancing drugs, but I'm open to suggestions. So again, if you want to see a part seven, let me know down below. Otherwise, this will be the last part and we'll incorporate some of the other compounds in a different deep dive video series. And before we get into it, please like the video, leave a comment for the algorithm, and consider subscribing if you haven't already. And you can support the channel by joining either the YouTube or Patreon memberships, or you can vote for following deep dive videos, and join the weekly vigorous Q&A, which is always on Saturday. Plenty of time to get your questions in before we go public, and it turns into a super chat. Super flood. Let's get started with optimizing skeletal muscle function discussing disopropylamine dchloroacetate abbreviated to data which actually works within the mitochondria. So I should have included this in the optimizing mitochondrial function part a couple parts ago but at that time I didn't really have enough time to do research on disopropylamine dchloroacetate. This works by inhibiting the pyuvate dehydrogenase kynise for enzymes and thus glucose metabolism for denosine triphosphate production goes up but adenosine triphosphate recycling also increases. So data basically gives you unlimited energy. Luckily data is not included in the 2023 or upcoming 2024 version of the wider prohibited list or monitoring program. So you're still technically a half natty if you go with increasing your ATP synthesis and ATP recycling by using a data intramuscularly. Unfortunately I couldn't really find the halflife of d isopropylamine dchloroacetate but I think the halflife is reasonably short because all of the people that I talked to that use data intramuscularly they administer that directly before their training session in order to improve their endurance. And it seems that endurance is elevated for a multitude of different hours. But I don't think again based on the research that I've done so far. I don't think that data lasts a multitude of days. So ideally you inject it maybe once or twice per week. Again dosages can be between 20 milligs up to 100 milligs intramuscularly and then if needed you can start ramping up the dose um again depending on how your performance lasts during your endurance sessions. But it seems that the effective dose for bodybuilding purposes or endurance sports purposes is much much lower. Again, I haven't really talked to so many people who use a diopropylamine dchloroacetate themselves. I heard it through the grapevine here and there, but it seems that the dosage range varies greatly from individual to individual. Let's go over the biological functions and effects. Data was actually used for chronic liver disease treatments back in the day. It was used to be a part of pandemic acid which was marketed as a vitamin B15. Now penic acid isn't really a B vitamin. It seems that current formulations don't really contain data but instead NN dimethyl glycine abbreviated to DMG. I don't think that has any benefits regarding endurance and stamina but I might be mistaken. I didn't research NN dimethyl glycine separately. So back then it was used for chronic liver disease treatment in the form of vitamin B15 and it might have potential medical applications for toxoplasmosis, cerebral vascular disorders, influenza, liver complications including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, certain cancers, metabolic disorders and even multiorgan failure. Now how does it work? that is a peruvate dehydrogenous kinase for enzyme inhibitor which allows the body to convert pyuvate into a steel co-enzyme A at a higher rate and thus uh it plays a crucial role in the glucose metabolism and ATP synthesis but that also promotes the oxidation of glucose for energy production and increases the recycling of ATP substantially increasing intracellular ATP concentrations but this also means that data can act as a potent a vasod diilator because by increasing ATP uh concentrations intercellularly some of this can spill into the bloodstream convert into a denim monophosphate and a denim monof phosphate is a very potent vasod dilator again when I talk to people who have used that in the past it doesn't seem to be such a potent vasod dilator if you use it in the lower end of the dosage ranges but if you start building it up I'm sure that you can get some vasod dilating effects out of it you can directly improve ATP synthesis with data instead and I I think this will work particularly well with a compound like moldronate who shifts energy consumption from fatty acids and glucose purely to glucose. If you combine that with data again potentially on paper it does make sense then the overall ATP synthesis should be greatly heightened. And the last beneficial effect of data is detoxifying effect. Apparently diet can assist hypatic detoxification of heavy metals, nitrates and organo phosphates through the formulation of chilate like compounds. And of course chilated compounds are excreted through the kidneys through normal metabolic process. So data looks highly promising from the people that I've talked to. It seems that it has a pronounced effect especially if the dosage is a little bit higher. Uh but I would rather have you do a lot of research because again it's there's not so much scientific evidence out of it. I can't really find so much anecdotal reports on the internet and I've talked to people sparingly who actually use it. It seems to be quite a niche compound, but since it's not included in the monitoring program or the prohibited list of this year and next year, um it seems to be one of those compounds that is um really going to make a difference if you combine it with some of the other performance sensing drugs which we discussed in previous parts. Moving over to GW1516, which also optimizes skeletal functioning. Now this one is prohibited under 4.4 metabolic modulators where they specifically mentioned GW1516 cardine or enduro. Um let's see it's a peroxyome peropilator activated receptor delta agonist and does shift energy production mostly to fatty acid oxidation albeit that glucose metabolism and oxidation will still take place within the mitochondria as part of the crepe cycle. So I don't think it's a good idea to combine cardarine with something like moldronate or disopamine dchloroacetate data. Um you have to choose either or. So if you go with optimizing glucose oxidation go with moldronate in data. And if you want to optimize fatty acid oxidation go with cardarine in combination with carnitine which helps with the shuttling of um triglycerides into the mitochondria again for energy production. The halflife of cardarine is actually quite long, 16 to 24 hours, albeit that some sources mentioned that the halflife is only 12 hours, it has a long lasting effect, but it seemed that after you dose it orally, most of the effects are quite acute. So, I would advise everybody to take cardine 30 minutes to 60 minutes preworkout in 10 to 30 milligram dosages. Now, if you have multiple training sessions over the day, I would not exceed 40 milligrams cardine per day. So ideally you would take 20 milligs cardine for your first session of the day and the second session of the day and thus stamina increases endurance is boosted and fatty acid oxidation and if you take carnitine and some lipolytic agents like cluterol or growth hormone will greatly improve overall fat burning effects. Now I'm sure you guys are all intimately familiar with cardine because it's been on the market for a very long time and it's very popular as a fat burner. So it has fat burning effects, improved energy metabolism. Um it increases oxygen utilization because apparently it can increase the production of nitric oxide which improves vasid dilation. It improves blood flow. Um and it has the capability to delay fatigue because the metabolic waste products of fatty acid oxidation are not as deleterious to reduce your stamina and endurance compared to some of the metabolic waste products that occur from glucose metabolism. So it's it's a very beneficial compound that has been used for ages to improve skeletal muscle function, improve endurance and reduce fatigue. And you can actually optimize the use of data or carterine even further with myioinos tripyroof phosphate abbreviated to ITP. I mentioned this under optimizing skeletal muscle function which is true to a certain extent but I should have mentioned this in the optimizing oxygen carrying capacity segment because myionosal trirophosphate improves the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin and thus the oxygen carrying capacity of the red blood cells improves the oxygen delivery to metabolically active tissues is heightened and then then the overall energy production is improved as well whether you stimulate that with mulronate data cardarine etc. It doesn't really matter. So, this is actually quite popular. It's not included on the 2023 or 2024 prohibited list or monitoring program. So, you're again you're half n if you want to use it. Um the halflife in serum of ITP is 1.3 to 3.3 hours, but it binds to the hemoglobin within the red blood cells. So basically the active time of ITP supplementation is anywhere between 80 to 120 days um after you've done a loading phase. So keep this in mind. Technically you should do a loading phase to increase the oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin within the red blood cells. It could be anywhere between 100 milligs to 250 milligs ITP once or twice daily. So that's 100 milligrams to 500 milligs total per day. Once you've reached the noticeable effect, whether those are neutropic benefits because of course oxygenation will also occur in the brain or endurance benefits. Once that is reached, you can reduce to a maintenance dose to 100 milligs maybe three times per week. Some people go the sublingual route maybe 50 millig 70 milligs ITP sublingually. It seems to enhance its absorption but orally works quite well even though the oral bioavailability is I think 37%. So you might want to go the sublingual route um considering that ITP supplementation especially for the loading phase can be quite expensive. Now the biological functions and effects of course modulating the hemoglobin affinity of oxygen. Besides that it can improve hypoxia. So if the oxygen release and delivery to metabolically active tissue is improved then states of hypoxia during strainous endurance sports is obviously reduced. This downstream will reduce angioenesis because angiogenesis the formation of new blood vessels actually occurs after hypoxia. So ITDP might reduce angioenesis and other markers related to hypoxia including vascular endothelial growth factor in hypoxia inducible factor one and thus inhibiting potentially uh tumor and cancer growth and development. If you inhibit angioenesis but you want to use BPC-157 or TB-500 as a recovery aid then that seems to be mixed signals obviously. So choose either or. If you go with myinosyl trio phosphate to improve your endurance and you sustain an injury, stop the ITP even though it will reduce hypoxia and potentially angioenesis for 80 to 120 days because the ITP is contained within the hemoglobin within the red blood cells which take a very long time to um right die and metabolize from the body. So if you reduce the potential for angioenesis but you want to induce angioenesis to improve injuries with BBC157 or TB-500 um you might be sending mixed signals. So keep this in mind right you might reduce the capability of recovering from injuries. And again like I mentioned previously it does seem that users of ITP report that it has neutropic effects by increasing oxygen delivery and blood flow to the brain. Some users report increased clarity and focus while other notice that it improves their overall cognition and even reaction time. So if you follow a contact sport or fighting sports, then it seems that ITP can actually improve not only your stamina but also your reaction time so you can see those punches coming and avoid them. And then the last compound I want to discuss and this one is super super niche. I've never talked to anybody who's actually used this compound. I've heard it through the grapefine that it is being used in very long endurance sports like the tour to France cycling for example. But again, I've never talked to anybody who has anecdotal experience using tromethamine. This optimizes skeletal muscle function by removing lactic acid. Tromethamine abbreviated to TUM is a buffering agent to prevent metabolic acidosis. Halflife is about 4 to 8 hours through intravenous administration. And the only product on the market that I was able to find contains a version of Tum is named Tora do roll. Try to pronounce that fastly. Toador roll. Now it sounds like you have a mouthful of dicks. Okay. It contains keto roll tromemethamine and it's administered up to 40 mg in normal saline solution intravenously for up to 5 days again as a buffering agent to prevent metabolic acidosis. Now it seems that the effective dose heard through the grape vine is 10 milligs in 100 milliliters normal saline solution intravenously 1 hour before a strainous race. Uh but it can also apparently be taken orally albeit that I can't really find what the oral bioavailability is. So again take it all with a grain of salt. This is to the grape vine. I can't verify how much of this is actually true. So tromethamine only has one biological function and effect helping to reduce metabolic acidosis. When you inject it introvenously, it dissociates into basic forms which can combine with hydrogen ions. And this reaction helps to neutralize excess acids in the body and restores the acid base balance. So I'm not entirely sure how this would work in combination with some of the over-the-counter supplements which are known to have a similar effect like sodium bicarbonate. Baking soda, for example, apparently has a very similar reaction within the body and thus reduce excess hydrogen atoms within the bloodstream and potentially within skeletal muscle as well. Albeit that I feel that oral bet Allen supplementation or even injectable carnosine injected into the muscle group that you're going to use for endurance sports or train during the workouts, I feel that that's better for improving the lactic acid buffer within skeletal muscle. So maybe you can use tromethamine or sodium bicarbonate for the lactic acid buffer within the bloodstream and betaine injectable carnosine for the lactic acid buffer within skeletal muscle. Should be able to combine it albeit that I'm not familiar with tromethamine myself. I think this pretty much concludes the optimize endurance deep dive video series unless you want me to make a part seven discussing stimulants and neutropics which again I feel it's better to include that in the optimize entrepreneurial deep dive video series reducing inflammation with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs corticosteroids gluccocorticoids and biological anti-inflammatory agents and I'm open to suggestions if you feel I left something out up until this point then I'm willing to make a part seven. Otherwise, we're going to close it off right here. Thank you guys so much for joining me in this optimized endurance deep dive video series. Was very fun to make it. Even though the response and the views were not that stellar, I guess nobody really cares about endurance sports anymore. What I do feel is what we should do is how to design specific stacks for MMA or cycling or wrestling, right? Whatever is popular. Let me know down below if you want me to design a half natty or a full monty stack for MMA, boxing, other contact sports, or cycling sports, endurance sports, because then I can combine all of these compounds in particular stacks and teach you something new, whether you want to beat the drug test or really don't give a fly about why it just like I do. All right, I'll leave it here. Thank you guys so much for watching. You can find everything that I'm associated with down below in the YouTube description section. Follow me on Instagram and Tik Tok at Vigorsteve. Vigorous crew. You guys know to do a front double bicep for the Vigorous crew. I will tell you this. Inklex has improved my endurance, but since it's so readily unavailable, uh, I'm deciding not to include it here. Well, just stay tuned for more Inklex videos. Don't worry, I'll make a few more since you guys love it so much. Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next