 It's my absolute pleasure to report that the complete NEGMA Laboratories, perabolin, trimblone, hexahyde, benzocarbonate, medical insert is now available and fully translated from French to English. Up until today we only had the front page to work with, now we also have the back page. Spoiler alert though, there's no citations to be found anywhere. A major shout out and appreciation to Anthony who kept a box of perabolin all this time and just sent me the pictures of both pages of the medical insert. You've earned a lot of money. A lot of sandwiches today my friends and I command the vigorous crew to show Anthony a lot of love and appreciation down below in the comment section. Let's get started. Vigorous Steve here. Alright, it finally happened. Somebody reached out with the medical insert of NEGMA Laboratories perabolin, which was actually discontinued in 1997. Anthony, an avid collector of steroid paraphernalia, kept a box of perabolin, the medical insert and even an ampoule for close to 30 seconds. 30 years. And he just sent me pictures which I could share with our trimblone-fueled bodybuilding community. And apparently Anthony tried to reach out at least five times already, but I get a lot of DMs and emails and messages on a daily basis. So sorry for the delay. Sorry Anthony that I missed all of your messages in the past when I asked for the medical insert of NEGMA Laboratories perabolin. Luckily I was able to see your message on the last trimblone study which we posted a couple days ago. So here we are. Let's share away. And thank you so much for contributing. To this video. All we had was the front page of the medical insert. I mean this image has been circulating the internet for years now. We could see a box of perabolin, three unopened ampoules of perabolin filled with the nectar of the gods, break when divorce is imminent, and the front page of the French medical insert with some hints of text on the backside, which unfortunately we couldn't read up until now. So I've been begging and harassing the community in every trimblone video to send me the back page of the medical insert to see if we could analyze it and possibly find some citations that could lead to further human studies performed on perabolin. I mentioned in the trimblone deep dive that I was able to find one citation of a human study which was listed in the Handbook of Experimental Pharmacology, Volume 43, anabolic androgenic Steroids by Charles D. Cocakian. But I was never able to find the full publication of this human study. The title of the study translates to Action of Trimblone in Malnutrition, Cirrhosis and Osteoporosis Study Based on 31 Cases. Give the trimblone deep dive a watch if you haven't already. Anyway, enough about that. Let's get into the insert. And this is what Anthony sent me, a broken and used perabolin ampoule. Imagine what this entire set was worth if the ampoule was currently unopened. Probably more than the 1979 prototype Star Wars rocket firing Boba Fett action figure. And we also see the Nekma Laboratories perabolin box and the medical insert with some well-placed oxidized perabolin stains for dramatic effect. Now we've already seen the front page of the insert before. So let's go right into the translation. And in case you're interested, I made the full translation available down below with a Dropbox link. You can download the PDF which looks very, very similar to the medical insert produced in France. Similar structure, albeit fully translated to English. You're welcome. And another shoutout is in place to my former coaching client, Noor, who helped me translate this page of the insert a couple years back. I hope you're doing well and staying anabolic, my friend. Here you see that perabolin trimblone is an injectable solution. A box of one self-breakable ampoule of one half milliliter. The composition of perabolin is hexahydrobenzocarbonate of trimblone corresponding to 50 milligrams of trimblone base for the 76 milligrams that's contained within the perabolin ampoule. It also contains 75 milligrams benzyl alcohol and 45 milligrams pharmaceutical grade ethyl alcohol, 100 proof and quantity sufficient for an ampoule of 1.5 milliliters neutralized or righteous oil, a.k.a. peanut oil. The therapeutic indications of perabolin includes in elderly patients' cachexia states of undernutrition, following major surgical interventions, extensive burns and pressure bed sores, and proposed in the treatment of certain senile or iatrogenic osteoporosis. And these are the contraindications of perabolin, pre-pubertal subjects, young women, breastfeeding, pregnant women or women likely to become pregnant due to the viralizing risks on the women and the fetus, prostatic hypertrophy, prostate carcinoma or in the presence of any proliferative process, and hepatic insufficiency, chronic or recent hepatitis. The warnings, the box warnings of perabolin, sportsmen, attention, this product contains an active ingredient that may induce a positive reaction in tests performed during anti-doping controls. And that just wants to make me take perabolin even more. And these are the instructions for use and dosage. One ampoule of perabolin for deep intramuscular injection. Every 15 days during the first month for three injections, so that it's at the start of the month, the middle of the month, and at the end of the month. Followed by every month during the following three months for another three injections. So over the course of four months, there's six perabolin administrations of one single ampoule containing 76 mg Tremblone hexahydro-benzocarbonates resulting in net 50 mg Tremblone per injection. Do not use under the age of 15 years old. Duh! Duh! Even though if you go to TikTok, you see plenty of 15-year-olds running Tremblone at much higher dosages than are recommended for medical purposes. Respect the prescribed doses. Yeah, right. 76 mg Tremblone every 15 days. Nobody does that. Not even me. Table C list two. Marketing authorization number. And then you see the contact details for NIGMA Laboratories. That was the front page. Now let's move over to the elusive back page of the insert. And again, all credit goes out to Anthony for hooking us up after all these years with complimentary Tremblone stains. And I wonder how many mg of perabolin can be extracted from this paper. Must be close to a hero's dose. Again, I did the translation for you guys. So I quote, You should never abuse medicines. You tell that to a bodybuilder and the rage quits right away. Medicines should only be used knowingly. I highly agree to that. But that's not what the Tremblone community usually does as we could see from the case reports highlighted a couple days ago. Use the medicines prescribed as your doctor tells you. Unfortunately, Tremblone can no longer be prescribed. Only be recommended by coaches or self-administered. Follow exactly the prescription on his instruction. Follow the prescribed treatment. Do not interrupt it. Do not resume it on your own initiative. It's going to be hard to do because the Tremblone sandwich is so appealing. Your pharmacist knows medicines. Follow his advice. It is not about taking a lot of medicines. It is about taking the medicines you need. Polypharmacy is bad. Okay. Unfortunately, there's no citations to be found here. I'm not entirely sure if at that time insert citations were even required by the French equivalent of the FDA called the French Agency for Food, Environmental, and Occupational Health and Safety, abbreviated to ANSES. Then again, the latest Bayer Testivirum or Bayer Remabolin medical inserts don't list any citations either. Other kinds of medications approved by the FDA in the United States go over various human clinical trials or other human studies where various adverse effects or beneficial effects at various dosage ranges are observed. But it seems that that's not included in various steroid-based medications. And to be perfectly honest, I'm a little bit disappointed. I expected a lot more from the back page. I guess I can now relate to all of those guys who swipe on Tinder. You only go by the front picture. And then as soon as you see the back, there's nothing to behold. I guess the joke's on me. I mean, it's just a list of warnings. Warnings that everybody's going to forego anyway. Anyway. And lastly, there's the back of the box which just contains similar information which you can already find in the medical insert, including Negma Laboratories contact information, parabolin composition, and general information on what the medical insert contains. Again, you can download the fully translated medical insert of Negma Laboratories parabolin as a PDF following the Dropbox link down below. And I'm still on the lookout for the medical insert of Mastrohn. Maybe there's some human scientific evidence that Mastrohn is actually anabolic and not just a cosmetic enhancing drug. I'll check in with Anthony to see what else he's got to share. And this is the end of the video. So you know what time it is. Do your blood work over at Merrick Health if you live in the United States and do your blood work elsewhere. If you don't live in the United States, if you take the Trimbalone sandwich, you should do blood work frequently. The best pre-workouts you can find over at Gorilla Mind. The best fragrances and other male beauty products you can find over at Intelligent Shop. For general over-the-counter health supplementation, go to iHerb. And if you can't find something specific, just go over to my website, vigorsteve.com, where all kinds of additional information is presented to you guys. All right. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A front double bicep for you guys. Any Trimbalone in this picture? I'm not entirely sure. No, it's just injectable YK-11. I mean, that's just pretty potent too. Please leave a like, leave a comment, share it with all your Trimbalone sandwich loving friends, so we can get into the algorithm and get this video up to a million views. Fingers crossed. I'll see you guys in the next one.