 looks like the world-endidoping-atc-adid-mod-c to the prohibit list of 2025. This means war. Vigorous thief here, as promised, here's your yearly updated WADA-approved doping stack, discussing all of the performance-synastic drugs and notable over-contour supplements, which are not included in next year's WADA prohibit list, that's the 2025 version, adhering to these guidelines, limiting yourself to these compounds, technically, allows you to call yourself a half-nady, because they're not prohibited, by WADA, albeit that I can't guarantee you that you're going to beat the drug test in any way, shape, or form. I mean, if WADA wants you to fail, they'll fail you, as there's so many loopholes and discrepancies within the system, allowing for the bending of the rules on both sides. I mean, trust me when I say this, athletes bend the rules of the WADA prohibit list all the time, but I'm sure you guys are already aware of athletes quote-a-quote cheating at the Olympics or other drug-tested sports. Before we get started, as a quick side note, if any of these WADA-approved performance-synastic drugs or over-contour supplements spark your interest, then have a look at my control of source list on my website, where many of these compounds are already indexed, so you can easily find whatever it is that you're looking for with discount codes, so you can sell yourself some money while staying WADA compliant. Now, there's a lot that we're going to discuss in this video, but in order to be respectful of your time, I'm not going to go into individual dosages of each single compound. I will explain what each compound does, but the dosages will just be on the screen for you guys to do additional research with, because otherwise this video is going to turn into a two-hour behemoth, and nobody has time for that. Now it is. Let's start with the 2025 monitoring program, where WADA lists compounds that are testing for in and out of competition to assess prevalence of use, but they're not filling athletes for these particular compounds just quite yet. Sometimes they list these compounds on a monitoring program and ban them the next year. Sometimes they stay on a monitoring program for many years, until they're removed, with WADA you never really know what they're going to do next. The monitoring program is basically the same as last year, with the latest additions being fentanyl and tramadol, which you're now checking for in and out of competition. I mean, I can't imagine using tramadol or fentanyl in another competition. If you're suffered from an injury, you should be resting and relaxing and recovering at home. I mean, these are not compounds that we generally use in health and fitness space or in the Olympics or other kinds of endurance sports, so I guess there's nothing new to report. Here, they're still monitoring for ectosterone, which is a naturally occurring ectosteroids that regulates and controls ectasis, which is molting and the menoporfosis of antropods. It has somewhat anabolic properties by stimulating potentiating protein synthesis and collagen synthesis through the estrogen beta receptor pathway. While ectosterone is being monitored for turkestrone, it's called counterpart, another phytoecosteroids extracted from the Ajuga-Turkestanica plant, is not being monitored by WADA yet. And let's see, they're still monitoring for the use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues in females under the age of 18 years old. In both men and adults in general, the use of GNRH analogues is completely prohibited. Hypoxion is still listed, which is an adaptogen to offset hypoxia in low oxygen environments. Imagine cycling at altitude or climbing a particular mountain. Very low oxygen environment, hypoxion helps with that. But if you use it at sea level, man, the stamina and the endurance boost that you get out of it, whether that's for long distance sports, short distance sprint sports, or even strength sports, very, very, very pronounced. We'll get into the hypoxion dosages a little bit later on when we get to the metabolic modulator part of this video. You see here that all the non-exciting stimulants are being monitored for with the only one that has a reasonably effect on fat loss and overall stimulatory properties being synophrine, albeit that nicotine not really being a great stimulant still has a great, tremendous, neutral pick properties and also acts as a aromatized inhibitor. So maybe we can use a little bit of nicotine patches, nicotine gum to increase our total testosterone levels. Yes, we'll get into that a little bit later on. Now smart people don't use narcotics. So let's forego that segment of the monitoring program. And the only one, the only listed glucagon like peptide one receptor agonist here that they're monitoring for is semi-glutide. Now again, that doesn't mean that semi-glutide is banned. They're just looking for it. I mean, semi-glutide also known as ozympic ribosis or white gophi is the only one listed. But there's many other alternatives on the menu. But this seems to be the most popular and the most commonly discussed in the entire world, right? So they're monitoring for that. Don't worry, we have plenty of alternatives. We'll get into that a little bit later on in this video. Next on the menu is a summary of major modifications and explanatory notes that the World Anti-Dopic Agency published alongside the pre-emptive list of 2025. But let's just stick to what we know because I have no idea where the compounds are listed under S0, non-approved substances. But S3, beta 2 agonists, I'm very well aware of. Here they go into detail about inhaled formatorol being a maximum delivery dose unchanged at 54 micrograms over 24 hours. We'll discuss the beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonists at length when we get to that segment of this video. And I already have an alternative in the form of a beta 3 adrenergic receptor agonist, namely Mirabekron, which I already have a deep dive you can find on my YouTube channel. Let's see. S4, hormone and metabolic modulators. Listing, mitochondrial open reading frame of the 12SR RNA-C, better known as Mod-C, was added as an example of AMP-activated protein kinase activators. Mostly helps with the mitochondria and their efficiency, but it's now listed, unfortunately, on the prohibit list. And that means we're going to go extra, extra, extra hard on this waterproof doping stack because for every compound that water includes in the prohibit list, I'll offer you guys 50 new compounds that you can choose from. Bet your left that there will be a thousand compounds as an alternative by the time I'm done with this video series that is updated yearly. Now, they also added a less astrant as an example of an anti-astrogen. They mentioned several insulin mimetics, which I never heard about. They discussed diuretics a little bit. Of course, the manipulation of blood and blood components as well as gene and cell doping is completely prohibited. That's not something that I'm specialized in. When it comes to the S6 stimulants, also something that I'm very well aware of. Here they added in hydrophenil, which is also known as fluronol, was changed from the S6B class to the S6A class as it's a little bit more potent than Modaphenil, purely because hydrophenil is a higher potency to pass the blood-brain barrier and thus offers more of a neutropic and stimulatory benefits than Modaphenil itself. Many of the Modaphenil variants are already listed on the prohibit list. I guess this is a new classification. They added Tessofensine to the prohibit list, so I had to remove that from the water-approved doping stack that I still included in 2024. Tessofensine off the list. Tessofensine is a selective serotonin norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitor. It's classically an antidepressant, but we use it off-labally to suppress our appetite at 250 micrograms daily or three times weekly. Here they specifically mentioned that guanphesine was classified as non-prohibited, which means it's allowed. We can actually include guanphesine in the water-approved doping stack of 2025. Guanphesine is very popular in the neutropic space. It's an oral alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist that is used in the treatment of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, but we use it off-labally to kind of enhance blood flow to the brain and help with our neutropic aspirations. So guanphesine is allowed, but Tessofensine is not allowed, unfortunately. And here they mentioned something about the use of beta blockers in particular sports. I highly doubt that anybody watching is practicing these particular sports in which the use of beta blockers are banned. So let's move over to the actual World Anti-Doping Code International Standards prohibit list of 2025, which is also known as the We're Going Out of Style and Business. Please compete in the enhanced games instead, where you can use all of these wonderful compounds and much, much more lists. We're using the water prohibit list as a guideline of what we can't use, and they were looking for stuff that we know about but isn't specifically listed in the water prohibit list of stuff we can use and still call ourselves a half-nady. Half-nady approved doping stack in case you're interested in retaining that title. Keep watching. Personally, I'm fully sourced, so this list is completely off the menu for me. I use whatever the f*** I want, like a real adult, and I don't lie about it. Okay, let's get started. Don't worry, we'll go through all of the segments. For each segment, a list, which compound isn't specifically mentioned, but it doesn't mean that you're guaranteed to beat the drug test. I mean, if water wants you to fill, they'll make you fill, which they actually have a clause at the start of the prohibit list, which falls under S0, non-approved substances, where they specifically mention prohibited at all times in and out of competition, all prohibited substances in this class are specified substances, and I quote, Any pharmacological substance which is not addressed by any of the subsequent sections of the list, and with no current approval by any governmental regulatory health authority for human therapeutic use, as in drugs under preclinical or clinical development or discontinued designer drugs, substances approved only for veterinary use, is prohibited at all times. So basically, 99% of the stuff that we're going to mention in this video prohibited at all times. But let's continue. This class covers many different substances, including but not limited to body protection compound 157, 2,4, denitrofinal, DNP, and then a couple other compounds which we generally don't use in the fitness space. So basically, what you're saying here is that if there's currently no FDA-approved medical application within the United States, or medical application approved by an FDA equivalent in other countries, then it's automatically not allowed. Now, if you're an American and you're going to be Kamala Harris about mentioning the FDA that it's only US based, here is a comprehensive list of FDA equivalent organizations by country regulating the food and drugs for that particular country or region, right? There's more than the FDA within the United States. Every country or every region has some sort of equivalent regulating foods and drugs. So please stop complaining about it. So if you can get yourself a script for a particular compound that's not listed through some Johnny Walker negotiated medical condition that you may or may not be suffering from, getting yourself a script in a country where this compound is medically recognized for this medical condition, they technically underwad us on guidelines, you should be able to get away with its use. And with that being said, the large majority of the compounds that we're going to discuss in this video are not FDA approved anywhere in the world. So keep this in mind. And while you might still be able to call yourself a half 90 if you follow the guidelines of this water doping stack of 2025, if they decide to pull you aside for doping tests under s zero, non approved substances, you might still fail if they watch you pee into the doping sample cup, which are pants down and your shirt lifted. That's probably the highlight of a doping officers day, right? Watching genitals your net. All right, moving over to s one, the anabolic agents. Long story short, all of the good stuff is already listed. Last year, they added trust alone meant to the anabolic agents list. And it means as of now, there's currently nothing really left anabolic, energetic, stardewise that you can get away with, or at least stuff that actually works. Unless, unless, unless you stick with the established detection times, which are scientifically proven and known anecdotally, which might be a little bit shorter than the scientifically established detection times are a little bit longer, because you use these anabolic and generic steroids for such a long time, whereas the scientifically proven detection times are usually established on the single administration, right? But we have services for that. Keep that in mind. That is a soft drone is on the list under one testosterone. VHA is under the list as prostrone. Stemblone is on the list. Trust alone meant is on the list. Even tetrahydrogestronone, better known as the clear is on the list. And even clambitrol and several SARMS and strotalsarm YK-11 are listed under s.to other anabolic agents. The only compounds not listed here are prognolone and progestrone, which its anabolic properties can be debated. Prognolone converts into DHA, testosterone, DHT and estradiol downstream and progestrone might have some collagen synthesis. Benefits will address that a little bit later on. But even if you're mega dosing prognolone at, let's say 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams daily, it doesn't really offer much of a performance enhancing benefit unless you're androgen deficient or elderly, which also means you're probably not competing at the absolute highest level or you're subject to drug testing. So let's leave the prognolone and progestrone off the list under anabolic agents for now. But progestrone will make it come back a little bit later on when we discuss optimizing collagen synthesis. Technically though, they forgot to include several selective antigen receptor modulators, pro hormones and ectosterones. So our guests were still in the green there with the half 90 approved SARMS AC262536. That's the only one that I actually know dosages of. You have several other oral SARMS. The numbers are on the screen, most notably rat 150, which is a modified version of rat 140, better known as test alone, which is listed. And there's even a transdermal serum called Ly305. Now, most of these oral SARMS aren't really, really used. I can't really find any anecdotal reports of people using these SARMS. I don't think that they're available anywhere besides AC262536, of which the dosages are on the screen, because people have anecdotal experience with it. And the animal models, I believe that there's some dosage extrapolation to the human equivalent dose. So take this as a guideline, but please do additional research if you're interested in this particular SARM. There are half 90 approved pro hormones a little bit fallen to the wayside. Pro hormones aren't really used anymore. The only pro hormone which is still being used is superdrol, which isn't really a pro hormone that just was a antibiotic androgenic steroid classified as a pro hormone falsely, right, when it was being sold back in the day. So there's an injectable pro hormone called Boulondiol, also known as anabio. There's several oral pro hormones, including cholesterol, pregnant alone, progesterone, and well, all these funky chemical names which are on the screen. And keep in mind that some of these pro hormones might actually metabolize into sterile compounds which are listed. I mean, this is the whole function of pro hormones. You're taking this orally or injectably in a benign quote unquote benign state, and then in the body it metabolizes into something with anabolic properties. Some of these metabolites of these pro hormones might actually be listed. Now, I didn't do the research. I just went through all of the pro hormones which aren't specifically listed themselves, but it doesn't guarantee that you're not going to fill for a particular compound as some of these pro hormones might convert into a compound that's actually listed. You couldn't find any anecdotal reports on all of these pro hormones, so I don't know the exact dosages. If you want to use these which I'm highly advising against, then well, you're going to have to do your own research going forward. I will say this before we continue. None of these are listed already, and since Zvada is pretty thorough with the listings of anabolic agents, I mean, how much of an anabolic effect do you expect to get from these pro hormones that aren't listed? Even provirins listed, and how much of an anabolic response you get from provirin? Well, that remains to be debated. So your mileage might very do additional research, but I don't think any of these pro hormones are suitable to be used to elicit an anabolic effect. Ecticerones though are still what are approved anabolic agents, while Ecticerone itself is currently on the monitoring program. You could combine the toerquestrone with ecticerone or use them solo, whatever you prefer. And these are the only two compounds that are non-suppressive that you can actually use alongside over-the-counter supplements and lifestyle practices to boost your testosterone levels naturally. And on the topic of boosting testosterone levels, what can we do for the maximum testosterone levels to boost the anabolic response in our body? Somewhat, keep in mind that selective anagenerum septal modulators and pro hormones have a suppressive effect on the hypotomic-padolytic characteristic axis and can actually lower testosterone levels and estradiol levels over time. So this is probably a worse combination to go for if you go with storms only or pro hormones only and throwing the kitchen sink of order-for-the-counter testosterone boosters at it. Your testosterone levels might still be low and your estradiol levels might still be low because now you're solely relying on these water-approved storms or pro hormones. So I would rather go with ecticerone and toerquestrone alongside an over-the-counter supplement stack to boost your testosterone levels and sleeping according to your circadian rhythm. That seems to be a more suitable approach and sustainable approach than going with oral storms or pro hormones. And since you can't use it to testosterone base or follow HCG monotherapy to sustain intertesticular sacrum bone production while using water-approved storms or pro hormones, that basically means that these compounds are completely off the menu unless you prefer to walk around in an androgen deficient and estrogen deficient state all the time. I mean even following a deannable only cycle sounds more appealing even though that's certainly not water-approved. Again, the only non-suppressive compounds you can actually use are the gastrone and ecticerone which you can use alongside over-the-counter supplements and lifestyle practices to boost testosterone levels because these compounds are non-suppressive and this would elicit the most the highest antibiotic response which is still compliant with the guidelines that water has set in this water prohibited list. Here's a list of over-the-counter supplements which are known to increase testosterone levels through several pathways. Here's KSM-66 as we're going to root extract which lowers cortisol levels and can thus increase testosterone secretion. Tonkot Alley is known to increase testosterone levels but Dusha Grecius is known to increase luteinizing hormone levels which downstream can increase testosterone levels. Tribulus terrestis, your mileage might vary on an increase of testosterone levels. Boron actually lowers SHBG and might actually promote conversion of testosterone into estradiol but it will certainly increase your free testosterone levels if taken twice per day but again depending on your dietary practices your mileage might vary. Vitamin C, vitamin D3, vitamin E, magnesium, zinc, selenium, fish oil, torene and carnitine all contribute to testosterone synthesis. Interestingly consider these building blocks in the process of testosterone synthesis. Derspartic acid and fenugreek might be able to increase testosterone levels but it's worked really well for me in the past was icing my testicles when I was off cycle and taking all of these over-the-counter supplements to boost my testosterone levels somewhat. Icing the testicles really works there's not so much scientific evidence to prove it but there's a lot of anecdotal reports of men doing this particular practice and noticing a significant boost in their libido and overall total testosterone levels proven with blood work. You put an ice pack in a towel strategically place that underneath your nuts for 20 minutes to bring the temperature down and when you remove the ice pack new blood rushes into the area assuming you don't have a terrible virical cell. New blood rushes into the area and if you take these over-the-counter supplements with the building blocks for testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis then this blood is full with nutrients going into the testicles and boosting testosterone levels and spermatogenesis if you do this three times daily it's a little bit cumbersome but it works. Some guys swear by red light therapy I never really done that some guys even swear by lifting their butt cheeks up and angling their scrotum to the sun right whatever you prefer I'll leave it entirely up to you and then sleep. Yes sleeping according to your circadian rhythm at least eight hours per night is probably the best testosterone boosting method you can incorporate right so if you want to bring your testosterone levels up beside all of your over-the-counter supplements just proper sleep will give you the most bang for your buck when you're spending all this money on supplements right and I see your nuts alongside of that upon waking sometime in the afternoon and before bed sweet freaking testosterone levels give it a try. Now again with some of these over-the-counter supplements and best practices your mileage might vary some people respond better to certain supplements than other people do and if you don't want to go through the trials and error process to figure out which of these supplements or best practices are actually working right trying one supplement or best practices for a week or two and then doing blood work in between to see what is actually working maybe in the beginning of boosting your testosterone levels you just stick with an over-the-counter testosterone booster like Gerylamide Sigma and you combine that so with Gerylamide Calm and AR which contains carnitine and perhaps ectiplex or dercplex for your intake of ecti-steroins solo or in combination personally I found that the combination of ecti-steroin and turquestrone works better than taking them so low so maybe you give that a trial run for one two or three months to see how much of a change you can get on your total testosterone levels and how much of an anabolic response you get by the addition of ecti-steroin and turquestrone it's worthy of a trial run you can find discount codes down below so you can save yourself some money while undergoing this process and if you're successful since elevated testosterone and astrogyl ultimately helps with collagen synthesis which is essential for muscle building and the recovery process especially when you combine that with a compound set stimulate protein synthesis and collagen synthesis namely turquestrone and ecti-steroin then why don't we try to optimize this entire process with several over-the-counter supplements to provide all of the building blocks needed for adequate protein synthesis and collagen synthesis so here's the half-nanny approved protein and collagen synthesis optimization stack containing vitamin A vitamin C vitamin E B vitamins copper zinc silica glycine and proline lucine HMB whether that's HMB calcium or free acids hydrolyzed collagen peptides type 1 and 3 hydrolyzed collagen peptides type 2 GHK GHK copper pulmitate GHK micronized progesterone and even medical interventions including microneedling and fractional laser therapy now combination of most of these over-the-counter supplements can be found in gorylamide collagen peptides it's linked down below obviously a GHK copper GHK pulmitate GHK those are injectable and topical formulas micronized progesterone is very potent for collagen synthesis and overall protein synthesis albeit that it might be hpta suppressive at higher dosages so if you go with micronized progesterone i would only take this when you're recovering from an injury when you're out of competition and you need the maximum amount of collagen synthesis to take place to recover from surgery or a terrible injury that you're now a better written from in which case you would also combine it with GHK or GHK copper to help with the incisions and to kind of slowly recover the connective tissue or the micro injuries that you might have sustained because GHK and GHK copper or pulmitate GHK is excellent for collagen synthesis all of the dosages of these supplements and peptides or progesterone are on the screen and with that out of the way part of the antibiotic response is having super histologic levels of growth factors and peptide hormones flowing around in the body at all times which you can actually stimulate with several water-approved compounds here you see that the rithupruetans EPL and similar compounds in mimetics are banned under S2 peptide hormones growth factors related substances antimimetics segments S.1.1 rithupruetan receptor agonists and then they go into the specifics but we can still boost the medical and root blood cell count using various methods and over the supplements we can provide the building blocks for the half 90 approved oxygen carrying capacity optimization stack in the form of vitamin B9, vitamin B12, vitamin C, iron, copper and then using altitude masks or living in high altitude or stimulating high altitude with hyperbaric oxygen chambers and then using myoenosital tripyrophosphate to increase the oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin allowing for more oxygen transport through the red blood cells without increasing red blood cell count so you can improve red blood cell count with these over the counter supplements right the vitamins the iron the copper then stimulating red blood cell production by reducing the oxygen in the environment obviously you don't want to combine that with the epoxy because that kind of defeats the purpose so maybe increase your red blood cell count using altitude masks living in high altitude or using the hyperbaric oxygen chamber while increasing the oxygen affinity with myoenosital tripyrophosphate using the loading phase and maintenance phase which is discussed on the screen you can go from the loading phase to the maintenance phase once the neutropic and in germs benefits are noticeable keep in mind that ITPP is actually banned in several sports federations but it not specifically mentioned in the water prohibit list of 2025 and then you can use a dipeptidyl peptidyl for inhibitor which are many of to prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and other growth factors but we'll get into the DPP for eyes when we get to the growth factor and growth factor modulator segment of the water prohibited list and discuss alternative options here you see under S2 peptide hormones and the releasing factor sub-segment 2.1.1 testosterone stimulating peptides in meals including but not limited to um chorionic gonadotropin that's human chorionic gonadotropin or luteinizing hormone or gonadotropin releasing hormone or chispeptin which doesn't really work so i don't know why they listed here but it's still listed right so if you use any of these you're automatically banned whether you're using urine purified or recombinant human chorionic gonadotropin a luteinizing hormone also banned but follicle stimulating hormone not banned now follicle stimulating hormone doesn't really offer any kind of performance enhancing benefits but if you like to coat your partner in glaze then FSH specifically a recombinant FSH but you could also use a human menopausal gonadotropin which contains FSH albeit with trace amounts of HCG which you can still fail the doping test with so stick with recombinant FSH Merck gonal F that is if you want to glaze your partner in a love and caring method then FSH is certainly a way to go unfortunately you don't get any performance enhancing benefits out of it but fertility boosting effects well you can bet both of your testicles and her ovaries that fertility will go up for you substantially and thus increasing the chances to get your partner pregnant completely water approved now besides the fidocia agrestus which we mentioned in the overcomper supplement stack fidocia agrestus being known to increase luteinizing hormone secretion and thus testosterone estrogen secretion production from the testicles you can also influence the hypatomic pituitary testicular axis raising luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels by reducing your estradiol levels which is the primary negative feedback of the HPTA right testosterone converts into estradiol and when estradiol is high the hypatomas and the pituitary down regulates their secretion of luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone reducing testosterone synthesis keeping estradiol in range right this is how the feedback works but if you somehow some way reduce your estradiol levels then LH and FSH secretion is absolutely maximized especially when you combine that with over the counter supplements that boost testosterone production so what can we do to bring our estradiol levels down and while all the commonly known and medically used aromatase inhibitors are already listed under S4.1 aromatase inhibitors don't worry we'll get to that segment a little bit later on in this video it seems that WADA has no clue that there's a boatload of compounds out there with known aromatase enzyme inhibiting effects or at least estradiol lowering effects and thus when all of these are combined like captain planets then we can  and actually get a very dramatic reduction in serum estradiolivels. So here's the half-90-approved estradioloverin-over-the-counter supplement and aromatized inhibitor. Superstack, vitamin C, berberine, calcium declucrate, dienomethane, dechyrionositol, glucophage, better known as mitformin, melatonin. To dilaphyl-Cialis, yes, I actually have an excellent deep dive about Cialis. Check that out, so you know exactly how and why Cialis lowers serum estradiolivels. Zinc, nicotine, and their metabolites, cotinine and anibacine, very potent aromatized inhibitors but are included in the 2005 monitoring program listed under four stimulants. And then there's several medical aromatized inhibitors which are not specifically mentioned, blood rosol, findrosol, lia rosol, and vorosol, and make sure if you do have access to these, which I can't find on any product list, anywhere that you confirm the usage of these particular aromatized inhibitors which are not specifically mentioned with frequent blood work, and the same goes for continuous or long-term nicotine use. Again, it's that potent. Make sure you keep track of your blood work to confirm and solidify that your estradiolivels are coming down and your LH and FSH and total testosterone-free testosterone levels are actually going up. And with the following compounds, your mileage might vary, but there are some indications that they might lower estradiolivels or at least inhibit the aromatized enzyme, usually stemming from breast cancer or ovarian cancer studies. Epigenin, chrysin, cumastrol, diazine, delfinidin, epigallochathrin, galates, fatty acids, and genistine, campferol, luto-lyn, norigenin, chrysinine, resveratrol, zodium-vill-proate, and medication, and terpenoids. And again, with these flavonoids, your mileage might vary. All of these results are stemming from in vitro studies performed on breast cancer cells or ovarian cancer cells or several animal models where they might have some anti-cancer properties by inhibiting the aromatized enzymes. If they were really good, if you have some tangible rearworld effects, you would expect these flavonoids to be contained in over-the-counter testosterone boosters or at least in estrogen balance formulations aimed towards women. I mean, a diomethane, calcium deglucrate, dechlorinositol, usually contained within estrogen balance supplements aimed towards women, but these flavonoids generally are not. So do additional research if you get some sort of aromatized inhibiting effects out of it by taking any of these accidentally by eating particular foods. Great, but I wouldn't search the world far and wide for supplements containing these flavonoids because again, your mileage might vary. I explain all of these in the videos discussing that aromatized inhibitors aren't devil and discussing several estradiol lowering over-the-counter supplements that might act as aromatized inhibitors. I'll link them at the end of this video. Now, as we all know, preventing the conversion of testosterone in the estradiol ultimately increases the risk of testosterone converting into diatotestosterone through the 5-alpha reductase enzymes front in the scalp and skin, working contribute to hair loss. So if you favor elevated testosterone levels over elevated diatotestosterone levels, then look into these half-90-approved 5-alpha reductase inhibitors. We have solpamental extract, pygium, richy-mushroom extract, which can actually be combined into a formula that is very potent in the reduction of DHT levels, albeit not to the point that they completely bottom out. And then there's medical 5-alpha reductase inhibitors in the form of anastratetestrat or episturite. But if you go that route, please do blood work before, during, and after to make sure that your DHT levels don't bottom out, start low, build your way up as needed. Because well, a post-vanastrat syndrome can be pretty brutal and longer-lasting, affecting your libido and cognition for weeks to months to years. And if you're currently suffering from post-vanastratet syndrome, please give this video a watch. Alright, let's skip over S2.2.2, the corticotropins and their releasing factors, because we generally don't use those in the fitness community. Anyway, let's move on onwards to S2.2.3, growth hormone, its analogs and fragments, including, but not limited to, growth hormone analogs, as in, lone apex, or metropin produced by Ascendus under the brand name Skytropha, Soma, Positon produced by Novonordix under the brand name Sogroia, and Soma Trojan produced by Pfizer under the brand name, and Genilla, which is hidden in the market now, and Chase Irons has the most experience within Genilla, but that doesn't make it waterproof. So growth hormone, whether that's pharmaceutical or genetics, is obviously listed here under growth hormone, aka Soma tropin. And growth hormone fragments, as in anti-obesity drug 9604 and growth hormone fragments 1762191, are also included in the prohibit list. So growth hormone, some of its variants that are longer acting because they're bound to obiumin or an HCG subunit, and some of the fragments which we know actually works completely banned. Now there's several other growth hormone fragments which actually have been investigated, that's growth hormone fragment 1243 and 32 to 46, which promotes glucose homeostasis but only in animal models, and then there's growth hormone fragment 44 to 191, which actually promotes glucose intolerance in animal models, and is about 10 times more potent in doing so than the full sequence of growth hormone being amino acid sequence 1 to 191. So these have been poorly investigated. I've never seen growth hormone fragment 1243 or 32 to 46 on any of the gray area peptide websites, very limited scientific evidence, and I would say zero practical applications for us as people in the fitness community aspiring to be as lean as possible and controlling our glucose levels through various different pathways because, well, when we get to the metabolic modulators, there's much better methods out there for improving glucose homeostasis in the bloodstream. So let's just focus on what we can actually use because it seems that everything, all the good stuff is already included. And for that, we also need to highlight what's listed under S2.2.4 growth hormone releasing factors, including but not limited to growth hormone releasing hormone and its analogs, growth hormone secretogogs and their memetics, and growth hormone releasing peptides with a launcher list of examples on what you can't use completely while up prohibited. And it means that basically all the good stuff is listed. All of the growth hormone secretogogs, which we know are actually working are listed here besides maybe a rela morelain, which I've never seen available anywhere as SM 130686, an early active agonist of the ghrelin growth hormone receptor, and that acts as a growth hormone secretogog similar to MK-677, which is listed, haven't seen that available anywhere. And then lastly, what you can look into is Uli Morelain, also known as TCP 101, which is an undergrowing receptor agonist, but in scientific evidence, it was shown that it's barely promotes growth hormone secretion. So unfortunately, under S2.2.3 and S2.2.4, all of the good stuff, all of the stuff that actually works by increasing your growth hormone levels, whether you take that through exogenous sources or you promote a production within the pituitary gland with a secretogog already listed, but don't you worry, there's a boatload of methods and over the counter supplements, which are actually known to increase growth hormone levels as long as you follow particular best practices. So let's get into the half 90 approved growth hormone secretion optimization stack, high quality sleep. Who would have thought at improving your testosterone levels also improves your growth hormone levels, high intensity aerobic and resistance training, and the growth hormone response is enhanced by pre-workout essential amino acids, creatin monohydrates, torene and caffeine, a balanced sex hormone and neuro steroid levels testosterone, estrogen, DHT and DHEA. If you have that balance following the over the counter supplement stack to boost your testosterone levels, and again, you're sleeping according to your circadian rhythm, then this balanced sex hormones and neuro steroid levels will contribute to enhanced growth hormone production in the pituitary glands. A glucagon contributes to growth hormone secretion, stress management by keeping your cortisol level low. And for that, we have as we're going to root extract or grill mind calm, hopefully in your over the counter supplement stack, right? Again, it's listed down below. We have amino acid supplementation, arginine, ornithine, lysine, glycine, glutamine and leucine. And it seems that ornithine and lysine works synergistically with arginine, which blunt somatostatin release the dosage ranges are on the screen. I would suggest you start low, built your way up and take all of these amino acids before bed alongside melatonin supplementation or GABA supplementation or both, right? It's entirely up to you. The amount of hydrate supplementation increases growth hormone secretion, intermittent fasting, one meal per day, fasting after four o'clock in the afternoon. So you're in a deep fasted state by the time you go to bed or full fasting, all minimize somatostatin release for the maximum amount of growth hormone secretion occurring at night and several pulses over the day. Adequate protein intake. I don't need to tell you guys that without adequate protein, you don't have adequate muscle mass. And well, you need to eat a bottle of protein for these cannons to fill out the screen as I'm sure you guys are well aware and that also contributes to growth hormone release being in a micronutrient sufficient state all the time. Make sure you hit your daily recommended intakes on all of your micronutrients. Low refined sugar intake, low glycemic index and loads foods for dinner. So you have minimal insulin release throughout the night. And again, if you go to bed in somewhat of a fasted state, maybe the last meal of the day is at four o'clock or no later than nine o'clock. If you go to bed at 12 o'clock, then at least most of the carbohydrates are already digested your insulin levels are low. You might get some glucose release overnight. Some of the statin levels are low and then the ghrelin levels are high, allowing for the highest possible growth hormone secretion. A minimal alcohol consumption. I think that's a no brainer. Healthy body weight. I also think that's a no brainer, even though my body weight is far from healthy. I'm close to 250 pounds right now. Proper hydration. Make sure you stay on top of that. Chloronidine and nicotine enhances the growth hormone releasing hormone pulses at night. Keep in mind that nicotine is included in the monitoring program under four stimulants and deep peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors prevent a growth hormone releasing hormone and a growth hormone secretion. Got peptide breakdown. Now growth hormone secretion. Got your can't use, but natural growth hormone releasing hormone being produced in the body. You can prevent the breakdown of with diet peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors and does the growth hormone pulse when growth hormone releasing hormone levels are high is also higher. But again, we'll get to the DPP for eyes a little bit later in this video. Now mention all of these water approved options and several water prohibited options, including the beta blocker pro panel. In a video titled the growth hormone optimization and security gawk cheat sheet. I'll link it at the end of this video in case you want to know more about these particular compounds. Moving on to S 2.3 growth factors and growth factor modulators. Or you can finally talk about diet peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors. And the list is very long because none of the DPP for eyes are actually included in the water prohibited list. So it's fair game to prevent the breakdown of growth factors by these growth factor modulators. Now, there's a boatload of compounds here, most notable, berberine, which is the DPP for eye, actually preventing the breakdown of insulin and other growth factors. And this is where some of the insulated insulin sensitizing effects of berberine are actually stemming from. You see here that linea glipton, also known as trigenta and sexa glipton or C. Toclipton, also known as genuvia are often combined with sodium glucose, called transporter to inhibitors. So keep this in mind, right? If you want to use these DPP for eyes separately, then make sure it's not combined with an S GL to inhibitor as well. I think the most notable and most commonly used DPP for eyes are linea glipton, sexa glipton, C. Toclipton and Vildaglipton. Those seems to be the most readily available as well on some of the source websites. I've always used genuvia C. Toclipton, 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams upon waking when I want to prevent the breakdown of insulin and or IGF one, whether I take that exotiously or being produced by exotinous growth hormone or growth hormone secretogogs. That seemed to get the job done very, very well. And genuvia C. Toclipton is also the most readily available from what I can piece together with the online sources. Now, before you ask, I already know that this question is going to come up. Steve, can I combine all of these amino acids, melatonin, GABA, and berberine and C. Toclipton, aka genuvia, all before bed to prevent the breakdown of the nighttime growth hormone releasing hormone pulse, stimulating the maximum amount of growth hormone release and downstream preventing the breakdown of IGF one, again, by this combination of berberine and genuvia being DPP for eyes. And yes, you can. I've done this already. And my growth hormone secretion and IGF one levels upon waking actually quite high to the point my growth hormone levels were still elevated. In the morning, I'm talking about 10 to 12 nanograms per milliliter with an IGF one creeping towards the top of the reference range, around 300 nanograms per milliliter as well. Right. Is it that potent as using growth hormone exorbitantly or growth hormone secretion dogs? Well, when you're not allowed to use those, and this is certainly the next best thing. So that's 500 milligrams berberine and 50 milligrams, maybe even 100 milligrams C. Toclipton, genuvia, alongside all these amino acids, melatonin and GABA before bed, getting you the highest growth hormone levels and highest IGF one levels upon waking. You might go slightly hypoglycemic during the night, which you probably won't notice because glucagon levels will come up, thus enhancing the growth hormone pulse, which occurs at night. Still, if you're a little bit worried to make sure you wear a continuous blood glucose monitor during the night, like a Dexcom seven, for example, to see if you have tremendous dips in your blood glucose levels. And then suddenly it shoots up because glucagon is being released. Right. Adequate tracking of your health parameters are always advised when stacking all of these kinds of medications and over the counter supplements. Together, keep in mind that dipeptidolpeptidase four inhibitors not only prevent the breakdown of erythropoietin and growth hormone releasing hormone, but also several other growth factors which are on the screen, including angiopoietin, epidermal growth factor, erythropoietin, like I mentioned before, fibroblast growth factor one to 23, glyosaleline derived neurotropic factor, as well as brain derived neurotropic factor. So you can also prevent the breakdown of cerebral ison or similar products that have some sort of neurotropic benefits. Growth hormone releasing hormone, like I mentioned before, a parasite growth factor is good for liver health. insulin, insulin growth factor one and two, mechano growth factor, myostatin, GDF eight. So unfortunately, by taking berberine or other DPB four eyes, you also prevent the breakdown of myostatin. So all the more reason to increase my fall of statin levels later on at night through several pathways, which we're going to get into again, brain derived neurotropic factor, nerve growth factor, trauma, poietin, vascular, endothelial growth factor, and many, many, many more. So please do additional research. None of the side effects of a D peptidol peptidol is for inhibitors includes substantially elevated growth hormone levels to the point you get agromigli or substantially elevated erythropoietin to the point you get elevated hematocritin, real blood cell count to the point you need to start doing frequent blood donations. So again, we're just optimizing all of the pathways here to elicit an additional antibiotic response on top of the over the country supplements and just sleeping according to your circadian rhythm and using metabolic modulators, which are not specifically listed, which we'll get into. But again, your mileage might vary if you incorporate a D peptidol peptidol for inhibitor intelligently. You're literally optimizing all of these growth factors that you're producing naturally, and overall, you should have a performance enhancing effect. All right. That was a complete mouthful. So let's move over to S3, the Beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonists. And there's a boatload of options listed here, none of which we generally use in the fitness or bodybuilding community. Maybe if you compete in drug tested sports, you're trying to circumnavigate the broad list of Beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonists. And that's why they all included it here. Maybe the only one that we're actually using is Solbutamol or Butarol, which they have a small exemption up to 1600 micrograms over a 24 hour period. Don't worry, we'll get to that. But Clem Bittroll, the one that we actually use and is very popular in the fitness space, is actually listed under S1.2, the other anabolic agents, because Clem Bittroll actually has some anabolic effects from 40 micrograms per day onwards and weirdly enough, Solbutamol or Butarol also has some anabolic properties from four milligrams per day onwards. But that's listed here. Now, that means that the exemption dose of 600 micrograms per day is about, well, let's say two, two and a half times lower than the anabolic dose of Solbutamol being four milligrams per day. However, if you want to stay water compliant, you're not allowed to use over 600 micrograms Solbutamol or Butarol spaced out over a 24 hour period with the maximum serving of 800 micrograms per time, which I guess is the absolute cutoff between the non-performance enhancing bronchial dilation dose for people suffering from asthma and the minute anabolic effect that might help you perform slightly better in endurance sports or strength based events. Right. 600 micrograms versus four milligrams. Yeah, your mileage might vary if you limit yourself to only 600 micrograms. So that brings us to the half 90 approved, better to a three-nergic receptor, agonists that we can use again. Solbutamol, a maximum of 600 micrograms over 24 hours, four meterol, a maximum of 54 micrograms over 24 hours. Solbutamol, a maximum of 200 micrograms over 24 hours. Villon, to roll a maximum of only 25 micrograms over 24 hours. And keep in mind that a villon, to roll is often combined with flutacosone and umekledinium. And a better to a three-nergic receptor, agonists which are not listed on the one appropriate list of 2025. Yes, I already did research. So you don't have to, even though I don't know the effective dosages because I haven't tried these particular compounds myself. So I don't know how to compare to solbutamol or cli-butamol for that matter. There's live, all-buterol, pure buterol, and meta-paternal. And this is like my 20th take because it's completely impossible to pronounce. So let's move over to the beta three, adrenergic receptor agonists, because let's be honest here, beta two, adrenergic receptor agonists are kind of old news. They stimulate your heart rate. They're very annoying to use and certainly cli-buterol cost tremendous cramping unless you really manage your electrolyte and your tourney intake. I already made an extensive deep dive about the mirror background, also known as Mirabed Tric or Betmiga, which is a far superior fat burner compared to cli-buterol because it doesn't stimulate your heart rate like crazy and doesn't cause you cramps like crazy like cli-buterol does. So I already made a deep dive. I would highly suggest you give that one a watch. So here are the half-nadi approved, a beta three, adrenergic receptor agonists, mirror background, v-beckron, and then the following are still undergoing clinical investigation. Solar background, BRL 37344, CL 316243, and L796568. I'm not sure if those are available. I haven't seen them on the market anywhere, but mirror background and v-beckron are available in several pharmacies in certain parts of the world. I was finally able to find a source for mirror background. You can find that on my control-if source list. You're welcome in case you want to give that compound a try. And while we're on the topic of fat burners, have a look into yo-him-bine or revol-scene, which are both alpha two, adrenergic receptor antagonists, really promoting fat loss from the lower body, especially the lower back. And you can combine yo-him-bine or revol-scene with something like mirror-beckron, still stay water compliant because yo-him-bine, revol-scene and mirror-beckron are not included in the water prohibit list of 2025 and thus you're still half-nady approved. So the half-nady approved alpha two, adrenergic receptor antagonists are yo-him-bine, revol-scene and corey-nontin, which you usually find in yo-him-bine formulas. Again, these are all stereo isomers of each other. So the chemical structure, the molecule looks exactly the same, but it might be folded slightly differently. It seems that revol-scene gives most people the least amount of side effects. But we'll discuss these alpha two, adrenergic receptor antagonists a little bit more in depth when we get to the fat burning aids discussed under S6 stimulants. So let's go up and onwards to S4 hormone and metabolic modulators starting with S4.1 aromatase inhibitors. Again, all of the good stuff is already listed here besides two metabolites from PrimaBolin, which are produced by mushroom bio transformation with impronounceable chemical names. So put them on the screen. Those two are not specifically listed. So technically you could get away with biotransformed metabolites of PrimaBolin and use that as an aromatase inhibitor. Instead, I would highly suggest you to watch the PrimaBolin deep dive, which I'll link at the end of this video. So here's a complete list of compounds, both medications and over-contour supplements with known estradiol lowering or aromatase inhibiting effects. Keep in mind that some of these characteristics have only been established in vitro studies using human breast cancer cells or human ovarian cancer cells or several animal models, animals with cancer in most cases. And these compounds are still not specifically mentioned on the water prohibited list of 2025. So technically you can use them. Just keep in mind that some of the metabolites, again, I haven't undergone the specific metabolite screening to see if those metabolites actually show up on the water prohibited list of 2025. So if one of these compounds spark your interest, please look into the metabolic pathways to see if some of the metabolites still are not listed on the water prohibited list and make you fail on your next doping test. So I highlighted the compounds of interest in bolts. Here are the medical aromatase inhibitors or at least medications. You have Atamesthane, also known as meton, Droughtin, you have Phadrosol, Aphephema, Finrosol, Glucophage, Metformin, Ketaconazole, Nisralchampo, or there's also Oral Ketaconazole, Lyrosol, Nicotine, and their metabolites, Anabacin, and Cotinine, Primavalen metabolites like I highlighted earlier, Rogletamides, Pyridulaglutamides, and Vosol-Rizivore. I'm sure I butchered some of those names, but let's not spend too much time on these medications because otherwise the video is going to be way too long in the recording time even longer. And then there's several S-R-L lowering over-the-counter supplements and acylaries. Again, Vitamin C, Berberine, Calcium D-Glucorate, Decarinosatol, Dynolmethane, Phadde Acids, Glucophage, well, as over-the-counter in some countries, Melatonin, Cialis, also over-the-counter in some countries, Phoperoic Acid, Turpinoids like Retinolvitamin A or T-G Metabolites or Tritonone for that matter, and even thyroid hormones can lower serum ester-dial levels as well as zinc. So there's plenty of options for you to choose from to get your serum ester-dial levels under control, but we already highlighted the dosage ranges of the compounds which I feel are highly effective to lower serum ester-dial levels. In the segment when we discussed about how to prevent aromatization and does bring our testosterone levels up earlier in this video. So let's not go into detail again here. Instead, let's move over to S4.2, anti-estrogenic substances, anti-estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators. The only compound not specifically mentioned here is Enchloramphine. Now, Enchloramphine is a stereosomal part of Chloramphine, which also contains Zuclomphine. Chloramphine contains about 68 percent Enchloramphine and 32 percent Zuclomphine. So if you take Enchloramphine, even though it's not specifically listed, you will still fail for the exact same metabolites as Chloramphine, right? Because it's contained within this particular medication. So keep this in mind. Technically, you can call yourself a half-nady and get away with Enchloramphine use, but if they pull you aside for drug test, you will fail for Chloramphine 100 percent, also Fox-Sephine, which is not specifically mentioned, and also Saphine also not specifically mentioned. I believe that these last two are still undergoing clinical trials or are branded, but not really available anywhere. Haven't found them on any product list of any kind of gray area peptides or online source ever. And then there's several dietary phytoestrogens with known selective estrogen receptor modulating like effects. But that doesn't mean that these compounds found in several food sources, which is all listed on the screen, is going to impact your luteinizing hormone or follicle stimulating hormone levels and thus erase total testosterone and estrogen levels downstream. Right. If anything, I would avoid these dietary phytoestrogens for an estrogen like effect, not a selective estrogen like effect comparable to Enchloramphine or Chloramphine or some of the other serums listed. We're using these compounds to raise total testosterone levels downstream, not cry while watching the Titanic. Moving on to S4.3, agents preventing active in receptor 2B activation or they mentioned compounds that lower or inhibit myostatin levels or myostatin secretion in the body. I'm assuming that the mention of follicetin includes the three different isoforms and variants, so that's follicetin 288, follicetin 300, follicetin 315 and follicetin 344. And in case you're wondering what the number stands for, that's actually the amount of amino acids that this specific follicetin isoform variant contains. So follicetin 288 contains 288 amino acids and follicetin 344 contains 344 amino acids. I discussed decoy active in receptors ACE 031 and ACE 083 in great detail in the follicetin gene therapy video, which dropped in the beginning of this year. Give that a watch if you're interested in these kinds of compounds. And while ACE 031 is listed on the water prohibit list of 2025, ACE 083 isn't specifically mentioned. ACE 083 seems to be a little bit more favorable as all of the injections were performed intramuscularly and ACE 083 is rapidly metabolized in the blood stream where the ACE 031 studies were all performed with subcontinent administration, leading to a systemic effect, which is certainly not something that you want. So with ACE 083, there's a tremendous localized effect in the muscle that it's administered into, leading to localized muscle growth. ACE 083 is a recombinant protein comprised of a modified form of human follicetin 288 linked to the FC region of human immunoglobin and IGT2. It was designed as a decore receptor for myostatin, also known as GDF8, as well as GDF11, active in A and B that inhibit skeletal muscle growth and differentiation. ACE 083 is also known as follicetin 288 fusion protein, abbreviated to FST 288 slash FC. Again, you can find a lot more details about ACE 031 and ACE 083 in the deep type, which I'll link at the end of this video. And that brings us to the half 90 approved myostatin and active in inhibitors. Again, ACE 083, the problem is the monthly cost could range between $10,000 to $86,000 based on the medically approved and recognized and studied administration protocol of 240 milligrams, ACE 083 intramuscularly, bilaterally every three weeks. So that's 480 milligrams in total every three weeks. Even at the lowest effective dose of 50 milligrams intramuscularly, bilaterally every three weeks, that is a total of 100 milligrams based on the current Agri-Area Peptide website costs of ACE 083. That would be between, let's say, $2,000 to $9,000 per month. Well, you can run a bottle of Incral-X and then some for those costs. So it's completely unaffordable for anybody out there. And there's several other inhibitors listed here, which I don't know the dosages of. There's a slight explanation at the end of each listing. There's also a Prague trefo gruma.  mucop and geratosmup, all completely unavailable, haven't seen them on the gray area peptides website anywhere, and if they are available, they're probably completely unaffordable, just like ACE-083 or ACE-031. So if you want to improve your follistatin levels or reduce your myostatin levels or have active inhibiting effects in the body, strainer's resistance training gets the job done, prolonged fasting over 72 hours actually increases circulating follistatin levels, doesn't change myostatin levels, also increases growth hormone levels, partially by increasing ghrelin secretion, sleep regulates circulating follistatin levels, so sleep again increases testosterone levels, increases growth hormone levels, and improves regulating follistatin levels, which inhibits myostatin, so the more you sleep, the better you grow, who would have thought? Androgen deficiency modulates myostatin and follistatin levels and prevents sarcopenia, again, I look into the segment discussing the over-accounted supplements and what are approved compounds which are known to increase testosterone, estradiol, DHT, DHEA, etc. Vitamin D and several of its metabolites reduce myostatin levels, so good to supplement with that, besides the fact that vitamin D enhances testosterone production, epikethethane reduces myostatin levels and increases follistatin levels, if you take 1 milligram to 2 milligrams for 1 kilogram of body weight. Daily, so you have to make a dose that to a certain extent, SLAL16 found in garlic reduces myostatin levels, unfortunately I was not able to find how much SLAL16 you actually need to consume or how much garlic you actually need to consume for myostatin levels to be reduced, and again, if you eat a bottle of garlic, you're probably not making it pleasant for everybody else in your immediate surrounding, although garlic does contain compounds which prevent TMAO formation, but it's probably better to take those compounds in supplemental form, and then not only does leucine HMB free acid or HMB calcium and creatine monohydrates improve collagen synthesis and protein synthesis in the body, they also inhibit myostatin induced muscular atrophy, so why not supplement with leucine HMB and creatine monohydrate, and again, creatine monohydrates also good for sleep, so it's a no brainer to add all of these in at effective dosages mentioned on the screen, and I discussed all of these myostatin inhibiting compounds and follistatin increasing compounds in great detail in the video titled, is myostatin blocking your gains, I'll link it at the end of this one in case you're interested and you want to know more about these compounds, and it finally brings us to S4.4 metabolic modulators, which is one of my specialties, and here you clearly see that MOTC, meaning that it's war from this point onwards, because MOTC is one of my favorite compounds, is now listed under S4.4.1 alongside APK iCar Car Dreen SR 9009 and SR 9011. Luckily, since this is my specialty, I got a boatload of other metabolic modulators that are still widely compliant, not included in the prohibit list, and still allows you to be called a half-nady. Here is the half-nady approved metabolic modulator list of doom, 5-mini-1mq in combination with NED+, whether that's coming from nicotinamide mononucleotide supplementation or nicotinamide riboside supplementation or intravenous nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide administration, I'll leave that entirely up to you. Thyroxine we'll just add a little bit later on. Subaturum GC1 we'll discuss that a little bit later on as well when we get to the thyroid part of this video. Alcarnitine, whether that's oral or injectable, injectable methionine inocidal and choline blends, great for fat loss. SLU PP332, methylene blue, JBSNF 00000000088, probably too many zeros, but you get the idea. Aelamipretides, also known as Bendavia, mitochondria targeted peptides, SBT20 abbreviated to SS20, mitochondria targeted antioxidant SKQ1, mitochondria targeted antioxidant mito quinone, also known as mitoq, Bematil with a lot of different names including metaprot, and again make sure you take two weeks after after 8 250 milligram dosages, so whether you take Bematil 1000 milligrams for two days in a row, that's 2000 milligrams in total, or 8 servings of 250 milligrams, or you space all of those out, that's entirely up to you. I discussed this in the Optimus Injurance deep dive video series, I'll link them down below, right? There's a boatload of those videos in that series, discussing Bematil hypoxin, amoxapine, and a boatload of other compounds. So again, hypoxin is listed even though it's included in the 2005 monitoring program under three hypoxin, amoxapine, diasopropamine, dichloroacetate, which I'll make a deep dive about very very soon, because that's what I'm experimenting with, great compounds, next level pumps and stamina in the gym. Tro methamine abbreviated to TUM, myo inositol triper phosphate like we alluded to in the oxygen carry capacity segment of this video. Let's see metformin, again that could fall under S4.4.1 activators of the AMP activated protein kinase, or S4.4.2 insulins and insulin mimetics, but I don't know anybody out there that ever failed for metformin, so let's keep it in. There's several sodium glucose co-transporter two inhibitors, including impi glyphlosin better known as Giardions, and Dabaclyphlosin, Canaklyphlosin, Ertuklyphlosin, and Sortiaklyphlosin. The most commonly used and really available is Imbi glyphlosin, that's the one that I have the most experience with. And well BAM15, another mitochondrial coupler that you could use as an alternative to DMP, but DMP is sh** and I'm sure BAM15 after doing research will turn out to be sh**. Also, so we're not going to go into dosages here. Now don't you worry, we're not quite done with this segment of metabolic modulation just quite yet, but semi-glutide is included in the monitoring program, again you're not failing for semi-glutide if you're testing for it, you're just monitoring for it, but that would mean that semi-glutide as some of the glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonists would technically fall under S4.4.2 insulin and insulin mimetics, because glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonists are actually insulinotropic and promote the insulin secretion from the pancreas. So let's include them here under the half-nady-approved insulin mimetics and glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonists, which again could fall under S4.4.2 insulin and insulin mimetics, but so far nobody has ever failed for GLP-1 or some of the other compounds listed here, including venous sulfate, which actually is an insulin mimetic activates the insulin receptor, is included in many over-the-counter glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents, usually in combination with chromium and some sort of cinnamon bark extract and berberine. We have lyricalutide, dilaglutide, semi-glutide, which is included in the 2025 monitoring program under S6 semi-glutide. There's tersepidide, which interacts, agonizes both the glucagon like peptide 1 receptors, and the gas-sic and hematoric polypeptide receptors, also known as the glucose-dependent insulin tropic receptors. Retrotrotide, which activates the GLP-1 GIP and glucagon receptor, great combination medication, retrotrotide, is the shift net for appetite suppression. Glucagon obviously doesn't really mimic insulin-like effects, actually it opposes insulin effects, but since retrotrotide is listed here, we might as well list glucagon here as well. There's otlichsin, a GLP-1 receptor agonist, obiglutide, anergelp1, exynatides, GLP-1, mastutides activates the GLP-1 receptors, and the glucagon receptors, sorvidutides, GLP-1, tonsium, a GLP-1, and then there's cargalininatides, which is an amelon receptor agonist. Again, the classification of these compounds might be a little bit speculatory in dubious, but I felt that they were all applicable to be listed here because they all have appetite-suppressing effects. Now, I discuss all of these metabolic modulators, whether they are mitochondrial support age, or stimulants, or fat burners, or appetite suppressants, or insulin mimetics, or GLP1s, right, glucagon, etc. I discuss all of that in the ultimate no-stimulant fat burner stack, which you can already watch on my YouTube channel. I think I dropped it right before this one. In case you want to know more about all of these compounds individually, I go into great depth in that particular deep dive. Given a watch, you won't be disappointed. And here you see that they included meldonium and trimethicidine, but I think I offered plenty of alternatives regarding metabolic modulation in the segment we discussed previously. So let's move over to S5 diuretics and masking agents. We're often commonly known and really available diuretics are already listed. Lasix is included. Aldochton is included. Diozide, containing 100-core thiozide, and terametrine is included. You know what's not included? Mercury. But it's not the 90s anymore, and we've learned a lot since then, so we haven't used mercury since a long, long time ago in Galaxy, far, far away. Isn't that right, Mr. Nichols? Now, luckily, there are plenty of ways to promote. Diuresis, which are all water-approved. Just make sure you don't use murbicaron, which relaxes the bladder, resulting in more urine retention by activating the beta-3 adrener's receptors on the bladder, and that kind of defeats the purpose of having the maximum amount of diuresis. So here's the half-90-approved diuretic stack. High sodium intake and electrolyte management. Also make sure you have high water intake to make sure that you're always flushing, reducing aldosterone levels. Caffeine can promote diuresis, even though it's included in the monitoring program under four stimulants. Then there's green tea, hibiscus tea, natto leaf tea, alcohol, can't recommend it, but it does promote diuresis. Parsley, asparagus, celery, cranberries, and then various extracts, which are usually found in diuresis formulas. Way too long, way too many to mention all of them, but it's good to look into. Usually you have some sort of expel formula that contains a combination of most of these, usually also containing a little bit of tea extract, and that promotes the most amount of diuresis if you take a copy of tablets before bed when you're laying flat, or you're putting a bricks or well, books underneath the foot end of your bed, along the foot end of your bed to be raised slightly, and this way all of the water will easily pass through your kidneys, again, promoting diuresis overnight. Yeah, a combination of Thomas Sartre and Tom Sulosin and Pagolf Lozen before bed. Empty, you're welcome. The way this works is as follows. Thomas Sartre is an angiotensin receptor blocker. If you take that before bed, it modulates the Rhin and Angiotensin aldosterone system, promoting for a good amount of water and overall electrolyte excretion. Tom Sulosin is a benanprostate enlargement medication that relaxes the urethra and allows for more urine flow through the prostate, and then M. Bagolf Lozen is a, again, sodium glucose code transporter 2 inhibitor, preventing the reuptake of sodium and glucose in combination with Tom Sulosin modulating the Rhin and Angiotensin aldosterone system, promotes a good amount of diuresis, especially if you were on top of your electrolyte intake and your water intake, and you kept that consistently high up until the moment you slept in a sloped bed, again, with bricks or books underneath the foot end of your bed, allowing for proper water distribution through the kidneys, which is now being promoted with this combination of Tom Sartre and Tom Sulosin and Pagolf Lozen. It's literally magic, and it's all water compliant. Again, you're welcome. And then here are the prohibited methods, whether that's M1 manipulation of blood and blood components, M2 chemical and physical manipulation, even though they do specifically mention something under M2.1 tampering or tempting the tamper to alter the integrity or validity of the samples collected during dopant control, including but not limited to sample substitution or adulteration, like the addition of protases to the urine sample, and they don't specifically mention that you can't bribe your doping officer. Well, they're only human, so maybe with the donation of a bottle of wine, a good bottle of wine, at least $50 upwards, or Johnny Walker Double Black. Yes, that seems to be the going right here in Asia, but you didn't hear that from me. Bribing your doping officer is always a possibility. It depends on your skills and your ability to communicate, to maybe allow you to get away with tampering of the doping sample, making them look the other way while you pour the urine of your friend into the sample cup. There's always ways, right? It's not specifically mentioned that you can't bribe your doping officer, so this is always an option. If you're in the know, and you have great social skills, because you can only try it once, then you better make sure that it works. All right, moving over to S6 stimulants, as always, all the good stuff is already listed. MDMA is listed, amphetamines like Adderall is listed, bromantane, cocaine, listixamphetamine, vivans, modafinil, provigil, fenteramine, DMAA, I found in many a pre-workout formula back in the day, effadrine or pseudo-effadrine formulations, methylphenidate, retolin, subitramine, etc., etc., etc., even antidepressants like salagaline and tessophenzine are listed. Surprisingly, dextroamphetamines found in Adderall and dexadrine, it's not specifically mentioned unless they mention it under a different name. So I guess all your dexadrine junkies are still in the green. In my research of looking for what I approved of to Adrenergic Receptor Agonists and Antagonists while I was researching Jo-Himbine and Rewolfstein, I made a list of over-the-counter supplements and medications which are known to increase norepinephrine and epinephrine levels both systemically as well as in the brain. Norepinephrine and epinephrine are also known as noregernulin and adrenaline. These medications might offer a stimulatory effect, blunting your appetite, promoting fat loss and raising your overall energy levels throughout the day by raising norepinephrine and epinephrine levels throughout your waking hours. That obviously means that you can't take these medications or over-the-counter supplements too late in the day, so if you want to use something pre-workout besides caffeine if you train later in the day, most of these medications and over-the-counter supplements are kind of off the menu because otherwise you're probably going to interfere with your over-the-counter supplement stack to boost your total testosterone levels, boosting your growth hormone levels, your IGF-1 levels, your phallus titan levels and bring your myostatin levels. Done, right? So timing of these medications and over-the-counter supplements is essential but don't worry, we'll discuss all of that in the list coming on the screen shortly. Here we're specifically looking for compounds that are known to raise norepinephrine and epinephrine levels systemically within the whole body, stimulating the center nervous system which leads to an improvement in exercise capacity, endurance and overall strength. It boosts the metabolism leading to increased energy levels throughout the day and promotes a little bit of fat loss through lipolosis or direct fatty acid oxidation in metabolically active tissue. This is what we're after in this segment but it also included the compounds which are known to increase norepinephrine and adrenaline levels in the brain where it promotes appetite suppression but these are mostly antidepressants as well as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder medications which there's a little bit of caution to be advised because you need to taper up the dosages and need to taper down the dosages when you're ready to come off. So again, antidepressants and ADHD medication are probably the last feasible option if you want appetite suppression especially considering we have GLP-1s, GIP and glucagon combination medications which get the job done just as well. So here are the half-nady approved norepinephrine and epinephrine boosters, both yo-himbine and rhodosine increase norepinephrine and epinephrine levels by blocking the alpha-2 adrenergic receptors systemically but predominantly in the adipose tissue of the lower back. Guanfacine is now confirmed to be approved to increase norepinephrine and epinephrine levels both systemically as well as in the brain which was specified in the summary of major modifications and explanatory notes under the stimulant section and then there's atipomazole also known as antisedan which is actually being used as an alternative stimulant because it's not included in the water prohibited list up until now but atipomazole is primarily used as a veterinary medication to reverse the effects of sedative drugs like metatomidine or DEX metatomidine. Atipomazole is a selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor antagonist raising norepinephrine levels quite substantially to reverse the effects of these sedative drugs but if you don't take sedative drugs then the increase in norepinephrine is quite substantial. I'll tell you that but not talking for personal experience just talking or regurgitating from what I've heard of people using this stimulant as an alternative because it's not included in the prohibited list. Again there's synaphrine which is on the monitoring program which stimulates the adrenergic receptors and does increase the release of norepinephrine and epinephrine. Systemically you can also do vigorous exercise. Yeah great way to increase your norepinephrine and epinephrine levels cold exposure also a great way to do the same thing. Caffeine increases norepinephrine and epinephrine levels then there's phenyl ethyl amine for it's known mood enhancing and appetite suppressing properties due to an increase in norepinephrine and dopamine levels within the brain. Rodiola rosea an adoptogen that increases norepinephrine levels and serotonin levels in the brain which can contribute to potentially reducing appetite especially under stressful situations. There's ultaracine and al-dopa coming from mukana purines. Ultaracine and al-dopa both are the building blocks for norepinephrine and dopamine and which can be increased with supplementation but primarily in the brain and it's not really known to have a potent appetite suppressing or stimulatory properties but it may help it focus mental clarity under stress or when you're trying to get a boatload of work. Done so supplementing with ultaracine or al-dopa preferably ultaracine around workouts is something you can get away with for enhanced mental clarity while you're trying to get the job done. There are norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors the details are on the screen there are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors the details are on the screen. Tiestric click antidepressants also on the screen and monoamine oxidase inhibitors this one trinial C-promeine also known as parnate has a structure similar to amphetamine so based on my research I haven't tried it personally but trinial C-promeine also known as parnate might offer the most stimulatory effects of all of these water approved reuptake inhibitors that are or inhibitors that are on the screen right now just make sure that you do a little bit of additional research because some of them might be more stimulatory than others they're not included and usually compounds that are not included means that your mileage might vary and a little bit of caution is advised because well with these kinds of antidepressants or reuptake inhibitors you need to escalate the dosage upwards and taper them downwards because otherwise you get horrible withdrawal symptoms as I got by taking the fluvoxamine out at one point or another cold turkey can't recommend it don't do what I did it was brutal and with that out of the way all of these reuptake inhibitors or inhibitors or antidepressants increase norepinephrine epinephrine levels in the brain which might promote appetite suppression which prolonged use so the test of fencing is prohibited but again plenty of alternatives on the list pick what you like and do additional research now I also fully understand that you might have been after increasing norepinephrine or epinephrine levels whether that's systemically or within the brain you want some hardcore stimulants interacting with the same receptors whether they increase norepinephrine levels or epinephrine levels systemically in the brain or not so here are the half 90 approved stimulants effadrine and pseudo effadrine but only micro doses as is listed on the screen based on the clause of the water prohibited list of 2025 effadrine when detected in urine should be less than 10 micrograms per 1 milliliter and pseudo effadrine should be less than 150 micrograms per 1 milliliter so make sure you stay hydrated and dilute your urine as much as you can while supplementing with effadrine or pseudo effadrine kind of extract good stimulants found in many pre workouts and utropic formula produced by Grell amines linked down below and phenyl dimethyl amine citrate force colon extracts pyridoxine extract nicotine included in the 2025 monitoring program under 4 stimulants but still allowed to be used at whatever dosage you prefer whether those are cigarettes patches cigars or gum right it's entirely up to you green tea extract mileage might vary but it's not included so you're you have the green light to use it dimethyl ethanol amine abbreviated to DMEA not DMAA but DMEA is still approved again the the secret is in the abbreviations the ophthalene is approved isopropyl norcinephrine is approved it's a little bit more potent than cinnaphrine itself again cinnaphrine included on the monitoring program under 4 stimulants revolvecine yo himbine dihexa which has stimulatory properties if you take a little bit higher than recommended dosages so let's say 10 to 20 milligrams daily whereas usually we recommend to cycle through the dihexa whether that's with new peps or the band bromantane or modafinil or ritalin or aderol whatever you prefer dihexa is not listed so you can still get away with it it would continue with use it acts as a very potent stimulant yeah so um do additional research and then there's 9 MEBC which also can have a potent stimulatory properties so when you take it for longer periods of time which is generally not recommended and we're going to skip over the narcotics that kind of you know it's in the glucocorticoids because at least with the narcotics or the glucocorticoids i don't see a valid reason to use them in any way shape or form when you're into health and fitness because well the health implications can be quite deleterious especially with prolonged use and again if you suffer from some sort of inflammatory condition where you need glucocorticoids then you're probably better at recovering and resting at home and when it comes to cannabinoids we eat particularly um it probably lowers your performance lowers your libido and again if you want to smoke a joint here and there after a competition or you're no longer subject to drug testing go forth but in my opinion it has no place in sports but if you want to smoke some weeds or take some tea and cheese gummies recreationally then go for it unfortunately it's not water approved moving on to p1 the beta blockers which are prohibited in particular sports so in competition the use of beta blockers which are listed including but not limited to right archery automobile sports billiards darts golf mini golf shooting and underwater sports and this motorboarding count in competition the use of beta blockers in these particular sports is banned and out of competition it's also banned for archery shooting and again underwater sports so that includes the ones that we generally use here in the fitness community an ambivalent and propanal I don't really know any other beta blockers that people generally use in the body building or fitness space but since bodybuilding and you know strength sports and all the sports that we kind of group in the fitness community are not listed here the use of beta blockers is technically allowed so at least you can prevent left ventricular hypertrophy and also use these beta blockers to keep your heart rate and blood pressure under control but we're not done yet there's a lot more options for half 90 approved blood pressure management including daily fasted cardio yeah I'm sure you guys want to shoot me for mentioning the daily fasted cardio yet again there's these over the counter supplements that help with blood pressure management beetroot extract cardotone elcitrulline garlic extract heartthorn burry extract potassium magnesium melatonin and torene you can look into again the beta blockers in the bivvillal and propanal which are not prohibited for anything that falls under the bandwagon of what we consider health and fitness and then all of these angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are fully water approved still in 2025 that's benazepril cuptopril analapril lecinopril perindo pril quinnapril and rami pril all of these angiotensin to receptor blockers are completely water approved in 2025 azill seroton condes seroton arabicetan lozartan ulmus seroton tel mesartan that basically everybody runs in the fitness community nowadays even when they don't need it but we'll leave that story for another video volsartan and then there's these calcium channel blockers which are generally not used in the fitness community unless medically prescribed still water approved in 2025 let's see how many of these i'm going to butcher um load of pain till tia zem is rodentine fellow deepine nicardipine nifadipine and vira palmil but luckily everybody in the fitness community knows about and can pronounce these phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors that's sildenafil better known as viagra to dilaphyl better known as sealis or for denofil better known as lavitra right we use this for pumps in the gym pumps in the bedroom and potential blood pressure management as a warm and welcome side effect and it unfortunately brings the water approved prohibited list to a close but it doesn't mean that i'm done with my list so let's move over to the half night you prove dopamine receptor agonists cabra go line not listed bromo cryptine not listed perami pixel not listed and if you need to use these to bring your proacta levels down because you're smoking too much we taking too much credum and take l-tyrosine supplementations to bring your dopamine levels up which lowers your proacta levels especially if you take that in combination with vitamin b6 p5p which works synergistically to convert l-tyrosine into dopamine reducing your proacta levels if you don't know how to do that and well we have these have to have the approved dopamine receptor agonists which again make sure you do blood work because you don't want to use these for longer periods of time if your proacta levels are reduced enough for you to have killer boners and amazing sex whether that's in or out of competition right you don't need to overdo it and stimulate your hearts unnecessarily to the point no a beta blocker on the planet is going to keep your heart rates down half 90 approved thyroid medications yes thyroid seen T4 tri-auto-thyronine T3 35 di-odo-thyronine better known as t2 and then subaturum gs1 which interacts with the thyroid receptors and might be a better alternatives than T3 because subaturum doesn't stimulate your heart rate and again doesn't force you to rely on beta blockers to keep your heart rates down so subaturum probably in combination with mirbicron should be a great fat burner option half 90 approved melanocortin receptor agonists melanotide 2 and pt1 for one melanotide 2 obviously leads to tanning if you use it intelligently like i mentioned on the screen and pt1 for one might result in tanning also if you overdo it especially if you use it daily but it's a great way to boost your libido and enhance your intercourse session again in and out of competition doesn't really matter because both melanotin 2 and pt1 for one also known as vileci completely what i approved in 2025 here are the half 90 approved neuroplasticity and neurogenesis medications we have some max i have a deep dive on that we have some like i have a deep dive on that we have cerebral isin i have a deep dive on that and another deep dive dropping very very very soon because my cerebral isin experiment lasting two months five milliliters per day has finally concluded all i need to do is compare to cortex and and see one which one is better comparing cerebral isin to cortex and and again cortex and you can give a try for neuroplasticity and neurogenesis uh fluvoxamine or vortioxetine currently i'm running fluvoxamine i experimented with vortioxetine both are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and with prolonged use really promoted neurogenesis in the brain it is said based on scientific evidence that vortioxetine is a lot more potent than fluvox  voxamine, but, well, 2.5 milligrams to 500 grams, voxitine, destroyed my labido and prevented my penis from raising to its maximum capacity, even in combination with the dilaphyl-PT1 for one, and, well, all kinds of incentives from my wife. So, voxitine never again, not even once, but fluvoxamine doesn't seem to have any negative effect on my labido and erectile quality, so that's the one that I'm currently using, and make sure you incrementally build up the dosages of selective serotonin-reptake inhibitors and look into the drug interactions with all of the other compounds, because they might be cytochrome P450 inhibitors. Again, nupept potentiates neurogenesis, tyhexapotentiates neurogenesis, and even paracetam potentiates neurogenesis, but paracetam might be banned under four phenylparacetam, which is included in about a prohibited list of 2025, but we're only using the real, the tried-to-improven medical paracetam, not this variant of four phenylparacetam, so fingers crossed, technically, on paper, it's still allowed to potentiate neurogenesis and neuroplasticity, and then we have the half-native-approved leftovers of the medications, drugs, performance-enhancing drugs, over-the-counter supplements, compounds that I couldn't classify in previous segments mentioned earlier in this video. So we have RU-58841, sounds like a robot straight out of Star Wars, but actually it's a topical anti-androgen that men use to prevent hair loss alongside their monoxylochetic anisol, which are also not listed, and dutastrite or finasterite, applied topically, also not listed. Human menopausal gonadotropin, which you might feel for human chorionic gonadotropin, because HMG contains trace amounts of HCG, but you're primarily after the follicle-stimulating hormone, but I would rather go with recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone, Merck-Gonal-F, instead. Axytocin, a great way to enhance your leg day, but also a great way to improve your libido and enhance the bonding with your partner. Delta-sleep-inducing peptide, a great way to help you fall asleep and stay asleep and sleep longer at higher quality. Array 290, also known as SIBA-natite, which is an erythropoietic receptor agonist, but it doesn't have any erythropoietic effects. So even though it's derived from erythropoietin, and not specifically mentioned in the White-up Prohibited List, it's mostly effective in treating neuropatic conditions. So if you have some sort of nerve pain or nerve trauma, a combination of Array 290 and perhaps cerebral ison or cortexin, is a great way to attempt to recover nerve function in particular areas. Phenobot and Gabapentin also helps with sleep. Epithalon, a great way to increase the telomere length of your DNA and has some anti-aging properties. K-P-V, a peptide that helps with the health of your gut microbiome. LO-37, also known as Cathylacidin-antimicrobial peptides, which helps to, it's basically injectable antimicrobial and antibacterial agents. If you want to research your gut microbiome, then LO-37 is the way to go. I still try to know, and also known as Accutane, and try to know whether that's oral or topically a great way to get your acne under control. Injectable glutathione, probably the best antioxidant you can take to minimize the oxidative stress that you potentiate from high-level exercise, probably in combination with performance-syncytic drugs, which the combination of exercise and performance-syncytic drugs increases oxidative stress because you're training at such a higher capacity, and thus you might need some injectable glutathione, or at least an acetylcysteine, to provide the building blocks to produce glutathione within the liver and other parts of the body. Injectable glutathione is probably the second best antioxidant you can take after melatonin. As an amide, to keep your lipids under control by preventing the absorption of dietary cholesterol and promoting the excretion of cholesterol from the liver. If you can get the job done with azenomybe, then there's always statins. The details are on the screen, or retiestries. The details are on the screen. If you have digestive issues because you take too much oral steroids, or ancillaries, or over-contour supplements, and your digestive tract is kind of in-term, or maybe a temporary use of a proton pump inhibitor to reduce your stomach acids, and heal your intestinal lining and your stomach lining with oral glutamine. Petalsone, polysulfate, sodium injections to help with the lubrication of your joints. Or, instead, also known as Zinicol or ALI to act as a lipase inhibitor within the intestinal tract to prevent the breakdown of fats. We do go ham at the hotel buffet, eat way too much fat, then this prevents you from fat gain in combination with carcinic and nausea that helps to bind up all of the fat that you're now not absorbing, and thus you have some sort of fat specific super fiber that helps to excrete all of it the next day, making your bathroom experience a lot less messy. Botox, anybody? Also not included. BAM-15, a mitochondrial encoppler that can be used as an alternative for D&P, even though I'm not a fan. And then there's adipotide, fat target, it's pro-apoptotic peptides, which is a great way to get yourself into kidney failure, because if adipotide goes systemic, after subcutaneous injections straight into the fat that you want to dissolve, if that goes systemic, it will go to the heart, create apoptosis there, and then go into the kidneys, create apoptosis there. So if you're in a hurry to exit the game, then adipotide is probably the best way to do so. Now, I'm sure I forgot a compound here or there. Let me know if I forgot a water-approved drug medication over-the-counter supplement, performance-enhancing drugs, however you want to classify it. If I forgot something that's not included in the water prohibit list, and this does water-approved next year, let us know down below. Let us know the dosage ranges, as I let you guys know the dosage ranges and the ideal timing to use these particular compounds to get the maximum effect, things to pay attention to whether there's cytochrome B450 enzyme inhibitors or have some sort of other drug interactions. I would love to know about it. I spent hours and hours and hours researching and well three days to record this video. So the next time I make a water-approved doping stack of 2025, it's just going to be the changes, because this video, I wanted not to turn into a two-hour behemoth, but I think I accidentally did. Okay, I'll leave it here. If you're looking for sources for any of these over-the-counter supplements that I discussed on this video, head over to my website, virgersteve.com. You can also find the rates for consultations and personalized advice by emails or ebooks. All of my services are listed on my website. Follow some of my sponsors and affiliates, they're all linked down below, in case you want to save yourself some money while shopping online. All the supplements that I discussed in this video are already listed down below with discount codes. And if you're thinking about doing your blood work, which you should be doing frequently, especially if you use any of these over-the-counter supplements, compounds, drugs, or medications that we discussed in these videos, or if you're looking for mild health and hormone optimization, look no further than Merrick Health, they have excellent patient care coordinators and healthcare providers who can help you interpret your blood work results. I have two separate blood work panels over at Merrick Health, a short one and a very extensive long one. And if you're looking for, again, health optimization or hormone optimization, pick and choose, discuss the results with a healthcare provider, and see what kind of recommendations that it helps to optimize your blood work, optimize your health parameters, and get you feeling good again. Thank you guys so much for watching. You can find everything else that I'm associated with down below in the YouTube description section. Again, follow me on Instagram. I don't have a TikTok, so just follow me on Instagram. It's true. You guys know how to do a super anabolic water-approved front double bicep for you guys, using a little bit more than what is approved. But, well, don't expect to look this big, just sticking to the guidelines that water has set out for you. All right. Thank you guys so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video.