 I remember Aeronomistolbac, it can be below 90 kilos, otherwise we can be friends. I don't know how you're squeezing that class, Dean, but you do classic NPCA, right? So I think those weight limits are a little bit higher or no? They're a bit higher. I mean, for when I done NPC, I just about dropped into 90.6 was my cutoff, which is 200 pounds. I was 90 kilos when it was natural, and I looked like a skeleton. Okay, I got a good X-frame, but it's zero muscle there, man. I don't know, this growth hormone, it's causing too much bone mineralization, it just makes you extra heavy. Oh, go to space. Yeah, go to space. Hahaha. Why don't you go faster though? Like your bone mineral density or your skeletal muscle mass? The whole thing, but then you grow the muscle back on a smaller frame, and then you do classic. That's the key. I wanna make weight for classic, I go to space for a year. I heard that's what Chris Bunstead does. He just spends the offseason in space. The way he can make weight. He can afford it. What's up, guys? Welcome to the Unabodded Ground Table with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Mart. This is episode 12. We survived this shit for an entire year, which is amazing. And Dean didn't get the memo. He's got a full beard and a full head of hair. So I'm not sure if the three bald musketeers can continue with this podcast now, because you know, startups were supposed to make you bald and you've left the chat, it seems. What's going on? Seems so, I've broken the trend. Although, like I said before, I liked the shaved head, but the hair has made a return to my youthful 20s, apparently so. So there you go. There you go. I know you. It's 17 weeks so far of hair growth. So not to give people hope, my hair grows very quick. So when people are like, oh, you didn't have hair, add a lot of hair, my hair grows really quick. So don't take it for like, if you go for a hair transplant, you're gonna have to take a set of hair within weeks. I've just got good hair genetics for growth. You know which compounds to take and when to take them obviously, so that might help a little bit. Like I have to trim this hair like four times a week to keep it short, because otherwise I have an afro, literally. It's insane. Yeah, that's like long curly, it's crazy. I'm past it. I'm called Gene's Bluff, I think that's a hair piece. Take a break. Yeah, this is a tattoo. We're past that awkward, what I call like the ugly duckling stage of the hair transplant. We have all the fluffy hair that has no density or nothing. So we're out the other side and apparently it just keeps getting better from here on in up until like a year and a half post transplant apparently. So it's just gonna keep getting ticker and ticker. Is it well worth it? I would have to trip to Turkey to get that done. Absolutely. Well, I mean, considering Morgan said to me last night, she looked at a photo of us on vacation last year and she said the difference in my hairline to back then it was a night and day. Yeah, yeah, it's a big difference. I can remember from the last podcast you're still a little bit of a stubble. And now it's, yeah, now you look 20 years younger than both of us. Thanks, good job. Thank you. Gord, your hair is growing back as well. A little bit. Finally. Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna let it grow out like a demon and then I gotta compensate. We'll see, we'll see. I don't know. I mean, I like having a shaved head. I just like the option of having hair if I can. Yeah, I prefer a shaved head. It's especially in Thailand where it's super hot. Yeah, it's easier, you know? And it's very aerodynamic and you don't have to go to the hairdresser like three times a week to stay there, keep the fade going. Yeah. That's the worst. Yeah, that's the worst. That has been the challenge again of before the shaved head. I literally just keep running the razor over your head every day. Now it's literally every two weeks, like you said, you have to go and get the sides tidied. You have to get hair tidied. Obviously that takes time out of your week, work, money, everything else. So if you're looking for a productivity tip, just go bald. Yeah, so it's a lot of time. It takes like five minutes to get this done instead of going to the hairdresser wedding, your turn, and then the obligatory chat with the guy, you know? And then small talk and then 30 minutes later, you're out the door, but if you do that like every week, I don't know, so I could spend my time a little bit better. This is like doing these podcasts, for example. Yeah. Any cycle updates you guys want to give? I mean, it's customary to talk about drugs, self-reported drug use at the start of the podcast. Mine, so 17 weeks post-transplant. We've 14 weeks to our vacation. This is the first week where I've had to take off training. I had a good run of 12 weeks. Last week, I set up my update with training on Instagram was that it was the first week where numbers and progressive overload were slowing down. And I knew it was sort of coming out the honeymoon phase of everything ramping up. And then I went into train legs on Monday. I've been doing the Arsenal Hacksquat with the two green bands. So that's been like standard. And I worked up to nine plates aside for the four reps. Went in this week, done one rep, and my knees were screaming at me. I was like, okay, that's the end of that set. And that's the end of this session. I just left the gym. Yeah, but it's the best way to approach it. Otherwise, you'd just hurt yourself and then the next day you can't walk. I mean, if I had have been maybe younger, I would have been stubborn. I would have just ground out the whole set of like trying to beat the four reps in the book. Literally the first rep trying to come out of bottom, you just feel like grinding over your knee joints, even with the bands trying to support. Nervous system was just telling me I've had enough. And obviously that's been ramping up to that point to one, two, five tests. So I think another three weeks, I'll give myself 10 weeks to get in good shape for our holiday. So I'll go to Ruta. I think I've made up my head of, we're just double up to 250. We need a small bit of estrogen control. And then we'll go and do our experiment with the controversy that kicked off last week with the whole 10 milligrams of training. What are you doing such a low dose for? Let's put it to the test again. Yeah, well, it worked for me last time I did 25 milligrams and at least mentally, you feel okay. You're gonna throw in the last valve of the anolone that you've still got laying around? I gave that away. Someone was in need of it and I gave away. It wasn't my way for a good cause. I was helping someone for a show and it was just sitting there and I thought, here you go, enjoy, enjoy as much as I did. So I've known of the elusive and how many DMs I get over our experience talking about it. If I had somewhere that had it, then you'd find out. I told a couple sources to put it on their list and they're like, we can't fucking find it anywhere. Start looking at how to synthesize it. I can't see it being as difficult as Trent. So it's probably a couple of steps in the census where we look at it. It's earlier. It's earlier. Yeah, you just don't add the turd. You can throw from estrogen. The turd double bond and the lion. So it's a die-in. So two double bonds might not be that difficult to make. If we get through, obviously, the political nature of what we're going to talk about probably in a while of manufacturers causing a drought in the world, to put it that way. Yeah, mm-hmm. Yeah, who knows? Maybe five years from now or two years from now, it's really on the market and then people actually enjoy it. But how many studies were on there on die-in alone? Like maybe five or six? And they're all old? Yeah. I mean, that was almost a synergy last year. If they go back and watch the early episodes where I put 10 milligrams of the Trent, 10 milligrams of the die-in alone, I didn't run it by itself. Where interior on paper, it looks like you can. It was more so adding it in and seeing what the one plus one effect created. But you see the my physique, I really enjoyed it. So the next die phase, just pumped to test, small bit of Trent, and then we'll see as we get closer, maybe we'll go back to our favorite A, S tier, I was going to say A tier, S tier, or two. Ah, Hannibal. Make things a bit interesting. Well, you put die-in alone in S tier, so you created some demands. Yeah. Yeah, we put the Hannibal in F tier and then we created some hate, so you can't win. Of course, what's your cycle? You still been cruising and just taking it easy? There you go, can't shut it on TV, man. And you make everybody jealous. No, HRT, that's it. HRT in a box is serious, dude. Well, technically that's part of my HRT, I'm prescribed it. Yeah, okay, so yeah. Yeah, hormonal replacement therapy, GHRT. It's amazing how well that works to preserve muscle, to keep your body composition better than, I'll say better than any steroid. Just in GH, just the... I've not lost, I've been trying to downsize, it is quite difficult to lose muscle. Yeah, you gotta stop eating. Go through a divorce. Yeah, no thank you. Or you can lose size. No, it's pretty amazing stuff. Cool, and nothing else added, that's probably where you're gonna leave it for the next foreseeable future, and you look solid. Honestly, yeah, I don't really have a need for it at the moment, so. I met one of your clients, Jose, in the gym a while back, and the progress he's made over the last one year, it's insane, dude. He's... And he finally added in with a little bit of mastodon, or Primo or something. Primo. Yeah, Primo after a year on testing GH, and you ramped up the GH a little bit. And I was hard on him, and Jim was like, fuck me, you're getting bigger than I am, it's not fair. Let me see how big, let me see how much progress he's made in the year. It's a lot, he's 220 now, 100 kilos. Strong as an ox. Yeah, he's got freakish genetics, and I think he quite grasps how well he responds to things. No, I told him, I said, hey, this is not normal, so you gotta roll with it now. See, I wanna see how far he can take it. So why not, you know? He was, let me grab it. You got the energy for it. Go do a show. He was 163 when I met him, and he's 220 now. Yeah, after one and a half years. Yep. Yeah. Yeah, it's in same progress what he's made. It's deadling the entire way through. I'll see if we can share some pictures. I'll ask him, and by the time this episode goes live, I'll put it over here at 10 minutes in. Because it's so funny, sometimes we discuss these kinds of cycles like test primoge age, reticent ge age, and people have no idea what to expect. Well, if you're in what, he's like mid 30s, close to 40 years old, Jose. Yeah, 30s. Came from a background of alcoholism, had some surgery done on his pancreas, and the same basically started from scratch. And that's why he came to me, his pancreas was not doing well. Yeah, and so we were just trying to fix that, and then he progressed into where he is now. And then in two years, he completely transformed. It's absolutely amazing. You should see the man eat. Yeah, yeah, and he's got his own restaurants, that helps. Yeah, he's quite successful outside of Bible. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you might open up another gym here in Thailand, that's I can't wait. He's one in Bali. Yeah, yeah, I went there. So that's undefeated gym that he's a partner in. It's an amazing gym, man. I went to Bali for a week, so I, it's like a little bit of a VIP gym, because Bali is overrun with a digital nomad, and it gets to you after a while. So you go to some of the gyms like Obsidian, or body factory, or whatever, I just fool with people, it's insane. So it's a little bit too much. You guys remember when you go to the expo, right? And then you go to the most popular gym in the area, and then it's full, and it's all tripod, and everybody's talking. So that's like the common occurrence in Bali, which is good if you like bodybuilding, but not so good if you like high level bodybuilding, because then you just wanna be left alone and actually use the equipment. So I went to Obsidian gym, I could not use anything. I could not use the equipment, which is all hoarded, all of it, and all the dumbbells you have to drag, and the plates. So yeah, it was a bit much. So there, they're opening up some good competition, will be a private gym, and that's, it's like going to a five star hotel, basically. Yeah, it's very, very high value. So if they can do something, we got Unreal Gym, that's something similar, if they can do something here in Bangkok, then I'm gonna make a move, go exclusive. So for me, I just finished the Injectable YK-11 experiment. I'm gonna write that in A tier, not S tier, A tier. It's something else, yeah, it's something else. It gives you different kinds of muscle contraction than Anavar, it makes you look like Superdrol, but it feels a little bit like Trinvalon. So I got the Night sweats, and a little bit of mood anger. My wife was like, are you sure you're taking YK-11? You sure you're not taking Trinvalon? But my estrogen actually went down, so it acts as an aromatizing, but otherwise Trinvalon would detect as an estrogen, obviously, a non-sensitive blood work. So my estrogen went down proportionately to the ratio of Injectable YK-11 that it took compared to my testosterone. So it took like three times, three portions to testosterone, one portion in YK-11. And my estradiol went down by about 17%. If you take a one-to-one ratio, let's say test the premode, test Bouldinone, test Mastro, and some people, it goes down by 50%. So let's say your estradiol is 100, it goes down to 50. So this time it was 220, I didn't use an AI for an entire year, on 600 tests, so my testosterone or estradiol was 220 pikigrants per milliliter, and then I went down to 180, 175, about 16, 70% reduction. So yeah, that also acts as an aromatizing in there, even though it's like 19-nor based, or 19-nor derivative. Yeah, and I checked my diet at testosterone levels because there was some scientific evidence that it also inhibits the Favhoff reductase type II isoenzyme, but my diet at testosterone levels on 600 tests was undetectably high, again, it's like an ELISA test. I don't have high sensitivity testing here, so I got the results back after three weeks, like, ah, great, over 2,500 pikigrants per milliliter out of the range, and so I tested it again, I'll have to wait another one or two weeks to get the results back. If it's any lower than the, beyond the detectable range, then I know that it also reduces DHT levels, but I have a feeling that they're both going to be undetectably high, because naturally my DHT levels are like 1,850, so it's already close to the top of the detectable range. So I did the work, but the labs are not very accommodating. Yeah, but it's a nice compound. After all, your joints feel kind of dry, like windstraw. It has characteristics of all the steroids, it seems. Bolton shit, though, if you take it pre-workout, split bilaterally, oh man, it's like injectable anodron. Interesting, it's a high- And actually, this compound is actually available, Dean. Have you used the oral form before? Or just the other way around? Yes, I went from oral YK-11 to sublingual to injectable. And from oral to sublingual, you notice a bit of a difference, because the bioavailability should increase slightly, you just have to keep it in your mouth, it's nasty foamy and disgusting. And then you go to the injectable one the first time, you're like, oh, this is a good workout. Second time, like holy shit, I gotta increase my weights. And this is where probably where the joint problems come from, because you get strong rapidly. But weirdly, with Superdrol or anodrol, you get strong fast also, and you don't get joint problems with that. You just feel a little bit compromised because the weights are so heavy. But with injectable YK-11, you're like, hmm, something is not feeling too great. So follow Southern 3 for Ford, oh, that swells you up like a bean spug. Yeah, that's weird shit. Like I did just today, and it swelled up like looking at it. Hmm. I wrote off the YK-11 oral, then I wrote it off too soon. Remember I said I tried like the low dose, whatever it was, 10 milligrams, and didn't see too much from it. I'm looking at the structure here because it's one of the ones where you don't really know the structure off by heart. When you look at the structure, it's very interesting because it has that like, furan ring that's like anivar, but on the complete off carbon 17, which is interesting instead of off carbon two on the other side, which is where it starts on anivar. Hmm. I must consider maybe a source. Give it a try, yeah, and do the injectable version. You could do it sub-Q or intramuscular if you want, the post injection pen is very doable if it's an MCT oil. And I liked it. Yeah, it's one of the compounds that I said, you know what, this is actually worth trying. Blood work didn't change much, liver enzymes went up slightly throughout that entire experiment, and lipids were, like my HDL is still 43. Minerograms were just so you don't know, good luck getting a 43 HDL on anivar or windstrawl or superdrol if you get 20 or 15. So yeah, I'm pretty surprised. Everybody was always raving about it. Steve, you should give it a try. I was like, ah, fuck, this is a sarm. But then you look at the chemical structure, it's just a steroid. So of course I don't like sarms. But yeah, by acting as a phallosatin secreticog, based on this limited scientific evidence of two animal studies, it does give you a little bit of a unique feeling regarding the recovery and the contraction. And now I switched to phallosatin 344, and that's pretty much what I'm talking about. I switched to phallosatin 344, and that's pretty potent shit. Yeah, but I mean with the term sarm, though I think people misunderstand, right? Tremdolinsisarm, dendrolinsisarm, pretty much like anything that's really just working through the AR is a sarm, right? So dose dependent, sarm. P-ball, windstrawl. Right, yeah, it's just dose dependent. You lose selectivity after a certain dose, which I did a deep dive on GC1 subaturon, and that's also like selective, up to a certain point, like a selective thyroid receptor, beta one agonist, not alpha one, or the other alpha and beta receptors, because there's three of each. So that's also selective, that video will be up next week. That increases bowel acid synthesis, improves lipid levels, so you could basically replace tatka, atka, and testosterone, because it also lowers lipoproteinol A levels, with 100 to 200 micrograms sobaturon. Just got discontinued, because one of its close variants, aproturon, was shown to impair cartilage and cause some sort of liver enzyme increase in animal models. You don't mean, just to clarify, you don't mean replacing testosterone fully, you're saying you could reduce the dose of testosterone and make up the rest? No, no, no, so sobaturon is a thyroid receptor, beta one agonist, and it's been clinically investigated. There's like two clinical trials in humans that got discontinued, you can't find those studies, but there's a boatload of animal models. So I reviewed everything, the deep dive will be up on Monday before this podcast releases. So fully replaced, you're saying? Yeah, so it lowers lipoproteinol A, but testosterone is also one of the compounds that lowers it, better than medications. So if you want a reduction in lipoproteinol A, because you're worried about cardiovascular disease, instead of going on TRT, you could use this compound, because in the 70s or 60s, they look at thyroid hormones and thyroid mimetics as a way to lower cholesterol levels, but they were found not to be suitable because of the thermic changes in the catabolism. So this is, yeah, it was one of those compounds that a lot of people slept on, and it's getting a little bit more popular now, so I decided to make a deep dive. I used it in the past, and it's actually quite promising. The scientific evidence is very promising. It was about 120 studies or something. So I made a direct comparison to T3 based on molecular weights, because the molecular weight is about double that T3 compared to subaturon, because it doesn't contain iodine. And so it's a lot of nitrogen, it doesn't contain that either. So yeah, it's actually quite promising. So give it a one-on-one if you guys have time. So those are my experiments, and then after this follow-satin experiment, I'm throwing in a towel, man, I need a deep dive. So bad, because this follow-satin stuff just makes you train extra freaking hard. And I'm ready to do loads and take a little vacation from this abuse. What are you weighing now? 105 kilos, so it's 230 pounds. You used a big boy? Yeah, still a big boy. I've been trying to dive all the way through, so I could really see where the results are coming from. So it's not from the food. It's not from the testosterone, 600 milligrams of tests. It's not that much. I had four somebody in my size, and training intensity, even though I don't know how you do it on one fourth of that dose, D. I don't fucking get it. I'm a little bit demented, maybe. Yeah, you like to torture yourself. So I was like, you know what, I'll do the cart to your T-dose. It's a little bit more reasonable for me. So yeah, 625 tests all the way through, two ampoules of baritestifirin, and then epicatogen, that was a failure. YK-11, various administration routes, and now follow-satin 344. I don't know what it is, but it'll fucking notch you up like crazy. The whole chest just feels like, you know, when you did too many sets, and it just feels like, I don't know, like it's super sore. So when I flex it, it just feels exhausted. But the next day, you feel super full. So it's interesting. I would not be able to afford this myself if the affiliates didn't sponsor this, because it's $70 a pop, basically. If all the satin is expensive, man. And I'm already know, like I'm a couple days in now, I already know that it's not going to be worth the money. Okay. Yeah, because the changes are fun. But if I extrapolate for three months of use, how much money that would cost, and how much my celebrity gain, no, it's not worth it. You can use GH. You can use GH, Incorlex, and take your wife on a nice holiday to pop. At the same time. At the same time. So those are my, that's my cycle. So far, so good. Might have to do some organ imaging to see if my heart is growing from all this fall of satin. Does GH in there as well? For you? No, so test and fall of satin. Oh, that's it. Okay. Yeah, I'm testing the Epic ATG and testing YK-11. The community was complaining that I run too much shit at the same time. So it's like, okay, fine. Tested Epic ATG results. I look in the before and after pictures. I look exactly the same. And in the YK-11 pictures, I look a little bit better. I think it's better if you run these compounds with more gear and GH and Incorlex, but. Is it everything? No. What I was going to say with Dean, I would be curious with the 10 milligram tremolo, if because you're running with a bunch of other stuff. So it's kind of hard to single out what that was doing or if there was synergy. Like you said, but you know, the other compound, I wonder if you'll get, if you just use test as a base and you just added the small amount of tremolo, what the result would be. That would be more fascinating to me than with, you know, because I know in prep you have to use a ton of other things. It would just be interesting if you could kind of isolate what the trend is actually doing at that dose. Well, yeah, that's, that's what my plan was. And even ahead of that, um, dia phase to speak for the last three or four weeks, three weeks at least, SLU and all those sort of mitochondrial things have been dropped out because I wanted to get a handling on, okay, let's reset back to like a blank slate. It's just TRT, not even GH, GH take that out. Follow just probably why I dug myself into a whole recovery because the GH was helping me sleep and everything else. And then set a time point like the start of June and now middle of August is the holiday and literally keep the test as the anchor, put the 10 milligrams of trend in like the four times per week. I believe even let's just settle here. We'll do two, my two lower days will do 10 milligrams of trend. So 20 milligrams will test Steve's theory. Won't even go near 40. Let's see what, let's see what changes in the pictures and let's give it three weeks because really trend A should pretty much give us results in 10 days. Um, and just see what happens with the logbook. Obviously what my plan is once I started to put the mitochondrial stuff back in is to try not change diet or like clastra where literally you just turbo charge everything and you keep up with the, cause at the moment my food is very high. Like I'd say on average I'm about 4,200 on training days. No, ma. And then back off and rest days to around 3,400. So let's see if, how high I can keep that food with the additions of those things that were used last year and obviously the, we'll do the 20 milligrams of trend. Like we said, only one year 40 and let's see what happens. And that way. So you should get some, like glucocorticoid receptor inhibition and just anabolic to androgenic disassociation where you only get anabolism and no androgenic effects. Not that the trombolone is that androgenic again based on the animal models, but I did that calculation with you then Dean for the trombolone deep type remember and then our body weight, it's like 20 to 25 milligrams a week. You get full glucocorticoid receptor inhibition and full anabolic to androgenic disassociation. So only gains basically. I mean, when I put up the post on Instagram, like the amount of molecules and 10 milligrams of Trenace, you only have to take a step back. Like can you even someone ask me about dbol and a few other orals in terms of low dose orals like is five milligrams of dbol like too low of a dose when you work out how many molecules is in five milligrams of dbol? It's millions of molecules. Trillions. Trillions even. Yeah. And you sort of then have to take a step back and go on paper to me. It's associated five milligrams very low. The actual number of molecules is telling you it's very, very high where those molecules have benefit is another story. Yeah. But being able to remove this bias of, you know, I had a great discussion in the the Tren post about like there's no arguing that a hundred milligrams of Tren is going to give more efficacy or more benefit to speak over 10 milligrams, but you're causing unnecessary like spillover to other receptors. Yeah. Yeah. Well, starting low and taking a taking a chance to speak on removing that bias of more is more start very low. See what happens if 10 milligrams does nothing and well, so be it start increased about the old way to speak the old school way of going straight to like a hundred milligrams of Tren A or the way I joke is like one male of a rip blend, which is like test the trend of masks. That's wrong. Every other day is like the typical grow cycle. Yeah. There's nothing wrong interior that you're it's like throwing like five darts at a dart board and hoping one of them is going to hit the bull's eye. It's going to work in theory without really any education behind it to speak, but taking the bias away and removing most of the dosage starting low and slow and working up. I think a lot of guys will get like what we observed a lot less of the mental side effects that carry over and all the positive benefits that are physique, which is why you're using the drug in the first place. Well, I was going to say, I think that the two interesting things. One is very specific. The trend that I never understood. It's the only steroid that everyone that takes it chases a feeling. Right. So I think part of the reason why the dose also increased over time is because for some no one that I'm aware of shoots masteron and they they're like, I'm going to keep increasing it till I feel it. Like how much masteron with the tic tac. You feel it. No one does it with primo like I'm going to check so much primo that I can't sleep. But you have a trend. You start someone on a low dose.  and they're in there for three days, and they're like, I'll feel it, can I go up? You give it 10, 15 days before you, like, once you feel it, it's not good. But it's, everyone just wants to chase that, like they're like looking for that feeling, right? And that feeling's no longer a positive thing anymore. But that's the only drug that you see that with, for steroids, right? You see that with Coke and heroin, like people obviously chasing high. You're chasing me here, O'Donnellson, yeah. I don't know if it's innate to the drug because of the calcium ion stuff it does, there's something about it that everyone wants to feel it. What's the mysticism around it? Like everybody talked about trend rage and trend sex, and so it's turned itself into a meme, and people want to experience that. Like, what is the fuss all about? And I'm gonna be honest, when I did trend in my second cycle, you know, and I was like, you know, I wanna see what this is all about. So I started with 200, and then I bumped it up to 350 within a month. That's when all the side effects came, and that's also when I made all the gains, but I think I could have made those gains on a much lower dose as well. Yeah, well, I think also with dosing, the vast majority of people seem to miss steroids, the dose isn't as important as your response, right? So your response is based on the enduroceptors. How many enduroceptors you have is gonna dictate your response. We see that in natural people, when they do blood samples across the board of naturally muscular people, it's not actually hormone levels, it's the amount of enduroceptors they have, they can use those hormones that they have. And so in steroids, the amount of classic enduroceptors someone have, they're going to respond to a much lower dose, right? They can also tolerate a much larger dose. That's why in probiotic builders, you see a vast range of dosing, right? From some of these guys use very small doses, and no one believes it, and other of these guys use 10,000 milligrams of stuff because they have those enduroceptors to actually deal with it properly, versus a poor responder, doesn't necessarily just get side effects right off the bat. So they can't even do a low dose, and then when they run a high dose, it's a disaster, right? Even with testosterone, right? These are guys that get anxious on 200 tests, right? That's not a positive thing. That means there's a lack of enduroceptors. There's a pile of hormones. And then they start, they've got to start at like 50 milligrams a week, and then slowly build it up over three months, and then they can tolerate 200 again, and actually go to the gym and train a little bit harder so they make themselves tired, and then reduce anxiety through the GABAergic effects. But I just, I think it's fascinating because somewhere it's a way people chase a feeling on trend, people chase doses, like that there's some magical number that you'll get to, that you'll just, right? With most things, three-in-a-thons, baby. Growth hormones, the three-in-a-thons of hormones, it's gonna respond in a dose-dependent matter. But I guess all drugs do to some extent, but I think with steroids, it's very individual what someone can do, right? So you both obviously have a lot of enduroceptors, so that's why some of my 10 milligrams would work, but it doesn't mean the average guy on the street using 10 milligrams of trend is gonna get anything out of it, right? You might just feel it immediately, which again, doesn't mean it's doing anything that's a sign of it, right? Yeah, or they need more trend to compensate for the lack of effort, like me, you, and Dean, like we've been doing this for decades now. But the guys that usually start trend, they're the beginners. It's a beginner drug on social media. But it's also the drug that needs to be the most respective. In reality, it's like the end stage drug, like Accutane or Finasteride or a hero's dose of LSD. That's end stage. You need some experience for that shit. But nowadays, it's so romanticized. And I was the same at the GH-15 forum and then get big and all that stuff. I'm like, I'm a second cycle, I use it. And then I went up to 1,000 milligrams a week because that's what everybody was doing. Stupid, you know? And then you look at the dope in me and like what Kurt was on about it. The calcium and when you're chasing that feeling, do you ever think that can come from, and I've seen this with even consults where the androgenicity because of its strong buoying affinity and then obviously how dopaminergic it is, you have guys then that are chasing this feeling of a very high libido. And then they're having intercourse, you know, multiple times per day. And then when it comes out, they're like something's wrong with my libido. And they're like, no, it's not healthy really to be having intercourse multiple times show today because of they then think that you have to pro-phylactically throw caber golly in on top of the trend, which then creates this, like we're laughing, but this happens all the time. Libido chasing the libido from coming off a trend cycle. Dude, and these guys will use anything. PT-141, Cialis, caber goline, Mansa Max, Cialang, Oxytocin, I had to get some sort of DHEA and then Oxytocin's response. And I made videos about this. And then of course, people use the entire stack then when I say it's options, don't do all the same time. I've had younger guys come to me as clients or consults. And I think the problem is they take it all literal, right? Like you look at the list of things they're on, they took the list that you made and they took it all. That wasn't the point of the list. These are options. You're 18 years old, you don't need 1,000 chemicals in your body. You need less masturbation and a little bit better food and better sleep and then you're probably okay. It's amazing how much just good sleep will do. Yeah, or just some nice food. I mean, when I was on holiday in Bali, well, I'm not gonna go into details, but I was sleeping like 10 hours a night and eating some good steaks and then every day, but to hear back home, yeah, I got responsibilities. And then it's a little bit less frequent. My cycle didn't change. It was the exact same dose with testosterone. Didn't take oxytocin with me or some Max or PT-141 or Cialis. Did take none of that. It was just chilling in a good mood. And you do it every day, you know? So that's bad for a 40 year old, I would say. Yeah, and you think most of these guys, wives or girlfriends unless they're 22 years old actually wanna have sex six times a day? Yeah. No, there must be under the, they're far babies. They're far Barbies themselves. That's also the girl when you go to work, she's out having sex with other people. And that's under the six of you. She's got five, five boyfriends on you. And then you come off the trend, what is she doing? Yeah, she's got the guy on trend. Yeah. That's fucking. Red flags galore. So talking about the Android receptors, right? Kurt, you brought this ARA topic up last time. People freaked the fuck out. This is the reason why I'm not responding. I have zero gack repeats. Okay, might be the case for 1% of the audience. Yeah, what Kennedy's disease is like super, super rare. Yeah, exactly. But Ian from Merrick Health reached out and he's like, I watched that podcast and we actually got that as a test for Kennedy's disease. So that's why I wanna discuss. They have it here in Thailand as well. I didn't have a chance to do it because now I'm curious as well. So maybe I can overlay what they have at Merrick Health. Sure, screen. It's our screen selects. If he's watching this, if he gives me just a code, I can send people there to test. Yeah, I'm sure. I'll work on that because you have got a lot of clients in the US. So it's not cheap, but it's $500 at Merrick Health. Hey, but you don't want. Yeah, you do it once. Right, you do it once. It's the same as your genetic test at 23andMe. If you still wanna do it after all the staff left. So basically it's an antigen receptor gacropit genetic test and it's done for a Kennedy's disease. There's not so much information here on the website. So I'll link this down below guys. And I think they offered it to people that are already on board with Merrick Health to kind of do a see how that goes and get some more experience with the results. But Manson, our Mawson, the guy that used to coach or help, I can't say coaching, used to help Samson Douda through Merrick Health. He made a good post about this right after a podcast. That was about a week, two weeks ago. So here we can see the pictures. Are you a hyporesponder? And there's actually a test for that. For the gactrile nucleotide sequence, the cytosine adenine and guanine, which is used for Kennedy's disease, SBMA. So he made a post about that. Didn't get so much discussion going because his profile is not that big yet. So I wanna bring it to Brian Johnson. Interesting, common name. So I just wanted to mention it here that actually we can test for this and it's not a cheap test obviously, but if you're wondering if you have less than 22 repeats or zero, like the ARA with zero gacropit, or in the favorable range of 22 to 26 or maybe a little bit higher, or a little bit lower, sorry, where it's high sensitivity. So if you have a lot of repeats or zero repeats, it's not good for you. And if you have over 35 repeats, then you have risk for Kennedy's disease. But this could also indicate if you have like zero repeats and then does you have an ARA, which is what Kurt mentioned. And there seems to be also some genetic factors. So if you have like average gacropit of 18 to 20, but you're white, maybe you're African-American. You know, or you have 20 to 23, maybe you're Latino, but you actually look like an Asian. So this will tell you a little bit more about your genetic makeup. I'll link at the Instagram post and where you can get this tested of American health down below. Did this stem from the discussion last time? No, so had this available, but not publicly. And then Ian reached out to say, yeah, we actually have this available. You can test this through Kennedy testing because we were kind of speculating on how to get this done. I wasn't aware that you could actually test for gacropit because I looked for genetic testing when I did the Androgen receptor deep dive and there was no genetic testing for that, but you can actually test it. And I think it's a swap test. Let me see what did they say. So they were looking if they could send it to me or I could do it here over in Thailand. Yeah, so I have a stabilization reagent and it's a collection test. And I think it's just a general swap test like a DNA analysis. So we're seeing if they could send it over here and I found a place here in Thailand where I can actually test it. I just didn't get a chance to do it yet. So I might find out that I have just average repeats. And somehow I doubt it. Yeah, I don't know. I think I have average response, man. Yeah. And easy to grow, but it- I deal with a general population. I mean, you're responding in average. Yeah, really? Okay, maybe I should have been a bodybuilder. Professional one. It's too late. Never know, it's too bad. Yeah, it's not too late. I did the gyno surgery and I got the leg surgery done. You know, it's fucked up. I don't think it'd be worth your time, I think is the issue. Not only. So I noticed in my progress pictures that I'm getting fucking atrophy in one calf. Human nerve issue? Where, in your spine? I think so. You have a disc? So, no, so, so, so, my lower back has been tight at times and I do the D-tipi-tipi massage therapy. I switch from intramuscular injections to sub-q to resolve it. I do my hyper extension, so I reverse hyper extensions to kind of decompress it. I think over the last six months or maybe one year that left calf is just slowly going away. And I noticed it in the pro, because I take a lot of progress pictures now for these follow-satonic experiments and every progress picture is smaller. What role does the intramuscular injection have? Oh, it creates scar tissue and it may be closer to the nerve. Yeah, and the nerve and it may be pressure on the nerve. And I remember doing leg press at muscle fight, tripadio on time, and I had lower back issues for like three months. You know? And then recently I did that leg surgery to get the plate removed and the screws. And then obviously I couldn't train for a while, so I didn't do reverse hyper extensions. And then I reintroduced it. Oh man, I was so tight. My lower back was like, I couldn't even do one plate. I just felt it like separate. And now I'm up to two and a half plates again. I used to do three plates per side and a little bit of momentum. Yeah, but that would really, and maybe that's the reason why one calf is fucked. But I saw, I looked at the pictures and like, fuck man, it's my time to, I got at least like with Dennis Wolff or Ian Vaillier or Wesley Fischer's, it's happening on both sides. But for me, it's happening on one side. So once, yeah. I didn't know that, they're getting atrophy in their calves. Yeah, Wesley Fischer's has no sweep anymore. Wow, I didn't know. And Ian Vaillier never had calves, but it's also a nerve issue. And then you started getting it in his chest and then obviously you can't compete. At least the calves you can hide away by the stage, right? Because the stage has a corner and then most of the judges can't even see your calves. And most of the time they don't have great calves. So you just stand next to me. But I used to have great calves, man. It was like me, Steve's got like 19-inch calves at times. So I had like freaky calves. And then now one of them is going away. So don't become a pro bodybuilder, become a roofer. Go up and down a ladder. Yeah. And get obese, get obese and climb a ladder all day. You have to master it. Yeah, I have genetics for being obese. That's for sure. Oh yeah, everybody in my family is fat as fuck. You see that there's now there's 941 known genes that affect BMI in humans, polymorphisms. 941 excuses. But they only account for 6% of obesity. So even with all these genetic factors, 94% is the lifestyle. That's probably the food. About 1000 genes that are not. Food is tasty, man. I can totally get it. I totally get it. So now everybody in my family is fat. So it's very easy to gain size for me, but staying lean, it's always a nightmare. Yeah, staying lean, getting lean, staying lean. It's after you leverage every angle and do two hours of cardio to get it done. Two hours a day? If I want to be really shredded, just two hours, no excuses. Wow. Yeah, I don't have time for that, man. It's, I try to. Who has time for that? Yeah, try to do consultations. Yeah, it was always fucked. Like when I was soft for some, 6% body fats, it's two hours of cardio. Even with the mitochondrial support, every, at one point I just get stuck. My body adapts metabolic wise. Doesn't matter how much fatigue management I do. I just need the two hours of cardio to really get shredded. So that's why I'm just comfortable, 8 to 10. It's better for mood. Yeah. Yeah, so yeah, so that was my bad news for my career. I looked at the cat and I'm like, what the, where's my, normally you have like a chunk of meat there, you know? You have like these two calves and it looks silly and you walk and it's touching. And then I wasn't touching for a while. So I was like, okay, I did surgery, my legs are a little bit smaller. And now I'm trying to get back to the previous size. And I want one side is just gone. It's weird. It's a shame. So what am I gonna do? Syntho, GHK copper, or stop training calves altogether so the right side can catch up. And it's the right side that had the leg injury, the breakage, that calf is freaky, big still. Inject silicone caulking in there. Yeah, yeah. Or do, deal with, what is his name? Flexwheeler did just jam needles in there until you get scar tissue. Oh, you look at his calves or one guy has got one calf now, but he had to get one lower leg removed. So yeah, so that, I don't think there's a solution for because Ian Viller didn't find a solution. I talked with Wesley Vissers about this. He couldn't really find a solution. He lost some electro stimulation on that area. And this is the other guy, Dennis Wolfe never got his fix. His calves just disappeared at one point. You know, so, well, career over. And I like to wear shorts. It makes it even more painful. Oh, well, it's maybe due to the high, the compression socks to kind of hide it or put a tattoo over it. Tattoo a calf on? Yeah, tattoo a calf on. Yeah, just, just make it look like the skin ripped off. Shading. Yeah, shading. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Make sure like that skin ripped off. So you see like the muscle underneath and then make it extra striated. So even though there's no muscle there, it just still looks C-straction. Shit, man. Yeah, so I did my gyno surgery and I can't even get on stage because I have no calf on one side. Maybe I didn't need to do side poses to hide it all the time. The good news is though, is that we finally found the Trimbalon insert. I'll share that on screen. Talking about Trimbalon. So the Parabola insert is finally fully translated. First, we got this front page. This is the translation using the same setup as the insert. Anthony sent it to me, one of the Avid Steroid collectors. So you had a box of Parabola with a used ampoule, obviously not an unopened. That would have been worth a fuckload of money if you had an unopened ampoule of Parabola. I'm sure somebody out there would have bought it from him and offered him copious amounts of money just to give it a try. So basically this is all known, right? We know that it contains hexhydrobenzochorbene Trimbalon at 76 milligrams, yielding net 50 milligrams Trimbalon base. Benzo alcohol, pharmaceutical grade ethyl alcohol and a neutralized arachazole, which is inflammatory in some people. And it was prescribed in elderly patients with catechia, sets of under nutrition, following major surgical interventions, extensive burns, bed sores and in treatment of senile or idiocereotrogic osteoporosis. Contrary indications, puberabital subjects in young women or women who are breastfeeding pregnant women or women who are likely to become pregnant. So all those studies performed that you... Yeah, they tested it first to make sure that it would kill the fetus. It would kill the fetus. Fuck man, I would love to read those studies though. Let me see if I can find my son and two. Oh, you actually have access to those studies now? Yeah, I have access to them. They're all watermarked and stuff. You can't really put them on the screen. I won't show them up, but I might have, I would like to summarize it because... This is what I do with the details. Yeah, you can summarize them. I just don't think you should place them on the screen. No, I won't post them. No, no, no, because it's... But if I could read them and summarize them, because again, there's no human studies available. Zero. Zero. So even if you have a little bit of an indication, even if it's in pregnant women, if I could read and summarize them and make a video about it, it would be so fucking beneficial. If I could make this video about the insert, it did 10,000 views. People are like, why did you make a video about the insert when there's no information? So, well, people would know, man. So let's see, contraindications, also prostatic hypertrophy, prostatococinoma, obviously, hepatic insufficiency. And apparently there's one study that looked into the hepatic stress of trimblone in humans on the case reports that's in the... Was the anabolic to androgenic steroids of the pharmacology from Charles de Coququian. It's a very old book. Okay, the injections, right? One ampoule every 15 days for the first month, for the first month, it started the month, middle of the month, end of the month, and then another injection every month for another three injections. So six ampoules per ball in over four months. Don't juice under the age of 15. And good luck, you know, tiktokers. And then this is the back. And there's literally nothing there. There's nothing there. This medicine is an active product. Keep out of the reach of children, no shit. Use medicine prescribed as your doctor tells you, well, nobody's going to prescribe trimblone anymore. And then, you know, the description of trimblone is a very low dosage. It's only me and Dean would be crazy enough to use those dosages. And this is it. This is all your pharmacist knows medicines. It's not about taking a lot of medicines. I kind of agree with that. It's about taking the medicines you need. So this is, I was looking forward to this so much and this is all we got. No references, no citations. Here's what's on the box. The composition again, you know. So it was kind of anticlimactic, I would say. A little bit disappointing, but I'm still happy that somebody kept the medical insert and scanned it and sent it to me and then I used Proplexity and ChatGPT to kind of translate it. I had the front page translated already with a former client of me, Noor, who lives in France. He translated for me at the front page. But yeah, so the elusive back page was found. And I asked him for, if he has more memorabilia, so maybe the master in medical insert or the old syntax, anodrol insert. All right, so I would like to put all those inserts online just for like completelets for the fitness industry. Like Ecycling, if somebody has that, I would love to get that online. I found the insert for PrimaBall and S-Tablets, those I got online. So yeah, if anybody has those hidden away somewhere or animal studies, I found a patent for Drostan alone. Yeah. I'm gonna do a video on this and it might actually show us that it's anabolic. Like we had some suspicion that we were discussing about it. Yeah, so I found some patent from 78 where Drostan alone might show animalism in an animal model that is regurgitated by the masteron junkies. So yeah, this animal model showed that it actually was more potent than tremelone. So I found that patent finally. Nobody was able to find it for me, but I finally found it myself. So I have to go through all 200 pages and then I'll make a video about it and then maybe it can reassess my conclusion that if you identify as a cow, if some people look like cows, then maybe masteron can be anabolic at a low dose. Of course, like if you compare the tremelone cattle pellets to the anabolic response after castration, it's quite dramatic. And the muscle that they gain is very dramatic. But at those doses, even if you extrapolate to the human equivalent dose, you don't observe that in humans at all, unless you maybe castrate yourself. Well, I think there's two things we're missing. One, although similar to humans, they have more anterior septic density than the average human, right? So you have that. And also when do they start the tremelone dosing? It's a day three of life. So not that you should start with your three day old child, Steve, but there is much more growth potential right there because of the stem cells. So it's not, once you've already reached adulthood, you start to train at 30 years old. Your growth potential is much more reduced than a three day old cow. Yeah, and you're already on testosterone base. Which Dean, what does testosterone supervisual logical levels do to your stem cells? Blocks half of them from infiltrating into your body. And that's what I was saying. That's what we learned about delivery. Yeah, so anyway. When you do stem cell treatment in South America, they all tell you, come off to juice. And that's even relatively speaking, like what I'm always talking about that with one to five tests. If your testosterone level is 800 nanograms per deslare and your natural level genetically, when you were a teenager, you had hypergonadism in your 20s, and you're at 300, 800 is still super physiological for where you developed genetically, naturally. So even then you can't cheat yourself and think, oh yeah, I'm still in a physiological range, or super physiological by being like three times what your natural level was. So that's still gonna have effects on your stem cell repair and infiltration. Yeah, and that's one of the reasons why it's okay to kind of come down to a physiological dose or come off completely. Maybe just to restore that stem cell effect and maybe remove the toxins that build up, because I think your detoxification processes get upregulated just like your anabolic processes, and maybe at one point it just cancels itself out when you've been running high gear, because nobody can run over a gram indefinitely. I mean, 500 tests, okay, but at one point you get diminishing returns and you actually go backwards. That's what I'm starting to notice now. Just even on 600 tests after three months, you're like, you know what, getting some diminishing returns is starting to come back again, you know? I mean, Kurt had something that we discussed offline that sort of ties him with this, with the liver of what you sort of observe or curb product. I was not even aware of it, with oral steroids and the increased production of creatine, and that you're utilizing the traminosacids, arginine, glycine, and then metionine is the third one. I had to look them up before you went online, and then you've got glutathione. That's why three of us come on a podcast, then. It's the only place we can still learn something new. That's it. I mean, and then glutathione, I know off by heart, with glycine, cysteine, and glutamic acid, that if you've got liver problems, you may be taken away from your amino acid pool to rebuild or recycle glutathione. But like Kurt said, with the oral steroids, you could be pulling glycine and metionine away from muscle protein synthesis based on our regulation of creatine production. Yeah, so the background, because people probably want to know what the background is, it's why certain oral steroids are going to produce much more strength gains, like immediately versus an injectable would produce more size gains. Even if the anabolic rating, and I know anabolic ratings, not everything, but even if the rating is very skewed, like the primobotan has a trash anabolic rating, and Winsor and Anivar have very high, but yet they don't really produce any tissue in men. And that's because of the root, right? When it's 17 alpha-alcoolated, it goes to the liver, it's going to take those three amino acids and commit them to creatine phosphate, which is going to make you immediately stronger versus when you inject something like primobon, it's not going directly to the liver immediately, so it's going to commit those same amino acids as part of the proteins synthesis process and lay on tissue, right? Because the confusing part before I looked into it was, well, why would Anivar cause strength gains? Everyone reports they get stronger than Anivar, doesn't have a ton of non-genomic effects, it's really, that's really like SARM, it really just works through the AR, where are those strength gains coming from? And it doesn't seem to be a placebo, but that's the reason why. So it's basically upping your creatine production immediately versus you don't get that same effect. That's one of the reasons why primobon might not produce crazy strength gains. I don't think anyone really gets a ton stronger on Primo or Nandrona. No, I mean, you get, I'm just going to say that you're natural, but you get more androgenic effects, obviously, but it seems to be over time. So after six weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, I'm not pretty much there. No, no, Anivar and some of the other oral steroids, you're like, oh, I took it and immediately get stronger. Right, but then the able test and, and the withdrawal of those that are strongly, they also have not crazy non-genomic effects that are going to produce other nerve stuff. So, so if these oral steroids produce more creatine, they don't, or creatine phosphate, right? So your energy levels and your strength goes up fullness comes with that. The intramuscular water retention can be explained that way. But unlike with creatine supplementation, it doesn't make you hold any water. So is this why naturals get better results with creatine than non-naturals? Because non-naturals increase their creatine phosphate production by taking oral steroids. Possibly. Because I noticed like active creatine in the past is natural, you get a dramatic effect. And then when you take creatine as a steroid user, you're like, I'll get his water retention. Yeah, maybe one extra rep. Well, you're already producing a ton more. And all steroids are gonna cause wrapping up a creatine, right, testosterone does that too. Yeah, so it's not necessarily anything wrong with creatine supplementation in enhanced athletes because it still has other effects that are healthy, but it might not be needed, at least for muscle gain. It's not gonna add anything to your muscle gain that you're not gonna get. I mean, the part of the reason in naturals it's gonna cause size gains is because it can increase your strength stronger. You get the more weight you can lift, the more mechanical tension you can. Yeah, it's an intramuscular water retention, obviously, which is good for leverage and that makes you stronger.  amyxantin, you don't produce that much creatine naturally on your natural testosterone levels. When the average person doesn't eat enough, with the average American, at least, their natural creatine levels are pretty low. People aren't eating as much meat as they once did. So you got to supplement that in. Yeah, so that kind of explains why anibor makes you stronger. So some of these oral shifts, protein synthesis from laying on tissue to protein synthesis is used for energy and does make you stronger acutely. So what can we do to optimize this process? Because I was told, I was told that all steroids potentiate the same amount of protein synthesis. That in and of itself is interesting. Everyone gets talking up on these silly little one thing, these one details, like protein synthesis. Protein synthesis is all the same. It's the only thing that stops growth. It's not the only thing that stops growth. I know exactly what you're talking about. Scott Stevens did an excellent video on Think Big. I'll link it down below if you don't forget. We analyzed all of the studies regarding adults' response curve and it's so different. Of course, it's all coming from different studies. Scott Stevens is an excellent researcher and he got upset. He said, you know what? I'm going to show you guys. You see, it's literally completely different all over the place. When you can see with a stronger drug, the tremolo is stronger than testosterone, it's going to bind to the endoreceptor at least three times the sperm, at least testosterone, but it's not necessarily gaining three times as much muscle mass. That's not necessarily a fault of the drug. There's other limiting factors there. You can't just grow and grow and grow and grow endlessly. The human body has a ton of stops there to prevent that from occurring. Yeah. Of course, if you keep growing, at one point you're going to pop. Whether that's your organs or something else. If your food wasn't abundant, why would your body just let you just ramp up muscle mass for no reason? Yeah. Beyond what's needed. Even the gorillas in the lion's egg, they cap out at one point. Yeah, most animals, that's it. They can't get me bigger. Yeah. So, where were we? I had a cretin. So, I explained a little bit more for the audience to understand. What would be a limiting factor of taking oral steroids that produce more cretin monophosphate compared to steroids that produce more protein synthesis like collagen, for example? What would be the difference and how can we get some sort of synergy between? Because, of course, a lot of people are going to be upset. Yeah, I take anivarine. That's why I'm not getting any size. This is the conclusion that the audience is going to draw. I mean, there's still going to be some level of size that comes from a drug like that. It's just not going to be as much as something that is subjective. I mean, you could leverage both, right? Take primo and an oral, if you want, right? To get some level of both, or you could use a slightly more androgenic steroid, or one that produces more strength gains, that you would get the best of both worlds. It doesn't mean you have to use anivar. If you take an injectable, would it be wise to supplement with glycine and methionine coming from collagen supplements? Would it be easier just to take creatine? Yeah, obviously. But the creatine is, of course, being produced with the oral steroids, right? Oh, you're saying if you took orals to then supplement with the precursors to creatine? No, you're saying... So with the orals, some of the orals would produce more creatine, what, monophosphate, right? So you would take some creatine to help with that process and the injectables. You would lay more tissue on with glycine and methionine as a backbone. So you would take collagen supplements or something collagen containing a good fucking steak. You could, but I think then it goes back to just the way the human body works, right? When you're just all protein, doesn't matter where necessary it's coming from, right? It gets bleived apart into dye and tripeptides, and then it gets applied to wherever the body needs it. Right? It's one of the reasons why collagen protein, per se, is not going to go to collagen production. No, no. You just create an environment where everything is equally available. If that's what I mean, people, it was brilliant idea to sell collagen supplements, right? People were like, oh, it makes your skin nicer. Most likely it doesn't. 25% of the amino acids in the human body are already as collagen peptides. Right. Right? We protein would produce just as much as taking collagen supplement, perhaps more because of the losing content. All right, yeah, from the proteins. Perhaps, I mean, it depends. Right? Again, there's limits there. Protein synthesis, I think, is again overrated. Most of the studies are showing whole body and not intramuscular, right? Because food doesn't, and that's one of the reasons why food itself is not ramping up growth on its own unless you're deficient in those things. You drink all the way, you sit on a couch, not exercise, no drugs, drink all the whey protein, the water you're not going to grow, just because your mTOR is ramped up all the time doesn't mean anything. Is that doing it? Yeah, and it's the same supplementing with BCAs or EEAs and then glycine and methione with every single meal. I tried that already. That doesn't make a difference. And there's a cap too, and it's not that it doesn't get used, right? Your body will use everything it's given if it's on its own diarrhea. That's undigested food. You absorb everything except some level of fiber, but it only applies so much to muscle, right? And a natural, I don't know what actually the drug using, drug using person it would be because it probably depends on the drugs and the amount of drugs and the genetics, but in a natural person, what 10% of amino acids are applied to muscle? Give or take? Is that right, team? Yeah. It's low. It's low. It's not anywhere near what people think of it. They get 50 grams in a meal. They're not getting 50 grams in their muscles. No. You know? No. The body has a lot more things that it deems more important than muscle that it's going to apply that stuff to. No. All these peptides and... 80 or 80p. Yeah, peptides, enzymes, basically all the machinery is all made out of proteins. Yeah. It's all proteins, all the amino acids folded in certain ways. So that's where most of the food goes. It goes to the machinery, not the tissue that's actually there. And even your organs, right? You have splinic extraction that increases with age. That's one of the reasons why sarcopenia occurs, right? Lower hormones, lower food intake is if you've got older, they eat less, right? And then the protein goes down and they have higher numbers, a much larger amount of splinic extraction. So like a little kid, the body's much more efficient at applying amino acids where it needs to go versus when you get old, your spleen is a hog. It pulls out the amino acids out of your gut because it's using them, that is fuel. Right. It's power itself. Yeah. Yeah. To keep you alive at the expense of muscle mass. Yeah. That's why building a good amount of tissue is good for longevity because you extend that process of sarcopenia later on in life. Or you take TRT and you prevent it. That too. You know, that helps. That helps. Yeah. So it's a very interesting that you told us that some of these oral steroids might shift, you know, amino acid utilization. Yeah. For energy production. And that's why it gets an acute effect because your creatine monophosphate concentrations are just going higher. That also means that oral steroids can increase your creatinine levels. Which we see, right? But that was probably more, previously thought it was like a liver stress issue. Perhaps it's not just liver stress. Right. No, it's just different. Yeah. And then the point is it also explains why something like Winstor, which is a 320 or something, is vibrating, which on paper should be three times as strong as test. It's just not. I don't know anyone who's taking Winstor on to grow, per se. No, it seems to be the cosmetic enhancing drug. And of course, the idea and you know, different. Yeah. Women, obviously. Maybe they get androgen, anablysm in the wrong places. Well, and women are going to respond estimate by eight times stronger to a dose than a man would respond just based on their natural. It goes back to what you told about baseline, like where you grew, like what your morphology is where you grow naturally, right? They're, they're anti-movements a lot less. So you, they'll respond to a 10 milligrams of anabar much more so than a man would respond to 10 milligrams of anabar. Yeah. And resurrective testosterone levels are maybe 50, 70 at maximum. That's why, you know, TNT for one is three and a half milligrams a test. Yeah. You're not giving them, they don't need huge amounts of it. No. No. It does do wonders though for women, TRT after a certain age. See a lot of women on TRT now and that is magic for them as well. Yeah. Interesting. We're working on, I won't, because it doesn't necessarily apply to bodybuilding, but we're working on something too where, so progesterone is produced backdoor through DHT as well. So it's one of those L6 body with women on replacement therapy, right? You're not supposed to give estrogen without progesterone generally. There's something else because you don't want to become estrogen dominant. But when, a lot of times we'll add testosterone to that mix as well, and you see the progesterone go up, we're going to see if we remove the progesterone, if there's enough backdoor conversion that's still occurring just to eliminate even giving the progesterone. Because you might just, once you increase testosterone, you might just produce enough on its own. Right. Indeed. Because you have that backdoor pathway. It's going to go vice versa. Yeah. It's going to go with allopregnenolone, right? So you produce allopregnenolone from testosterone through five alpha reduces to DHT and then the three alpha dial will become allopregnenolone. So in theory, if someone is on TRT, they don't necessarily need to supplement with pregnenolone to get that same neuro steroid sexual benefit, right? Because allopregnenolone and DHT seem to be the largest drivers of sexual behavior in men. Yeah. Not estrogen per se. Estrogen has a slight role there in sperm production, but it seems more of those two things. Right. The last time, I think you guys talked about last time, that the lack of the pregnenolone cause like sexual issues, even if the other hormones all look fine. It doesn't mean it has to be. Yeah. It could be a minor mitochondrial issue. So you have pregnenolone being produced in the mitochondria. And then of course, if your pregnenolone levels are low, which is hard to test, then everything there's a test now. LabCorp has a test in the United States for allopregnenolone. Yeah. For allopregnenolone, but the regular pregnenolone, it's not very accurate. In the U.S., it might not be accurate, but this is standard. It's not very accurate. Yeah. From all the doctors that I talked to, it's probably the least accurate test because it's fluctuate so much. And even with DHEA, pregnenolone sulfate, it's not that accurate. So that's why we usually check DHEA sulfate as an indicator and progesterone levels to see what is going on downstream. Yeah. Dean, I know you want to jump in. No, I was just saying the point that Kurt brought up, obviously, then with the creatine turnover, if you've got less glycine being pulled into creatine production, less glycine's going to affect your glutathione. You're going to have less glutathione. You're going to have less glycine as a potentiator of its own receptor in the brain and gab it as well. So then you might see anxiety issues and... Oh, fuck. That makes so much sense now. Yeah. That's what I was thinking in my head. And then you decided with denitglycine, the other amino acids in the chain is metionine. Metionine is a driver of methylation of SAM-E production, acidenosyl metionine. And then the kicker that comes from that denis, acidenosyl metionine becomes SA when it's reduced, so it gives off the metal group for methylation into your DNA. And it becomes homocysteine. So you might start seeing issues of homocysteine and cardiovascular issues. The metionine problem then could play over into gene transcription, where you then start seeing potential issues coming from non-responders and hyper-responders, depending on what happens with methylation of the genes themselves and then the acetylation with the histones of how your DNA unravels itself to open out the sequences to be read. So that was really interesting. My curb brought up before we came on where my head was just doing its usual of one of this and this and this and this. It does make sense though, because again, if you're shifting these amino acids for energy production and you're taking away from methylation and relaxation, it could explain why a lot of side effects manifest with longer term oral steridules. And I'm not even sure if then supplementing with these particular amino acids would circumvent that. Not necessarily. And the body doesn't absorb that. It doesn't like the free form amino acids. No. It likes things that are bound. So it knows what it's doing with them. But it could also explain that people who eat better have less of these side effects because they do get a more broader amino acid profile. Go figure. Food matters. And then the other thing coming back to our good friend, like the bile flow and the appetite that we covered in one of the old episodes, we always focus on odke and todke as the bile salts. You do have glycine conjugates of bile acids as well. So now your bile is being affected, which affects your appetite and you're in testing that we talked about if you want to improve appetite with orals, you want to improve bile flow and that transport. Yeah. So GC1 subaturum upregulates cytochrome P4507A1 enzymes, which converts C4. It's like C4 is a precursor for bile acids. It's not that it upregulates just like thyroid hormones, but it does that in, you know, based on the animal models in a much higher capacity than T3. So GC1 might actually help with detoxification and stool motility by increasing bile acid synthesis unless you combine that with catechonazole, which inhibits C7A1 and thus lowers bile acid production or anastrozole, which inhibits C27A1, which also provides precursors for bile acid synthesis. This is why I don't like anastrozole over aromasin for estrogen management because you see that at the end when people make a dose anastrozole, right, for bodybuilding contents, they get constipated. It's because they don't produce any bile acids anymore. Well, and also estrogen itself has effects on bile. So like, when I crush my estrogen before a show, even no matter how linear, I have trouble contracting my abs or my stomach will start to distend. And that could also be part of the bubble gut that you saw 20 years ago in bodybuilding. Yeah, shit gets left behind. Yeah. So I typically leave my stomach like low, but not so not crushed, right? Like 10 to 15 is probably good to get on stage versus zero. Right. And that was discovered in post-menopausal women. That's whether stomach starts to distend. Yeah. And it's part of that is bile acid secretion that's impaired. And of course, your entire cocktail, especially if you're on contest prep, you know, GC1 might be able to prevent that to a certain extent, but it will be better to supplement a little bit of ox bile, and, you know, just have a good amount of healthy fat, which also lubricate your stool, which then later on you're like, I gotta go low fat to get extra lean. And so it's a bit of a balancing act. But hey, man, it's like a good shit in the morning. I think it solves a lot of problems already. You know, at least you get off. It's better than fasting. Yeah, that's true. You lose more weight. Yeah, we get shit. The first part. You don't wait to start your day too. Yeah, coffee and a good shit. And then you can start. Yeah, one more. Do you want me? So funny how we discovered all these. Four pounds of not sweating. Four pounds, holy shit. After going to the U.S., I had a good shit. This is definitely four pounds. All that cheesecake, holy moly. So yeah, it's interesting how all these little things start to make sense, you know, as you guys discover stuff and I discover stuff, you see all this interconnection. That's why this podcast is so great, because you find all these metabolic pathways that finally get discovered. But no one looks into it. No one cares. Nobody's okay. Well, you need to read a lot of studies and understand biochemistry, you know, and I like you guys understand so much about this chemical composition, which I don't understand. So you put those three months together. Yeah, you discover something new every podcast. And these last 12 podcasts have been eye-opening to me and I spent like 60 hours a week to reading fucking studies. So it's great. Yeah, that's great. It's great too, because we all compliment each other with that stuff, right? Right. One throws an idea on the other one, complete it. Like I used to eat a lot for that stuff, like the creatine stuff. That's more his world, not mine. Like I'm going to learn, I don't remember half that stuff, but like you look at that stuff all the time. Yeah. Right? Like mine kind of stops at the end. I mean, even to go back to what you're talking about proteins being incorporated into muscle tissue, like hair, your nails, you know, keratin synthesis, that can be an insight into how well you're creating or utilizing amino acids towards protein synthesis for your body's own requirements. So like if you're trying to build muscle, but you have genetically evolved to grow hair and grow nails, your body's going to use the amino acids to build these natural proteins that it creates today and putting those amino acids into your muscle. So I think, you know, broadly speaking, you can almost assess how well protein metabolism is in your body by looking at your hair and skin or nail health, how well your nails and hair growing. Yeah. Besides the androgenic alopecia that occurs, obviously. It's like, yeah, but you can usually tell like the guys that have like better skin and they always complain about, you know, have to trim their hair that they do seem a little bit more anabolic than average. But is that is that food or, you know, well, I mean, if you're on GH for long periods of time, I've been on growth for three years, my nails are incredibly thick. Yeah. And all my flat bones grew as well. My wife is saying things about my hands. I mean, I like we taught like my hair grows really quick when my hair grows everywhere. Like if I don't shave on my hair, you can really. That's probably from Trent. So the food like I've been on a diet since I was like maybe 15, 16 years old because I was very interested in nutrition before I worked at steroids. I was like making my own meals, right? And then I had that motorcycle accident when I was 22, 23 years old and I was eating a boatload of protein and just not missing meals even here in Thailand when I had that motorcycle accident. So I had road rash, obviously in my arms. They put that gauze on there and then my skin was recovering through the gauze in a day. So that when they took it off to replace it, obviously for, you know, infection purposes, my skin was already in there. And that was without steroids. So I do think you can upregulate this protein since it's just by frequent eating protein meals. Because at one point that you use some sort of special gauze with a little bit of fat on it to remove it every day because my skin was really growing in that so fast by the time it was home a week later was already closed. It's insane. So I think if you keep feeding the body with adequate amounts of protein and you do that for a longer period of time, I do think that it increases protein to such an extent that the recovery of little bones is just twice as fast as regular people. That's why I have no scars either. There's no scars with normal people that would be wrecked for life. That's what you're saying about MTOR. It's not that it doesn't rep. Approaching said this is just whole body. It's not specifically in the muscle. Yeah. I lost a lot of size when I obviously had the more cycle accident in two weeks because all the protein was being utilized to recover from that accident. Well, if you're natural, you were natural at the time. If you're natural at the time, as soon as mechanical tension isn't there, it starts in four or eight hours. Yeah, exactly. You live two days later, the chest is atrophying. So that's normally if you're bedridden for two weeks, you're going to lose muscle. Much faster than in this previous thought. It occurs almost immediately. And it takes longer to get back to. Yeah, so when I had the surgery on the gyno and the lexicase surgery and the leg surgery, I thought, if you just shrink by the day, what the fuck is going on? And I'm on all the gear. So you use gear. Yeah, there's no mechanical tension. I didn't train for like four weeks, six weeks. Well, look at the space, even how fast do they lose, astronauts lose muscle incredibly quickly. Yeah. Yeah, that's the last thing I would want to do with your bodybuilder. Away to the distance. Yeah, maybe go to Jupiter, get some extra gravity and get more size. Imagine how big your calves would be on Jupiter. Only one calf. Yeah, just over earlier. Yeah. Even with space, that's a good discussion there. I'm horrible at names, but the female astronaut that was stuck up in the space station to change in her facial structure in the 10 or 11 months she was stuck in space, which would be like classical sort of calcium loss from the jaw. Like we'd see with some of their lives and where the job becomes more square and more protruded that when you're up in space with lack of mechanical tension on your body floating. Is there, now this is a woman, is there a change in there? There's sort of hormone profile to produce more testosterone to try and keep some level of muscle mass in space. Which is where we've seen a picture of that. Yeah, I was seeing that as a before and after where they're showing her jaw structure completely changed in the 10. Oh yeah, what was her name? Does her cholesterol get ramped up after months? I don't know. I've never looked at what affects space. Because I would think that would be a good sign to see what the body's trying to do, right? It starts ramping up cholesterol, most likely it's trying to make hormones. This was just something I see where it was a before and after comparison talking about them coming back from space and it was like the physical changes obviously of what was observed with being there, the jawline completely changed, which would be classic of a, yeah there it is there, very prominent jaw, the one on the right there. This one right, yeah. Yeah, crazy. I mean, look at this chin. She wasn't pretty to begin with, but this is some dramatic changes. Let's see if we can find some more before and after. Oh, they all point to her chin, poor lady. You know, there's one there for just a normal before going into space as a national. Or even there where her American flag behind her, you can see that. That went to the right. Yeah, literally you see a more feminine structure to speak and then you're always like what you might see with a very large woman with the bone mineral loss and then deposition. Collect all these pictures later on. Deposition into the jaw. That's a big difference. Look at this. Here before 2018 and this is later on. That's insane. That's a different kind of look maxing. A lot of young boys would be after this more pronounced chin. They're cleansing your jaws all night, all day, all night to get that and start doing this. They just need to have fun, the trip into space and stay there for 10 months. Crazy, no? Crazy. Yeah, I would not want to go into space if there's no gym and no artificial gravity. So if there's a spinning space station with 1.1 G's, I'm down, but zero gravity, no way. No way. That's osteoporosis waiting to happen. That's crazy. But also we have topics on. Let me see. Oh yeah, about the growth hormone changes in creatinine. So maybe we can show the blood work first. Let's see. Where's share screen? Tone screen. So this is one of your clients. So this is before growth hormone. You see this. That is C of 1.1 9. EG 468. And then this is after the GH. Oh, that's creatinine and cystic tendency. Is this both before and after or after? After. This is after. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Before while on the GH. While on the GH. So this is before the GH. No, he's on. He is on, let's say, three milligrams of GH there. During this. This is both on GH, right? So, yes, we've removed the GH now. To the reach. Yes, because that that started to trend up, which is never. We have historical labs going back like almost two years and he's never, it's never been elevated before. And he's not on anything else except low dose testosterone, like TRT. So. Yeah. So this creatinine is, is I mean, slightly elevated, but not super elevated for somebody who body builds. And I personally, I wouldn't worry about that, but this. We just started to trend up for no reason. Yeah, but this never even there. Like this is that and see being this high that that I would worry about. I know. Or at least going up. All those markers started to go up in his eGFR went down. So his eGFR was a 106 previously. Yeah. Yeah. That's a big difference, man. That's a big difference. And then what he did. Yeah. What he did was adding the growth hormone at what three milligrams that it's nine units, nine, nine, nine, I use per day. Did he start from zero to nine I use that he built it up slowly. So, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Three and then, you know, four or five, like up, up slow. And it didn't start to go until he hit about three milligrams for nine units. But he needs someone that's incredibly healthy and takes very good care of himself is meticulous with his diet. He doesn't do recreation drugs. There was nothing else going on. Except that. So we were looking at. So one of the assumptions that we, the three of us discussed before was that possibly Biloxone 188, which is a polymer that's used as a filler, reminder in the underground lab, G H. Of course, subsequently that no longer exists on search engines anymore. Yeah. And the other thing we tried to search for it before this episode, we can't find anything on this, this compound. So we're not sure if it's. Yeah. So we're not sure if that's muted on Google now. I use stock. It wasn't there. It was like, there was a little competing entry for it. There was, there was Google results. It was a PubMed search. When he searched PubMed, it's gone. It's off the internet for some reason. And it didn't seem to be the Biloxone 188 as a whole. It was like the, the, the quality of that Biloxone that was used. Right. The cheaper, more industrial grade Biloxone, what was added, it seemed to cause kidney stress. That's at least what the, the, the study showed. Yeah. So that's a manufacturing issue over in China, right? We're obviously the generic G H market is using un-pure ingredients to kind of stabilize G H. So you really have to be careful now from where you purchase your generics. Yeah. Well, that's, that was the purpose of this airston box. It was, they're just you, because you see the opposite. You might see some, Kratten and go up a little bit with G H. You don't see the other markers. They should improve over time with G H. Exactly. Yeah. And that's, we're seeing the opposite with the underground stuff. I mean, it's all the more, it's just a dependent matter. Seems more a quality, like impossible if it's really crappy quality stuff. You know, you might see the low dose. Yeah. I hear a lot more complaints now about low dose G H coming out of China and just generic, generic that are not branded, right? That are not part of like some reputable UGL that is not a UGL that has been doing this for years that has good connections. All these dodgy blue tops, yellow tops that people use or some new brand. They don't do the scrutinous third party testing or don't really know which of these peptide suppliers to source from. Yeah. They can issues make up a tunnel and three I use. I'm like, what the fuck dude? What are you talking about? You know, or just excessive water retention, a demon to I use for I use them. Yeah. If you take 10, I use a little bit of a DMA is to be expected. You might lose a little bit of veins. Yeah, but it goes away with time, right? You might lose a little bit of veins and then you take it out and your shred is fuck, but you get the same level of a DMA as creating supplementation. Right. So it's not the end of the world. But yeah, you're a lot more problems with like new brands, GH now or, and I don't know if that's the tariffs or the lockdowns, which we should also discuss the, the, the, the, the, you know, the more scrutinous production things they're trying to crack down on.  al emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions I'm working on this. This is the latest I've been in three years. It's like 201. Hey man, below 200 pounds is not a man. Slow down. I remember Erdogan was told this he can be below 90 kilos otherwise we can be friends with him. So I desperately try to keep over 90 kilos when I was off cycle. I'm just funny though. I'm still 15 pounds Yeah, you don't want to do classic man. It's your body but it's at heart. I don't know how you're squeezing that class Dean. Would you do classic in PCA? I think those weight limits are a little bit higher or not. They're a bit higher. I mean for when I done in PCA I just about dropped into, I think it was 90.6 was my cutoff. It was just 200 pounds. You've got no room to get excessively big as an open body better. That's your root of going. What's your height? 5'9"? 5'9", 176. He's a little bit taller than I am. Yeah, I'm 5'7". So I fell in class B, I think like tier two or whatever it is. I'm obviously at the top of the like between 5'8 and 5'9", I think is the cutoff in the MPC rule for that 90 kilo cutoff. Yeah, that's where I am. And I was 90 kilos when it was natural or on ATG monotherapy and I look like a skeleton. I was looking at some of the pictures and I was like, okay, I got a good X-frame but zero muscle there, man. I don't know, this is causing too much bone mineralization. Just make sure you're extra heavy. Yeah, yeah. So maybe I need to shave off a little bit. Maybe take some ribs out. Go to space. Yeah, go to space. Why don't you go faster though? Like your bone mineral density or your skeletal muscle mass? The whole thing, but then you grow the muscle back on a smaller frame and then make your classic. Yeah, I want to wait for classic. I go to space for a year. I heard that's what the monster does. He just spends a lot of space. He can afford it. I'm sure he can afford it. I didn't get that from him. I wonder where a classic is going to go now now that Mike Sommerfeld is kind of in the lead. It's such a different physique. It's bodybuilding. Mike Sommerfeld is a bodybuilder, you know, but he's got those classic lines. I mean, if you take the face away, it looks very close to door in yet. I don't know how he's so big at that weight. Again, he must have a super small frame. Yes, tiny waist. He's a tiny waist and he knows how to diet with Neil Hill. So, yeah, he wanted to go to Bali and he wanted to come to Thailand. Then I told him, don't do it, man. You'll sacrifice your place if you're coming. You have way too much fun. Yeah, I told him, just lock yourself somewhere in Dubai or Mexico, where you have access to all the stuff. Like here in Thailand, they've access to everything also. I told him, there's too much destruction here. You'll go nuts. So, hopefully, he can win the Mr. Olympia. And then when he retires, he can come to Thailand or Bali and enjoy himself. Because, you know, four or five years at the Olympia stage, I think then it's time to throw in the towel. This guy lives out of Airbnb. Can you believe it? He looks like that. He has no home. He lives out of Airbnb. He goes to Mexico for six months and then four months into Dubai. And he travels all over the place. It's insane. I wouldn't be able to do that. I go to Bali, I get fat and sloppy and, you know, getting in. Yeah, it's amazing. It's the nomadic life. And then look like that. It's not many people can do that. Well, not many people could do that, no matter what the environment was. So, I wouldn't be able to look like that even if I locked myself down in a home gym with a kitchen in a posing room. No way. I wouldn't be able to do it. Did you guys hear anything more about China and then the raw situation like mass strong, prima ball and stuff completely gone everywhere? All the under God lives that don't have it. There is some trickling into the United States. It's smaller, I guess. It's looked at differently, I guess, depending on the size of the whatever. Because I heard that production is just very, very low at the moment. Yes, Deca supposedly is not being produced. Why Deca? I don't know. Deca is specifically not MPP. Mast E, not Mast P, is gone. Anivar supposedly as well gone. Mast E might not be, I think people are speculating because Americans use mastino. It's trendy, so they just cut that out. There is some polymorphisms when Mastron's made. I don't know if you've seen this. There's like different isomers of Drostanolone that occur during the recrystallization process. Carbon 13 folds strangely, and so the molecule is different. So, even though it tests as Drostanolone, it's different. There's a hydrogen-hydrogen interaction. It's possible that during the enantiate process when they add that, that it causes that. It might be much more difficult to make. Perhaps it requires more reducing or something. Because when it's made, if you've ever seen mast E made versus mast P, when mast E is made, it turns jet black. It almost looks like Oh, you told us. It looks like thin motor oil versus mast P is like this really light yellow, like a beer. A mast E next to it is black in the container. And then when it's filtered, a lot of times the black goes away. You've never seen black mast E in a bottle. But it's when it's cleaned up for processing, it goes away. So there's something else occurring. It's possible that they either they've tried to cheapen the process and it didn't work or I'm just speculating on a chemistry point of view. I don't know why mast E. Could this isoform explain why some people get no estrogen suppression on mastro and some people do? It could be different. Yeah, I can send you stuff on it if you want to read about it. Please, yeah. Yeah. Interesting. So yeah, it seems that like all the undergird lives that I talked to that are reputable, they say that it's sourcing is really a problem and then they're looking in India, and none of them trust India producing for the rose. None of them to say that that's the last resort. You know, I'd rather not make anything than get my fucking rose from India. That's hilarious. The UK is pretty much dry it up. Well, so remember guys, when we told you to stock up? It took five months. It will never go away. It took five months, but I had a few consults where the question was proposed surrounding mast because Prima was next to impossible. And like I said, Prima Bowling, like even Rima Bowling, there's a lot of fakes and scornouts. Yeah, the wound down a production here, your left limited choice. We might see a renaissance of a test and deco come back from the 80s. Yeah, maybe Baldenon is making a comeback. You know, we want some aromatics and limiting effects. We want some estrogen lowering effects and still fullness and roundness and cosmetic benefits of test and Baldenon is what is going to discount all these studies on kidney problems. You know, then these kidney studies have never been reproduced in other steroids. So it's about a nose kidney toxic lack of evidence in the other steroids doesn't mean that those steroids are not kidney toxic. It just never been studied guys. Yeah, I mean, like what Kurt said, it was the crack name of the client that we looked at the bloods. Crack name. If you're looking at a blood like what you said, it's relatively useless marker not to put anything down on it, but it's increased with creating metabolism. And like we say with the oral steroids, potentially your increase in creating phosphate, which creates crack name. When you see an increase in crack name, the way I always view it is what is the baseline change. So like if if that guy's crack name was 1.3 and say that is with same standard diet, same standard cycle, same supplementation, creatine, protein, powders, whatever. And then he goes and gets blood work. And that baseline was say 1.01 and now it's at 1.3. Well, that's a big jump. You have to go by that big jump is telling you something. Whereas if you have raised crack name and I say it's 1.2 and then the next set of bloods was 1.22. But you're on your own creatine, you have excessive muscle mass, etc. You got stronger, you put on some size, then it's what happened to my blood work usually jumps up like a couple points. And that's why he also gets stronger. With the calculation of EGF4, the Crocsfort Geltz, as far as I remember, is what the normal. It really doesn't take into account muscle mass. It's just looking at a standardized linear excretion of creatine. That's why it's used. And so in a normal individual, they sort of have a known rate of clearance of crack and should be linear basically. But it's not as simple when you have somebody who has, 80 kilos of muscle mass on their frame and they're training excessively the day before raising creatine, kinase and creatine phosphate turnover and everything else that is where the cystatin C becomes more important. And then looking at DGF4 using creatine and cystatin C together. And it might be useful, you can put up on the screen, you can easily search for it. Crattening is a tiny molecule. Cystatin C is a big giant protein. You put them side by side, like pictorially. There's a huge difference between the structures that when you're measuring a small molecule, it's clearance and then a big protein that's part of the kidney. Yeah, so it's very small. Crattening, you look at cystatin C, it's huge. You put the terms up. I said, you get an understanding of why crattening versus cystatin C. If your cystatin C is raised, that is what you need to really action quickly. And then you can do calculations like there's several websites that will take into account. As much as I hate it, your BMI will give a relative understanding of how much muscle mass is on your frame relative to your height. So you can then work out what's the kidney filtration based off that. And it's more important to do that type of calculation because if you went to a hospital and you were given an intravenous drug, they'd do this more advanced calculation because they want to be sure of drug clearance rates based on your actual kidney health. Yeah, so all the pictures that I find are purchase pictures from stock image websites. So I'll overlay that here if you don't forget. So it's interesting. It's a big difference. It's huge. Let me see what the molecular weight is of cystatin C. It's a molecular weight. 13 kilodaltons. So that's 113 daltons of crattening versus 1300 or 13,000. Yeah, it's a big difference, right? A single polypeptide chain of 120 amino acids. It's like growth hormone. It's massive. And what you're looking with cystatin C is how much of it is being released from the kidneys into your bloodstream as a reflection of kidney damage. And then you're saying what you want to look at with blood towards kidney health is where where is albumin changed? If albumin drops, you're losing it through the kidneys as well. So you can check that with the urinalysis and your protein, right? You have a protein one or trace plus one plus two plus three and you can find those ranges of how much obiumin is in your urine, you know, how many milligrams per liter. And then you need to get alarmed. And then otherwise, you do a 24 hour urine collection test where you compare your serum cratin and serum urine or serum cystatin C to your urinary cratin and cystatin C. And then many times the real GFR, so without the E, the E stands for estimated, the true glomal effluxation rate is in the hundreds. You know, it's like 125. I've done this 24 hour urine collection test so many times and then you're your eGFR blood work is like 40. Fuck, I'm going to die. And then you do it at 24 hour urine collection test and then it's 127. You're like, oh, okay, it's totally fine then. You know, my my Cisatin C has never been under range, but cratinin is pretty high. Genetics. Have you guys ever noticed with clients that are on a high carbohydrate diet that their cratinin levels are generally lower than guys that follow a carnivore or ketogenic or more high carb or high protein diets? With less make sense. Yeah. You're using its protein as energy. Exactly. Yeah. So my creatinine is usually a little bit higher because my protein intake is higher. And then I have zero carbs to compensate for that. Yeah, carbs are low. So that's what I always notice that you know, just you're going to excrete amino acids. Yeah. And then instead of utilizing the carbohydrate for energy, you use the proteins, you know, so you got more right waste, right? Because it's going to be exactly the glucogenic amino acids out in the rest of going to come waste. Exactly. Exactly. Dean, you sound so clear. It's amazing. Morgan, the joke to me, she's like, when I was coming back from Southampton, when I messaged you and said, these are the mics, I'm looking at, I get her to courtesy like message of, I'm buying this for podcasts, and she didn't reply back. And then she looks at the bank statement and she goes, what's this true and you're found from Amazon? I told her I was buying a microphone and then she's like, it's one consultation. Yeah, well, and then she turns around and goes, well, if you got to spend 300 on a mic, I'm going up there. And then it's like, Morgan, you don't realize that this is a business expense. And she's like, well, such and such, what she was looking for, like a new pair of runners or something or shoes, she was like, that could be a business fence. I'm like, no, that's not how it works. Yeah, you've been on Nels podcast again, right? And another podcast recently, we're all with the new mic. So I was listening to those and like, fuck man, it's going to be a big difference. So yeah, good stuff. I mean, it was well, well needed. I mean, I even, like I said to you, I must send you a picture of God, a mini USB fan connected to the camera now, so we can't overheat of a dummy camera, a dummy battery running into this power pack, because the last few times, I didn't realize that over time, the battery in the ZV1 will actually discharge faster than USBs charging it. So you should run off a dummy battery. So right, yeah, so mine is mine is always connected. That doesn't have a battery attached anymore. So so with this pro setup, you got to do more content man, time to blow some light into your YouTube channel. Like I said before, once you get to this age of like four, five, six kids have activities every evening. And like you, that nine to five hour, you know, you want to stay in the office for that time and then you've got your evenings and your morning time. I'm doing, I'm only doing nine to five now. I'm, I'm, I think I did 60 hours a week, 70 hours a week since I was graduated to 21 years old. And even when I was at university, I would do studying and then do family stuff, because we had some family issues going on with divorces and stuff. So I'd help the family out and then find ways to go to the gym and work. So like last month or after Bali was like, I don't want to do this anymore. I really, I really do not want to spend my whole day working and then work from like, you go to the gym from nine to 11 and then 12 to three, I would still work. And I'm like, I can't do this. So now I'm playing oblivion, play video games in the middle of the night. It's great, man. When people look for consults from me, because I'm in the UK, I get a lot of activity from the US or from Australia of all places. And my errors don't change. Like, oh, I'm in Eastern time. I'm like nine hours behind you. I'm like, well, my last slots of the day are like four, four 30, five PM at a stretch. I try and be out here five. But if I need to, I might let a council go five PM, no later than five 30. And sometimes you get like, someone begging you for it later one. And I'd be like, well, if you want to cancel a five 30, it's going to be double the right. And I'm going to have to sort stuff up Morgan. And then what are times it's like, I've got guys who wake up at three 30 in the morning to have a concert with me. And I'm like, well, you're making a sacrifice when I meet me. These are my errors. Yep. But you don't know, we're the cream of the crop, man. You don't, you don't have to sacrifice shit. And people cringe at my rates, but I still get them. You know, why are you, why is it so? Supply demand. Yeah. And then said, do you know anybody cheaper? See, I have to mon every month. I go to Dino exact, if not even more on certain subjects than I do. And, and they're still affordable now. But for how long I can guarantee. For me, it's I'm just full. Like people buy, I'm like, well, I got a spot one spot two weeks from now. Take it. How fuck is the is it Debussy? I mean, I was, I will only work between 12 and five. That's it. Yeah. I've got many clients that I have. I can't get in any less than that. But I work on Monday through Friday. I'll respond like, depending on how much someone's paying me, I might respond to stuff outside of that like a text. I'm not working outside of that. Why there's zero. No, I know. But if you're both two weeks in advance, then that's another time to increase the rate. Yeah. But you guys get it. Like what? There's a certain amount of money that doesn't matter anymore. It's not going to prove my quality of life. No. So it's like, no, no, no, no. Yes. Yes. Yeah. You could make more money. But like, I'm not going to work more to do it. I would race my race to do it. I do it. Yeah. So that's what you've been doing. Yeah. For you. For other people. Hell no. No. Hell no. No, no. It's the best being self-employed and setting your own days. Like you literally like my wife fucking kills herself. My wife must work in yours. We choose the head web designer for a marketing company. She does that. She does the NF. So anything National Football League in the United States, their logo, their internal stuff, she does. Like the Super Bowl. She does all of that. She does just one of her projects that she has to work on. And she makes good money, but she's not paid for what she does. If she had the NFL on her own, she'd make 100,000 a month. I mean, I don't even know what charges them. But it's like, you don't get paid what you deserve when you work for someone else. No, but that's the same as when I was a business consultant. I'd charge like $5 to $7 per hour and you see a fraction of that. And you know, I go to the company. I know. I get every time. I made a joke last night because I'm taking my son on a fishing, like a charter fishing boat. Like, and it's not like we've been promising this and that, you know, and my wife was like, you know, it's a lot of money. And I said, well, hold on one second. Let me ask my boss for a raise. It's been a long time. Let me. Okay. Let's not worry about it. Please just enjoy it. That was the whole segue of Steve said about the mic. And when I was flying back from the UK, I texted more, it was like a buying this mic from Amazon. It's like 300 pounds sterling. She didn't reply. And then when she looks back at the bank state, she's like, what's this 300 pounds for an Amazon? The mic for podcasts. And then it turned into, well, you bought a mic. I'm going to have to spend money on like runners or something. Just let them just let them because in the end, the women are part of your success, right? Without them, you wouldn't be able to do it. So like my wife's on the payroll now, I give her like 5k a month just to help out. And that's only, yeah, of course I wanted to retire her. So I said, no more, no more PT. Just work for me now. Here's 5k a month, which is insane in Thailand. It's like 10k everywhere else. So, you know, and she just lives off that and spends her money and she's an expert now in giving birth. So I don't have to do any of that research. And then she keeps everything tidy, you know, regarding the operation. So it's a big thing. And if you guys can do the same, you know, I, my wife won't stop. She's, she always says, no, so my, my wife is very stubborn as well. But if you like, I think Chase finally got his wife on board. She was also very stubborn for two years, not to get on board. And he said, as soon as I did that, my income increased. So I got to wait for all the time. I think I get stuck doing, you'll see very soon, there's domestic things that have to be done, right? So like, I have to stop like every day, there's an hour that we have to go get the kids from school, right? That hour, I could be making hundreds of dollars if I wasn't getting the kids. So if she didn't work, she could handle that. I also at five, I stopped when I make dinner for everyone. If I didn't have to grocery shop in the morning and cook dinner and do all those other things, my income would double. I would make more. So this is, I finally got it through to her said, listen, I know these things are a little bit housewife. It's and but if I spend more time working, if I get like eight solid hours, and of course I was getting like 14 skies the limit for me. So I'd rather pay you to do all of that and delegate to more money working more. No, my wife's on salary. She doesn't get shit for working more. Yeah. So so slowly like inception it slowly. And then at one point when she starts working for you, she's like house operations manager. That's what I call my wife, CEO of the house. Everything runs smoothly, right? I don't have to do shit just to make money. So you pay her like a fat salary that's more than she would make herself. And then your salary will double. Of course, I know it's just kind of time for her to be convinced. It takes time. Yeah. And then money now she gives it to the kids. Like if I give her cash, she puts her in the safe for my son. That's for you. I give him money. Like you not just like to spend just just next time you go on a holiday. At the end of the holiday pitch it. That's what I did. Yeah. So why don't you just come work with me not for me because you know, I don't want to work. No, no, my wife gets it. I can't do any of the computer stuff without her. But I could do more computers. I can make more podcasts if she helped me. Exactly. So if she helps you make more money by doing the back end stuff that you can't do or don't want to do, that's what my wife does. She edits it. I mean, I'm a horrible recorder. But then in the final product, it's nice. I guess that her and stumble over my words and these medical jargons, it's fucked up. But if she does that for like a couple hours a video and then helps the house operations going, so all I have to do is work and earn money. And then when I earn money, it's so much that I can afford her salary and staff and nice holidays. And then still have money to save on the sides because the upside potential of what we do because we're on social media is just insane. Right. Yeah. I mean, even here at Delegate Morgan, we got a cleaner. And she pitched it to me and we have a lovely woman comes in once per week for four hours and does like deep cleaning things like if Morgan likes cleaning the house, but just takes time away from family activity that this woman was in deep cleans the bathrooms, like does benign things that you wouldn't want to spend time on that. Right. Then I'm like tomorrow and if that gives you more free time because I'm in here regardless, then you've got four hours on a Thursday to work more or go do other errands that you had a delegation or just do nothing. Yeah. You know. So, so yeah, that's the best decision I've ever made. Put the wife in the payroll fully and then she can do whatever she wants and then allows me to make more money and that making more money is literally double because then you have time for podcasts, you have time for content and the more you put yourself out there, the more you hoard yourself out on social media, even though it's terrible, the more money you make, it's a linear. It's a little linear. You know. So yeah, that will be my recommendation. Let's discuss one more topic before we close off this podcast. 10 if that's possible. 10. Yeah, yeah, we'll make it work. So the tariffs in the US, it's of course, it's a fear mongering tactic to, you know, manipulate the economy and now Trump wants to apply tariffs to movies. So that's putting some fear. But what I've been wondering since the tariffs came in, especially with the Chinese terrorist war, a lot of products that we use come from China. A lot of people don't even know that the peptides that they use are coming from China and that a little bit scary like, oh, it's coming from China. The Rosar coming from China with the pharmaceuticals company uses that like the growth hormone is all produced in China and then three packages in the United States, even the pharmaceutical ones. Read the, if you look at the Bayesian testosterone studies, look at the bottom under the conflict of interest stuff, we enlist all the vendors. The Ros, the testee was from China's labs. Yeah. So people have no idea that that's actually coming from China. But now with the terror for 30%, 50%, 100%, 150%. So I'm wondering if that's going to affect the stair prices, if that actually is going through, like everything that I know about economy eventually will affect our business. So that means that that stair prices and other stuff will go up, not because you have to pay tariffs upon importation in Thailand or in America or other parts of the world because it's all shipped stealthily, right, at least through the undergird labs, but it's simply a cascade downwards on production because they have to divert some of the legitimate, the legitimate products that they're now losing money on to the illegitimate products that go through a different supply chain. So I do think eventually it will go up the prices by how much will it go up 150%, 250%, it wouldn't surprise me. I guess you guys heard anything through your connections because I know that my connections just say that sourcing is a little bit more of an issue. Now whether that's those are peptides or Ros, those are predominant stuff that we use, and that some of the prices have gone up, but that's not directly the effect of tariffs. It's mostly due to the restrictions. So is it gear included in this? Yeah, everything. I understand that market better than the peptide stuff. I think that there was an initial shortage which drove out of the small, the small like home brewers that were doing small quantities, they basically dried out. They couldn't afford to buy, Rosr couldn't get them in. There's a couple, a handful of bigger ones, they were able to survive through, they raised their prices, perhaps prematurely or too much. Now that stuff's still trickling in, the prices are actually starting to come back down to some degree. A lot of those things, certain things like a Masty, which is nearly impossible to find, will stay high, Primo will stay high, even though there is Primo production going on. I just, I mean, I think they're going to come down short term as it was an overreaction, I think, to the shortage. Could be. But what's left in the US is a lot of, what I see is a lot of just junk, like just stuff that just shouldn't, like, and you, within the bodybuilding world, you have a lot of people that are very prey sensitive, and so they would use a $30 bottle of absolute garbage versus spending 50 on something that's going to be good, and then they complain about getting lumps and burns and. Did you guys notice that in the consultation request that problematic or injection side problems are more common? Trash is out there now because people are cutting right there. It's, it's like what happened in the other, like recreational drugs.  alfalfa-marco-roly-co-king, it's cut. Fourth and done, you'll do the same with steroids. So it's supposed to be 100 milligrams of putting less in. There's a more filler's, you know, a good example is also just manufacturing process. Like, if Primo's cooked over 205 degrees of gels, it needs more BA. So it's gonna burn. You're injecting more alcohol. If, you know, Tessif is cooked over 150, it's gonna gel. And it requires more solvent. Like all these things, there's a very exact way to do all these things. And the guy that's doing it in his bathtub doesn't know that. He's just putting it on a stove and letting it cook. And when it starts to smoke, he pulls it off. And then you have to make a liquid against it. You're getting a lot of that crap against it. So it's not filtered. You know, filters cost money. They're hundreds of dollars for the proper filters. Yeah. And if it's not filtered, you're injecting sediment in yourself that shouldn't be there. Certain drugs are filthy. The other is E.Q. is filthy. Deca is really filthy. Tessif is filthy. Tremblone has a lot of filth, especially acetate. Yeah. And if the guys aren't spending a couple hundred bucks on filters and they're just bottling stuff, it's going to hurt. That's what I see in my DMs and consultation requests is that the rate of post-injection problems are increasing. Yeah. Because it's junk that's left out there. The majority of the stuff out there is garbage. Yeah. That I think should level out as to supply slowly creeps back up to where it was. But it's wild. You think it's coming back though? Like I have heard in your reports that production is being for a ramp up. I guess in other areas of that country, there are factories still making stuff. It's just not in the region. Again, I don't know what goes on with the government there because they regulate all that stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So a lot of them in certain places are not others. I don't know what the underlying stuff is that's going on, but it seems that it's not, nonexistent just those compounds we listed before seem to not be, they're not produced right now. I don't know why. Yeah, and there's no ETA when it's coming back. So I just talked up on test primo, you know, my straw coat a bit, whatever I could find it in all the guys that I know that produce that are reputable, they'd say that we just can't do it. And we don't trust any of the suppliers that are out there right now that say that they have it. Because the last thing we want is to, you know, have problems with our customers and then don't come back because it's very competitive now the market. And the last thing you want is to do dirty on your customers and then give them junk and then sit out this brand is now, you know, going belly up and we were not coming back even when they start producing quality again. I had to, what have you heard so far? Well, I had a client send me a bottle of prima boleum from an underground lab in Europe and it was bright green, metanolone like so. I'm looking at it and it's like McDonald's shamrock green color. And we put some methylene blue in there. They put the Dr. Dean special and they made injectable methylene blue. That's more bio available now. And this client was like, I'm gonna take a guess that there's no metanolone or prima boleum in this vial. I'm like, unless you want like Hulk blood, I would not be putting that anywhere near you. Like was it really green green? Like really, really green. Like, you know the way when you can have like a touch of yellow from potential oxidation when the overcooked things, this was green. This was like copper green. I don't know what's going on where I was seeing experienced person would look at it and go, I'm not going near that, but you have maybe some newbies to speak that don't know these things or just get a bottle. And they're like, oh, it's green, okay. And then it goes. Yeah, trying to train it's orange and Primo's green and the master is black and, you know, I saw, I saw a bottle that was labeled Primo that when you flipped it over to where you would normally as the ingredients, it's a testosterone propanate on the back. To the reason being honest, they didn't bother changing the back. Yeah. So I used to get these questions on the Q and A or by DMC, I took Primo Steve, you said that Primo was an aromatasein, I better should bring our estrogen down but my estrogen doubled when I went to the test of Primo. Yes, your system more testosterone. Such a shame though that this like, and with less pharmaceuticals, like the pharmaceutical anivar is almost impossible to find only Iran produces that. So there is no, yeah, they took that off. But then, but I believe rematental and acetate tablets are making a comeback. It's not approved yet. And regarding the peptide stuff, like I know Curtis not really in touch with the peptide manufacturers, but Dean is, have you heard something similar that the prices of peptides might increase at one point also? Not yet, not yet. And obviously I'm very close to the owner of a company and nothing has been filtered through. I've heard some rumors that they're worried, not confirmation, but that eventually that the peptide might increase due to the tariffs or limited trade operations between the US and China. Now, of course the company you work with is not in America, but some of the, yeah, some of the affiliates that I work with are based in America and the source in China. And that means that through supply chain, either they have to find an intermediary company, a country where they store, so the Dubai trade free zone, for example, or another trade free zone in Singapore where they could just China, Singapore and then due to the tariffs there in the trade free zone, they should be able to circumvent it. But yeah, some of some companies are a little bit worried that direct shipping or even the compounding pharmacies in the US, some of them produce locally, they get the raw from China, so there's a way around that. But then if they buy the vials directly, like it's five milligram, 10 milligram, 15 milligrams vials directly from China, that the prices might increase eventually. But I think again, with the tariffs, I don't think it's going to last because it just affects the economy and I think it's just a scare tactic to manipulate the market. Do you okay signed off on a metals deal? I heard it earlier, so they've been not forced into but like an aluminium and a couple of other metals deals from tariffs from the US, so that's signed off. Supplement ingredients, obviously we get some from China because you have obviously all these botanical companies and dietary supplement manufacturers, like they make medications and peptides and whatever else. With Ireland and important into the UK and Ireland, where we have manufacturers, there's been no price increase on our side from that perspective. And then I asked about dietary whey protein as an insight. This is another heads up. Whey protein isolate has gone to town in terms of pricing. So if you're looking at whey protein isolate, it has gone up by about five British sterling per kilogram for one kilo of raw, which if you do some research, you'll start to see a drought to speak whey protein isolate. Me personally, I've stopped the air whey protein isolate powder for the time being because the cost price of it is astronomically higher. I just can't justify inflating a retail price to bring the product in with the global increase in the raw. No, Amino spiking? No, I'm not. That's a mortarine in there. This is probably like that. With Amino spiking the new, well, I won't say new, but again, I wouldn't do it as protein blends where you'll get companies blending whey isolate, hydrolyze whey, whey concentrate into a product. To try and create a whey protein isolate product that is a blend. So pay attention. You'll see all the big players move in this direction. And if you look at marketing trends analysis, even the big companies like bulk manufacturing companies that would hold the big share of stuff like whey protein and EAAsis that my type of business would produce, but wouldn't be an anchor or a flagship without giving away names of companies. They're gonna start increasing prices of their protein. So if it's not already happened, somebody is like big bulk companies, if you use a lot of whey protein isolate, I would suggest like what we gave the heads up with the raw situation, whey protein isolate is something to buy now at whatever price you're buying at before it really takes off. Because who like, if I was to release our whey, isolate again, and we buy a really high quality whey isolate rods 90%, so 27 grams per 30 gram serving. If I was to bring that in with that increase in raw, the price inflation brings like a kilo of whey isolate to about 49 to 50 pounds sterling that. Me as a consumer would not pay that. So that's about $30 for a pound? Yeah, roughly, yeah. Fuck. You're, you know. A pound of product for $40. With a bit of insight again on an education perspective, what classically happens, because obviously there's farms in Ireland and Dairy and whatever, farmers normally have a choice between beef manufacturing and dairy. So when beef is in high demand, they just slaughter the cows and keep making beef. And when there's dairy demand, they'll raise the cows to an older age, keep milking it, keep selling the milk. And obviously the dairy produce that come from the milk extraction. But they have now high beef demand and high dairy demand. So they're able to basically go, do I kill the cow early? Do I grow the cow quickly and kill it early? Do I get the meat demand? Or do I pasture it and keep getting the money out of dairy? That they have the run of the mill now where it's boucher in high demand. So that means that prices are going up, because you can choose. And the only way I can sort of see it from a smart perspective is you're trying to feed into that demand for a time period and see, does some of the price drop as a consequence of the lower demand. But it doesn't look like other people want to follow my strategy and they're just gonna start inflating. The price of whey is gonna inflate drastically, which isn't a good thing. Which isn't a good thing. Those who rely on low casein or low lactose whey isolates. Well, when you look at the bigger picture, this entire industry relies on whey protein. So when you go to the expos, how many of those companies there are just have whey protein on their product list? And when you extrapolate, let's say the price goes up 20% and the demand goes down, then the expos gets smaller, then there's less money in the sport, the price money goes down and this all trickles down then. Yeah, so fingers crossed it doesn't get that far, but it wouldn't surprise me. Maybe an economic recession is kind of brewing. So it wouldn't surprise me that prices of everything are going up and then the income is coming down. And then since bodybuilding is still a hobby for most, then the demand for everything regarding bodybuilding and fitness is going down also along with the recession. Well, well times ahead. To put into perspective, the price of whey isolate, raw whey isolate five years ago was about 120% lower than it is now. So that's how much it's inflated. And then creating obviously, what happened with the economic downturn of 2020, creating skyrocketed due to production being starved basically. At one point, like one kilo of creatine was around, like raw price was about four pound raw. And now it's nearly triple that. And it stayed there. And that's why creatine at one point in time was very, very cheap to buy as a supplement. And now you're spending like $30, $35 probably for 500 grams. It had to go up with that increase in price of raw. And that's sort of, you know, my transparency I've always said with our company that you let people know these things that I'm not, I'm not willing to put the price up because of the increase in the raw. So save up under. Yeah, it's better just, yeah, save up or just don't produce it. So why don't you produce creatine or whey isolate just because it's too expensive and it doesn't make sense for the end consumer. So, you know, or at least for the manufacturing process. I know Kurt's got to go. So let's wrap it up here. When your anniversary Annabelle Groundtable, we got many more years to discuss cool stuff. So thank you guys so much both of you for joining in and showing up every month consistently because doing this podcast consistently with other people. I possible dude, impossible. Kurt, Dean, any parting words for this one year anniversary? No, just thank you to everyone who's tuned in every month to listen to us ramble on for an hour and a half to two hours. They fucking love it, man. They can't live without it. Big names can't live without the Annabelle Groundtable. Trust me, you'll see when you get to the expose. Did you, Dean, did you go to Germany? No, right? You didn't go to the FIBO? No, no, the end. We ended up going to Poole for that Easter vacation. So I never went in the end. Probably a story for another time who I was helping out to pull out a show. Yeah, say that for the next podcast. Say the truth. Cool. Thanks guys so much for joining other social media links are down below as usual. And we'll see you next month with a boatload of new topics to break the internet yet again. Dean Kurt, I'll see you guys next month. Bye. Thank you.