I don't always want to do these, but I said I would. So, I keep my word. And most of you guys listening to this right now have said something in the last 24 hours that I guarantee you you didn't follow through on. I don't know what it is. Maybe you were going to hit the gym. maybe, you know, didn't happen. Or you'd cut the sugar or stop eating like crap or you dipped into that peanut butter jar again or you told yourself today was the day that you'd make that phone call, start the business, fix your marriage, stick to a better routine, but you you didn't you didn't. So, let me tell you something that most people it has to do with your money. this entire thing. I made $100,000 in a phone call. And it's not to brag. There are people that make $100,000 blinking. But I'm telling you because a lot of you guys listening to this don't. So, I'm giving you the secret to do this cuz I didn't either. And now I do. But you're broke because your word is is worthless. It's worthless. You have no friends because your word is worthless. And the friends you do have are worthless. You have a miserable, sexless, dull, tired, just dying marriage because your word is worthless. Your kids don't respect you because your word is worthless. You're tired because your life is cluttered with these broken promises and your confidence is non-existent because of it. Because every day you see the evidence that you can't even trust yourself. So, flip it. I said like I made a h 100red grand off of one single phone call and I did it twice actually in the same week and not because I promised results which is what a lot of you guys are doing with your business. Let me promise all these results not because I had this 16-week video series with nothing but upsells the whole time in trainer eyes or wherever I am or kayabi or whatever you guys you call it Kajjabi. And honestly, not because I handed out some revolutionary app or lifestyle plan. None of that. The deal was this. You get my training, one phone call a month. You can message me. One sheet nutrition guide. A one sheet, one piece of paper nutrition guide. You guys, in your 50page books, no handholding or coddling or excuses or whiny boooos or nothing. And I got paid in full twice. Oh, no way, bro. I'm not here to prove things to you. I'm here to just explain how things work. The reason is because I keep my [\h__\h] word. Listen, here's why. In a world where it's 99% of people flinch, delay, lie, distract, procrastinate, and lie not just to other people, but to themselves, I don't miss ever. And that alone makes me so much more valuable than any other program on the market. Keeping your word is the last real currency in the world. I mean, fiat currency is has nothing behind it. Most people's empty lives have nothing behind them, right? But it's how you build your body, your bank account, business, your life, your beliefs. It's how you build everything is keeping your word. And it sounds simple because it is. But it's just not easy. We've heard this before. It sounds simple, but it's not easy. It's not easy because most of you guys have trained yourself neuroplasticity. It's what I said before. You've trained yourself to think it's okay to explain away why you can't keep your word because keeping your word involves you killing your comfort and you don't like that because it goes against all the training you've put in where you lie. So, here I'll I'll let me paint the picture. I dropped a comment on a podcast. I don't remember when it was. A week and a half, two weeks ago. Just off the cuff, just truth. I just said, "Listen, if you" cuz I got I'm tired. You know why I don't train? Cuz people are just about to send me messages. Are you training people again, bro? No. No, I'm not. You want me to train you? It's 100 grand. Because I want to price myself out of all of you people that will not listen. You don't listen. You just want easy. And you other you personal trainers, you online personal training experts that think you're so smart with these long drawn out programs and these convoluted ways and hieroglyphics and mathematics you use to to come up with caloric load and caloric expenditure. I'll help you right now. You want to lose weight, take your body weight in pounds, times it by 12, eat that. Take that same body weight, times it by one, that's how much protein you eat every day. Eat the protein before you eat anything else. And then the remaining calories are what you can eat all day. And it doesn't matter what you eat. I don't care. And if 12 doesn't work, times it by 10. That's it. You guys in your [\h__\h] up programs and your stupid formulas that you come up with, that's it. I'm right. If anyone else says I'm not, look at me and look at them. I have the results and it's not arrogant or egotistical. When you actually have the results, it's called a resume. So, I made this statement and this it pisses me off because you guys are just a bunch of cynics and skeptics because you're believing the wrong people, which actually comes back to you guys don't even believe yourselves. So, you guys have no followthrough in yourself, which means everybody else has no followthrough either, which is exactly what this entire episode is predicated on. So, I said, if you want me to train you, it was on the podcast. 100 grand, it's $100,000. You get my workouts, you get one phone call a month, you can message me, you get a direct line to me, you get a one sheet nutrition guide that explains everything like I just did. No fluff, no filler, no cuddles and hugs and no sympathy. Zero. If you're tired or stressed or sore or sick or you have a boo boo or whatever the hell it is, that's it. You get no fancy welcome box, no live Zooms, no check-in calls, no 247 online AI support with a bot that can answer all your feeling questions. Just my raw protocol, one call and a demand to get it done anyway. That's it. What's funny is the reaction by some of you guys. You guys sent me messages in my DMs. Losing your mind. You got to be kidding me, bro. 100K for what? Your big [\h__\h] ego. That was my favorite one. $100,000 for this guy's ego. No way. No one's going to pay you that. Oh, this gets even better. The one that stuck with me the most. I love this one. Why would anyone pay you when they could do this all for free? That's the mindset of average mediocre babies. The ones that say, "I'll start Monday." That's your crowd. Because you think the game is about information. And you're the same people that are trying to sell programs where you give them 200 steps and you think you're just I'm flooding them. I have a 17-hour video series. Yeah, but can you give it to me in in 10 minutes? But it's 17 hours. I have all this great stuff. That's how good it is. I don't think it's that good. I think you just suck at teaching. Give it to me in 10 minutes. I want the cliffnotes version. Give me the synopsis. It's not about information. It's about execution and credibility with yourself. So, this guy hits me up a couple of days later after I said this. It actually came out of the blue. Hey, were you and I didn't know. I just it came across my DMs. Are you serious about that $100,000 deal? Absolutely. Am I not going to say something I don't mean? Again, keep my word. You know what he says? He goes, "I've tried everything. I've done the coaching. I've bought into the groups. I've had the one-on ones. I've gone to the gym. I've done it online. I've bought these crazy programs and none of them worked." And he says, "You know why? Because I didn't believe any of those people were serious. I didn't believe that they'd follow through. And I damn sure didn't believe I would either because of it." And then he said something that made me stop. But I I believe you will, which means I have to. And just like that, one wire transfer later, one client, $100,000. And the bottom listening to this thinks he paid for a training program and got ripped off, which is why you're still struggling. What do you think he was paying for? He wasn't paying for access. He wasn't paying for more information. not some dripbed accountability funnel that sends him little messages on trainer eyes every day. Some of you guys are doing this so wrong. He was paying for the gravity and the weight of my word. I show up here every day. I've done this podcast every day. I've shown up every day doing what? And see, showing up isn't enough. By the way, before you go, so I show up. No, no, no. I show up and I do what I say. Exactly. And I build the standards of today on the winds of yesterday. So he is paying for the power of my word because when somebody know when somebody knows listen when somebody knows that you do what you say you'll do 100% of the time every time without fail they start believing that they can do it too. That's what makes a good coach, a good leader, a good teacher, everything. That's the game changer. You don't need a thousand leads. You need to be undeniable and you can get mad, but I'm right because I'm the one that got the wire, but I also have the results. And instead of getting upset about it and going, "This guy's it's not an ego when when it's when you have the results." Like I said, it's a resume. And here's here's the downward spiral that happens. And nobody, this is why nobody wakes up one day and says, "I want to become unreliable." And I think that's what you guys think happens. You just wake up one day and you're fat, you're broke, you're divorced, you're unreliable, you're a loser, you're an addict, all this stuff. But none of that. It happens through these micro compromises that you make every [\h__\h] day. The ones that you guys rationalize, the ones you guys call balance or you explain it away or I just have one more thing to do, bro. I'm almost there. We're so close, bro. I'm just about there. The ones that you pretend are no big deal until your whole life reflects them right back at you. It starts with skipping, you know, the end of a workout. I just got another 10 reps. I don't have time. I can't do it. Shaving down your workout by 5 10 minutes. Then you leave work early on a Friday. Just this one time. Then it's, you know what, just a teaspoon of peanut butter past your macros. Except your teaspoon is the size of a soup ladle. Then it's the cheat meal that you shouldn't be having. It's another day off just to reset. That's my favorite. Dude, I just need to do a quick reset. I'll start tomorrow. That's the other one. I'll start tomorrow. I'll clean it up Monday. I'll start on Monday. I'll get it together when the kids are back in school, when the kids are out of school, after the holiday, once this thing calms down, you know, once once I download this new app, once you download that new app, once the new once the new day planner arrives, once I get that new Google update, whatever the [\h__\h] it is you guys come up with, they're all lies. And every single one of those justifications is teaching a nervous system one thing. Neuroplasticity, remember, my word is flexible. My word can be compromised if I want. You don't even realize what you're doing. You guys don't. You're not just skipping tasks, folks. Listen to me. You're not. You're transferring a skill. You think skills can't be negative? Absolutely. You can learn how to be a piece of [\h__\h] just as much as you can be a hero. You are transferring a skill and you're training yourself to be loyal to your logic. Your logic, not your standards. That's a real problem because then you wake up and you've got a business that you don't believe in. A social media that you don't show up for, a wife that you don't care about, kids you don't do anything for, a body you don't recognize because it's shaped like a bean bag, a marriage that you're resentful in, and a life that you talk about changing but don't. And why? Because your subconscious is so wired up to see every promise you make as optional, you don't do anything else. The weakest thing that a man can do is break his word. You're a coward if you break your word. I just want to throw punch you because I know my wife and I relied on somebody and all he did was [\h__\h] us over. So, the weakest thing a man can do is break his word. The strongest thing he can do, eliminate that option completely. It doesn't exist. But you guys fall back on this weird thing. I saw it the other day about when somebody anytime somebody talks about balance, you guys lose your minds on social media. What about burnout, bro? It's real. Burnout. Dude, you guys throw that around like candy. Halloween. Just throwing it into bags. I hear this a Spartan. Bro, it's not healthy to go hard like this all the time. You're going to get burned out. You can't. It's unsustainable is my favorite one. I've been doing this for 4 years every day. I haven't missed. But it's unsustainable. You need more balance. It's not healthy. That's not healthy at all. What What are you doing this all for if you can't enjoy your life? What about your nervous system? Your CNS is fatigued. Yeah. Okay. I'm a doctor, so that's [\h__\h] first of all. Second of all, I get up at 5:30 every morning. I usually don't stop working until 10 at night. I've recorded a podcast every single day since the beginning. I've never missed a workout in 4 years. Not one. Not one. I've gone to bed at 4:00 a.m. and I've gotten up an hour later just to keep my word because I say, "I'm going to get up at 5." And you know what? I ain't burned out, son. When have you ever seen me dragging? You haven't. All that's in here is coffee. I'm not burned out, anxious. I'm not lost. I am dialed the hell in. You know, you guys get so angry at these talking heads, but that's because you're listening to the wrong ones. You're listening to the ones that make you feel good about where you are instead of demanding that you change to be somebody better. And when you say you can't grind all the time, you can't do this, it's not sustainable. But I the work I like the work. I [\h__\h] love it. It's not stress. It's that's my sanctuary. Those are the reps that make me bulletproof. Like you guys, people that scream about burnout are usually drowning in things they never needed to be doing in the first place, ever. You've got 20 open loops spinning everywhere in your in your brain. You've got 12 side hustles, four coaches, three business models, and 19 browser tabs. all open at once and you're shocked that you're exhausted. I tell people all the time when they join my my business mastermind, don't come to me with a new business idea until the business idea we're working on is at a million dollars a year. And I get people all the time. I don't even I don't answer them. I don't care how much you paid me. I will tell you, go back to your original business until that's at a million dollars a year. And I'll ask, is that at a million dollars a year yet? No. Go back to that one first. But they I got this business idea I want to run by you. I got this other thing I want to run by you. Hey, I have this really cool business thought I want to run by you, but you're the one you you're doing right now isn't even where you should be. How can you add something to the plate when the one like you haven't even finished eating that? That's what you guys are doing. You're wondering why you're overwhelmed and stressed out and burned out because you're saying yes to a bunch of useless things. Burnout is not from effort. Like, you're shocked that you're exhausted by doing that. It's from indecision. That's where burnout comes from. It's from piling things on that shouldn't be shouldn't be there. They should have been deleted months ago, years. They shouldn't even be there. You should look at them go, I can't do that. Learn to say no. Like you're like a hooker. Just yes on your back, legs apart. Like you want to stop feeling overwhelmed and stop overcommitting. Say no to everything that doesn't directly move you closer to the life that you claim that you want. And for God's sakes, stop breaking your word and calling it self-care and mental health. Listen, I I'll tell you, you know, instead of me sitting here just bagging on you guys, cuz sometimes I do that cuz you guys piss me off. But you piss me off because I care. See, that's the thing. It's like when I give my kids I give them [\h__\h] I give my son or my daughter [\h__\h] It's not because I want to bag on my son or daughter. It's because I actually give a [\h__\h] And I know when you're on the other side of that equation and you're the kid, God, my dad is just he's so strict. No, he loves you that much. That's what this is. Take it how you want it, but I love you that much that I demand that your standards are higher because I want you to win. But you can't win with low standards. It is absolutely impossible. So, here's how you clean this all up. Get a notebook. notebook or piece of paper, whatever. Open a dock on your Don't I was gonna say open a dock on your computer. Don't do it. Use a piece of paper. I like it. My grandfather always said short pencil far better than a long memory. So, use that. Just grab something in something to write with. Divide your life into two categories. Put a line right down the center. This moves me toward my towards my goals. This moves me away from my goals. That's it. That's it. No gray line, no fuzzy area, no kind of sort of, well, it helps. Well, it's not really that bad. No, it either moves you forward towards what you want specifically or not. And then take a mental machete and cut a deep, jagged, bloody [\h__\h] line through everything in the category 2. The one where none of this moves me towards my goals. All of it. Everything. Listen, I'm trying to help you. That the stupid third side hustle that hasn't made a dollar in 18 months, gone. The guy in the circle who drains your energy, gone. The guy who keeps making promises and then pushing out the day to fruition, it's been a year, two years, [\h__\h] gone. The Netflix that you have running in the background, the HBO that you have running on in the background that you leave on all the time, gone. Turn that off. The gym that you that you just never push hard in, so you come out, you're like, "Ah, my workout was okay." Gone. Go there and bleed. Spit up lung tissue and you're done. the podcast episodes that you plan to get back to someday, either producing or listening to and taking notes on, like this one. Just whatever. Either do them or delete them. Now, take the first category. All of the things that move you towards your goals, that move that needle, finish every single one. Don't add more. Don't add in something else at the bottom. Don't overthink it, which is what you're going to want to do. Just execute. Just do that. Because here's what's going to happen. confidence is going to explode. It's going to return because you don't have it right now. All that clarity comes back. All your fatigue gone. Because the moment that you stop negotiating with the average mediocre little [\h__\h] inside your head, your world be your world changes. Your word becomes a weapon. It's the way it's supposed to be. Except you're using this weapon against you. It's like you're looking down the barrel of the gun and wondering why you're getting shot in the face. You want to be rich or respected or ripped. All of that matters. By the way, loved, powerful, undeniable. Keep your word. It's not about hacks or these [\h__\h] vision boards or littles that track things or a sleep trainer or it's not perfect systems. It's about being the man who does what he says every single because the man that does that, the man gets paid, he's trusted, he's jacked, he's lean, he's powerful, he's dangerous, he gets result, he's followed, he gets respect. And it starts with respect from himself when he looks in the mirror. Every single deal that I've closed, every transformation that I've helped create, every business that I've grown, every life that I've changed, every marriage that I've saved, every psychological problem that I have solved for anybody, every dollar in my account, all traces back to the same damn thing. I said I'd do it and I did. I would rather die than break my word. And I have no respect for any man who makes a promise and walks away when it's inconvenient. So here's your choice. Live with all those excuses or just lead with your word. Because the world doesn't reward men or women who mean well. The reward goes to the people that follow through. Like I've done a podcast every single day. Sometimes at 1000 p.m. Sometimes sick, sometimes angry, sometimes frustrated, yawning, in pain, but never absent. I've never missed because I don't care how late it is, how tired I am, or honestly how much [\h__\h] that I have to do after this cuz I have things I got to do. I said I'd do it, which means it gets done. And I would rather die than break my word. So ask yourself, what's your word worth? What's your word worth? Because if it's not everything, then you're never going to be anything. I got to go. Never miss.