You know, it's funny. You guys, man, a lot of you guys, unreal. I make a post about how to stack a bunch of muscle, how to lose weight, anything like that. Well, you guys are all over it, huh? You guys are all just like, "Oh, yeah. Give me that. Give me that." But you never look at the damage other things are causing in your life. And I actually got to thinking about this. So, I made a post yesterday, day before maybe, about all of the muppets going out and taking Tylenol. And then there's always some jerkoff in my comments who likes to pretend they're a doctor who has the IQ of a house plant who copies and pastes whatever chat GPT said, thinking that they're intelligent, not understanding that they look like a canned idiot because they don't understand physiology. And some guy goes, "Hey, listen. This is why primary health care providers pro, you know, prescribe acetaminophen for preeacclampsia." I don't even think that guy knows it what it means. I don't think he has a clue what that means. But the other side of the equation is it does go to the fetus. It is proven and it causes systemic damage. So if you're going to keep shoving Tylenol in your bark hole like a [\h__\h] idiot, we're not going to be friends. You're not welcome here. And if you come onto my social media and open your mouth even remotely close to defending doing that, I don't even argue anymore. I was going I had a full rant in response to this paragraph nonsense and I just went nah block delete. I am 52. My life is too short to argue with imbeciles. They're going to win just by experience alone cuz they're just always an imbecile. Social media has provided a place for people to argue and claim expertise without any real expertise that if you decide and some guy asked me for my curriculum vet this [\h__\h] [\h__\h] from New York. This guy who likes to call himself an investor. Wall Street investor, six followers, no money, and a backpack. Yeah, listen. I'm not trying to judge, but I'm judging. So, I'll just tell you that right now. I guarantee you my watch costs more than And it's It might sound like an [\h__\h] statement, but don't flex what you don't got. But don't listen to me if you don't want to. I know my expertise in my area, but you don't have to listen. If you don't like it, swipe right. That's all you got to do, man. But people feel like they have to run their mouth about stuff. So, I love my block delete buttons. They're awesome. So, fatty liver, that's what I wanted to talk about today because NSAIDes destroy your liver. Like, they they rape and pillillage and raise with a Z, not R AI S E, your liver in a way that is almost irreoverable. And your liver is tough, man. It'll take abuse. Ask any college kid. We've done damage to our livers. No matter what you want to try and tell me, you didn't do. Yes, you did. But the problem is that once it's gone, it's gone. So, is there a way to reverse fatty liver? right? Which is what you tend to do. Fatty liver and then cerosis and all the things that come with it. The answer, yeah, there is. I wish I could have gotten this to my dad. Man, I wish I knew this. I wish I knew this much. You know, 13 years ago when my dad was still alive, I knew a lot. I didn't know this. So, if I can help one person prevent endstage liver disease, then I did my job. And for all the other impetent wind socks that like to come in here and argue, [\h__\h] off. I'm coming out here to help. And that's all I do. Before you go, you talk about Elite Biogenics. Why wouldn't I talk about my own company that I trust? Buy there, don't buy there, I don't care. I say it on almost every podcast. I don't care. Join my black card. Don't join my black card. I have a bunch of people that had paid $1,500 and $1,900 bucks that joined my one-year deal on a $25,000 mastermind that are complaining that they don't get access to the black card. Not a chance. I put so I bled to put that information together. For all of you people that actually joined the black card, respect to you. Respect to you for joining the one thing that will change your [\h__\h] life. Respect. And for anyone that didn't and complains about not having access, I got no sympathy. None. Because I I want you I want you to have the information. And if you understood the level of work, like if you followed me around a fly on the wall and saw the level of work and time and effort and energy that I put in to make sure you guys have this information, you guys either you're incredibly entitled or you would go, "Holy [\h__\h] that's a ton." Yeah, because I want to make sure you have the right information so you could start saving lives starting with your own. But fatty liver, fatty liver is caused more by NSAIDs than it is by alcohol. And I'm sure somebody's going to be about that. I don't care. I'm still right. And both of those you can buy at 7-Eleven. And no, this blacker than a witch's crotch coffee does not cause liver damage. It's so good. That's right. Screw with my adenazine levels. give me that delay of fatigue, which is not really what it is, but that's an simpleton way of explaining it. But I want you right now, wherever you are, if there's nobody else around, then this won't work. But if there's anybody around, I want you to look to your left, and then I want you to look to the right. Look at all the people. Look at the person to your left. Look at the person to the right. And just sit tight for a second. Just ruminate that you're the one in the middle. Just so you know, statistically, one of three of you is walking around with a ticking time bomb in your abdomen. I just smacked my side if you're wondering what I just did on the audio. And you probably have no idea. It's not your heart. It's not your brain. It's your liver. And it's suffocating in its own fat. Let that hang just for a minute. Just let that sit in the air for a second. Just ruminate on that because you cannot replace your liver. Jarvik makes a heart. You can even have a mechanical heart, man, but you cannot have a mechanical liver. I want to make you the world's leading expert on your body. That's what I keep coming out here to do. I don't know if you want to know my ultimate secret goal, but that's it. To make you the world's leading expert on your body that you pilot around this flat, round, eggshaped, whatever the [\h__\h] shape this planet is, cuz I have no idea anymore. According to the Bible, it ain't round. So, I don't know what to say. Firmament. This is could be a whole conversation in itself because I have been I will be the first to admit I am fully confused. But I 100% believe in God. So, there is that. But, I want you to understand that ticking time bomb in your in your gut or in your stomach or in your abdomen, I guess, would be the best way. and what it is and why it's there and honestly how to diffuse it. And listen, I'm not talking about preventing and doing these things. Yeah, you should stop smashing alcohol every Friday and Saturday night like a muppet and stop taking handfuls of Tylenol thinking because it's okay because it's available on a shelf. You can paint thinner is available on a shelf, too. I don't see you drinking that. I could go buy lacquer thinner. Maybe a bag of screws. I could go put those in my bar hole, too. It's probably just not a good idea. But you know what the funny thing is? There's no [\h__\h] warning on a bag of screws that says do not ingest. Like so many people nowadays need a reminder that they have to go to work at 8:00 the next day or 7 or whenever it is you go to work. Otherwise, you just don't show up and go no me. I have people every day. They're like, I don't get a reminder when my call is. It's kind of it's problematic. I don't know when I'm supposed to be on these calls. 10:00 on Saturday, 10:00 on Sunday, 5:00 on Monday. Everybody ball up your fist. Punch yourself in the eye. It is written plain as day. It is even in your membership welcome email. Just so you know for anybody that's joined my program. So if you don't know when they are might want to refer back to the email because I'm going to have Amber start going refer back to your email because answering dimwit questions I'm not going to do. But it's that or I didn't know I had to go to the bathroom so I pissed my pants. What the [\h__\h] is wrong with people? It's like everybody has just turned off their brains and they go if I don't have a reminder on phone I can't do it. Or you just get too many reminders which that's irritating but you know you can do reply stop. It's not that hard. Not that hard. Yeah I'm in that kind of a mood today. It's just not that hard. I don't understand the lack of accountability that people just run around with blaming other people going, "You should do it for me. Then pay me for it. I will pay." There's a My neighbor Ruth next door is building a pickle ball court indoor 2200 ft. This thing is badass. It is so gangster. She has so much money. And uh you know what's wild? Those guys are out there. Windy rain. Why? Because they're being paid to do it. Ruth isn't going, "Can you make it all for free?" And anytime she makes a change, which she has done, she has to pay. And she has no problem doing it. Welcome to the real world. So, you good? Can we get on with this before people start having and I'm sure some of you guys are all buttth hurt now because of it because no, he's telling the truth. Listen, here's the problem. Fatty liver disease. I'll just get right into it. It is medically it's called hippatic steattosis. Sounds fancy. It's really not. It's actually not. It's actually really simple. Your your liver cells, your hypatocytes, the cells in your liver, they're literally filling up with fat droplets. Imagine taking this pristine like my my 911 Turbo because I I think the car is great. And you take the engine, this pristine high-performance Porsche savage engine sitting in the back and I just pour a gallon of cheap vegetable oil into it. That's what's happening to millions and millions and millions of people right now. Your liver is supposed to be the ultimate your body's ultimate processing plant. And never mind that. It's also a chemical refinery. It's a waste management system. It's all rolled into this three lb little organ that sits on the right side. Filters every single toxin that you encounter. And it metabolizes all your food into energy. And it decides to either snag it, bag it, or tag it. And compartmentalizes your nutrition. It tells you what it's going to do. It dis it dissects and destroys what's not supposed to be there. And it chops up and utilizes whatever is supposed to be there. It makes the proteins that keep your blood from turning into a water balloon. And it stores it stores vitamins and minerals. And it's the ultimate multitasker. And it's very, very good at it. produces cholesterol, which is the one. Listen to me. Listen to what I just said. It produces [\h__\h] cholesterol. So, it makes the thing that they give you statins to reduce. You ever wonder why your body makes a substance and then they tell you that you should probably reduce it? There should be big red flags going off in your head. But some of you guys are like, I need to get my cholesterol down to 160 because my doctor says I should and I'm going to have a stroke or a heart attack. Then you spend all day and all night worrying about a stroke and a heart attack. of the cortisol and the norepinephrine and the all the problems that you have, all the chemicals that cause issues when you hyper when you they come out in massive volumes, you wind up having one anyway. And then what do they do? They blame the cholesterol, right? [\h__\h] [\h__\h] The whole cholesterol thing irritates me. I went over that. But when your liver is clogged with fat, it's like that that worker that shows up at one of our companies just stone ass drunk. Just everything break. They just bang into everything. Everything breaks. The factory lines get backed up. No orders go out, toxins start leaking into the bloodstream, inflammation just goes through the roof. And this is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, by the way. It's called NFld, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. If in case you didn't get with the acronym, just let it go. And when you let it go and it becomes NASH, non-alcoholic stato heepitis. That's when things get real bad because the inflammation gets so bad that it starts creating scar tissue, which is cerosis, liver failure. Game over. My dad died of endstage liver disease. So don't you dare [\h__\h] disrespect what I'm talking about right now. He died at 67 years old because he listened to some ass wipe. Dr. Billinkoff, that was his name, by the way. [\h__\h] you. Who said it's okay to take all this Tylenol? Just take as much as you want. It's okay. Don't worry about it. Yeah, he drank alcohol, too, before he go. Well, that's the problem then. You're looking for any way. That's like saying I drink alcohol, took Tylenol. Well, that's the problem then. You guys are always looking for an answer so you can keep doing the stupid things you're doing instead of just going, "Shit, that's a stupid thing that I'm doing. Maybe I should stop." Like the most common cause, just so you know, of the whole liver problem. It's not alcohol. It is the modern diet and the constant barrage of fructose, especially from sugarsw sweetened drinks, beverages, and processed junk. Fructose is unique, very unique. It's unlike glucose, which every cell in your body can use. Is almost excl This is where it gets crazy. Well, buckle up. It is almost exclusively metabolized by the liver. So you make it work 10 times harder because when you flood the liver with fructose, it has no choice but to turn it into fat by a process called noval lipogenesis. It means making new fat. Add in insulin resistance from a high carb diet from all you guys eating takeout food and you've got this perfect storm, this disastrous catastrophe waiting to happen. The fat can't get out, so it just piles up inside the cells. Welcome to fatty liver disease. And you know what the worst part is? This is the scariest part. Listen to me guys. This is the scariest part. You know, I I came out here and I really had no idea what I was going to talk about. Maybe you could tell, but I I don't really care. I miss my dad, to be honest. I miss my dad terribly. 13 years, he would still be here if he would have listened to his son. If he would have listened to people that actually cared about him instead of people that didn't care about him. See, that's the problem. You [\h__\h] doctors that put people in a box and put them in a chart and give them a number and then go home at 5 to your little family and your BMW or your Volvo and you're behind the gate in life that you live in with your mansion that you paid for off of the death of other people because you are a legal [\h__\h] drug pusher. [\h__\h] you. I got no sympathy for you. That's where I'm at. You guys all deserve to suffer the same problems that you have made your quote unquote patients, which they're not. They're customers. You cut people open. You poison them. And you know what the crazy thing is? I am a doctor. And no, not a PhD. I got nothing against PhDs. You are earned a lot of knowledge. You're not a [\h__\h] doctor. A life is in danger. If you have a PhD in Earth and planetary sciences, you're not saving a [\h__\h] life. You're not a doctor. Sorry. Get mad. Don't get mad. I don't care. It's an ego title. Let me tell you, physical therapist, chiropractor, osteopath, medical doctor, doctors can save lives because they've all taken stuff to save a life. And if you think for a second that a physical therapist hasn't done that, [\h__\h] I have respect for physical therapists because they had to learn how to save a life whether you think so or not. And I'm not talking basic EMT stuff. I'm talking really save a life. Do they know how to cut you open? No. Is that what they're trained to do? In fact, they get in the way so people don't cut you open. Chiropractors, they train to cut you open. It doesn't matter. They're taught to save lives, not to open books. Stack of books doesn't mean that you know what you're doing. You know, I talked to a friend of mine yesterday and we're working together on a project and he said, "There are three types of doctors. There's doctors who read the books. There's doctors who read the books and understand the information. And there's doctors who read the books, understand the information, and feel what the patient feels." I'm the third one. If you haven't figured it out, you know why I'm a damn good diagnostician? Cuz I feel you. Oh, it sucks. Just so you know, it sucks. I don't look at you as a number or a problem. I look at you as how does this feel? What's going on? Which makes me very good at my job, but it makes it a very heavy cross to carry. So, here's the scary part about liver disease, you guys. Early stages, no symptoms. Your scalera isn't ectctor whatsoever. The whites of the eyes. You don't no jaundice in the skin, no jaundice under the tongue, nothing. It's why it's a silent assassin. That's why the by the time you feel it, the damage is significant. But listen to me, your body, I will help you out. I'll help you hunt this [\h__\h] down. And I you know what? I'm I'm sorry. I always say Porsha and I don't know who she is, but I just know that she said I want to listen to this with I listen to you all the time, but I can't. So because her children hear me curse, so my apologies in advance for everybody that listens to this and I keep dropping fbombs. But sometimes if you understand how upset I get and how worked up I get and if you go, you don't have self-control. Shut up. Shut up. No, it's that I care that much. There's no other doctor that cares that much about you guys. I I really don't think so. If you saw for one second how much I put into making sure you guys have this still doesn't matter. You still some of you idiots still argue instead of going son of a [\h__\h] This guy's bleeding for us. For us. Yep. You're right. Cuz nobody else is willing to do it. But your body's always talking. You guys, you have to know how to shut your mouth and listen. Like things that show up to let you know that your liver might be suffering and there's a good chance it's having problems. Fatigue. We're talking this crushing unshakable fatigue. And here's why. Your energy refinery right here, big brown thing right here, is broken. Brain fog, really common. The liver isn't filtering something called ammonia. And in fact, it's not. It's ammonia and a whole bunch of other neurotoxins. And they cross the bloodb brain barrier and slow your cognitive function to this sloth desert tortoise speed. Belly fat. Yeah, belly fat. Some of you fat dadbods, get real. Nobody. Harvard says dad bods are sexy. Get the [\h__\h] out of here. Your wife would love you even more sexy and fit. And the only reason your spouse is ever going to say, "I don't want you to get lean and fit is because that means they would have to do the work, too, because it makes them self-conscious." So, grow up. Grow up. Nobody likes to be fat. Nobody likes to be broke. And nobody likes to be alone. I don't care what you try and tell me. Nobody does. I love being with my wife. I love being fit and athletic. And I love having money. And I love being healthy. and I love my family. Nobody goes against that. The only people that go against that are people that are psychologically broken. They're called sociopaths. You guys are so indoctrinated with these messages that tell you that all the things that are meant to enhance your life are bad. And you guys just scoop it up like it's your best ice cream. Belly fat, visceral fat, especially that stubborn gut, that big old fat belly that gives you the dickydoo where you can't your belly sticks out more than your dicky doo. It isn't just ugly. It is a sign that your internal organs are marinating and just stewing it up in fat. Upper quadrant discomfort. Here, I'll help you. I'll put my hand right where it is. If you can't see me, it is on the right upper quadrant. If I'm in anatomical position, right? If you guys don't know, hands down. Right. Anatomical position. Upper right side. Dull ache under your right rib cage. Your liver is screaming, pissed off, begging, tapping the inside of your ribs, going, "I'm swollen. I'm inflamed. Please help me." Skin tags. And nobody knows this one, right? An ainthosis nigricans. That's another one. So skin tags, you know what they are. You don't know what the aenthosis are. Yeah. It's just dark patches of skin. So here's what's wild about this. Those dark patches of skin are external markers of a severe severe insulin resistance, which is, you guessed it, primary driver of a fatty liver. And what is our what is our diet? What is our disgusting horrific diet? the major cause of insulin resistance and visceral fat. And you guys go biggest beautiful. Okay. Dead is gone, too. I don't know what to tell you. Okay. High triglycerides. Your blood lipid panel, just so you know, is a direct readout of your liver's metabolic health. ALT. Like, you need to check levels if you And I'm not a huge fan of lab work when it's unnecessary. These guys that go, I go in for genetic testing every three, three months. What are you nuts? You are a cash cow. My grandparents, I don't know, have ever went in for GR for blood work. mid to late 90s. Just so you know what your liver does? It's the command center of your entire metabolism. So when it's sick, everything is sick. That's the problem. When your liver doesn't work, everything doesn't work. So the question is this, because I'm already 22 minutes in and I'm dragging because I'm just pissed off. But how do you reverse it? You can't just put a band-aid on your liver. You have to put together something very precise that attacks all of the facets of this problem. So you have to look at it and put together something that is going to do the work or make your body rather do the work. So four things that need to be addressed. Just so you know, you have to you have to solve the hormonal problem, right? It's to you so commandeer your body's entire metabolic signaling system, excuse me, and force a really hard reset. At a true tide is fast becoming one of the most versatile powerful peptides on the planet. This is not this is like the commanderin-chief of your entire hormonal metabolic panel. So if you look at semiglutide because somebody go can I use semiglutide? No, it is a single pathway GLP-1. It's garbage. Just garbage. I'll leave it at that because I'm tired of explaining it. If you want to take it, knock yourself out. You want to argue, knock yourself out. You want to brag about the results, knock yourself out. I don't care. I'm going to tell everybody that's listening to use Red at True Tide. If you're looking at Sema or Turzepite, oh by the way, I got to say this. I keep forgetting because we're in the land of the free but not so free. I got lumped in with RFK. By the way, some of you guys might be like, I took that as a compliment, man. Yeah, baby. I've gotten RFK and David Gogggin so many times from you guys. Thank you. I take that as a compliment. So, if you think it was an insult, wrong. But semiglutide and tzeptide, both garbage. So if you're going, I don't know which one I should use. Neither red or at truth tide. Again, I don't give a [\h__\h] if you buy it from me. If you go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, well, it's not FDA approved. We're not going to be friends. That simple. You probably hate dogs, too. Not going to get along with you at all cuz I don't even want to be around you cuz I can't fix stupid. And that's what you are. If you're waiting for a three-letter agency to give you permission to take a some kind of product, you are waiting for someone to go, "Okay, now I can legally poison you." You're nuts. Read a truth tide. Triple threat. I talk about this all the time. It's like the metabolic wrecking ball. It enhances insulin secretion. It inhibits appetite massively. Improves insulin sensitivity which is the whole problem here. And crucially activates something called glucagon receptor. Glucagon agonism increases energy expenditure and promotes you ready for this part hippatic lipid metabolism. Where do you think the problem is? Is right now? Do you think it's in the liver? Do you think it's systemic? It's systemic. You have an insulin sensitivity issue. But here's the issue with with redatruide. doesn't just tell your body to stop storing fat. It forces the liver actively to break down existing fat stores which is already causing you problems. This is like a full-blown systemic override. Carterine. So, I'll just go through these and if you want the dosages again, black card, I'm not I just, you know, there's a reason why I set up the black card. It's not for money. It's not. I'm just not. And if you go, if it's not for money, why isn't it free? Because I don't want people that say that because every single person that I've ever given something to for almost nothing and just charged them a fraction of money, just a fraction tiny little amount of money, wanted me on the phone 23 out of 24 hours a day and wouldn't leave me alone with questions. And the questions were ridiculous. And when I didn't give them the answer, they got mad. You know what's interesting? The people that pay me 100, 150 grand, even 7 grand or 10 grand or anything like that, never a problem. They abide by the rules and they ask me questions and their questions are valid and then they apply everything I tell them. So, if you get mad at that, that's great. But that's exactly why you're not part of the black card. So, if you want the black card, the link is at the bottom of this. I already said I had 100. I think there's less than 10. I had to ask Amber. I could text her right now. And then as of I said this as of Friday, which is tomorrow, I'm going to if I break a 100red, so if you guys wait until tomorrow, I have no idea how you're going to game it. If I break a hundred, which I will by the end of the night tonight, then I will release another 25. Do you know there's a reason why I'm not making it unlimited? Because there's only so much of of Dr. Trevor to go around. I want to actually be able to give you something. I'm not going to sit there and put a thousand people in this group and then not be able to answer the questions. The whole point is to be able to answer questions because I've got all these protocols and for all of you guys in it, I'm already adding protocols. There's a lot of work to this. It's not just like, hey, let me just see what I can throw together. I put time and energy and and thought into this based on human biology and physiology, so it works. I don't give you things that kind of work. I give you things that when you're done, you walk away and go, "What disease? I don't know what you're talking about. It's gone." That's the point. Cuz I give a [\h__\h] And I put my name on all of this and my my entire reputation on the line and I take some massive risks. If you know, you know. But I think that if you want it, it's worth it. And so I'll release another 25. I said this before. And instead of 59.97, it is $9,997. And if you go, "Oh, well, it's not worth it." Then it was never worth it at 6 grand either. Yep. It'S4,000 more. And after those are gone, it is $25,000 to buy in and $2,000 a month. I changed the price to 2 grand. It was 1,500 a month. I just went, "No, not at all." Why? Because it's that big of a deal. Because you guys will spend more money on health insurance to have an insurance agent tell you what you can and can't do and who's going to what your co-pay is going to be and what doctor you can see. And then the doctor listens to the insurance agent to tell you what you should take. And meanwhile, neither one of them have any training about or have even looked at you any more than a chart or some digital intake. and they don't give a [\h__\h] about you. I do. I do. So, carterine p a r delta aagonist talked about this a lot of times. It's like it increases the the number of mitochondria in your muscles and tells your body to use fat. It's such carterine is awesome. I think everybody should take it anyway, but it tells the the muscles in your body to use fat as the primary f fuel source. It changes the substrate that it's using, right? So, it literally reprograms your metabolism to be this fat burning furnace and it takes the load off the struggling liver. That's why we're why you need to understand physiology. And I I say this a lot, but I think sometimes you just think I'm throwing things together, but understand why I'm doing it. Tesenine, this is the neurological component of fat loss. It's a triple monomine reuptake inhibitor. It crushes your appetite so you don't have that I have to eat because I'm frustrated, sad, angry, happy, whatever it is. It increases metabolic rate massively, by the way. Norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine. It does it hits all these things and boosts motivation. So you actually feel like doing more of this stuff. It's a psychological and a metabolic weapon combined and it ensures dietary compliance which is just to be very clear non-negotiable. Non-negotiable. And if you're going to ask is this going to be in the black card protocol area? Yep. Not this podcast. I don't just cut and paste the whole protocol. So here's the problem. There's and I'm I'm basically throwing these mini protocols into a massive group so you understand why this is working. The second part of this is your liver is damaged. So, the cellular power plants I have an itchy thigh if you're wondering why I'm scratching. The cellular power plants, the mitochondria are broken. And the team, this is the team right now that I'm explaining that's going to come in and solve that problem and and tell you how to use I got to look at this again. These guys are just like non-stop garbage calling me. So you need the something to give you the raw materials and the instructions to rebuild the mitochondria fix the energy supply problem and you solve a lot of the problems because now the body has the power to make the to make the boogeyman go away. Right? So Matsi, I love Matsi. This is a mitochondrial I talked about it yesterday. mitochondrial derived peptide that is the master regulator of metabolic homeostasis where it regulates nuclear gene expression to crank up glucose, enhance glucose metabolism, improve insulin sensitivity and protect against metabolic stress which are all the things that are going on right now. It's essentially a signal from the mitochondria itself saying I'm damaged. Here are the blueprints to fix me. Now get to work and fix me so I can do my job. It's like taking three Mile Island and when it's crumbling and destroyed, rebuilding the entire [\h__\h] thing. For fatty liver, this is a very targeted intra intracellular repair secrets that you need to bring into the CJC with DAG. So you get a long hard pulse instead of a bunch of small ones. Yes, it matters. And I Pamarellin with DAC means you don't have to take it as much. If you wondered what that was every time you see it without DAC, you take it every day. With DAC, it extends the half-life significantly, 7 to 10 days. Um, you just take it once a week instead. That's how this works. No, that's not dosage. That's just me. By the way, I meant to tell you this. I forgot. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, advise. is only hypothetical, educational, and for entertainment. If you know, you know. This is not growth hormone. CJC-1295 with DACK and IPAMLin. They're not growth hormone. They're very sneaky, powerful messengers that tell your pituitary gland to pulse more of its own endogenous, its own natural youthful growth hormone. So, it does its job coming from the inside out. It works better. This is critical because growth hormone promotes something called lipolysis which is the breakdown of fats, increases muscle mass, which improves insulin sensitivity and it stimulates regeneration of healthy liver tissue. So all of these things combined are going to help the liver fix itself while helping the machine that it's working in become more efficient. BPC-157, TB-500 always, these are the ultimate healers. This is like the dynamic duo. These are legendary for their systemic healing properties. They reduce inflammation, increase blood flow to all the damaged areas. They send signals to the damaged areas and say, "All of you healing chemicals, go here." They promote the regeneration of endothelial and organ tissue in a way that nothing else ever has. They're putting out the fire and rebuilding the factory. That's what they're doing right now. You need to handle the insulin sensitivity issue and the inflammatory problem because you have all this stuff. So, bourberine and Adamax, and I haven't talked about this a lot, but it's essentially nature's metformin is the easiest way to kind of go over this, right? Activates AMPK, which is the master metabolic switch. It's an energy sensor, a cellular energy sensor. improves insulin sensitivity, inhibits fat production in the liver, fat production in the liver. So it slows that down, right? Lowers blood sugar and adamax is a very potent advanced form, right? So it does this very well together. That's why bourberine you have to be careful. You have to monitor blood sugar by the way when you use this one. SR9, this literally enhances your body's circadian rhythm metabolism like this increases metabolic rate, improves glucose handling. You see how this is all geared around glucose and yet what do they do? They treat the liver. They don't treat the problem that is causing the liver to degrade. They're just treating the liver. That's like slapping a band-aid on something and going, "Why is it still bleeding?" Well, because the cut is somewhere else, right? It's like mailing somebody a band-aid and wondering why it's never working. So, it improves glucose handling, reduces fat storage in the liver, and makes your body so much more efficient, but 24/7. It doesn't cycle on and off. It's all the time. GHK-Cu, copper. This has got the most incredible ability to modulate inflammation and normalize tissue function more than anything else you will ever see. It brings chaotic inflamed cellular environments back to a stable state of healthy very organized function. It calms the storm in the liver. So the liver can actually start thinking about what it's doing instead of fighting itself because right now your biology is fighting itself. So now there you also have to handle the neurochemical problem and the energy support, right? So the body, nothing happens in the mind without it happening in the body and nothing happens in the body without it happening in the mind. It's the easiest way to remember how this works. So a sick body affects a sick sick mind and a sick mind affects a sick body, right? They go back and forth. So this you need to optimize I hate that word. You need to capitalize on brain function and cellular energy. So the entire system works congruently, right? Synergistically. So cerebralis, I've talked about this before with dementia and Alzheimer's and and things like that, but this is like the ultimate neurotrphic factor. It repairs damaged neurons. It improves cognitive function. It erases that brain fog that's going on. Not just I realize I talked about neurotoxins and ammonia, but it does more than that. It enhances overall brain metabolism. But think a sharp state of mind and a very high quality cognition is it's essential. It's required for executing all of this. Otherwise, you're just not going to do it. NMN and NAD+. Yeah, a lot of people talk about these two and think they're interchangeable. They're not. This is the fundamental currency of cellular energy. NAD+ is required for every energy transaction in every single cell. Period. Which is why five amino 1 MQ is so effective because it blocks NMT which allows NAD+ to do its job. Right? So, there's a lot of this. If you look at if you look at NMN, it is a precursor to boost NAD+ levels. So you're literally refueling the cellular power plants, the mitochondria in your liver and throughout your entire body. So you have the energy to do the job, which if you go back affects M C, right? Because M C is telling those little power plants to do their job, the inner membrane of the mitochondrial membrane, right? That all of this stuff. So these things work really well together. That's why I'm stitching this together so your system knows what it's doing as a whole. no synergistic effects. You are doing exactly what the pharmaceutical world is doing which is just hunting symptoms and trying to mitigate the problem. You're doing you're managing a decline. Managing decline is not healthcare. That is a business model. Methylene blue. This is a like jet fuel I've said for your mitochondria. Improves the mitochondrial efficiency and electron transport chain functioning. So it bypasses the traffic jam goes from complex 1 to complex 5. And I realize I talked about SS31 where it works in conjunction with um M C and methylene blue as well, but just you don't need SS31 in this. I'm just telling you that's more of a neurological thing. But it acts as an electron cyclinger. So it helps your cells produce more energy more effectively and more efficiently. It's like I said, it's jet fuel for your cells. And if you go, well, jet fuel is diesel. You're missing what I'm talking about. I have no idea if it is. It just smells like. >> So, let me explain how this all works because you can't just take one. If you go, which one? If I had to just take one, are you out of your ever loving mind, you have liver problems. You have liver disease. You have a fatty liver. If you think taking some drug is going to make it go away, that is going right to the problem and giving it more problems to solve. Remember what I said about NSAID? It goes there and your body goes, "This is a poison. I can't take this." And yet, some muppets's going to be like, "Well, then why do doctors recommend it?" I don't know. Why does McDonald's re recommend chicken McNuggets knowing full well they're garbage for you? Do the math. It follow the money. So here's you have to take it all at once. So I'll let me explain it in a very tight little way because it's 39 minutes in and I'm going to just go hang out with my wife to be honest. Red truth tide is like a systemic like full-on bodywide hormonal reset and it shuts down the fat storage and it turns on lipolysis. Mod C and SR9 then comes into the cells and the nuclei and it delivers this very precise genetic and mitochondrial set of instructions to capitalize on the new fat burning. It it's capitalizes on the new fat burning efficient state that the cell is in. Carterine ensures that this free fat this liberated fat is actually burned as fuel in the muscles instead of going back to glucose. And then the CJC with DAC and the IPAMLin pulse out the growth hormone to repair the now emptied but still damaged liver cells. Right now we've got BPC and TB-500 or BPC-157 and TB-500. They're directing all the repair, right? They're coming in and building angioenesis. They're shutting down the inflammation. They're putting fibroblasts in where they need to go. They're telling all the damaged areas to become nice and solid and repaired areas. Bourberine and Adamax makes every cell very very exquisitly sensitive to insulately insulin which prevents a relapse which will unwind this entire knot and to power up this entire system. MN and methylene blue crank up pour the jet fuel onto the mitochondria to give the raw ATP the energy required for such a massive undertaking as in such a massive undertaking like repairing your entire damn body because it's not just your liver. So that's the issue is people go, "This is where the problem is." No, that's where the result of the problem is, which is why I'm out here telling you this stuff so you understand the system. One compound does one job. A protocol changes your biology. They're not the same. You guys have to understand that. So you listen to this to learn something about liver disease or fatty liver, whatever. But I want you to take away an operational blueprint that allows you to build back health, which is what I do in all of these. Like honestly, I think the person on the left or your right where if you're driving, you're sitting there listening to this, the person in front of you, behind you, send them this because there's a good chance if they don't have a liver problem, you're the one with the liver problem. Like, this isn't just about reversing disease. It's about it's about reclaiming your health because you're tired of listening to people that say, "Don't worry, trust me, bro." on the internet selling you a shaker cup and some weird powder. Or they're the pharmaceutical industries going, "Trust us. We have the regulatory branch or we have the regulatory guidelines that make everything you take safe." except they're killing people. This is upgrading the software that your [\h__\h] body runs on. Your liver isn't a time bomb, you guys. It's not inevitable. It's like dementia. It's not inevitable. It is. Your liver is your greatest asset. It's your greatest asset. You need to treat it like that cuz if not, you're going to run into problems. And and listen, hey, you know, hey, I want to drink some more coffee cuz I don't think I'm done. I try to get these done a lot faster, but these have been going long lately because I'm just irritated. You've been programmed to believe that the biggest threat to your liver this I need to talk about this because it's making I just keep thinking about that, you know. Well, steroids are bad for your liver, way worse than any NSAIDs. Are you out of your [\h__\h] mind? Find the number of people that have died according to anabolic steroids, TRT, even high doses, and the number of people that have died because of due to NSAIDs. You're not even playing the same game or alcohol, NSAIDes and alcohol. Oh, I'll explain. Because you're taught that the biggest threat to your liver is a glass of booze, some a brown bottle with some bubbly poison inside it at the end of a long day. like you're supposed to just take that. That the danger comes from going out on a Friday night and smashing cocktails all night. That's a convenient story that lets a hundred billion dollar industry off the hook. If you are an alcohol producer, go [\h__\h] yourself. You're you're selling addictions and you're marrying them to good times and that doesn't work at all. The real quiet, listen to me, the real quiet, pervasive epidemic of liver damage isn't coming from a bottle marked with some kind of skull and crossbones on it or whatever. It's coming from a bottle that you can buy in a grocery store at a checkout line. It's coming from your medicine cabinet. And if you make fun of me for saying medicine cabinet, I'm coming to your house making you do burpees until you die. I'm talking about Nsaides, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, ibuprofen, neproxin, aspirin, Tylenol, bufferin, all these things. Listen to me. I'm going to go, let me just get the obvious out of the way. Yes, alcohol is 100% hepatic. Ethanol metabolism in the liver produces acetal aldahhide. I talked about this. This is a known cellular poison that promotes inflammation, oxidative stress, and fat accumulation in the liver. It's a sledgehammer. It's a wrecking ball. It's [\h__\h] obvious, too. You know the deal. Nades, that's like the the blow gun poison dart. It is so insidious. And the it's such precise metabolic sabotage, you don't even see it coming. Listen, here's the human biology. I'll explain it real quick cuz then I want to go. Your liver is the primary site for metabolizing almost every single drug that you'll ever take. NSAIDs are no exception to that. They're primarily metabolized by something called the cytochrome P450 enzyme system. It doesn't matter. But let's follow the hormonal cascade so you can understand. There's this problem with glutathione, right? So the metabolism of NSADes, I talked about this on my Tylenol with all you idiots taking it as AI'm sticking it to the man. You're sticking it to yourself, [\h__\h] But the metabolism of NSADes depletes your liver's single most important antioxidant, glutathione. Glutathione is your liver's internal fire extinguisher. It neutralizes free radicals like this and all the toxins. But when you pop an Advil for a headache, you are disarming. Listen to me. You are disarming your liver's primary defense system. I'm not telling you not to take it. I'm saying do not take it when your thumb hurts. Take it for real. If you're going to take it and you just can't get around it if you go, how many have you taken in your lifetime? Not very many. But I can count how many I took this year. Three. I've taken three Advil this year. All year. Three. And it's not to brag. It's because I just don't think you need it. NSAIDES listens have been shown one NSAIDES uncouple oxidative phosphorilation in the mitochondria of hpatocytes the liver cells it's fancy way of saying that they make the mitochondria incredibly inefficient and stupid so instead of producing real clean ATP real clean energy they produce heat and massive amounts of ROS's reactive oxygen species as free radicals as biological grenades that shred cellular structures the oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction can very easily trigger programmed on cell death, apoptosis and hpatocytes. You're literally chemically instructing, you're sending a message to your liver cells to commit suicides. Done. This is the greatest irony. Listen to me. This is the irony of this this entire thing. You take an anti-inflammatory to reduce pain, but in the liver, you are inducing inflammation. Let it sink in. I'll wait. The dying hypatocytes and oxidative stress activates something called cuffer cells. And I mentioned these before, which launches a cytoine storm inside the liver itself. Okay, so let me get this straight. You take something to put the inflammation to rest, but you cause inflammation in the unit that is purifying the thing you took for I can't even make it make it make sense. It's so disgusting. Just look at NSAIDs. You look so there's a landmark study in the American Journal of Gastroenterology and it showed that Nsaides, you ready for this one? Cuz all you guys go, where's the research? NADES are one of the most common classes of drugs responsible for drug induced liver and injury. DILIS they're called dillies. It counts for accounting for a massive like the lion's share of the cases. Other research shows NSAID use is associated with significantly increased risk of of developing acute liver injury even at standard OTC doses over-the-counter. Here's the most chilling part of this. You guys listen to me because NSAIDes are so ubiquitous and over-the-counter just easy. The vast majority of cases of NSAID induced hypotoxicity are never diagnosed. They're just never diagnosed. A patient patient presents with mildly elevated liver enzymes, fatigue, some little brain fog. The doctor doesn't ask how much Advil, how much Tylenol are you taking? They blame it on stress and getting older. Or maybe you got a mild virus. Here's some antibiotics, which is an entirely new set of fuckups in your system. Again, I'm not telling if you think I'm this guy that's a radical that doesn't want you to take any drugs or any medication. That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying the irresponsible nature of most people is what's causing the decline of most people. The number of subclinical undiagnosed cases of NSAID related liver dysfunction dwarfs dwarfs the number of diagnosed alcoh alcoholic hepatitis cases. Like we're talking millions of Americans slowly and quietly chemically neutering, injuring, destroying their livers with a drug they believe is as safe as candy. And I see all you guys in my comments going, "They're totally safe. What about the TRT? Let's talk about the Are you out of your mind? Alcohol is a known enemy. You know the risk. You can see the [\h__\h] bottle and say it's it's like a Trojan horse. They're marketed as a safe, benign, and necessary thing that you should be taking. Take baby aspirins every day because they're good for you. Are you insane? They are none of those things when used chronically. Primary driver of the very metabolic dysfunction and silent inflammation that leads to the fatty liver disease. I just spent the last 40 minutes telling you how to reverse. So listen, the next time you reach for that little bottle of Advil, the ibuprofen, for a minor ache, or that little bottle of Tylenol, ask yourself one question. Just ask. Really, listen to me. It's because I care. I come out here. You're not [\h__\h] getting it. Listen to me. Ask yourself, is it masking this temp? Is is masking this temporary pain worth disarming my liver's defenses, strangling its energy production, and inviting inflammation into the core of the very thing that keeps me alive? The answer now that you understand physiology should be not a [\h__\h] chance. Let me explain something. Your health, please listen to me what I'm about to say cuz I'm going to go. Your health isn't threatened by the demons that you see. It's threatened by the ones that you welcome into your home dressed as angels of relief. I got to go. Never miss.