Oh man, it's been a wild day, huh? I mean, we're 4:30 just knocking this out. I get a lot of requests from you guys and I Let's keep them coming. And I come out here every single day. I mean, I'm 248, I believe, episodes in. Just me and a microphone, gradually evolving into a better microphone and a better studio and a full studio and the whole nine yards. Not because I get paid so well for this, cuz I don't. I don't get paid at all for any of this. Just so we're clear before you guys are like, "Well, yeah, you get paid. You have all these podcasts. I don't make a dime on these. I come out here for free. I come out here for free because I actually give a crap about you." And before I go any further, just so you know, this is all about building a biological juggernaut. A handful of things, you can count them on one hand that if you do and take and integrate into your life, will extend your life in a way not like you have health span and lifespan. Well, lifespan's great, but if you're connected to machines for 30% of that life, that's a waste. If you have to take handfuls of medication just to function, not to feel good or powerful. I mean just to function, then that's not a life either. Health span means you run it all the way right to the end at full throttle and you slide into the grave going, "Oh man, that was a ride." That is how you should be living your life. But here's what's interesting to me, and this is this is a direct punch in the mouth for anybody that's running their mouth about anything that I say or anybody else says. Until you can keep up with me or do better than me, shut up. Keep my name out of your mouth. Because here's why. And if you are that person and you're coming in here and you're about to leave some snotty comment or some juvenile imbecillic comment in my in my comments on YouTube or Instagram or anything like that again, shut up. I'll find a way to just make sure you can't make comments on my stuff ever again. And here's even worse. If you are going out and you are making re reactionary videos on other people's things, all that tells me is you are an insecure toddler who cannot gain any recognition on their own and you have no selfworth. And here's the proof. Because if you did, you would talk about your own stuff and bring value. But you don't. You look for other people's things and try and tear down their value in order for you to feel important. There are only two ways to build the biggest building in town, which is either build the biggest building in [\h__\h] town or tear down everybody else's building until your building is the only one left standing. And that's what most of you guys are doing. If that's you, uh, you're a dick. So, just understand that the self-worth you think you have is rented because the second all the ask yourself all those people cuz you only attract, you become king of the [\h__\h] That's what's hilarious to me. And you go, look at all these people like me. Likes and follows last time I checked. do not they don't determine friendships. They don't determine ride or die people. Because if you think any of those people, there are 1.4 million people on my Instagram account, real people, because I've been doing this for a long time. I don't buy followers or any weird [\h__\h] you guys do or likes or what the hell. I can't even wrap my head around that. I don't buy YouTube views or engagement. Like, I'm just me like me. Not I have some videos that have had two comments and I've had some that have 6,000. I I don't care. I don't care if there's one person that follows me as long as it's my wife. And I don't care if there are 100 million people that follow me. I care that you guys get something out of what I come out here and give you for free. Ashworks free. Free. I didn't ask for a dime in Smashworks. Body Hacks, free. I didn't ask for a dime in Body Hacks either. Unbreakable mastermind. I come out there and what you pay to join that mastermind, it should be a million dollars a year. And no, I'm not exaggerating. I drop knowledge that will save lives whether psychological, marriage, connection with God, physical, health, you name it. So people go, I don't know. I can join this other group for like 30 bucks then go join. Again, I ain't going to be king of the [\h__\h] but I come out here for free. All this stuff here, peptides, sarm, serum, secrets, biochemistry, organic chemistry, physiology, all of it, human biology, I know my stuff cold. So, if I ever see somebody make a reactionary video on my stuff or anybody else's for that matter, you've lost all credibility because your self-worth is rented and it has no there's no you're clout chasing. That's what people do. They clout chase. I saw somebody Alex Hermoszi is a very popular man and he is very good at what he does. I got a ton of respect for that guy. I don't care if you do. I don't care if your opinion of him is sour. Again, until you could do better, shut up. And this is where people get a little tripped up. Well, yeah, but my life is way better than his. I look at his marriage with Ila. He loves the [\h__\h] out of her and she loves the hell out of him again. Where you at? Yet they have the ability to buy 19 private jets and build billion-dollar companies. Where are you at? Maybe you just start taking advice. I love that he broke that record, man. I think that's the coolest thing. And I saw somebody who I used to be friends with who I definitely don't want to be friends with again because I'm like, you lost all credibility. I have no respect for you. And it's that they made a reactionary video on him breaking a Guinness record saying, "Well, he isn't happy though. That's not a life. There's nobody. That's not a life. You need to be balanced and have presence and be connected. That's not a life. That is your life is all work and I used to do that and that's not how it should be. That's no way to live." But they love that. Listen, I don't think getting on a football field. One of my buddies, Charles Leno, listen, he is a very huge man. The first time I met Charles, I was like, "Holy shit." He gave me a testimonial. If you know who Charles Leno is, Chicago Bears, he gave me a video testimonial. And he held the video at arms. He had to duck to leave my my office, my clinic. He held the video at arms length. And he is a very big man. He would lay on my table and just drape over the whole thing when we would anytime he'd come in. And he held the phone at arms length. He gave me a video testimonial and his head took up the entire screen at arms length. He is a monster of a human being. And I promise you this. I think getting on the football field at me 95, 510 and a half, 5'11, maybe maybe if I'm stretched out and maybe in a good pair of shoes and I'm going toe-to-toe with an O line guy like that. First of all, I'm going to get murdered when he hits me. And these guys move fast. If you don't think big guys can move fast, you're insane. Watch football. Those guys move so fast. So when you guys sit there and armchair quarterback these guys and talk about how shitty they play, get on the field and do it until you can shut your mouth. Take your name out of your take their name out of your mouth. So that's what I think is has happened with social media, by the way. And I'll get to that in a second. And then I'll go over exactly how to build yourself into a biological juggernaut. Easy. I mean, it is really easy. You just have to do it. I'll give you oneear blocks. You just keep doing this year after year after year. longevity, biological juggernaut, immune function, inflammatory processes gone, neurological function restored. Just the endless list of things, and you guys are still going to, do you have anything cheaper? It's too expensive. Well, then go back to drinking all your booze and smoking all your cigarettes and all the dumb [\h__\h] and your really expensive cigars or whatever it is you do, making payments on a car you shouldn't have cuz you can't afford it, and a house that you barely make ends meet because you're making your mortgage payment that you still haven't even got close to owning. I don't know what to tell you. You guys are ignorant. A lot of you guys are just ignorant as hell because you come out here and you complain about other people's things when they're posting them, but your life isn't better. It's actually worse. So, until you can go toe-to-toe with anybody that you are running your mouth about, shut your mouth because you've got nothing. You've got nothing. Where's your capability? And if you go, "Well, my life is way better than than Alex or Moses. His money doesn't make him better." Yes, it does. Because he also has a great marriage and he's a great team and he supports his people. So, how's your life better? Just because you're present and connected with your three kids that don't like you, that are looking at you going, "My dad's a loser. My mom's a loser." I You take be offended by it, I don't really care. The idea that you come out and you criticize somebody who's playing the game better than you and winning is absurd to me. So, when somebody makes a reactionary video, here's what I know cuz I've seen this happen. I had somebody make one. My wife and I were walking and I This guy made this. He goes, "All these guys care about other bodies. You can tell they have no self-worth, but they just care about their body. They think their value is their body." Listen, first of all, I look like this as a byproduct of training. I don't look like this because I'm trying to look like this. This is a byproduct of just what I do. If I was a fat, sloppy person based on what I did and it was making me healthy, then I would do that. Like, I just look like this because of how I train. I like training because I like being strong, fast, agile, powerful, and pretty indestructible. Touchwood at 52 years old, missing a lung. Can you do better? No, you can't. But this guy did it to Chase Clout, my wife, and I I'll never forget it. And I saw it and you wouldn't believe all the comments. Oh yeah, you can tell. Maybe they should actually sit there. Maybe she should have a couple of kids and then they would see what it's like. I'm like, "My wife has two kids. Now what?" Like I there was nothing but negative nonsense. But I looked at all the people in the comments and I they're just like this jack wagon just clout chasing using somebody else. And listen, if you're doing it for marketing, that makes you even more shallow, which is hilarious. But you got no credibility of your own and no cloud of your own and no value of your own. You know how you want to have value? Actually bring value. I come out here for free to give value to help everybody I [\h__\h] can for free. You want to work with me? Damn right it's going to cost money. You want to buy from Elite Bio? People ask me all where do I get the peptides? Elite Biogenics. Holy crap. I don't know how many times I need to say this. You guys just scroll through. I didn't know where to go. Ignorant. But if you go where do I go to get it and then I tell you and then you go see you're promoting your your business. Buy from me. Don't buy from me. I still come out here and give you the information. You know that? That's what's wild. But these reactionary videos where you try and tear somebody down because you either don't like what they said or you can find a little [\h__\h] in their armor and just pick it apart. Or you look for anything you can to make sure eyes look at you and people go, "Yeah, I totally see that too." Meanwhile, half of those guys couldn't spell the words that you're saying, let alone you. But that's what I mean. That's the world behind a pane of glass, nothing but courage. So here, I'll give you a good rule of thumb and all the big league big mouth idiots are going to start running their mouth. So save it cuz I'll just block you and delete and delete you cuz I just don't have time. I don't care if you won't go up to somebody's door, knock on their door, and say it to their face, shut your mouth. If you can't do better than they're doing right now, shut your mouth. If they gave you something for free that even if you didn't like could potentially help you, shut your mouth. If they come out and give you their time, money, energy, everything they've got just to make sure that you have a better life, that you can make more money, that you can fix your health, that you can solve a problem, you can solve your marriage, you can get more connected to God, you can get closer to your family. It doesn't matter whether you like it or not, but if it has the potential to help you and you choose to ignore it, that's on you. Number one. Number two is shut your mouth. Just say thank you or walk away and keep scrolling. I said this before, but the last thing you should be doing is taking their video, mine, anybody else's, and making a reactionary video talking about how bad it is when you couldn't keep up with them or me on my worst day and your best [\h__\h] day. So until you can do what they do better live, by the way, shut up. Because I have never come out here and gone, can you guys please buy from my company? Never. Not once. In 11 years, I've never done that. I give you an opportunity. You choose. Don't. I don't care. Go buy somewhere else. I can give you a list a mile long of places you can go. That's okay. Because the people that I want are the people that I I want to earn them. And if that's not you, because you're looking for the cheapest or the promo code or like all that stuff, get out of here. I'm not going to give you any of that. And if you go, "That's not very good business." No, it's not very good business for you because you're buying based on price, not based on the fact that you got a doc telling you exactly how to do it and what's going on in your life and how to fix it. You do you, boo. Big heart. So, listen, here's the truth, nobody, cuz I could do this all day. I just want to go on a rant cuz I'm so irritated. It's been just such a wild day. Listen, you're aging faster than you should. It's bottom line. So, we're going to mitigate that, right? We're going to do that. We're going to fix all the problems with aging. We're going to fix your energy, fix your sleep, fix your hormones. We're going to solve all kinds of stuff. I know I'm not supposed to say that. So, how about this? This isn't meant to cure, triage, diagnose, prescribe, advise, and this is only hypothetical, educational, and just purely for entertainment. I'm just out here having a blast. Bald guy with a beard just ranting, cussing once in a while, telling you what to do with your life and throwing around a couple of big words. How about that? We good? All right. So, here's the problem. You are aging faster than you feel that you should. I guarantee it. In fact, you are aging faster than you should right now, especially with all the crap you are putting in your body or on your body or around your body. But not because time is unfair, but because you've let entropy set up camp in your biology. I'm not going to explain entropy other than everything is going into chaos. It's the easiest way to explain. You think you're just getting older? No, you're not. You're disintegrating. You're freaking disintegrating. Your mitochondria are spitting out free radicals like a just a old crappy Honda just belching smoke on the freeway that hasn't been tuned in 10 years. Your gut is leaking bacterial endotoxins into your bloodstream like my septic tank would be if it had a crack leaking into my yard. And your tissues, they're so scarred up and beat up with microscopic fibrosis that nobody ever told you about and you don't know. You just call it I got this ache and pain. Except systemic inflammation is the number one propagator of most metabolic diseases and biological problems. Fix that and you don't have the problems. You just age normally. By the way, I'm 52. This is normal. If you say this isn't normal, the problem is with you and your definition of what normal is. You have normalized being obese, weak, sloppy, single, disconnected from like godless, and miserable, and bitter, just going on to social media complaining about everything because people say things across a pane of glass that they would never say in to your face without getting smacked in the mouth. I know because I'm 52 and I've been smacked in the mouth by my parents for saying things disrespectful. So, I don't do it anymore because I'm an adult. So, some of you guys need to grow the [\h__\h] up. But you call all the stuff going on in your life normal aging. I talked to a lady at the bank today. She is 29 years old. She is on seven different medications. 29 years old. She doesn't like it, but she was told she has to. I call that appalling. Not problematic. That's appalling. I don't know for a fact, but I'm pretty sure my grandparents weren't on really any medication. Maybe an aspirin once in a while. They lived into their 90s, got everything off of their farm. So, I I don't know what to tell you other than we're doing it wrong, people. Most of us are doing it wrong, which is why I come out here so you have the opportunity to do it right. I don't post my workouts to go look how strong I am. I post my workouts so I can look at myself and go, you are exactly who the [\h__\h] you say you are and who you tell your family you are. This is who they see. You make sure that they see the person that you say you are. That's why I post them because I go, this is what's possible. I post them because I go, you can do this, too, if you just are willing to suffer the same way I am. And if you're not, that's okay. But if you're going to sit there and tell me that's ridiculous, that's overtraining. It's too hard. You shouldn't be doing that. Something's wrong. Then get off my feet. I'm not for you. If you say age gracefully and normally, it makes me want to smack you in the mouth. That is negligence with your own PR department. That's what you're doing. Here's the reality. Your biology listens to signals. That's it. Nothing else. Not motivational quotes or Pinterest quotes, not your intentions. Signals, chemical signals, chemical triggers. That's it. Pathways, inputs. You give it the right signals, it rebuilds. You give it garbage. Garbage in, garbage out, it rots, decays, and disintegrates, which is what you're doing right now. So, I'm not going to talk about slowing aging. Screw slowing aging. This is about building a system that is so tuned and dialed in and so resilient, so relentlessly at 100% capacity that it doesn't politely ask entropy to back off. It slams the door and says, "Go [\h__\h] yourself." That's what I'm telling you to do. That's where I'm at today. If you're wondering what my mood is 16 minutes in and you're still here, that you ready? So, look at the engine that you have. ATP M C is what protects and keeps your little nuclear power plants working properly, not some old coal furnace that's from the 30s. Your mitochondria aren't just powerhouses. They're regulators of life and death. They control apoptosis, ROS balance, metabolic switching, which is huge. When your mitochondria, listen to me. When your mitochondria get lazy, they don't just give less ATP. They flood you with reactive oxygen species that damage your DNA, damage proteins, damage membranes, which is why you wake up foggy, inflamed, and slow like a turtle. C is the builtin override code. It is encoded by mitochondrial DNA itself. fits in you. It's like the cell's emergency manual and they go here, read this, become an expert, do it in a fraction of a second and now start doing that. So here here's what it does just so you understand before I get really nerdy in the endocrinology department or chemistry department. It activates something called EMPK. Talked about this a lot. The same energy sensor triggered by fasting and incredibly hard exercise to be honest. Increases glucose transporter transllocation. I talked about this yesterday. Glute 4 glut4. So your cells actually take sugar out of your blood instead of letting it decay and demolish your vessels. It enhances fatty acid oxidation through carnitine shuttle activation. This is biochemistry. Believe me, I nerded out on this stuff cuz I liked it. It suppresses ROS leakage from complex one and three in the ETSs, the um ETC rather, the electron transport chain, right? Which is when you take too much, just so you know, when you take too much uh NSADs, it gets uncoupled and you basically torch yourself. That's what happens. ETC gets uncoupled. So you don't get any there's a whole host of reactions that occur, but any biochemical person will tell you all about how that works. I just don't know that. It lowers the oxidative fire that accelerates aging. Like all of this is necessary to make sure to mitigate you aging faster than you should. You shouldn't go from 25 in 5 years to 75, which is where I'm seeing a lot of I'm getting messages from you every day. You guys keep them coming. But what you're telling me is not normal. It's a product of bad decisions and bad environment and a bunch of bad chemistry going inside you. So here's the deal. It's mod C makes your cell act like it's a 19year-old again. You stop being glucose intolerant fat storage. That's what like you just stop. You just stop being this fat storage. Loss of glue loss of insulin sens. You can tell it just bugs me. Loss of insulin sensitivity like glucose intolerant nightmare and you start being a flexible fat oxidizing machine. Listen, without mitochondrial efficiency, nothing else matters you guys. Nothing. That is the foundation all else is built on. This is where you should spend your time, money, and energy. And yet I see people spend it on me. Don't spend it on somebody else. I don't care. Just do it. Just [\h__\h] do it, please. Because you guys are letting yourself die and then waiting until you're so destroyed and then you go to war and you're willing to spend whatever price once the damage is done. How about you just get in the way and don't let the damage occur? You ever think of that? Yes. I'm annoyed. Welcome to my It's my show. You don't like it. This guy's pissed off today. Yeah. Because I look at people. You're choosing to rot and decay and let yourself get demolished because you're too lazy or cheap to do the [\h__\h] work to change it because you're looking at your life as if something like you're just guaranteed that your life's going to keep on going until one day, believe me, I'm 52 years old and I remember the things I used to be able to do at 25 like it was yesterday and I'm going, "Holy crap, I can't do that if my life depended on it." I used to do 185 front squats from the floor like a piston, right? 10 sets of 10 reps along with 20 pull-ups between each in a 400 meter run. Yes, that was my workout. So, if you go, "Oh, come on, bro. I'm tired of trying to prove [\h__\h] to you. I don't have to prove anything to you. Look at me. I'm a walking talking billboard that what I do works." And I've shown plenty of my training. So, if you ask me to prove it or go, "I don't believe it." I don't really care. I know what I can do. And it's a lot. But I used to do 10 rounds of 10 front squats at 185 from the floor, 20 pull-ups, any style. And the reason I started doing any style, by the way, is because when I just did regular pull-ups, I started to really actually cause a lot of problems with my tries. And so I changed them up. So I chin-ups, arrows, bios, narrow, wide, anything I can just because I it's better for me just physically as as a functional athlete. But I couldn't get under that if I tried right now for 100 reps. I did 155 for that workout just the other day. 100 reps, 10 sets, and I did 12 pull-ups, but I did what was called variable pull-ups instead. So, I did two of every type without letting go of the bar. They are significantly harder than any other pull-up you've ever done. And on my last three sets, I was pretty sure my knee was going to give me the finger and explode and run into my car. It's been maybe a year and a half since I pulled 185 from the floor and pounded out 100. So, just to let you know, I'm a working example of fighting back to become a juggernaut. and I'm still disintegrating. Stop wasting your time. And I realize I have all kinds of health issues, but I know what I'm talking about and I'm coming out here giving it to you for free because I give a [\h__\h] because I'm tired of seeing people suffer and fall apart and get given a pill or a patch or a injection or a surgery saying that that's the only thing you can do. It's not. And people get mad, which makes me no sense to me whatsoever. If I went, "Hey, if you just did this one thing, you'd get a million dollars a year." And you go, "I can't do that. It's too hard." Then you made a video going, "Fuck this guy. He's lying. I don't like him. This is wrong here, here, and here. Dude, I'm a walking example of it. I'm the one wearing the $35,000 watch, not because I'm bragging about it, because I can actually buy it. I like watches and cars. That's it. And being alive with my wife and kids. And I come out here and I teach you how to do all of it. Everything I've done in four years. Four. I just give it to you for free. You want to work with me oneon-one? Yep. It's going to be expensive as hell and worth every penny. If you don't, then don't. It's okay. When people go, I just love to pick your brain on a quick call. Nope. You're picking my brain right now. You want to have me as your doctor. You want to have me as your consultant. You're going to wire me money. And I'm going to give you the answers. And then I want you to have those answers so you never need me again. That's what makes me a great consultant, a great coach, and a great doctor is I don't make you addicted to me. I give you the answers so you're never addicted to anybody again. You find what's wrong with that. I'll listen. I'll wait. What do you got? What do you do? Do you have anything? I'm listening. Yeah. You got nothing cuz I do this for free. I just want to smack some of you guys right now. Listen, let me get back on a MC because I just keep deviating. This is like I got ADD de that's just welcome to my world. This is what my brain does. It runs non-stop. It's like hurting cats. So M C makes your cells run the way they're supposed to when you were like 19 years old. You stop being this disaster, right? So if you don't fix like without mitochondrial efficiency, I said it earlier probably about 10 minutes ago now. Nothing else matters, man. It doesn't it doesn't matter what you do. You can do all the injury mitigation and repair. You could do all the supplements and vitamins and all the stretching and red light and sauna and whatever weird things you stick in your butthole or tan, you know, go out and tan your taint, whatever you guys come up with. None of it matters without ATP, adenazine triphosphate. It does not matter. If you don't have the energy to make it rock, you ain't rocking anything. You understand me, son? That's the foundation. You want resilience, ATP. In fact, you need you need ATP without excess ROS. MSI gives you that. MSI gives you all that. The second thing is BPC-157, man. All day. I take BP BPC57 every day. And what's funny is somebody's going to hear this and go, "Oh, wow. That's not healthy. I heard it causes cancer." None of this causes cancer. [\h__\h] your cancer. I've been through cancer four times. None of it has to do with any of this. And if you go, "Oh, but clearly, dude, I just started this afterwards." You realize that? How crazy is that? The only thing I ever did before this was BPC and TB-500. I didn't even do GHK-Cu. I didn't use copper. Fixed a torn superpanatus tendon after I got greedy on a snatch cuz my ego was too big. It was bigger than what I could do. And I heard the snap, felt it pop, and it was a disaster. Three oros said, "I'm going to need surgery. It's the only way." And I went and that's the day I started to become an expert. So, it happens. And then I come out here and I just give it to you. And some of you muppets still complain about it. Get off my show. I don't need you. I'm here giving you this stuff for free cuz I care. Yep. I'm gritty. I'm old. I'm grumpy. I tell you what I do and I am grandfathered in to being a grumpy old [\h__\h] sometimes. Welcome to my world. I'm 52. You think this beard is all black like or dark brown like this? No. There's plenty of gray in there. It is called beard dye. You know why? Cuz I like it. If you go, I don't want to listen to a guy who dyes his beard. It's not authentic. Okay. Bye, Felicia. So, BPC-157. Take it every day or don't. Right. Like, this is where I This is I don't care. Take it every day. Don't take it every day. Buy from Elite Biogenics. Don't. But you have a guy here that goes, "Man, I actually give a [\h__\h] I test everything. I make sure it all works. I make sure it's all rigid and helping you in the best possible way." Yep. Maybe it takes 3 days to get a shipment. Maybe four, maybe two. I don't know what to tell you. But I can tell you this. I'm in this for you to win it, not for me. I'm already winning. I want you to win. And I'm just giving you the tools. Just talk about inflammation for a second. chronic lowgrade inflammation because it's the it's the assassin. I called it that before. It's this little silent you can't hear it. You honestly can't even feel it. Assassin of aging. It's not a heart attack, an MI, right? Myioardial inffection. It's not that. It's not a stroke. It's this constant little trickle of lipopolysaccharides, the LPS, those little fragments, bacteria, just slipping out of your gut lining between those tight junctions into your bloodstream and hitting those TLR4 receptors on immune cells and just setting off NFCappa B like this car alarm that never shuts up and they just keep cranking up the volume. That inflammation, just so you know, doesn't just stiffen arteries. It screws up neurotransmitter balance. It wrecks insulin signaling and it feeds depression. Yeah, but you don't need BPC. You got Xanax, Prozac, Paxel, those all solve your problems, right? That that was the difference between placebo and people on those 2%. You can argue all you want. 2% to same idiots that are going to argue that oral peptides actually help them. [\h__\h] Welcome to a placebo. You're just good at lying to yourself, which frightens me. BPC-157 shuts the leak in your body. It stabilizes tight junction proteins in the gut, right? The epithelium and the gut oid and claw ends. So the intestinal wall goes from this leaky faucet to Fort Knox. There's another conversation to have. You think there's any gold in Fort Knox? I don't just random. I'm 28 minutes into this podcast. I've talked about one and a half peptides, but really somebody answer me. Don't answer me on YouTube because I'm not going to read it. I don't read my YouTube comments anymore cuz half you guys I just don't want to listen to because you say things that are pointless. Ask me real questions. I'll answer you. I'll bleed to give you an answer to help you. But how about you use the Hey, the Spartan's going. Ask me a question and I'll get to I posted that last night, I think. And I I think I'm about 500 and change questions deep already from you guys. So, thanks. I'll try and get to as many as I can. I'm not going to get to all 500. I'd sit here for days. I should just go live and do it maybe if I had time. Fort Knox. Let me know. Somebody send me a comment. You think there's actually gold in there or you think Goldfinger's there and Odd Job with his hat? If you know, you know. [\h__\h] galore. That'll probably get me flagged even though it's a character name. Anyway, listen. BPC, it doesn't just stop there with fixing your gut. It increases VEGF. Uh, that's vascular endothelial growth factor, angioenesis, more vessels, right? Improves nitric oxide signaling, which means better endothelial function. More blood flow is always better unless you're bleeding out. suppresses blow infl pro inflammatory cyitoines like TNF alpha and IL6. I've said this stuff before, but here's what that means. Your gut stops dripping poison into your blood. Your vessels stop inflaming. Your brain stops drowning in micro gal overactivation. And you heal tendons and ligaments faster. And more importantly, you stop aging faster. You don't stop aging, you stop aging faster. The way everybody's obsessed with these brain hacks. Listen, you can't just so you know, you can't think clearly if your gut is feeding your brain toxins every damn day. BPC-157 fixes the fire at the source. The end. You're welcome. What was in this coffee today? I'm going to have to make this a podcast like on Spotify. I haven't done one of those for a while. So, my apologies, but I'm sorry, not sorry. I have [\h__\h] to do. I am so busy. You have no idea. I work really 14 to 16 hours. I need to hire more people. I need to call Dan Martell and say, "Listen, how do I buy back my time?" Because somewhere there's a hole. So, you look at the infrastructure. the infrastructure is it's the most important because it's the cellular in infrastructure. So TB-500, right? The hidden killers of a human to be honest, fibrosis, fibrosis. I'm not like CF, not like cystic fibrosis. I mean fibrosis in general. Aging isn't just slower repair, it's scarring. And you're riddled with scars. Even if if you think you're not, you are. You have little micro traumas and tears and fibrodic areas all over your place. Collagen, it gets laid down in sheets instead of these ordered fibers. So hearts stiffen up. When the mocardium becomes fibrootic, that's a problem because you were told you were told that once the myioardium has a dead spot, a broken spot, a fibrodic spot from some kind of es schemic attack or anything like that that it's permanent damage until TB-500 and then now all of the sudden it's not. But some people are still I don't know if I should take that. Dude, I would spend hundreds of thousands of dollars, millions. I would spend every dime I've got to fix my damn heart. Maybe think about that before you go out and you buy yourself a new Honda. But the hearts stiffen. That's bad. Lungs get fibroic. They don't have adequate gas exchange in the alvoli. They don't right. Even the surfactant doesn't work properly. Livers harden. Kidneys clog. TB-500 is the anti- fibrosis missile. It regulates actin cytokelean dynamics, right? Which controls how cells migrate and repair tissue. I've talked about this at ad at nauseium. I think it tells endo endothelial cells and fibroblasts and stem cells where to go and what to do very specifically so they don't just float around aimlessly and attach to something go I don't know. I guess I'll just turn on my job site here. That's not going to work. I got nothing against stem cells. They should be reserved for chaotic damage like zero cartilage. Yep. Stem cells. Make sure they go right. And even then the second they enter your system you lose all control. You just have to base it on the fact, listen, I got nothing against them, but I think if it was a head-to-head between stem cells and peptides all day long because they are a very precise signal. They go in like a seal team, do their job, and then get out. The stem cells don't do that. You lose control when they go in the body. That's another podcast, but you really need to understand that. I got I got nothing. They're very effective. I think you should do both. My opinion, but here's what what TB-500 buys you. Genesis and eskeemic tissue. Tissue that's lost adequate blood and oxygen supply. New vessels. That's a good thing. I'm giving a thumbs up if you're just listening to this reduced myofibrol blast activation which means scar tissues don't dominate the repair real tissue does right or scars don't rather dominate the repair organ preservation softer more supple it's a great word and it more oxygenated less scarred tissue in heart and lungs and liver it's systemic without TB-500 every single injury leaves a little tiny bit of a scar and over decades and decades that's aging with TB-500 repair looks a lot more almost 100% like original like OEM right just original tissue and less like you know the red green show with a bunch of duct tape and nonsense if you know you know if you don't that doesn't really matter so while MC is just kind of keeping the engine running and that nuclear power plant just firing out ATP all day long and BPC57 keeps the pipes all sealed up so the the gas and the nutrients and everything you got inside you can stay in and everything that's not supposed to be in there can stay out TB-500 makes sure the foundation doesn't crack ever. So, you've got the whole system. Now, if you stop there, those three, 12 months, forever. And hypothetically, here, I'll even help you. Hypothetically, if I was going to take these, since they're weird about dosages, if I was going to take these for mice, so I'm 34 minutes in. If I was going to take these in my mouse experiment, it would be MC C 3 to 5 milligrams every second day. It would be TB-500 every week, and it would be BP, it would be 5 milligs every 5 to 7 days. I would probably do every five personally, but you can do seven. And it would be BPC-157, 500 micrograms, so half a milligram every day. That's it. You're welcome. And you know what some people are going to say? It's too expensive. I can't do that. Where's the cheapest one? Or is there anything else I can take? Can I just drink like a protein shake? Is there something I can get that maybe it's a B vitamin deficiency? Maybe it's a methylation problem. Yeah, it's none of that. But you're welcome. I just gave you the fountain of youth. And yes, I've talked about fountain of youth and other things, too. that this is the easiest way to set yourself up for a long-term win in your biology. Now, if you really want to crank this up, I wasn't even going to go into this, but if you really want to crank I'm already out here for 35 minutes, you have to look at time, the calendar, the time, the clock, how things are working. So, epitoolon and growth hormone secrets are what are going to come into play for this. And if you go, what about TRT? You can incorporate TRT into this all you want hypothetically. And if you're a dude, 150, 200 milligrams every week. No, not subq. You don't need to take these micro doses all the time. The halflife is incredibly long. All you have to do is get started. Ramp up the do ramp up the levels in your system. And as long as those waves overlap, you're fine. It's like if you take it today and then you don't wait until November to take your next one. First of all, you're [\h__\h] and you shouldn't be trusted at home to use the toaster. And second of all, it's not going to help you. You're messing with your own endocrinology. Don't do that. ADA, HPG, don't do that. You're going to screw yourself up just because you're lazy, forgetful. I really don't know. I don't know why you would miss it. It's like you're not going to miss taking a piss. You're going to get up in the middle of the night or piss your bed, right? So, just think about that. So, if you look at these, these are like optional upgrades, right? The epitoolon and and growth hormone secrets. Epitoolon is pretty rad. Three times a year, 20 days, three times a year, it's all you got to do. This peptide tells your pineal gland to I just get its [\h__\h] together, right? It re it resets circadian gene expression. It upregulates timmerase and lengthens telomeirs. Those are the DNA shoelaces that fray with every division. It doesn't just help you sleep better, just so you know. It preserves genomic integrity. It's the aglet on the end. It keeps it from fraying off. That was the easiest example I could come up with. If you don't like it, I'm not going to come up with something better. It's just easy for me. But circadian rhythm, if you guys think that's the oh, I get jetlag. Oh, there's so much more to circadian rhythm. It is it is it is clock and bal one transcription factors. Yes, they're real things. Controlling hormone pulses. So, not just hormone pulses, even god so much. Circadian rhythm is so important. DNA repair cycles, even mitochondrial fish and infusion. Yes, they're different. like screw your circadian rhythm and your body just ages like something you left like a rubber band around a box that you left in the sun just destroys it. Reset it and everything else runs smoother. So should this be included? Yeah, I think this should be incorporated. CJC-1295 with DAC you have to take it less often. That's why if people go what's the difference that primarily it's the easiest way to explain it and a pamarell these secrets stimulate growth hormone pulses through the ghrein receptor which is similar to MK-677 right and the GRH receptor a GH receptor but they do it in a physiological rhythm so that means that IGF-1 rises enough to rebuild collagen repair muscle and enhance neurogenesis but without the blunt force suppression you get from exogenous growth hormone. I got nothing against growth hormone, but it's not the fountain of youth you guys think it is. It has massive receptor desensitization. So, you don't have any issues with that when you have yourself doing it. You don't burn out gene expression in your system. So, it doesn't work like that either. But the result is you get deeper REM sleep. But the REM sleep is that delta sleep where your body takes, you know, memory and makes it permanent. It flushes toxins and repairs all the tissues. You need this sleep. That's why ambient doesn't work. It works to knock you out, but like I said, you wake up naked in your backyard and you don't know how you got there, but you never got any rest. You know, you end up in a country you didn't really plan on going to because you fell asleep on the wrong [\h__\h] plane. Like, it's not okay. You guys have to think about long-term systemic function. So, the result of this stuff with the secrets is, like I said, REM sleep, so you get that delta sleep, stronger tendons, better fat metabolism, tighter skin, you look younger, and that whole nightly repair cycle, it doesn't degrade with age. It actually stays the same. So you're doing the same thing when you were 65 then as you were when you were 19 years old with growth hormone which is important if you ask me about cancer by the way and growth hormone and secretogs and all this stuff. So here's the deal. Hormone sensitive cancers are susceptible to growth hormone secrets if that's what type of cancer it is. They don't cause it. How do you know you have it? I don't know. Nobody else can know. So if you have one cell will it do anything to it? I don't know. Is it worth the risk? You take more of a risk getting in your car. How about that? If that puts some clarity on it. So, here's why most people won't do any of this that I'm talking about. They love their excuses more than they love their biology. Aging's natural, you guys. Yep. So is diarrhea. Sucks, but it's natural. Doesn't mean you should be proud of it. Don't walk around, but I had diarrhea today. Nature's plan for you is to breed young and limp by middle age and die before 60. And when I say nature, I mean the nature controlled by the government usually, except now they don't even want you to have kids, right? Again, totally other podcast. But that's what natural looks like according to the ecosystem we live in, designed and written by social media. You're worshiping entropy and they're fueling it all day long. Meanwhile, your food is this is this is the problem. This is your food is unnatural. Your light exposure is unnatural. Your stressors are unnatural. But you cling to aging naturally as your shield. That's cowardice. And it is disguised as your virtue signaling [\h__\h] So listen, I'll lay it out for you because it's 41 minutes in and this is a lot longer than I'm trying to make my podcast a lot shorter. But one's slower, shorter. Let me try that again. That's I'm [\h__\h] hungry. So this is what happens when glucose is not in my body. My brain goes, "Yeah, dude, you need food. You need cookies." So here's what happens when you run the entire package, not just the first three. First three totally fine. Change your life for the better in ways that nothing else will. Nothing else will. No, none of them are oral. No, they cannot be oral. No, there is no single compound in this that can be orally effective and bioavailable. You are making expensive piss and it gets turned into chum the second it gets into your sewage treatment plant, which is your gut. So, here's what happens when you run it. Subq M C ATP up, ROS down, mitochondrial reset. BPC, yeah, BPC I had to think about the next one was BPC57. I do I know, but I was just making sure. Great. BPC-157 seals your gut. Endothelium are repaired and turns off all that systemic inflammation. BB500 fibrosis is reversed. Huge deal. You're full of it. Even if you don't think so, you are full of fibrosis. Tissue repair get it just gives you a clean bill. Tissue repair is all cleaned up. A pitilon. Now, this is where we're getting to options, right? Telomeirs are preserved. Circadian rhythm comes back. So, you get your nightly repair cycle. CJC with DAC and a pamarellin. growth hormone pulses maxes out your nightly repair schedule. So both of those together, a pitilon and IP, PAML and CJC with DAC work hand in hand. You don't take one without the other. You're like, which one should I choose? Both. But none of this is theory. This is just your this this is just your human biology obeying the commands and the inputs that you feed it. And they're not being forced. It is just tapping on the locks with the right key. And they just let the key in. The handshake happens and away the work goes inside the cell. And it just your body capitalizes on the right signal. Here's the uncomfortable truth. And there's a lot of them, man, in this in this podcast. There's a lot. Here's the rub. This is the uncomfortable rub for you guys. And most of you guys are going to get pissed off and hear this. Aging is not some grim reaper that's out to get you, man. It's the sum of thousands and thousands of molecular failures ignored. Ignored by you because everybody told you that they were normal or you just had to take this pill or that get this surgical intervention because that's going to make it all better. and all it did was cover up the problems that you chose by your decisions. But nothing about losing your energy or stiffening up your heart or kidneys or liver and leaking toxins from your gut or drowning in fibrosis of your vascular system is normal. It is preventable and right now it's pretty damn negotiable where you're at right now with this information. The only question is whether you're going to stop being some passive passenger in Entropy's taxi and just start driving the car and realize the taxi is a [\h__\h] Lamborghini and you can stand on the gas anytime you want instead of realize like you think you're in some posos, but you're not. Because if you do, if you just finally take control of what you've got, if you reset mitochondria, if you firewall the inflammation in your system, you kill the fibrosis and repair and mitigate all the damage, you sync your clock, and you repair yourself nightly so you wake up every day not exhausted, looking for a handful of Advil, but actually functioning better. You don't just live longer, you live stronger at a higher capacity, 100%. And if you won't, then that's on you. But then stop complaining about feeling old and breaking down and nothing you can do about it because you choose it. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.