You know what I've noticed is and here I'll I'll give you the straight answer right out of the gate. I'm going to explain exactly what a peptide is, how they work, why they work, what they do, all of it. I'm just going to give you a quick, I don't know, 20, 30 minute, 45 maybe if you get me going. Sometimes I just I check out cuz I told you I nerd out on this stuff cuz I like it. It's fun and I know it really well. But by the time I'm done, you should understand everything about peptides. So you can look at all these bro science idiots who keep trying to sell you things and go, "No, that doesn't make any sense. According to biology, you're a liar. According to physiology, that can't even work." So all of the chat GPT experts out there that think they know what they're doing, you can tell. All you have to do is look at their post and it's got flame emojis and crap in it trying to explain let me let me tell you all about how Slooh works like whatever the nonsense is. It bugs me because they just want to jump on the train because they see other people successful with it but they're not telling people the right information. They just want the money. I come out here and I just give you the information. You can decide to give me money or not. That's on you. But I just want you to be able to make a good decision. So, sorry. I have some hard-boiled eggs stuck in a tooth somewhere. Like my uh my Bedro Koolian coffee mug. Man, this thing's seen a lot of years. I've gotten use out of this thing. Good dude, Bedros. Good dude, man. That guy is he's legit. So, listen, man. I could I could I could run probably an entire year class on this. It's so awesome. But just be honest. Most people, including people that are self-proclaimed experts, living under this pharmaceutical dictatorship your entire life. Look at your life. Just look around. Look at what is the recommendation for every single thing. Every malady, every issue, every ache, scratch, fever, anything. Hair, finasteride. Come on, man. That's post finasteride syndrome. There is a problem that stays with you forever where I'll help you. You can't get wood again in your life no matter how many seialis you take. So, you guys need to pay attention to what I'm about to tell you so you understand how to take care of this machine you keep driving around, right? Like there's a pill for cholesterol, for anxiety, for sleep, for side effects of all the other pills that they give you. And then because we're just such geniuses as a society, we celebrate healthc care when your 10 prescriptions no longer 15 prescriptions. I mean, they offered me 12 when I came out of the hospital missing this lung. They were here's 12 different drugs. You're going to need them all to survive. But we celebrate that because the prescriptions will no longer actively kill you. Are you out of your mind? Listen, sorry, my mustache is itchy as hell right now. The real operating system of the human body, you guys are going to be experts by the time I'm done talking. The signals that it's been using for thousands and thousands and thousands of years to grow and heal and create and regenerate and divide, they're all right in front of you. They're peptides. That's how this works. I got to say this because otherwise somebody's going to have a freaking aneurysm. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, triage, prescribe, advise, cure, and it is only for entertainment and education. And it is purely a hypothetical. How about that? We ready? Can we go now? I got to scratch my nose. You know, you turn 52, you don't even care. You'll pick your nose wherever it is. Doesn't matter. It's just how this works. I just don't care. I'm going to tell you it. I'll spit it out. You know what? If my junk is in the wrong position, I'm just going to move it. I don't care where I'm standing. Like, it's not impolite or rude. I'm just being a human freaking being. But listen, I I promise by the end of this little rant/educational podcast, you're going to understand Well, that is so itchy. It's driving me nuts. You are you're going to understand peptides well enough. This is my goal. That you understand peptides well enough that you can just destroy any Insta expert IFBB pro. I have a doctorate degree, PhD wannabe. I take selfies of myself like with my model pose using chat to answer everything as if I actually understand what the [\h__\h] I'm talking about expert in a single sentence. How about that? You can school your doctor, your medical doctor, which I'm a doc, but I actually come out here cuz I give a crap. But you can school them without even breaking a sweat cuz most of them are full of [\h__\h] And you can walk away understanding why these things honestly represent the biggest medical revolution I think in in human history. This is the future. I mean what frustrates me is it just gets written off as hype and well what if it causes cancer and what about may cause death. Those are the three words that are in every single package insert in every pharmaceutical out there. And you have been so conditioned to go, "Well, they have to say that, bro." First of all, ain't you, bro? Second of all, they say it because it [\h__\h] happens. You know what doesn't say that? Peptides. You're welcome. Listen. Okay, so what are peptides? Cuz I get this question a lot. So, we'll just start right at ground zero and go from A to Z. Because if it if I just start throwing around and everybody it just the word peptide half the place that half the people half the it doesn't matter whatever room I'm in anyone I'm talking to they think it's a supplement that you can buy at GNC and the other half you guys online you're like well it's a steroid though you you can't take that that's cheating both of you idiots are wrong now I'm not going to be nice because I'm tired of the arguments I see in my comment section or the messages or the education you try and give me when I have forgotten more than you will ever learn it irritates me a peptide in its simplest at its simplest rudimentary explanation is a chain of amino acids. There you go. That's it. Start there. Write that down. That amino acids are the building block of life. Not big long like protein which can be thousands honestly of amino acids fold into all these complicated origami shapes. Peptides are short and surgical and in extremely detailed 2 to 50 amino acids long almost all the time. No, somebody don't quote me on that. Well, what about this one? And bio-regulators are the two to four. And I they are supposed to work on the genetic. They don't work. I'm just going to tell you that right now despite all the Russian studies. I said it the other day. So go ahead, freak out. Get in my comments and say I have all this proof. No, you don't. No, you don't. Think of it like this. A protein is like a full novel, thousand pages. And a peptide is a short little text with character limits. You can only throw out 180, right? Like just a tiny little text message. They're both written with the same language, same alphabet, same like communication style, same syntax even, but one is sprawling and detailed and incredibly complicated. And the other one is just razor sharp and right to the point. And in biology, human biology, at least all biology, the point is the purpose. That's everything, right? Because that's what it's trying to tell you to do. It's the signal. It's that's what's the communication, right? Your body is this giant I'm going to nerd out so hard on this cuz it's so fun. Your body is this giant communication network. So cells are always talking to each other constantly from your forehead to your toes, nose to fingertips, whatever. And the language they use is peptides. That's it. Nothing else. You can sit there and argue about, you know, what uh electrical conduction and synaptic, you know, workings and all that stuff. It's still all predicated on a peptide. So when one cell wants another cell, this cell wants this cell to take an action, whether it's divide or repair or release hormones or even change its metabolism, it doesn't matter. It doesn't send this long thesis. It sends a tiny little shortcoded message peptide. There you go. That's it. Peptides interact with a receptor. They're protein structures that sit on the outside of a cell. So you have your cell and then there's this little structure that sits on the outside. That's the receptor. And each receptor is like a lock. And each peptide is like a key. So you have this receptor and the peptide comes along and fits perfectly when it's the right peptide. And it it doesn't just open the lock, flicks on the switch inside the cell. So it does all kinds of stuff. Whatever the signal is telling it to do, the signal can trigger all kinds of it cascades and cascades of events. That's why half-life in peptides doesn't matter because the cascade following it could go on for hours. Enzymes turning on, gene expression, proteins being made. And these cascades aren't small like they are amplified at ridiculous capacity. One peptide binding can it can ripple into thousands and thousands of downstream effects. That's why they're so powerful despite being so small. And and I'm not losing anybody. Believe me, I'm trying to keep this as simple as possible without going just full science. But most people don't realize this, but the molecules that run your entire life right now, even listening to this, are peptides. insulin is a peptide. Glucagon is a peptide growth hormone releasing hormone peptide. Even oxytocin, right? The bonding, the little huggy bonding hormone is also a peptide. Your mood, so follow me. Your mood, like your attitude, your whatever, however you feel right now, your blood sugar, all your repair signals, your growth, they're all riding on the backs of these tiny little chains. This is now you see why these are so badass. So when you talk about using peptides therapeutically, I'm not talking about adding something foreign to your system. We're talking about borrowing your body's own language and articulating this communication much more. You're speaking it more clearly, right? I hope that makes sense. Here's where physiology really matters. And these instab bros just piss me off because they're so [\h__\h] stupid. They come out and they just think they God, I don't care if you have a pro card or you used to be a DC or you have some PhD in something or you're an MD. I don't care if you don't understand basic human biology and neurology and endocrine, all the things. you have no business opening your pie hole and giving somebody advice. So, I just like if that's you and you're doing it, take your hand, ball it up, punch yourself right in the face, and shut up until you learn because you're going to end up causing people to do things because they believe in you and it's not going to give them the right cascade of events even though you're like, "Yes, it is." And you'll argue because your ego is so [\h__\h] fragile. Instead of going, "Wow, maybe I really don't know. Maybe I should just learn." You realize I've spent 30 plus years learning all this stuff and I learn every day. The amount of information that I consume on a daily basis. It's like I I'm voracious. I read and consume and absorb all the time as much information as I possibly can so I can give it to you in a way that actually is understandable versus going here's a giant textbook figure it out man. No way. This is what where physiology really matters. Proteins are very very big and when they fold wrong the origami gets all screwed up. you get just this chaotic nasty mess, right? You get clumps and misfolds and all those result in things like disease. Usually Alzheimer's is a great example. Peptides avoid this entire mess by staying small. They don't work, right? Because it's not a protein. It is a peptide amino acid chain, not the same. So, they're short length means that they don't they don't fold into these weird unstable structures because they really can't. They're very direct and incredibly stable, which is why the body uses those as signal molecules instead of giant proteins. Aside from the fact that they're much more efficient. Tides are just take the thousand foot view. They're the operating system that that commands biology. All of your biology, everything in your system. They're not the whole program, not the they're definitely not the hardware, right? That's this is all the the m the actual mechanical portion of the machine. They're just a code, these little snippets that tell the system exactly what to do, when to do it, and how much to turn the dial, right? Do we do a little bit? Do we do a lot? And before you start asking you what peptides do what, this thing would be a full year of conversation if I started getting into all that level of detail. So, I'm just going to keep this as simple as possible, but this is what makes them so incredibly elegant and honestly why they're exploding in healthc care and performance uh disease mitigation. It just they reverse so many things because they tell your body to do the right thing and I hope the pharmaceutical industry burns to the [\h__\h] ground. I'm going to disrupt the whole thing. And by the way, I have to say this. I'm of sound mind and I don't plan on unaliving myself at any point. So I feel very good about my life. So nobody can be like, I don't know. It was just weird. He just snapped. No, I didn't. No. So just telling you right now. So think of this. When you can copy the language that you're I have to say that cuz it's a weird world we live in right now. When you can copy the language that your body already speaks, you can do just about anything. I mean, that's how unlimited you are. There's no capacity. None. When you find the right signal, you tell your body to do it. If you go, "Oh, yeah, but you can override and overrev the engine. Get off my podcast. I just want to smack you in the mouth." Your body will not do something it can't do based on a peptide, and it won't go past its own capacity based on a peptide. Drugs are what do that. They go, "We don't care about the safeties in place. I'm going to force you to do it regardless of any kinds of conse any consequences." That's the problem with pharmaceuticals is they demand action even if it's not the right one. Right? So, I mean, you can heal and grow and burn fat and build muscle and fix your cognition, extend life. This is stuff that I I think most of you guys uh I think everybody should know this. Same reason why most people should know. Everybody that has a driver's license, you should know all about your car, not just how to put the key in the ignition or push the button or whatever it is. But here's where a lot of people get lost. They think peptides are some little hush hush exotic biohack. And you know how I feel about that word biohack. It just it's a dodgeball to the face waiting to happen. It's not a biohacking supplement, you guys. It's it's just the native language of your own biology. And to understand how they work, you've got to follow the chain of events from the second that you inject one all the way to the effect that it causes and then what that effect is. Right. Decided I wanted to hold my coffee and put it down apparently because once you get me started, watch out. So, let's go. Let's go from A to Z so you understand how a peptide actually works. And by the way, inject only. I don't care. Come at me, bro. You'll be wrong. Biology is on my side. So, you inject a peptide subcutaneously into the fat under the skin into the thin layer of fat. And people go, "Why can't I do I am?" No, you can't. I intramuscular. No, no, you can. It's just a waste and you're stupid. You're not listening. You want to be different? Knock yourself out. Your results are going to be worthless. So you go there because it allows the peptide to slip into the circulation gradually and that and then the fact that it actually bypasses the entire digestive system which would break it down into a bunch of useless chum fragments that your body is design listen your gut's doing what it's designed to do. So when you tell your gut to do something different or you go to war against what your gut is designed to do you're actually causing harm to your body. You understand that right? Which is why when people go, I take an oral peptide, but it was treated. So, it's got it's pegalated is a big one, right? And it causes the molecule to be insanely toxic. It's not helping you, man. It's actually causing more problems, but it gives them the way gives them a way to go, well, but it it bypasses the gut wall and all the enzyatic activity that's going to break down a peptide. So, it's really good for you. Yeah, but it screws you up 100 times worse. A hard pass. So once the peptide gets in the blood, it's carried to the body like this little UPS courier like just everywhere. Except unlike a drug which they're kind of indiscriminate, right? The way they spread, they go everywhere. Peptides go everywhere, but they're only targeting one specific messenger. That's a really important distinction because if you look at a peptide or you look at a drug, it's going to have all kinds of ancillary effects to just take a basic drug like an NSAID, right? You take an NSAID. Okay. So, it's designed to mitigate pain and inflammation and reduce any kind of febal activity, any kind of fever, but it also causes renal toxicity and forces the liver to work incredibly hard to cuz it's trying to attack that compound and it's designed to resist that compound. So, you make it work harder, enzyatic activity, and liver goes through the roof. And never mind destroying the gut wall. And I could get into the physiology about this, but then we're going to really be here a long time. So, it doesn't have a it's there's no specificity. And think about that when you guys keep taking your tiny little baby aspirins because some idiot doctor told you that it's healthy. Feel free to punch him in the face. I would. They peptides do something called docking. And they're all very specifically shaped. All right? They're designed in a very specific way. And that shape is everything. Remember when you were a kid, shapes matter? You had that big ball. It was blue and red, I think, and had different shapes that melt through, right? The little yellow star and circle and all that stuff. It's literally the easiest example. I should have brought one. It would have been more effective. Except my kids are 16 and 18. Although sometimes they act like they're too. All you parents understand exactly what I just said. So the shape is everything, right? The shape matters cuz if there's no shape, it can't dock. The body is covered in receptors. These are remember I said they're proteins on the surface that act like a lock. Each receptor only responds to a matching key. Wrong key. It doesn't it just it doesn't even know it exists. But when the right key, the right peptide finds the right receptor, which it does floating around the bloodstream, it just clicks into place. That's that lock and key mechanism. And it's not brute force at all. It's smooth. It just right in surgically like a laser precise. Just gets in and turns something on. The next step is signal transduction is that's what it's called actually, but it's it's what happens once it docks. This is where it gets fun, man. Because once a peptide binds to a receptor, the receptor itself changes shape. That confirmational change acts like like flipping on a switch and suddenly the inside of the entire cell just lights up with activity. It does all kinds of whatever that cell whatever it's just been told to do, but it goes full throttle. There's no partial. There's no ah I kind of I I could do a little more 100%. This is called signal transduction. It's an external signal the peptide right being converted into internal cellular action. It comes in in this is the inside of the cell right here. Peptide comes along, hits that lock. It's the perfect key. Turns on the inside. Turns on everything it's designed to do and nothing else. Nothing more, nothing less. Only that. That's what's wicked because here's where peptides are going to flex massively on pharmaceuticals. They amplify. Pharmaceuticals don't do that. They can't because they don't work with the body. They just tell the body to do something. And even then, it's never it's almost never the right thing. One peptide, one one peptide binding to one receptor doesn't just create one effect. It sets off this entire ripple, this entire cascade inside the cell. Secondary messengers explode in action. Enzymes turn on. Gene expression ramps up. Proteins get built. Whole metabolic pathways just start shifting. Like that's how wild this stuff is. It's like going to Dodger Stadium, flicking one switch outside, and the entire place turns on. All the lights, all the machines, everything. The fans, all the stuff goes and it's filled with fans and the team the second you and it was ghost. Just a ghost town before you walked in. That's how badass this is. Yes, you can tell. I love this stuff. And then here's what's even cooler is the duration. Like because people obsess. They I get these messages. They obsess over halflife. Feel like I have a nervous tick, right? Scratching itches all over the place. No, I'm just dry and itchy. But people obsess over halflife. You know, you know why I said that? Because I remember watching this video. Totally tangent, right? Like I' you'd be like, "Oh, this guy's all over the place." But I saw Gary Vaynerchuk. I like Gary Vee, man. Like I wrote dig Gary, man. He is I just like what he has to say and I like his mindset and I like what he does. I don't care. Keep your opinion to yourself. If you're about to go, oh what about Shut up. I'm just telling this is my show, man. Don't have to listen to you, but you don't have to listen to me either. So if you don't like it, pound sand. But I remember one time he he's animated, right? He's very animated. And he kept like rubbing his nose. Oh, you're a liar, right? You're rubbing your nose and scratching your head, rubbing your whatever it is. And they're like, definitely he's on tons of aderall, man. You could tell he's definitely on aderall. Probably coke. That's the only way he can be so high energy like that. That's No, he's just like that. And anyone that knows me. I've been this way since as long as I can remember, to be honest. I've always been this lit. I had some guy say to me in my messages yesterday, you know, I love this rant, man, but for [\h__\h] sakes, take a breath and relax. I I'm out of breath just watching you. I'm like in my head I'm thinking maybe you should get in shape you fat bastard because the problem ain't with me. You just can't keep up. But I'm ask anybody that knows me. My mom will tell you this guy's been like this forever. I told you four or five hours a night sleep you know and if I have a a mustache hair like this one right here if you know sometimes they curl up and they poke you in the nose and you think you get it until you pull a mirror up to your face and then you see this tiny little hair and all it does is flick the inside of your nose non-stop. It makes you want to punch somebody because it's all you can think about. If you know, you know. No. If you're a woman, you don't know. And for love of God, I hope you don't know. So, anyway, back to our regularly scheduled show, right? Obsessing over halfife with a peptide doesn't it doesn't make sense like that. So, halfife is how many minutes or hours or days or whatever. It's measured in usually minutes or hours or seconds even. It floats around before breaking down to half, right? But here's what these guys miss that don't understand biology or even basic biochemistry. The signal is fast, lightning quick, but the cascade is insanely long. Think about it. insulin is a peptide, right? I said at the beginning, its half-life is measured in minutes. Minutes. But the effects on glucose metabolism lasts hours because once you start the process becomes an engine and the body just carries it forward. Right? There's that mustache hair again. So when you inject, that's all you guys are going to obsess on, right? Watching this going, "Let's see if he touches his nose again." So when you inject a peptide, you're not trying to keep this molecule around forever. The molecule isn't the thing, right? You get that out of your head. Peptide isn't the thing. What it does is the thing. So you don't want to keep it around forever. It doesn't matter. You're just trying to deliver the signal, right? Send a message to Garcia, if you know the story. Once the cascade begins, now biology kicks in and it takes off without it. It runs. It just runs with it because now this it started. You let the fuse, let it go. Now here here's what happens. The signal is either going to fade as the peptide is broken down into its little amino acids harmless. It's like digesting a protein pretty much. It doesn't have any weird effect on your body or it's just stopped by some kind of internal feedback loop. And which is another key difference with from drugs. Your body has it's what I said your body has these built-in brakes for peptides. With most pharmaceuticals, there are no brakes. It is all gas. No brakes. And a lot of bad things. They just keep hammering that pathway until side effects, which don't really exist. There are only effects. Side effect is a fancy little word given by executives in a boardroom to go, if we change the name, maybe people will accept it. But there are only effects. You just don't like some of them. But that's what happens is they keep hammering the gas until those side effects just pile up. And with peptides, the body knows when to shut this down because it's already a communication system that your body has because it's the same damn thing you're using already. You see how this stitches together? So listen, at the core of it, this peptides work not because they hijack your biology, but because they are your biology. They're the short-lived tiny little messengers that deliver very precise instructions and trigger massive cascades of events of physiological events and then just gracefully walk off the stage without any collateral damage. Sign me up. But I mean, you guys are probably asking the obvious question. I would I'm even asking it in my head. Why do they work so frigin? Like I mean, they work better than anything else on the planet, period. And I mean, they're the ultimate tool for human performance in in all all areas. I'm talking healing, growth, weight loss, weight gain, muscle, pituitary, like sleep, wake, you name it. Anything your body does, peptides, it comes down to the alignment with your own biology. Drugs are exogenous. They're outsiders. They're these foreign molecules that are just designed to in a lab somewhere by a bunch of usually very angry people designed who have no desire to help you just to make a lot of profit. They're to brute force a pathway that your body is already running. Which is why drugs always come with problems, side effects, effects. They weren't written into the original code. They just come in and kick the door open. And peptides, they're native software. That's what it is. That's the native software that your body that commands the body. I said it before. That's just all it does. Peptide, receptor, key, lock, cascade, right? Transduction and away we go. They're already part of the operating system. So, you're not hijacking any biology. You're just updating it with a better either more clear signal or just a better function. It's just software upgrade. That's why the body responds so cleanly without any strange confusion. You can't get Here's the best part. When people go, I took this, it didn't do that for me, then it was bunk. No, it wasn't. Well, it has to be because biology is on my side. So, if you take a peptide, it doesn't work. Then it wasn't the peptide. It's that there's no there's there's no other way around it. Just so you know, before you guys just pepper my messages with, well, yeah, but I took this one thing and and my mom is like that. This one idiot that keeps sending me messages. This woman, she's like, "Oh, really? So, you know me so well. You know that that's not how it is." I'm like, "No, I just know that biology is biology. Human physiology doesn't change just because you wish it were and your feelings are hurt and you tell me your mom is like that, too. It doesn't matter. Physiology does not lie. And here's the best part. Peptides aren't even onedimensional. These are multicontextual, which means the same peptide can play a ton of different roles depending on the tissue. Never mind just the tissue, the receptor density or the state of the body. I'll give you an example. You look at a repair peptide like BPC for example. It upregulate blood flow in an injured muscle, but at the same time, it's going to calm inflammatory processes in the gut. One signal, multiple coordinated responses. Drugs don't do that. Go ahead. Come on. Argue in my comments because it's what you like to do. This is why peptides scale so efficiently. Just so you know, they don't just solve a problem in one corner. They ripple through the entire system, the entire machine you're piloting. So instead of a single hammer looking for a single nail. Peptides are like the entire toolkit that adapts itself to whatever repair is needed in the system at the time because that's what the receptors are designed for. The key is just looking for the receptor. That's all it is. This is also why they stack really powerfully with all kinds of other interventions to be honest like TRT and peptides make testosterone work harder. Add stem cells and peptides are going to create the environment the soil where those cells can actually thrive which is and I mean even then stem cells as great as they are peptides 80 90% of the time are better. And here's why. Because stem cells once they're injected you lose all control. They go wherever they go. Even if you go, I I I shot them into my shoulder, into my knee, into my thumb. Did they stay there? No, they didn't. They went everywhere. And they don't have a lock and a key. Stem cells become whatever is required in the moment. They're good for last final stage injuries like the cartilage is gone. You have to It's a mechanical thing. You have to build more cartilage stem cells all the way. But then you want to pair that with some kind of a peptide, right? You see how this works? Make it better. Peptides don't you have control all the time because that's what the peptide does. It is designed for one specific thing. stem cells morph into whatever's convenient at the time to keep it simple, right? You add SARMs and peptides protect the connective tissue so the muscle gains aren't sabotaged by the tendons that didn't get the me memo to stay strong or to build themselves as well, right? Because if you look at TRT and SARMMS, they work very well on muscle tissue and not the greatest on connective tissue, but peptides do. That's the secret. They multiply the ROI so you don't just get a little bit better, you guys. You get these compounding returns because peptides reinforce everything else that you're doing. Cognition like you can get smarter. I talked about it the other day. Adapanyl, it's like the precursor to modafanil. It gets converted in the liver. Yes. I always tell people don't take it all the time because give your liver a break. Modafanil doesn't need the conversion so it works a little better. So, the reason peptides are so effective is because they're not a patch or a crutch or something you can lean on temporarily, and they're they're not a gimmick at all. And they're not cancer-causing ever. Throw all the research you want at me. I will pick it apart and show you that you're wrong in your own research. Peptides are the cleanest, most perfectly designed, most linear and precise way to tell your body, "Hey, man, do what you were designed to do, but better. do it better and do it stronger and do it longer and by the way do it faster too. That's why they're so effective. Listen, here's why they get stupid powerful. Peptides are modular, right? They don't compete. They compliment. Let me explain. This is why I was talking about it just now. That's why they I think because otherwise you guys are going to ask me all these questions. That's why stacking them with things like TRT and SARMMS and SERMS and stem cells and secrets, etc. It creates effects that feel honestly damn near unfair because they're so effective. Look at TRT, right? TRT gives you the gasoline peptides like CJC1 1295 and a pamarellin married together and if you go with that or without how many days you want to pin you want to with then it's less but that they light the growth hormone on fire they increase the pulse and time it right when you time it right and together you're this metabolic blow torch you burn off fat you build muscle you recover faster with a libido that's like when you were 17 years old and all it kept doing was standing up going, "Hey man, what's going on out there? I want to see." Like that's how your system works. It's designed to work that way. You look at SARMMS. So androgens drive hypertrophy, right? Growth, but they don't repair joints or connective tissue, which is why I was saying you have to stack them with a peptide. Stack SARMs with BPC-157 or TB-500, even better, because now you're going to work on the cardiovascular system, primarily the heart. Right now you're you're not just adding horsepower, you guys. You're bulletproofing the entire chassis. So the system gets better, not a portion of the system, right? Because your system is only as strong as the weakest link. It's like I take my car, any car. I take my truck for example. I built that diesel into this psycho torque monster. But if the if transmission, if that Allison transmission wasn't built, and I didn't put it together the right way to withstand all that and then do the billet input and output and the torque converter was right, all that stuff, then the transmission's the weak link. But then I go down the other all the way to the end. And then if the rear end isn't done right. So you see what I mean? It's going to it's going to take the horsepower all the way until it gets to that weak link. And wherever that weak link is, it's just going to explode. This is how you offset all of that, right? That's why stem cells I said they're great, but they're better if you stack them with a peptide because I used the soil example because it's the easiest, if that makes sense. If it doesn't, I'm not explaining it again. But without an environment that has the fertilizer in it, they don't thrive. They can't. So peptides like thymusin beta 4, GHKC uh copper, right? TB-500 as well. Thymosin beta 4 is just native and very very short half-life. TB-500 fragment, the synthetic fragment works the same. They create that environment where the stem cells can thrive, right? Blood supply, cellular repair, anti-inflammatory properties, lots of stuff. I could just do this all day. Your stem cell therapy ROI just 5xed. And this this is just touching the surface of how these things work. Look at secrets. So MK-677 right pushes growth hormone higher over time. It builds it's compounding over time. You pair it with some short acting peptide like I pamearellin works really well and you get both these pulsatile spikes and long-term baseline elevation without frying all the receptors. That's why this stuff works so well because it makes your body work work with itself instead of forcing it to do what it's trying. Actually, you're making fighting your own biology and you're weaponizing yourself against yourself if you don't do that. And the ROI isn't X, you guys. It's 20, 30, 50x because peptides, they amplify and they stack like it's like a cheat code for human biology. And that's where people go, "Oh, so it's not authentic. F off. I'm not for you." And the best is, and I I got to address it because otherwise people are going to lose their mind. the bro science keyboard warriors that are about to cry. Well, what about the side effects, bro? I already told you what the word side effects or the words mean nothing. It's just a cute little phrase made by people in a boardroom. But yes, there are potential issues, but they're laughable compared to pharmaceuticals. Injection site irritation itches for, I don't know, 5 10 minutes. Oh my god, you going to survive? Maybe a little water retention if you hammer growth hormone secrets too hard. Just dial it back until it disappears. None of this is complicated. receptor desensitization with some peptides if you run them nonstop for a year. Easy. Cycle intelligently. This is where common sense just comes into play. That's it. Compare it to something like an SSRI that just demolishes your libido, right? NSAIDs that eat your gut lining and statins that they turn your liver into giant dysfunction. Peptides don't even they don't even play in the same game of damage. They just don't do it. It doesn't work. No, they don't cause cancer. I'm tired of that question. Believe me, don't believe me. Look it up. Don't look it up. I don't care. But you know what? Of all the knowledge that I give you, why the [\h__\h] would I start steering you astray now? I'm not. You guys just look for excuses so you don't have to do it because that way you can stay stuck in your own little world of being fat and weak and moody and a problem to your parents cuz at 45 you still won't leave their damn basement. Like if you line up pharmaceuticals versus peptides side by side here, this is what it looks like. Pharmaceuticals for molecule hijacks pathways. Side effects like a nuclear bomb. They're everywhere. Peptides native molecule restores pathways. Negligible downsides if any and almost gone instantly. You know, and and I said at the beginning, I just I probably should talk about this because somebody's going to ask anyway. Orals don't work ever. I'll say it again for the people that are really hard of hearing and failing to comprehend why I'm saying this ever. Because some here's why I I need to kill this. Because supplement companies have made billions on selling you this powder in a gelatin capsule. They don't work orally. And the reason has nothing to do with the marketing or the person talking about it or your fragile little ego because you can't take the fact that you're wrong if you've been selling and talking about oral peptides ever. Double rainbows to you. It is straight physiology and it is on my side because God built you this way. Like stomach acid. The second that's the kill shot right there. You don't even have to go any further cuz it won't make it past that. I don't care what it what it is. The second a peptide hits your stomach, it is dumped into hydrochloric acid that is so strong, denatures proteins. If you understand the the chemistry behind that, that acid doesn't give a crap. If the capsule cost you 2, three, four, $500 from some fancy supplement guru or the they have their own little supplement brand in their their naturopath clinic. Its only job is to unravel amino acid chains into scraps. That's its career. Gets born. That's all it's designed to do. The HCL. That's it. And peptides by definition, if you remember at the beginning, short chain amino acids instantly shredded like this. Never mind the enzyatic breakdown that shows up just down the line. Because e even if even if some of these fragments have got some weird suit of armor that just doesn't work and they slip past the stomach acid, they face this litany of digestive enzymes. Pepsin in the stomach, then trison and kimotriin in the intestines. These enzymes are like professional bond destruction assassins. That's all they do. They chop everything into deptides and tripeptides and finally just tiny little single individual amino acids. So, by the time your gut wall sees a damn thing, that peptide that you swallowed, remember, it needs to be lock key. That key, it's gone. You're going to put it back together inside your bloodstream, they magically coales into the key again. It's just, it's nothing more than raw protein fragments. They're indistinguishable from the last chicken breast or piece of beef you just ate. That's the issue. And yet, people will argue. You'll get my comments and argue, "I tried oral. They worked for me, bro." No, you're just [\h__\h] stupid and you're living in a placebo world. Sorry, I hate to break it to you, but maybe you just actually pay attention to the science behind it and not the trust me bro science or your fragile little baby boy ego. Now, could those fragments slip through the gut wall before somebody wants to argue that? Sure. But your intestinal transporters are built to absorb single amino acids and very short fragments, not intact therapeutic like 43 aminos long therapeutic peptides. They can't get through. The few fragments that cross, they're not going to match any receptor ever. I use this example all the time. It's like throwing a bunch of beef into a wood chipper and expecting the cow to come out the other side. Useless. Useless. Yes, it gets me irritated because I see this all the time. And some idiot who keeps taking selfies keeps telling you all about how they work. And I get you guys in the comments. Well, they worked for me, bro. I my friends, brothers, sisters, uncles, dogs, friends, boss did it, and they turned into whatever. Captain freaking America. No, they didn't. then they're lying about what they took or they're just ignorant. And supplement companies know this, by the way. So they play Frankenstein. They slap polyethylene glycol. That's pegalation, right? Polyethylene glycol or some other kind of modifications onto a peptide to protect them through digestion. Just so you know, let me explain what PEG is. The polyethylene glycol, because it's nasty. It is a petroleumbased polymer, which means here you're swallowing plastic. I could probably stop there, huh? It doesn't just distort the peptide's shape and reduce receptor binding. It's inflammatory. Remember, you distort the shape, it doesn't fit. Well, now it can't bind to the receptor at all, but you're getting it into the bloodstream. So, blood work says what? It's there. Not really. That's how little it is. It's negligible what makes it into the blood. But now the compound is now bad for you, not good for you anymore. Inflammatory, toxic, and a ton of studies, carcinogenic causes cancer. There's your cancer. You wanted the answer. There you go. That's what it is. By [\h__\h] with it and making the signal not do its job just so it can get into your bloodstream to say, "Look at our studies. That's why I said read your research carefully. Don't just take it because somebody handed you a white sheet. Goes with me, too. Read it and understand it. Which is why I'm telling you this stuff. God, I'm like 45 minutes in. This is like an entire class. Welcome class. Today, I'll be teaching you an entire physiology and biochemistry class and all about peptides and proteins. And you're welcome. Most of you guys won't stay till the end, so it doesn't really matter. I'll have like seven of you guys make it to the end, and the rest be like, "Oh, this guy just talks so much." Maybe you just suck at listening. You have any idea how much information is stored up in explaining the human body that you guys want in a 180 characters? It's not a Twitter post. Even some of the other things I'm thinking lipidation, right? Or adding all these that they do that to these molecules and they add these unnatural screwed up chemical groups. They don't solve the problem. They sneak this distorted version of the peptide into circulation and it's one that your receptors don't even recognize. Bent key, wrong lock. You doubt me? Go ahead. put your key through a grinder and bend it and twist it and then go try and get in your house. Not going to happen. And again, there's going to be an idiot that argues. Well, what if you do this though? Shut. And then I had some guy tell me this. Well, that's why we compensate by increasing the dosage. How do you say you don't understand biochemistry and physiology without saying it with that statement? Taking 10 times the dose won't fix it. It's not possible. You can't brute force biology. 10 times zero if you understand math, still zero. If you could take 1,000 milligs of something or 100 milligs of something, if it hits the stomach acid and the stomach acid is designed to turn it into fragments, it doesn't matter how much you take. Were you going to bypass the stomach acid with some magic like hyperdosing? It can't work. That's why this is why injections are the only way to go. Contrast that with just a simple subcutaneous just go full contrast oral subq, right? Subq injection. You bypass the acid, you bypass the enzymes, you bypass the gut wall. All like the artherosytes, all that you bypass all of that. The peptide hits the bloodstream intact, docks with the receptor, launches that cascade exactly as nature designed you. Which is why every legitimate study and clinical protocol and all the things out there, the real results that people are getting and that you've seen 100% of the time use injections. And all the bro science idiots tell you that oral works and then go, "By the way, here's my affiliate code. It's the only way they work. Injectable. Argue all you want. I'm still right. If you're buying or It pisses me off because if you're buying oral peptides, yeah, I'm going to drill down on this a little more because it aggravates me so bad. If you're buying oral peptides, you're not you're not biohacking. You're buying expensive piss. Yours. You just just take $100 bills and put them in the toilet. Just piss all over them and flush them down. That's what you're doing. Stomach acid doesn't give a damn about your advanced delivery system, your proprietary blend, or your hyperdosing. It has been perfected over thousands of years by our creator to do one thing. dismantle proteins. That capsule gone in minutes. And all the all the companies, if you're one of these companies, dude, I'm coming for you, man. They selling this garbage. They're going to sprinkle a bunch of pseudo science on the label. Pegalated, lipid protected, nanoabsorbed. I love that. We wrapped plastic around more plastic and called it innovation. That's what they're saying. It's not advanced science, man. That is a bunch of lies and fraud and [\h__\h] in a vial or a bottle sold to you for a very large amount of money over time. The loudest defenders, by the way, just so we're clear, the instab bros who couldn't explain what a peptide is if you spotted them the first half of the [\h__\h] answer. These are the same idiots who forget their own home address but want to lecture you about molecular signaling because they read it on chat GPT. Dude, come at me all day. Go live with me like right now. I will bury you because you don't know. That's what I see these dudes. Let me tell you, well, merely by Shut up, man. You don't understand even how to spell your own name. And your first name is Jason. It's a madeup name, by the way. Before you guys like, let's see who Jason was. I don't know. I know a ton of Jason's. And here's the reality. You want a peptide to work? Inject them. Subq. 29 30 gauge tiny little insulin needle. 30 seconds. Done. Quit being such a [\h__\h] There's no wishful thinking or fairy tales or little dust or dance you have to do or special music. Just biology. That's it. Just biology. Oral peptides are never going to work. That's it. So, I I was gonna I could just You guys want me to keep going? Maybe I will. How about this? So, peptides, because you're gonna ask me these questions. I'm trying to preemptively strike all the questions that you're about to ask me, but the peptides, they're not all the same. Some are safe that you can run daily just as a baseline, which I've gone over mine. And others, I think very importantly, should be cycled so you don't run into that desensitization problem or you don't cause they like hyper acceleration of one area and diminish like dimminative problems on the other side of that equation. Right? Daily things would be hypothetically before somebody has an aneurysm BPC57, TB-500, GHK-Cu. I'm not going to explain what they do, but those could be daily. So the cycle cycles would be things that are more growth hormone oriented. So CGC, CJC1 1295, a pimellin, thyus, alpha 1, uh, immune reset, good for infections, don't take that stuff forever. Epitoolon, anti-aging, 20 days, wait four months and do it again. It's like training blocks, right? Some lifts are staple and required and others are periodized for all the effects that you guys want. Same principle here, right? And no, I'm not a personal trainer, an expert in it whatsoever. I know how to lift heavy things and put them. That's about it. And I I think I need to touch on this because somebody brought up stem cells and says they're way better. Well, that's why I touched on them at the beginning, but they also cost more than most people's cars and they don't always work the way you hope because you lose control the second you inject them. They need an environment. So, if you drop them into a hostile, inflamed, pissed-off body or metabolically dysfunctional body, they fail 100% of the time. And they're not going to explain that to you because they went, "Here, give me six grand." Peptides are the environment. That's why they work synergistically with stem cells. They increase the blood flow and the repair tissue and reduce the inflammatory problems. They create that environment, right? That fertile soil where stem cells can actually do their job. So, I would hypothetically I would use both, right? So, and before somebody says, "So, are you saying stem cells are useless?" No, not at all. They're designed more for extreme trauma and degenerative disease processes, like I said originally, where the cartilage is, they're powerful. Like, they're next level. And I've seen people get incredible results. Marry them with a peptide and the results 50x faster. But for daily health or repair, recovery, or any anti-aging or performance and stuff like that, it's a waste. Peptides beat stem cells hands down all day long. Stem cells, think of it this way. They're like a seed. And peptides are the soil that the seed grows in, right? So, it's not even more. It's also the water and the sunlight and the fertilizer and all the stuff that needs to be there, the irrigation system. Without peptides, you're just planting stuff on a slab of concrete and hoping that it works. It's if you look at peptides as something to create the most like to ring the most health out of your system, they're the single highest ROI that you can use because they amplify fundamentals, right? Go back to the basics. training, you recover twice as fast. Dieting, you burn fat without torching all your muscle without destroying your muscle. Injury, you heal in weeks, not months. And aging, you have the cellular signals that get restored because they're muted and and quiet or the cells are sinent, right? Inflammation goes down, repair goes up. This is why so drugs might give you pharmaceuticals, for example, might give you maybe a 10% edge, but take 50% off your lifespan. Peptides give you 200% edge with no penalty. none. That's why the ROI isn't one to one. It's exponential. You don't just get better at one thing. You get better at all the things that your body does that your body biologically is trying to do. Yes, they work that well. Your body and listen, they work so damn well because your body can't tell the difference between its own peptide and one that's been injected. And drugs can't play that game at all. Your receptors don't see a foreign invader. They see a normal signal that just shows up and they're like, "Oh, this is I know who this is. They're supposed to come in the door. Let them in. Open the door." Right? Which is why side effects are minimal. And stacking is what I said before, synergistic. And the results are clean. You don't have these weird results that come married to a myriad of problems, right? You're not fighting biology is the way I always explain it. You're actually amplifying it. So, here's the absurd part, by the way. People are still going to you guys are still going to get in my comments. I'm just going to block you, delete you, and forget about you because you're going to say peptides are inauthentic. They're not authentic. I made a post about it yesterday. Try doing it all without a pep without peptides. Why? Why? That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. That's like saying, "You know what? Try climbing Everest in just your underwear and flip-flops." But why when you can have oxygen and a tent and a sherpa guide and all the [\h__\h] that comes with like everything you need? It doesn't make sense to me because you're you're not doing anything to you're not cheating. What? You're cheating because you're making your body run the way it's designed. you know that peptides make your body run the way it did when you were like seven and then again when you were like 17 and just unstoppable minus the attitude and piss and vinegar mindset that most people had when they were that age. So let me get this straight. So it's not authentic as if being sick and weak and crippled and inflamed and limping around in your is somehow authentic. Meanwhile, you've got molecule, listen to me, you got molecules that can restore your body's operating code, and they can repair damage and keep you performing at levels that your grandparents could never dream of. And you call that cheating? That's not authenticity. That is stupidity wrapped up as virtue. It's the same crowd that brags about all natural while pounding alcohol and living on [\h__\h] seed oils and scrolling Instagram until 3:00 a.m. going, "I'm doing research. Here's your sign. Listen, peptides are not some weird screwed up fringe experiment that nobody knows about. They are the biological language that your [\h__\h] body already speaks. That's how aggravating this is. They don't hijack you. They restore everything you have. They don't add a damn thing of toxicity. What they do is they take away the static and the signals and add a bunch of clarity. That's what they do. And they stack because your biology, big surprise, is all interconnected. Your finger connected to your heart, connected to your brain. Like, it's all connected. They work because receptors can't lie. It's not possible. And they outperform stem cells and they embarrass the [\h__\h] out of pharmaceuticals and they m multiply the ROI of every single effort that you are already making to be healthy. God, if that wasn't a mic drop moment right there, right? Like when you understand them, please listen, you stop playing defense against injury and aging and disease and dysfunction and decline and issues and problems and even neurological problems and all of this stuff. You're not playing defense against it. You start playing offense and going, "Oh yeah, let's go. I learned a thing or two." That's how you That's how you operate. So, you can choose to argue all you want. It doesn't make you a better person. It makes you a bigger idiot. But it sure as hell isn't treat cheating, you guys. It's not. It's the future of, in my opinion, being a healthy juggernaut of a human. You just got to be smart enough to look at and go, "Damn right, that's what it is." Anyway, I hope this helps. I banged out all this, I think, in about an hour. It was like a entire course that probably would take a year for anybody else. Thanks for listening. I got to go. Never miss