What's up, Smashers? Good morning. Hey, look who we got in the background. Yeah. Yeah. That's Chris, by the way. He's got the most sick truck you've ever seen. I like it. I kind of want to steal it. Keeps it cleaner than uh my house. It's pretty incredible. All right. So, listen. He's laughing right now cuz he's like, "He's right. He's right." I don't think I've ever seen a speck of dirt on this guy's truck since I've known him. and I've known him for like 37 years. So, right. Terrible. So, hey, listen. We're going to be talking about Achilles, um, tendonitis, Achilles issues, um, heel issues, plantar fasciitis. We're going to do it all in one fell swoop because what happens is it's all connected. Remember, this is one giant kinetic chain. And you can see I got a voodoo band already on my foot. It's cuz I'm ready. I don't want to show you guys that I'm putting it on. There's no point. I just put it on, leave it on, get it done, get things moving. All right. So, we're going to talk about the Achilles. Now, the Achilles, that big fat cord. Yeah, I'm kind of dancing around cuz I did this uh sick workout this morning with Matt and uh it's pretty fun. But anyway, we're talking about um how that Achilles gets glued down. You got the the um solius that runs around the outside of the gastro and then you have the gastro down the center and they come into that uh that Achilles tendon. You got that fascia in the middle, that uh myoteninous junction there, that muscular tennis junction where there's a transition from fibers that move and stretch and can elongate and can get longer and can get more supple to a tendon that's not really designed to stretch. Tendons don't stretch. Just remember that tendons are tendons. It's like trying to stretch and soften up your IT band. Doesn't happen. Stop rolling out your IT band. It doesn't work. You can't get a piece of rubber to change like that. That's how it's designed. Sorry, I got sweat dripping down in my forehead. So, I'm going to show you how to smash out that Achilles and unglue it because when you have Achilles problems, um, it haunts you in everything you do. Overhead squats, your your range of motion is gone, but you wind up with knee issues. See, there's the thing. Remember what I said? There's no such thing as knee problems for the most part. It's usually a hip mobility and ankle mobility. Well, Achilles attaches to that to that calccanous. So, it's going to jack up your ankle. Remember, 26 bones in the human foot. So, I'm going to show you how to unglue all that stuff. Super super awesome. By the way, Becca, this one's for you. Okay. You came to me with Achilles issues. You said you got Achilles problems. I got you covered. All right. So, I'm going to show you first. Oh, we got to move a little bit. I'm going to put this down here. Good. You'll look at my freaking leg for a second. All right. So, first thing we want to do is you got the uh you got the voodoo band sitting around. Oh, this is so heavy. Everything's really heavy this morning. This kettle bell is like a wrecking ball. So, you got the achil the Achilles is all wrapped up. The really important part is you want to trap that Achilles right up until where it gets into that muscular section. So, right where that junction is, that's where you want to get it um all unglued, okay? Cuz that's where you're going to have a lot of problems. We'll hit this stuff later in the same video. Don't worry, I'm not going to make you wait. So, you want to get a kettle bell. Notice you have notice I have the bottom of the uh foot wrapped up, too. There's more to come. See, I got all kinds of stuff going on today. All right. So, first thing you're going to do, just get on that kettle bell. I want you to start right where that voodoo band begins. And you're going to do inside, you're going to do outside, and you're going to do right down the middle. You're going to do 10 circles clockwise. Except here's where the fun part gets. Take your leg, cross it over, represent rogue with your sock. Super important part of this entire mobility. And you're just going to do circles. So 10 circles. So my weight of my leg is driving the Achilles and driving that gastro rock and that solius and part of that planteras down into this kettle bell which pretty much feels like there's a very small and very real bat beating me against the back of the leg. Freaking hurts. And you're going to work your way all the way down. Get right to the heel. And that's the important part. Most people miss that. Get that Achilles unglued. Get that thing supple. Get some blood flow to that. Get some more hydration to that. That's super important. Okay. So, like I said, get over the uh kettle bell. 10 circles. Make sure the voodoo band is good and snug. 50% tension, 50% overlap. That's number one. All right. Number two, we're going to leave the voodoo band on cuz we have lots of stuff to happen. We're going to hit the front. So, you got the tibialis anterior that runs down the front. When this tibialis binds up, you're going to have an argument. Remember, agonist antagonist. So, what you're going to have is you're going to have the tibialis anterior trying to dorsif flex the foot. and you're going to have the gastro and the soius and the planterasis trying to plantar flex the foot and you get this argument jams up the ankle gets that achilles to fasten down to that bone and uh super bad things happen. So you're going to grab this except here's where people make the mistake they go back and forth. I want you to go side to side transverse across the fibers. The fibers are on this way. You're going to go sideways. Just peel them off like layers of a freaking onion like you're just separating celery. Super super abysmal. And then all you're going to do is grind back and forth. Looks like I'm doing some funky dance. Good. And then you're just going to do the same thing back and forth. Back and forth. And it's just you're just take you're going to go all the way down and you're just taking these fibers separating them from the bone. That's number two. Dose. All right. Number three. This is where the fun part starts. You're going to take I have an Ollie bar. Okay. It's a 35 lb. The reason it's a 35 lb is cuz the diameter is smaller. It's going to hit so much more in here. This is probably one of the most grizzly mobilities there is, but it's one of the most effective. This is going to unglue what I said higher up in the cap. Notice I still got the voodoo on. You don't have to leave it on, but you're going to need it for this next part. So, I figured screw it. Just leave it on. Grab. This is so awful. So, you're going to grab the uh the holy bar. Do not use a PVC pipe. Okay? And you're just going to sit down on this. Feet are pointed like this. And you're just going to row row row your boat, baby. And you're just going to grind away. And what you're doing is you're going to separate that solius and that gas rock. And you're going to work your way all the way down to the bottom of the foot. And I promise you this. Notice I'm sweating. It's cuz I got the mobility sweats cuz this hurts like shizz. Okay. Now number four. That's three, right? Three. Last one. Lacrosse ball. Bottom of the foot. This is where I said you need to make sure you got this voodoo band wrapped around the bottom of the foot. We're going to take that fascia that goes across the bottom of the foot that creates that arch, anchors all this stuff together, all 26 bones. We're going to unglue it and separate it so the foot can work properly and unload that Achilles tendon. Okay. So, just take your foot. Oh, yeah. Let me back up just a little bit. And we're going to go sideways so you can see what the Let's go this way. See, we're just doing a little funky dance. We're doing the foot dance. We're going to go all the way up here. Take like a 250lb sandbag. Says CrossFit on it. Super important. You're just gonna take it. That's actually pretty heavy. And we're just gonna get on this, get your foot off, and then just start mashing away on this thing. Weight of the sandbag is going to drive it into the foot. Voodoo band is going to help clamp down that tissue, and you're just going to peel it off. So you get rid of that sandpaper on sandpaper. Make it like a smooth, buttery coating. Super awesome. All right, that's four. So, we've got kettle bell. We've got tibialis anterior with the PVC pipe. Yes, I'm hot. You're going to take the uh barbell, peel away the soius and the gas rock, and then you're going to unload the bottom of that foot because that's the important part, too. Next thing you know, this entire section of the leg moving the way it's supposed to. You've unloaded the Achilles. Becca, go do the homework. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works CrossFit Brentwood. I'll check you guys later. Have an awesome day.