What is up? Good morning, Smashers. It is Sunday. It is uh another awesome day. You got to check it out. Come on. Look at this big old sunny day. Everybody doing crazy stuff. We're having so much fun here. Going to be going over some uh bicep tendinitis and shoulder issues since uh well, to be selfish, that's what I got. massive shoulder issue. And uh for all you guys looking at me at regionals, that's exactly why I'm not there. This thing right here is uh awesome torn labum, uh separated AC, and uh blown out bicep tendons. So, super fun stuff. But hey, I'm going to show you how to resep because uh rehab that because a lot of you guys are sending me some messages about bicep tendonitis. So, you ask, I deliver. This is how it works. So, first thing you're going to see is I got a By the way, that long head of that bicep. So, the important part about that, we heard a ding. That means that means a PR, by the way. So, everybody gets to got some chalk. Everybody gets to clap. But, uh, long head on that bicep is going to do I'm going to do it with this arm cuz this arm's a little buggered up. But, it's going to do a lot of, uh, flexion and even when you're up high, it's going to get really, really taxed into that overhead position or any pull. So, if you're cycling like um, like if you look at Ben Alderman, great. Okay, good example. Doing a snatch in that pull. By the way, touch and go at 265. He's the man. That's crazy. or if he's cycling the uh the 50 the I think it was 52 54 pull-ups um or the 52 rather uh pull-ups with after all the wall balls um if you look at that that's a lot of pull with that bicep tendon so it gets really taxed but the problem is it manifests as a shoulder problem so because it crossed the shoulder joint it affects that shoulder now you're going to have laboral issues you're going to have uh scapular humor hummeral rhythm issues so we're going to fix that all in one so we're going to peel away that biceps tendon unload that biceps tendon and then get that scapula super super stable the way it's supposed to be. So, first thing you're going to do is you can see I got the band right there. So, this is so easy. You're going to grab the band, loop your hand in. So, I'm using the same size. You guys can see what I'm doing. Make sure you grab onto the band. What you want to do is it's like somebody's leading you down the hallway to prison, okay? But don't go to prison. It's bad. Okay? You're going to take a knee. The knee that's uh that's on the ground in the back is the same one as this. So, you're going to make a nice straight line. So, you can see I'm peeled forward like this. I don't want you forward like this. This is going to hurt a lot. So, you want that arm twisted back as far as you can. I don't want it flat up against the uh rib cage. I want it back and wound up real tight. And then bring your chest up as high as you can. You're going to feel that load up the anterior portion of the shoulder. And you're just going to hang out like this for how long? 2 minutes. Now, this is incredibly painful. I'm pretty sure I'm gonna hang out here for two minutes just to make you guys watch. You can see the pain face in the background. Lindsay's laughing at me. Good. So, you're gonna hang out like that for 2 minutes. You're going to feel that unload all down the bicep. That's number one. Number two, this is a super easy rehab. By the way, there's only a couple of things you're going to do. You can see I got a bar right here. So, you want to be able to smash out the long head of this bicep and the belly of the bicep as well. So, that's the important part is you got to get both. So you're going to lay on your side. You're going to lift this up. You're going to toss this down under here. You're going to bring your hand up like this. You're going to get this in the crook of the arm, but you're going to raise it up a little bit so it's just on the bump, the ant portion of the deltoid. And then all you're going to do is you're going to let gravity. Nice work. Hey, we should be dinging a bell right now. Lindsay just got a bar muscle up. So everybody, thumbs up out there. All thousands of you. Okay. All you're going to do is you're going to just peel this away. Now, when this gets really easy, take your leg, drop it on the bar. Take both legs, drop them on the bar. That's going to add some weight, and then you're just gonna smash this out. Now, where the problem starts is the bicep starts to adhere to itself and the belly of the muscle. So, you want to get down in here and get that belly of the muscle, too. And this is the part that a lot of people miss. Unload that muscle so that tendon can slide properly. Otherwise, it's under a constant load. Grind away. Do that until you feel this change. Remember, change happens when change happens. Isn't that so profound? Now, check this out. This is the last one. It's super easy. You're going to get on your elbows. You're going to get in a plank. And all you're going to do is you're going to work on that scapula moving properly. So, you're not This takes the elbows out of the equation for doing a push-up. And all you're going to do is you're going to go in and go out. Do 10 of these. So, it looks kind of funky, but what you're doing is you're protracting and retracting that scapula. And you're going to feel that a lot. And what's really crazy is everybody misses this. You're going to feel that in the front. As you stabilize that scapula, you repair the shoulder. Remember, the scapula is the shoulder and the shoulder is the scapula. Hey, that's bicep tendinitis. Little shoulder capsulitis. I'm Trev. Smashworks. Sunday morning. It's donut day today. Hey, you guys have an awesome day. Thank