Hey, what's up, Smashers? It's another awesome day. You know what it is? It's Smash Day. It's uh it's Tuesday. So, uh we just uh Yeah. See, wave, right? He's talking about uh how awesome he chucked that ball. If you just want to check it out, but he landed that from the other side of the gym and it stuck. That's not so bad. That's not so bad. That's some skills. So, we're going to talk about ankle mobility. The ankle I'm going to sit here on this uh on this med ball for a second. The ankle is probably the the most neglected joint, if not the second most neglected joint, let's say that, next to the wrist because it's it in in terms of performance and functionality and stability and strength and ability to deliver raw power into whatever you're doing. and it's the base and it's super super under uh well it's it's it's undertreated and and and the problem with that is that the ankle has 26 bones. It has to adapt to the terrain on everything you do and all those 26 bones need to figure out what they're doing in a millisecond and they do it faster than you can think. So we rely on motor patterning to do that. And the problem is is if there's a a restriction in the movement um what what ends up happening is our motor patterning alters to work around that restriction. We get things like nvicular fault. We get knee pain. We've get we get low back issues. We get all these problems based on the fact that our ankle mobility sucks. So, without getting uh too complicated and naming off a bunch of bones of the foot for absolutely no reason whatsoever, I'm going to show you two tests to see if your ankles actually have any mobility and where the mobility restriction is. I'm going to show you all kinds of cool stuff to fix three things. Mobility, um static stability, and then dynamic stability. And then we'll throw in a fourth one and that's the uh performance aspect of it, the motor control. So the motor patterning needs to be corrected because if you have a bum motor pattern, a really bad motor pattern between basically that computer and that body and your motor pattern is working around a restriction and you clear out the restriction, that motor pattern is still there. And the dilemma with that is, and I'm looking for a place to put this, and that motor pattern is still there, except the problem is the restriction's not there, and the problem's not there. So now you have this motor pattern that causes you to work around something that doesn't even exist anymore and it causes the fault again. So you get this ugly self-propagating cycle. So I'm going to show you two cool tests. Check this out. So we're going to let's see if I'll put it right here so you can see what the what the shiz I'm doing. Listen, I'm still here. Hey, we're just you're going to see my feet for a second. So we're going to take the foot. You're basically taking the foot. What you want to be able to do is I'm going to lay back as far as I can. You should be able to pull your foot all the way away and slide the other one underneath. So, same thing here. I should be able to pull it away and slide this one underneath. If you don't have this dorsif flexion, you've got a dorsif flexion restriction. So, it's that easy. So, I'll go like this so you can see what I'm doing again and you get all of me. But what I'm doing is basically I'm going to go like this. Normally, I would lay down cuz it it doesn't load the hamstrings as much as I am right now. But all you're going to do is you're going to take your foot dorsif flex. So if I can fit my foot in behind there. You got thumbs up from the smash works guy. So you want to check both, right? We got two ankles. And you should be able to get underneath. If you have limited dorsif flexion, you have two things that could be happening. One, calf is probably really tight. Gastro solius planter, all that stuff is like a piece of like shoe leather. And the other part is the talis gets all jammed up in there. And I'm going to show you to clear that out as well. Two super funky things we're going to get rid of. That's number one. Number two is check this. This one's so freaking awesome. See if I can do this and actually capture all of me. And you do while while you're while you're kneeling. So, you're going to bring your foot almost. Mad camera skills. Skills that kills. All right. We got Eminem playing in the background so I can fly. So, you're just going to take your foot. You're going to go hand width from the wall. You should be able to go. So, watch my heel. You should be able to take your your knee and drive it. I'm gonna bring it all the way up a little bit. So, hand width away. You should be able to take your knee and bring it all the way here without your ankle coming up like or your heel coming up like that. So, I want to come like this. So, I have a little bit of a restriction in my calf. So, I can see that my ankle wants or my heel wants to come up just a little bit. So, I have a tiny little restriction. So, we want to be able to bring this all the way in. So, all the way back, all the way in. Two simple tests, super easy. That'll tell you again if the uh if the calf, gastroius, plantaris are all funky and all grizzly. The other thing it's going to do is it's going to hijack your knee motion because your knee is going to collapse in. Your foot's going to roll in when you do your squat. So, your squat is going to end up doing this. So, when you squat, you look like you're trying to take a poop. Not a good way to squat. You should be able to torque your feet out and create an arch right in here and really, really drive those knees out as far as you can. So, now time to clear that out. I'm going to clear out the hip and then we're going to clear out the bottom of the foot. We're going to sm we're going to take care of this talis problem and we're going to clear out the tibialis anterior and the gastro. We're going to do a ton of stuff today. It's like a super loaded ankle mobility deck. So, watch this. We're going to take this. I'm going to use the uh Yeah, I know what I'm going to use. I'm going to use the GHD. So, we're going to take this cinch up a band. I don't care if it's on a rig, a bed post, car tire, something heavy. And all you're going to do, there's two things that are going to happen. You want to I want you to get your foot in here. So, you're going to load up. So, then this band So, let me get this way so you can see. There we go. Yeah. So, we're going to be like this. The band is pulling backwards. Okay. I want this right around the seam, right around that crease where that talis is. Remember, that talis has to tuck back to allow for the tibia and the the fibula to uh to accommodate that talis, that dome to rock back and forth. So, you can dorsif flex and plantar flex the foot. So, you want to just load it up. So, you're going to hunt around and scour around until you feel that. And you'll feel it like right there. It just kind of went little I got a little click. So, that means I recovered a lot of that ankle dorsif flexion just by hunting around. You want to add weight to this, chuck a sandbag over your foot. That's number one. Okay. Number two. Yeah, you knew this was coming. Is we're going to hit that tibialis anterior. But first, I'm going to show you a stretch. So, you're basically going to take your feet. You're going to tuck them underneath you just like this. Don't smoke your dome on the GHD behind you. And you're just going to raise up. It's going to stretch the tibialis anterior. And you can just hang out like this for 2 minutes. Right. We got the mo. We got the MO for this, right? Motus operandi is what demo stands for. Um 2 minutes. All right, that's number two. Number three is let's peel this stuff away. And so far we've done just some testing and now some uh some smashing out, some some peeling away of the tissue. We've got some pretty fun stuff ahead of us. You're going to take this is a hard piece of 5-in PVC, by the way. This kind of this just I'm not going to say kind of bald lie. It doesn't kind of suck. It massively sucks. And you're just going to saw back and forth and grind all the way down that tibialis anterior and just peel that away. Oh, this is awful. Just kind of clean that up all the way down to the bottom of the ankle. Stay off the bone. You can't make your shin soft. All right, that's number what? Three. Four. Last one is you're going to take your foot. You're going to put it all the way over that piece of PVC. I want you to cross your leg all the way over. This one's easy. And you're just gonna do some circles. Grind away. Hunt around. So, this is where it gets a little People make mistakes. They just stay in one spot. Turn your foot out. Peel away that that solius around off the outside of that gas drop and get all the way down. Again, grind away. Turn your foot in. Same thing. Grind away. Sorry about the dirty socks. I'm on uh some stallmat floor in a CrossFit gym. So, white socks turn into gray socks really quick. So, that's how you peel away that calf and that uh that gas drop basically in that whole complex. Last one is the bottom of the foot. See if I can find it here. Last one's really important. You have all this fascia on the bottom of the foot. This is the stuff that gets missed. So, you're going to take this, get your foot onto that. So, you can see I have a lacrosse ball. Don't use a tennis ball. Use a lacrosse ball. Get your foot on it. Flare out the toes. Oh, that's just horrible. That is diabolical. Flare out the toes and then just mash away. Grind away all over that fascia. Clean up the bottom of that foot. And you'll find a lot of your um ankle mobility goes right out the window. Now, there's two more things I'm going to have you do. I know there's a ton of stuff in this video, but this is like the ultimate information video. We're gonna do uh dynamic stability drills. And we're just going to do two. So, what you're gonna do is you're going to grab a med ball. Okay? Grab a wall ball. This one's only a 14, so it's super light. I want you to get on one foot. You're just going to throw it at the wall and pick it up, but you're going to do it all in one foot. So, take the wall ball. I'm going to stop looking at the camera so I don't eat it. You're going to get on one foot. Just toss it. 10 of those. Then you're going to do the same thing overhead. Get on one foot. 10 of those. Here's where the fun part starts. You're going to take it in front of you. Get on one foot. And then all you're going to do stability. The last one is grab your band. This is the important part. Grab your band. Put it around you like a belt. So, I've got the band. You're going to take the band. You're going to wrap it around. I know, mad camera skills. All you're looking at is There we go. So, the band is going to drag the knees backwards, but we want to mobilize in the position we want to get in. Right. So, no, I'm not hanging out like this on purpose. You want to drop into the bottom. The band is going to peel these knees apart. Feet is the only time I'll say toes have to be forward. If you got to squat with them out a little bit, that's totally fine, but right now they have to be forward. Get your hand between there. Hang out for how long? Five minutes, baby. And that's it. Get those ankles working the way they're supposed to. Clean up those hips and boom. Everything you do will be better. I promise you that. Your life gets better. Only Christmas is coming. Thanksgiving is coming. It's all good. Hey, I'm Trav Smash Works ankle mobility. Check you guys out tomorrow.