What's up, guys? Glad you're here. So, today is Saturday, 14th June. And every Saturday, I do something called the Spartan. It's part of my mastermind. We tackle psychology, limiting beliefs and mindsets and a lot of the things that get in your way that people think aren't important until they try and do something and realize that's exactly what's getting in their way. And I started talking about trusting yourself where I think a lot of people don't they just don't. And I I think I just want to talk about that because I could go on about all kinds of things. I was going to break this down into probably take me over an hour, but it really got me thinking. And my wife sits there's a couch over there, big giant couch. My wife sits in on all my calls cuz I asked her to because she likes being in my calls. She said she loves it. And I love because my wife is my best friend. But she made a comment. She said, "This would make a really good podcast." She's right. And I think part of the problem is with trust is that you're lying to yourself and you know it. You know it. Just follow me. Hear me out. Give me 20 minutes of your life. I promise it'll be worth it. And I say that every time, but really give me 20, 30 minutes of your life. What else are you going to do? Doom scroll, watch Netflix, put something pointless and empty in your mind just and wonder why your life is pointless and empty? A lot of you guys, and that's another lie. You guys are lying to yourselves and you know it. You say you'll do it tomorrow or that next Monday is going to be better or you're gonna start Monday or that next week is going to be better or you've got a plan, right? Like that's what you have. You got a plan, don't you? Except nothing's changing. And deep down beneath the armor of the fake confidence and borrowed quotes from all the self-help memes that you look up on social media, it comes back to the same thing. you don't trust yourself. Just let that hit for a second. Let that land. Just hear me out because I think that's the problem. You don't trust your own word. You don't trust your own intent. You don't trust that if you say, "I'm going to change my life." You don't trust that you're actually going to do it. And without trust, I don't care what plan, what blueprint, what you've paid for, how expensive it was, who your coach is. It doesn't matter if the president of the United States or Anthony Robbins himself gives you something. If you don't have trust, without that trust, all the things you think you have, if you don't have that, you're screwed. You're completely, you're [\h__\h] Because the foundation of all success is selfrust. You have to trust the machine that's going to do the work. You have to trust the intelligence of the machine that's going to do the work. And you guys talking about self-worth, self-confidence, self-esteem, it is none of that. It's not beliefs. It sure as hell isn't positive thinking and Steuart Smallley and optimism. It is trust. The gritty, dirty, the kind like that kind of trust. The kind that shows up when there is nobody there who is cheering you on and applauding you and clapping for you and saying you can do a little more. That kind of trust. The kind that you build with with blood and sweat and bruises and anguish and pain and the on all the days that you want to quit but you didn't. That is the trust that you need. And right now, most people are are arguing for the limitations that are actively destroying them. Most of you guys are arguing about the things that are keeping you where you are in a place that you hate and you get offended and pissed off. I spoke with somebody the other day and I said, "Hey, listen. these are the things that you're not doing correctly and I'm looking out for you. And the follow-up reply from this person was pure defense. And everything inside me, I said it to Brandy, I said, "But they're doing it wrong." And that's my job is to go, "You're doing this wrong." Ego is a fragile thing. Neuroplasticity is a powerful thing. When you say something enough, you begin to believe it. And it doesn't matter whether it's right or wrong. You believe it. And you will defend it with everything you've got. And that's what a lot of you guys are arguing about. You guys are arguing for [\h__\h] that you shouldn't even be arguing about. You hate the result, but you're arguing because you go, "I'm not wrong. I'm not wrong." You're arguing from a place of ego and emotion, not going, "Well, [\h__\h] This is actually wrong. Maybe I should do better." And it was wrong. Didn't matter. I told her didn't make a difference. Laundry list of reasons why it essentially wasn't wrong what I said yet I know. And I guess the flip side could be well how do you know that you're correct Spartan? Because I am because it was a doctor related question and I actually know what the hell I'm talking about. But it doesn't matter if it's a finance question and I know about finances or a marriage question and I have the successful marriage. The issue is that if somebody presents information that is going to help you and your reflex is to go against the information, you're never going to succeed because you're letting your emotions get in the way. And it's because you don't trust yourself because you've been running a program rather an operating system in defense, not learning mode. And that comes from what I talked about yesterday, which is you are taught to believe, not to learn. And you do that to yourself. Like most people, most of you guys listen. Please listen to me. You guys are emotionally arguing for the limitations that are actively destroying you. And I don't know how many times I need to say that. Process that. Let that hit you right in the gut. You guys say, "Well, I think I'm doing pretty good, Spartan. The hell with you. In fact, [\h__\h] you. I don't want you think I I didn't make this up. It's fact." Yeah. And then you defend that thought like it is the gospel truth. Even though you are standing in a wasteland, an a postapocalyptic wasteland of your own destruction, your own lies, your own broken promises to yourself, your own unfinished goals. And if that's you, you need to listen to everything I'm telling you because I actually give a [\h__\h] Like you need to snap that open because in in the realm of psychological integrity, right? The most insidious battle is the one fought silently. It's the one between your inner narrator and reality itself. Your brain is the most masterful storyteller, but that doesn't mean it's telling the truth. You guys just subscribe to that. Most people confuse the narration for truth. That's not possible because the narrator in your head isn't neutral. So, how can that be possible? Just stay with me. The narrator in your head isn't neutral. It is it is your psychological software that's shaped by your past traumas, your unconscious fears, your cultural programming, your personal bias, your thoughts, your beliefs, your actions, all the things that have happened. It's not God. It's not objective. It's deeply flawed. In fact, my wife laughed because the example I gave today was it's this erratic, completely irrational PR team working overtime to make you feel like you're okay even when you're not. That's what the narrator is in your head. And the problem with that is most of you guys are going to defend that narrator more fiercely than you defend the potential of your own future. Why? If this lands for you, you have got to unpack your own psychology. And the reason why is because if you challenge the narrator, follow me. If you've challenged the storyteller in your own head, if you question the story even, then the problem is that you might be required to confront the uncomfortable possibility that your story isn't heroic and it's not even coherent and that you're actually not doing your best. in fact that you've probably been coasting and hiding and lying and performing the appearance of effort while you are deeply resisting real change that's required for growth. See and the moment here's why it gets problematic for a lot of people and they don't like it because it's discomfort. You need to learn how to be comfortable with discomfort first of all and that comes from trusting yourself. And I'll tell you at the end how to trust yourself. I promise you this is worth it. But the moment that you challenge that internal narrative, right, that storyteller, the second that you say, "Wait, wait a minute. Am I actually doing the best I possibly can? Could you do one more?" That's the question you should ask. Could you do one more? If the answer is yes, then you're not doing your best. And people will argue, well, you don't always have to max out. Why not? Mankind separates itself from the rest of nature by taking rests and holidays and days off. But nothing else in nature does that because it can always do one more. And yet there is logic that people use to defend why a day off is important. There's not an animal that gets burnout and they do more than you do. So ask, am I actually doing the best that I can? Am I giving all I've got or am I just avoiding the pain of growth? That's when the game changes because that's when you begin to trust yourself. If you want to succeed in any domain, it doesn't matter. Marriage, business, fitness, life, conversation, dog training, it doesn't make a difference, you have to first interrogate your own narrations. You have to be willing to destroy your current self-concept in order to make room for who you're actually capable of becoming. Until that point, you don't trust yourself, which means you're not willing to do it. And selfrust, if you haven't figured it out yet, it's built like a muscle. Repetition, resistance, and relentless pursuit. It's the same thing as going to the gym. It's the same reason when people go, "How do you do so many pull-ups?" Well, I started with one, but I was relentlessly pursuing it. And I provided resistance myself. And I just ran repetition. Same reason you get rich. Same reason you have a great marriage. all of those except you can do that entire block of conduct in the wrong direction. Like you think confidence comes from reading a book, posting your little affirmations, your little gay journal. Come on, man. Confidence, real weaponized confidence that comes from stacking wins. Nothing else. Nothing else. It comes from saying, "Okay, I'm going to do X." And then doing X over and over and over again, especially when it sucks. Especially when it's cold, when you're tired, when you're pissed off, when you're sad, when you're angry, when you're bitter, when you're frustrated, that's when it matters the most because that's when you either earn trust with yourself or you completely dismantle. You just fracture the hell out of it. And look, I I don't care how motivated you feel. I really don't. Motivation is for rookies and amateurs. Winners don't wait for the feeling. You guys all talking about, well, I have my feelings and I have my safe space. Knock it off. That's why you're not successful. That's why you're a dude that's built like a girl. That's why you have these weird 20-day challenges that you decide to recruit people in to go, "We're going to go super dark." But you're not dark. There's nothing dark about you. You've never done anything difficult in your life. You package it in a way that you can sell it as something dark, but you don't even believe it. Because if you went toe-to-toe with somebody that was as gritty as [\h__\h] like me, you wouldn't last a day. And your your followup would be, "Well, that's not healthy, though." No, you're just not tapping into what you're capable of. You're sugarcoating and polarizing yourself so you can listen to the narrator that says it's okay and safer to be soft. Winners don't wait for feelings. They don't care about feelings. They do what's required. That's what builds real trust because if you are padding your own reality, you do not trust yourself to be capable enough to handle reality. It's not inspiration. It's not hype. It is just pure execution. If you procrastinate, which is most of you guys, it's it's because you're lazy. That's such a weak, soft diagnosis. You procrastinate because you don't believe that your action is going to create the result that you want. That's what it is. In fact, it's even deeper than that. you won't believe that you're even going to follow through long enough to to find out. So, not only won't you do it, you won't you won't do it because you don't believe you're going to do it long enough to to get the results. Which is why you guys tap into these stupid 30, 60, 90day programs. Those are for amateurs. Winners go, I want the lifetime program to change everything. The people that go, "Do you have a one-year option? Do you have a 30-day option? I'm going to try it out for 60 days." Those are amateurs. I don't even want those people in my group anymore. I have some people in my group, this is as plain as a nose on my face, I have some people in my group, they paid for one year. If they do not renew a lifetime level, I will they're not going to ever join again. I got rid of one-year plans. Why would I want that? You can give me a year and after that it is lifetime. There's not one year, one year, one year, one year. That's it. Because I don't want people, that is amateur thinking. I don't want amateurs around me. I want pros. I want killers. I want weaponized human beings that want to do nothing but help everybody in the world and become the best version of themselves, which is exactly how you help everybody else in the world is being the example for other people to look at and I want to be like, but the rest of the world right now goes, that's everything I want. [\h__\h] them. I hate them. They're shaming me. Ostracize them and then cancel them. How does that make that doesn't make any sense? You want all of that stuff. It's that you don't trust yourself to do the work. And you make sure that you hang around with people that are soft and weak and lying to themselves because they don't believe that they're going to do the actions required to change. See that? That's what happens. Instead of doing what's required, what do you do? You delay. You analyze. You lie. You scroll. You overthink everything. You build this little illusion that you're just preparing or planning. You're not. You're hiding. Listen, you guys are trying to rationalize your inaction with this fantasy that somehow you're going to have more time, more clarity, more confidence later. Explain how that works to me. If anybody can explain how that works to me, I'd love to hear it. Get in my comments and talk about it. Tell me that tomorrow you have more time than today. I want to hear whatever possible quantum physics [\h__\h] up explanation you're going to give me because it's not possible. You mean to tell me that you're not doing what's required today, but you put it off till tomorrow going, "I'm going to do it tomorrow." Believing that you're going to do more work than you're doing today, but you're not even doing anything today. So, how is it that tomorrow you're going to be more willing to do it? It's going to be harder tomorrow. It's going to take longer and it's going to cost more and be less likely to achieve. But you go, I'm going to do it tomorrow. That's why you're losing. You know what winners do right now? I don't have the money. Figure it out. Got it. I'll get it to you by the end of the day. You spend more time validating why you can't join a program, a mastermind, a gym, a trainer, a job, a career, a skill set that you have to learn, all of it, than you will just doing it. You will do more work to avoid the work than anything else. And that's what makes you a [\h__\h] Because that later never comes. Stop getting mad about it. Listen to what I'm telling you. I'm trying to help you. All procrastination is absolute self betrayal. You're saying I don't trust myself enough to get this done. So, I'll just lie to myself and pretend I will eventually. Okay. What does that do? What does that do? Tell me what that does. It slowly murders your standards. All you do is lower the target. You make the lie so comfortable. It's like being on a just a bunch of pillowy clouds. And then you start to believe that mediocrity is the realest part of your life. That is absolute fact. And then you start defending that narrator again. And then you work your way down. You just keep repeating this. And now you're in hell. A self-created purgatory of postponement and unearned comfort and distraction. You want out of this entire nightmare. Stack receipts. You get savage about follow-th through. You make your word [\h__\h] weapon. You know already when you can't keep your word, it pisses me off. You make your word a weapon. Tell yourself what you're going to do and then go do it over and over. You do that for a 100 days. I I'll say that and you know I just said I want lifetime. Do it for 100 days straight. Just do it for 100 days straight. I promise you your life will be completely unrecognizable. That is all you've got to do because by then you'll never want to stop. But it starts with the truth and the truth hurts. Good. It should. That means it's working. It should punch you right in the crotch every time. Like you ever look around and you notice all these people, they just think they have time. Like the clock ain't ticking for them. Let me tell you something really straightforward. You don't have time. All you guys, oh, I got time, man. I'm 22. I got time. No, you don't. If you would have started earlier, would you have more benefit to whatever it is? You don't have time. You have choices. You have decisions. And you keep choosing to act like time is on your side. It's not. Every time you delay, every time you say later or maybe or tomorrow or just one more thing or I got this other thing to do, bro, or give me just another week, give me another month. We're almost there. What you're really saying is, I'm okay with being less than what I could be. That's embarrassing. If that isn't the dumbest [\h__\h] I've ever heard, I don't know what is. I've watched grown men and women, this goes back to what I was saying at the beginning, where people will defend their own stupidity going, "I've been doing this forever." I've watched adults, smart, capable, intelligent, talented, really sabotage themselves right out of success simply because they didn't want to feel uncomfortable. They didn't want to admit they were wrong. They didn't want to say, "You know what? Maybe I actually don't know what the [\h__\h] I'm doing." So instead of correcting course, you guys double down. That's what they do. If that's you, you're one of them. You build castles on this broken logic and call it a strategy. That's like building strength on dysfunction and wondering why you're injured. Listen, most folks would rather fail on their own terms than win by doing what works. I told a story about that. These two people that we knew, Matt and Lindsay, they had this gym and we offered to buy the gym topped all no matter what they would ever say more than what it was worth cuz these two were [\h__\h] boneheads. They had no idea how to run a business, no idea how to be human beings. They were the most useless two people when it came to customer service and they were selfish as [\h__\h] They shouldn't have owned a business anyway. They were terrible at it. They would take days off when they felt like it and just send a notice. They wouldn't show up to teach class at the gym and just go, "Here's your class. Go run." They wouldn't even be there. So, their gym went tits up. We offered to buy it. Brandy would have run that gym so well. It we would have 50 locations by now. You know why? Because I would have called somebody who is an expert at growing gyms, brick-andmortar gyms. I would have called Bedros and I would have said, "How do I expand the [\h__\h] out of this and he would have said, "Do this, this, this, this, this, this." And I would have just copied him. Why? Because FitBody Boot Camp is a massive franchise. Why would I not ask somebody better than me instead of going like that's an example of going, "We're going to stick with doing what I'm doing, not Bedros, these two people, and we're not going to listen." Well, we got this scathing message from them the next day when we gave them an offer about how insulted they were at how low the offer was. It was 50 [\h__\h] grand and they didn't even have three grand a month in memberships. It's unreal. And they went on about how much blood and sweat and effort they put into it, but there ain't no dollar value in that. Show me the money. Show me your statistics. Show me your metrics. I'm not buying your sweat, your fat body, and your goofy [\h__\h] family. What I'm buying is the actual business. Didn't matter. They burned their whole life to the ground, maxed out all their credit, and moved. That's a coward. And that's what a lot of you guys are doing. You guys would rather fail on your terms than just shut up and go, I don't know what I'm doing, man. I need help. I will pay to learn. I will commit to the work. I will do whatever is required so I can win. And you do it because of your ego, your fragile, overinflated, embarrassingly gross ego. You can't stand the idea of being the smartest guy in the room. Even if that means staying broke and fat and alone and stuck. There's so many things I don't know how to do, man. But I will just call somebody that's better at it than me and ask them. Believe me, I'm cocky as hell when I know damn well I'm good at it. Not this illusion where I've been telling myself I'm good at it, but I actually suck. I walk around telling everybody how I can do this or that athletically or I can run a business or I know how to have a great marriage, but meanwhile my marriage is burning to the ground. I'm fat and shaped like a dough ball and I've never made more than 10 grand a year in my life. I have no business talking about that. And if somebody goes, "Dude, you suck. You should learn how." And I go, "No, I'm an expert." That's my fragile little overinflated ego. I'm not like that. I'll go, "Fuck, I need to learn." You know how I know? Because I started from nothing with my health, with my marriage, with my businesses, and now everything is running perfectly. Let me give this to you straight. Your future is being stolen one postponed decision at a time. Like you want to wait until you're ready, until you've saved enough, until you've got the time, you're going to die unprepared. Do you want to wait until it feels right? Okay, cool. Hope you like disappointment. Life does not pay. And when I mean pay, I mean write you a big ass check for intent. It pays out for movement and action and execution. So, if you don't trust yourself to take action now, when exactly do you think that trust is going to show up? I'm just curious when when is that going to show up? On some silver platter, handed to you like a bunch of metals gift wrapped by the universe? You think you're entitled to it? Grow the [\h__\h] up. You earn trust in the dirt, in the trenches, not in the planning room, not in some comfortable place. Not It sure as hell isn't on a vision board. and your goal boards and your vision boards. We're talking the dirt, the grind, the days that you hate it, the reps that suck and hurt and burn. The phone calls that you don't want to make, the investment you just don't want to do because it's more money than you thought it was going to be. The coach you have to hire, the consultant you have to pay, the attorney you have to pay, the vehicles you have to buy for your business, the house you have to buy. It doesn't matter. You keep delaying because you think there's more time. What if you're wrong? You ever think of that? No. Because you're too delusional. Listen, most you guys don't hear this. I'm going to say it anyway. You are not who you think you are. And you guys run this dialogue all the time. This collection of assumptions and defense mechanisms designed to protect you from psychological pain. Except all of these things. Listen, you aren't. It's not in you. All of the things you're stressed out about, it's not in you. It's not in your environment. It is your perception to physical or psychological threat. And those are the defense mechanisms that you guys lean in on. But doing that, you're also protecting yourself from all the growth that you need to have happen to get to where you want to be. So you can stop hating on everybody else with the life that you want. You've convinced yourself that you're right about your habits and your schedule and your priorities and your business and your knowledge. But here's the twist. You're only right inside this broken frame. You are defending a world view built by your current level of discomfort, not your potential. So you guys say, "Well, I'm doing my best." Your best. Losers are always whining about their best. Winners go home and [\h__\h] the prom queen. That's all I hear. And if you know, you know. But I'm doing my best. Are you? Are you really? Could you do one more then you're not doing your best? It's not always about that, Spartan. Yes, it is. Can you do one more? One more phone call, one more sale, one more rep, one more hug, one more kiss, one more I love you, one more push-up, one more ball toss with your son or your daughter, one more trip to the park. It doesn't matter. Can you do one more? Yeah. Did you? No. Then you're not doing your best. I'm doing my best. Are you really? Are you just doing the best version of the things that you're comfortable doing all while avoiding the things that would actually cause the progress that you want? Here, I'll put it an easier way. Most of what you're doing is avoidance dressed up as excellence. It's a lie. And you guys will fight tooth and nail to preserve the illusion because if it crumbles, you're going to have to face a much harder question than what I'm talking about. What if I've been lying to myself for years? That's a much worse question because if you would have just admitted at the beginning, say 15 years ago, that you don't know what you're doing, you suck at what you're doing, and you need help and you need coaching and you need instructions and guidance and all the other things that are required to become successful. If you would have just admitted it, then you wouldn't have wasted all this time cuz you think the clock isn't ticking for you, apparently. What if I've been lying to myself for years? And that's where [\h__\h] gets real because you can't dial it. But you're never thinking about that. I'll invest the money when I make this sale. I will subscribe to that narrative when I get more in touch with my chakras. I will, you know, start training once my elbow stops stops hurting and my boooos go away. I will go harder in on my marriage once my kids are out of school. What the [\h__\h] is wrong with you? to win in life, in business, in relationships, in fitness, like your body, your mission, all of this. You have to take action that runs directly against your own psychology. That's the basics. Which means doing the opposite of what you feel like doing. It means waking up earlier than whatever you're doing right now. Saying no when everything inside you says, "I want to say yes, man." [\h__\h] facing people that you would rather avoid and having that conversation that you just don't want to do. Owning the mistakes that you've been denying. That's the biggest one. Most of you guys don't even own your [\h__\h] It means abandoning that safe little echo chamber of your thoughts and stepping into cognitive dissonance. You have to actually, it's the only time I'll tell you that because most of the time I tell you avoid cognitive dissonance. This is a time you need to step into it where two conflicting beliefs collide. Just who you think you are and who you could become, they need to go to war because in that decision is where all your trust is forged. Because the real you, the one that's waiting on the other side of that conflict, is the one that's stronger. And I mean stronger, more lethal, more deadly, more powerful, sharper, ruthless in that person's clarity. But in order to meet that person, you're going to have to betray your own current self. You're going to have to kill the old narrative and you're going to have to say something most people aren't willing to say, especially right now because they're fear of the judgment of others and fear of being seen to fail, which are all feelings. You're going to in order to do that and like I said, the prerequisite is you have to betray your current self. You have got to say, "Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I've just been full of [\h__\h] but not in a negative way. Maybe there's more to me than what I've let myself become. That's courage. And until you do that, you have none. But that courage, that's what winning requires. You want to know what the secret is? It's that I think even this like after listening to all this. Are you actually going to do something? Are you just going to nod and say, "Damn, that was good." And go back to pretending you've got more [\h__\h] time. This isn't motivational. This is a mirror. Look right at it. You are either stacking trust with yourself or subtracting it. You are either building all the evidence for your future or building a case to support all your excuses. Your brain is an evidence gathering machine and it will support whatever you tell it. So you are either choosing pain now shortterm or pain forever because selfrust is not taught. It's not given to you. It's not handed to you with a hug and a handshake. It's not inherited by anybody. It is brutally and unforgivingly forged through repeated acts of personal defiance against your own weakness. Listen, you've got to stop defending your comfort and start defending and going to war for the potential that you have that you are unwilling to look at because it would mean admitting that what you've been doing right now is wrong. Just get the [\h__\h] out of your own way and finally, just finally, trust yourself enough to act like your life depends on it because it does. It [\h__\h] does. I got to go. Never miss.