What's up, Smash Crew? Good morning. Guess what? We're going to be talking about some ankle mobility issues. So, I got a lot of people um talking to me about knee problems lately. Keep sending those messages. Trust me, I do my best to try and get as many of these videos out as possible. Um so, thank you so much for sending me requests. I try and get them all out as as best as I can and sometimes there's just a little bit of a delay. So, knee problems, generally a knee problem 99% of the time without an injury is a hip and an ankle mobility issue. Today, we're going to talk about ankles, but also those knees that collapse in. So, we see a lot of people and uh this might be you. Yeah. If you squat like this, definitely thumbs down. So, if your squat does two things, let's turn this just a little bit. Yeah, I know. funky camera skills. I love it. Okay, so now you can see my feet. If your feet are like this and you squat like a duck. Yeah, thumbs down. Or if you squat like this, see what my knees are doing. So, an easy way to check to see where there's an insufficiency in your uh in your squat and in your mobility is just by doing the jump test. Now, I have shoes on. So, normally I'd have you do this in uh in bare feet. Don't do it in socks on your tile floor. You guys are going to send me videos of, you know, Trev, how do you fix a smashed out knee or a contusion in my head or a concussion or something? I'll be getting messages going, "Why is my vision blurry? My tongue feels like it's swollen." So, what you're going to do is you're going to sit just on your feet. So, right now, I'm sitting on my feet. All you're going to do, no, I did a lot of stuff this morning, so if I eat it, I'm just going to post it anyway. You all can laugh. But what you're going to do is you're going to hop up into a squat, and you're going to jump into the most natural position possible, unless you force it. So, I'm going to try and force a bad position. If it comes out in a good position, my apologies. I'll do it a couple of times. You guys get to watch me hop up and down. But, this will show you where there's an insufficient. And and a lot of times, nine out of 10 times, it's in the ankle. The ankle tries to roll forward, which means the knees knees cave forward. You get this VGUS knee. But it's not just the ankle. It's also these adductors in the inside, which are probably really short and tight and angry and a little bit weak. So, all you're going to do is you're going to sit on your feet like this. You're going to just take your hands out like this and just just do that. So, unfortunately, I went into a decent position, but let's say I landed like this and my feet are out. If I land like that, which is a lot of times what you're going to see happen. So, that means that this foot is collapsing in, which means it's putting a ton of pressure on that ankle and I have no mobility in this ankle. So, my body looks for a way to find slack in the system. And the way it does that is it folds that knee in to try and get me into the bottom of that squat. So, if I'm in the bottom of that squat and I'm like this, that's because this is the only way I can get in the bottom. As soon as I externally rotate those femurss, if I don't have a nice range of motion in my hip and I can't sit like this, what happens is my foot goes, "Okay, now I can get into the bottom of the squat, but it dumps a whole lot of horsepower out of the ankle and bleeds it out onto the floor, not torquing it into the ground to drive you out of the hole. So, you lose all this horsepower, number one. Number two is you load up your knee with shear and you beat the crap out of your ankle. There's 26 bones in the human foot. They have to adapt every time you take a step. Remember, gravity is well relentless. So, I'm going to show you how to mobilize that ankle. Two super easy moves. And then the third one is we're going to peel away that adductor. So, you know what? Let's start with the adductor. So, if you can see, got my super funky wall of pain over here. You're going to take a light band. This is important. Don't use a heavy band. You're just going to wrap it around. You're going to sit. Yeah, I know I'm a little far away from the camera. So, you can do two things. One, just loop it around the foot. Grab the other side. And all you're going to do is bring this up. So, you can load up the band. So, now I've got the band around both of my feet. So, the band is, you can see my feet got the band. All right. I know. Super funny, right? You're going to shimmy slide up against the wall. And then all you're going to do, you can see me behind the post of the rig. All you're going to do is you're going to just go whoop up like this. I'm going to slide my butt all the way up against the rig. Sorry about the rings there. And I'm just going to let my feet go out like this. My legs go out like this. Knees are locked out because the band is locking everything out and it's pulling my feet into what's called dorsif flexion. And I'm going to hang out here for how long? 2 minutes. It's going to peel these adductors right off the bone and separate them from the hamstrings, too. So, you get a lot more range of motion. The way you get out of this, bend the knees and then bring your feet together. Do a little ninja roll to get out of it. Pop the band off the foot. Remember, that's two minutes. That's number one. Number two, you're going to grab this. Now, ideally, I'm going to have you do this without a shoe, but here, I'm not going to make you sit here and watch me take my shoe off. It's a pain in the butt. So, you're going to take this Let's get a better camera angle. What do you say? There we go. Oh, that's just super super awesome. And all you're going to do is you're going to load up the anterior portion so the ankle can't move around. So, what you're going to do is you're going to load this up just like that. All right. So, I'm bending my knee to engage that calf. I want to make sure that this heel is glued to the floor. So, I'm going to load this band up with super super turbo tension. And I'm just going to lean on my knee and I'm going to shove it all the way forward and I'm going to scour around in here. So, this isn't one of these static. This is definitely something where you're doing some movement, full ranges of motion. So, come all the way up and then come all the way down. So, you can even take a knee. The only reason I stand is you can use more of your weight, gravity. Use it as your use it as your friend, not your enemy. It's kind of a friendnemy, right? And you're just going to hunt around and scour around. You might even get a little click. Like right there, I just got a little click. Boom. That just set a bone in my foot. That's number two. Here's number three. I'm going to step out just because I want to show you the right side. And not right as in right side, right as in correct. I'm going to load up the band again. Now, the lower the band is on the Achilles, the better. I'm going to load that up bottom of the rig. I'm going to do the same thing. I'm going to grind around and I'm going to come out to full extension. And I'm just going to hunt and scour around for about two minutes. And what you're going to find is when you're done, you've recovered. Now, my my range of motion, my ankles is pretty good, but you've recovered a lot of the range of motion. Like even that, normally it's pretty good. This feels pretty easy. And I only did that for an imaginary 2 minutes, right? So, that is how you keep those knees from caving in. Unload the knees, unload the ankles. All of a sudden, you've got your ankle mobility back. You can squat better, you can run better. I don't know, probably sleep better. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works ankle mobility. Bye-bye. Knee pain. I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have a great day.