Let me ask you something and it's going to sting if you answer honestly. Are you willing to bet on yourself? Because it's the problem with everything. And don't nod your head. I did this in a call yesterday and I talked about it in my Spartan live that I do every Saturday. But don't nod your head and give me this fake, yeah, yeah, I bet on myself all the time just to feel good because you don't have the results you want because I'll prove it to you that most of you guys don't do it. And it's not meant to insult you. And I think that's how a lot of you guys take some of this stuff is you're like, "Oh, you're not very nice." You guys want someone to tell you that you just inherited $100 million. If it happened today, you want to know yesterday. But when there's a problem with your conduct, your mindset, your tactics, your strategy, your health, your weight, your business, your marriage, whatever it is, you want to defer that as long as possible. You want an intervention that takes 60 to 90 days, but you want to know the victories immediately. You see the problem with that? And maybe you don't. Maybe that's the problem is you just don't see that. You're like, "No, you should just like if somebody is overweight, if I was overweight, tell me right now if I'm just like completely ignorant to my own circumstances, tell me right away." Because if I have a big booger on my nose here when I'm going through this podcast, tell me. Send me a message. Go, "Dude, you had this big booger. You look ridiculous." Okay? Then I make sure I check my nose before I do a podcast next time. And I think the problem is you guys, well, I don't want to know. You shouldn't do that. That's mean. It's not mean. It's the truth. Somehow the truth has been twisted and manipulated and and just transmogrified into hate and phobia. The level of deception that is occurring on social media and just everywhere is astronomical. So come back to yourself because that's why I think a lot of you guys don't even bet on yourself because you don't know what to bet on cuz you don't know what's real and what's not. even with yourself anymore because you're so busy looking at everybody else's lives, you don't even know what your life is doing. So I listen, are you willing to bet on yourself? Cuz if you're saying yes, I will prove that you're probably not doing it. It's got nothing to do with your skills or your job or your body or your relationship or your mom or your dad or your bank account or your education or how many degrees you have stacked on your stupid wall. It is your threshold for discomfort and pain. It is how fast you guys scramble out of the arena the second the fire hits your feet because you guys say you're hungry. You want Listen, how many of you guys, this is a really direct question. How many of you guys $1 million a year take-home pay profit would change your life and the next couple of generations? Everybody, we make a lot of money. I will still take more because I think I I will stack as much wealth as I can for the future. I'm planting trees right now that I am never going to see the shade from ever because I want to do that for the rest of my generations for my legacy. And I think a lot of people want to become wealthy because they want what they want. There's nothing wrong with that. If I told you you could get to a million dollars a year profit if you listen to every single thing I tell you to do and you don't do it, the problem's with you, not with my method. Because I do it. I do it every year and I've shown people how to do it. It's the matter of whether or not you decide to apply it. If I show you that you can lose 50 pounds of fat, not muscle, not water, not any fat, fat blubber, you can lose 50 pounds inside of three, four months safely. If you do X, Y, and Z that I tell you what to do and you don't do it, the problem's with you, not with me. You don't bet on yourself. You guys doubt your own follow through. Yet, you look at the people that have the results you want, you go, they got to be lying. There's no way. And I get it. A lot of you guys are cynical and skeptical because you've been burned by these Insta coaches and these fake ass gurus. But I come out here every day and prove it, but then you still look for reasons to validate why you're not doing it. If you keep doing that, you're going to keep getting the same results. That's the problem. What did the last five decisions get you? What did it net you? Did it give you more money? Did it fix your marriage? Did it save your health? the last coach you hired, if you had one, the last business book, the last mindset book, the last thing you read, watched, attempted, did it change your life? Because if you made the decision based on the old version of you, and don't take this as offensive, the old broke, overweight, obese, miserable, insecure person, then you're going to run away from the decision you need to make because you say you're hungry. And I said this example yesterday. You say you're hungry, but the waiter shows up with the challenge. Whatever the challenge is, the struggle, the adversity, the obstacle that's in your way to get to the life you want. The waiter shows up with that challenge, and you send the plate back and ask if fear comes gluten-free. Do you a gluten-free version of the fear? You need to change that because that'll change your entire life. You need to burn that exit strategy and force the confrontations with the one person who's been screwing your futures the most. you. The one person that has just been screwing with your whole life is you. Every objection that you've ever had in your entire life is just you trying to delay responsibility. That's it. You are not objecting to the price or the timing or the details or the color, the flavor, the look. It doesn't matter. You are objecting to you. Because listen, when somebody asks you when are you starting, why haven't you bought it? Why haven't you started? Why haven't you moved? Why haven't you learned? What are you waiting for? When are you going to invest? Why haven't you had that conversation? Why haven't you executed on all the things you said you were going to do? Those questions rip straight into the truth. And your instinct is to change the frame, right? Redirect the energy, duck and dodge and slip. But you still don't do it. And if you're doing that to somebody else, you're a lying sack of crap. If you procrastinate on promises you made for someone else that you said you were going to do to help them, to save them, to fix them, to carry them, to bring it, to buy it, to solve it, to build it, whatever it is, if you have made promises to someone else, but you keep deferring the date of fruition, you're a liar. you're a liar and that makes you just a pile of dirt because you keep kicking it down the line because you're a coward. But you will come up with all the reasons to explain it away. But the only one is you're a coward. When you do it to yourself, it's even worse. And you ever notice that this is what you do when a question comes up that challenges your comfort, which is what this is. Your first reaction is to shift the weight of ownership off your own shoulders, onto a circumstance, onto a situation. You can do this towards other people, too. I know I just got one more thing to do and then I'm going to get it done. I know I meant to do it this weekend. I'll do it next weekend. You try and get clever and you try and flip it onto the person that's asking you, trying to hold you accountable. But what you're really doing is you're looking for an exit. You're looking for a way out without having to confront the problem, which is you don't have a resource problem. I said this yesterday. You have a resourcefulness problem. You don't need a better business coach or tactician or consultant or whatever it is you guys are paying for. You need to stop ghosting the one that you already hired when you feel like trash because they call you out. You don't need a better program. You need to use the one that you said was going to change your life that you were holding yourself accountable to that now you have the responsibility to use. The reason you're not doing any of that is because you're not betting on yourself. It's not the program. It's not the trainer. It's not the coach. It's not the consultant. It's none of that. You're hedging. Like you're running around calculating and trying to find a risk-free path to the end result. You want it without discomfort. There isn't one. they don't exist. Because the core problem is that you've built your entire life around the avoidance of discomfort. Makes me so mad because you think that one day you're going to wake up and suddenly it's all going to feel easy to do that incredibly hard thing. You think that alignment is going to come before commitment. That's a lie. Nobody said going from 250 lbs to 190 lbs was going to be comfortable or even fun. Nobody said that taking your business from $100,000 to a million dollars a year was going to feel safe. This entire game, your body, business, your relationships is a psychological war. And most of you guys are losing because you think pain is an enemy. You have been sold a lie that pain shouldn't exist. Pain is a signal. Just like joy is a signal. Carrot and stick. Pain is not the enemy. Pain is the cost of the ticket. That's what it costs you. Like you guys have told yourselves, I'm just waiting till I feel ready. But ready? Re. That's like saying I haven't done it yet. Ready? Because here's what happens. You don't invest in the program because it feels uncomfortable. You don't go all in on your business because it feels uncomfortable. You don't take the risk on the girl, the house, the mentor, the new career, the promises that you've made because it didn't feel safe. And now you sit here with this graveyard of regrets, all named yet and almost. Why don't you just call it what it is? You're a liar. You're not scared of failing. You're scared of seeing the truth about who you are without any story. Once you try, like I mean really, you go all in and you just unload, send it down range, you lose the ability to blame anything but yourself. You say you want to be a millionaire, millionaire, multi-millionaire, billionaire version of yourself, the shredded, jacked up, diced, athletic vers, the confident, powerful, successful, disciplined in the most incredible marriage. That version. Okay, awesome. Then why are you still making decisions like the $100,000 a year guy with man boobs and a bunch of self-pity and victimization and procrastination? You don't rise to your goals. You fall to the standards that you have. So, you need to raise your standards because you listen to me for accountability for the most part. You're welcome. Raw, uncensored, and with a right hook. That's what this is. is every single time you avoid betting on yourself, you dig your own grave a little deeper. Not a physical grave, worse psychological one. You dig mental holes all day long. That grave lives. Everything that you could have become. That's what lives in that grave. In that hole is where everything that you could have become, accomplished, all of that, it all lives in there. But did that's what you didn't do. It did. You just dump it in there and stare at it once in a while and then run away because it makes you feel like a bag of [\h__\h] And here's how this plays out. You feel all the tension and all the friction and then you tell yourself, "I'm going to wait until the timing is right. I have a couple more things." And then you hang on to regret. You make yourself or you hang on to a bunch of procrastination. And you make yourself busy doing a bunch of other things and go, "I just didn't get around to it yet." Because it makes you feel like it's valid. You don't act. And the pain of still being stuck just magnifies. That pain is it's compounding interest but the wrong direction. It's on lies and plating and cowardice. And the reason that you're drowning in all of this is because you have trained yourself to wait until you're comfortable psychologically. You have certainty before you squeeze the [\h__\h] trigger. Certainty, just so you know, is a luxury that execution earns. It comes afterwards. The receipts come afterwards because the dude making a million dollars a year didn't wait to become a million dollar guy before acting like one, before conducting himself like one. He did it first and then became it. That's why I say all the time, become a millionaire, not for the money. for who you must become as a person on your that fit, powerful, athletic, shredded, jacked, lean, functionally fit man that you should be. That man already exists. He's doing push-ups and pull-ups, squats, and running, climbing, jumping, stacking muscle, and stripping fat while you're doing mental gymnastics to convince yourself and validate and plate yourself for where you are. You don't need to believe more. I'm tired of hearing this stuff. I just got to believe and it'll all happen. You cannot burn your way into success. God bless the book, but that's not how this works. You don't need to believe more. You need to conduct yourself. You don't have a belief problem. You have a behavioral because you're still making decisions like the broke, empty, honestly uneducated, insecure, obese version of you. And here's the punchline about all this. If you keep making the same choices, you keep getting the same damn result. We know the definition of insanity. Doing the same thing over and over and over again and getting pissed off why you don't get a different result. Stop waiting for permission to level up. Stop waiting to feel safe and one more thing and get there always going to be one more thing. There's going to be another door after the door. There's going to be another mountain to climb after the mountain. If you keep waiting, there is just going to be more stuff until you die. Stop waiting for comfort to crown you as the king. Pick a [\h__\h] identity and then just start acting like it. That's all you've got to do because right now you're living like this soft insecure I can't make a decision without dwelling on it for weeks. That beta version of yourself like your own life. Nobody respects that. Not even you. And most people that do that like dude if you are lying to somebody and kicking them down the line by saying like if you are leading somebody on which I've seen dude you're a you're a bad person and most of you guys do that to yourself. You would never want to be led on. You get put in the friend zone but you want to date that girl. You want to marry that girl. You want to have the craziest life with that woman. and they friend-zone you, but they don't quite have the heart to tell you because they know it's going to devastate you and they like the attention. So, they just keep stringing you along. A year in, a year and a half, you've watched relationships go by you. People that wanted to just spend all kinds of time that you actually went, "Wow, I really I I really like that girl, but I'm waiting for this one." And they just keep stringing you along. The business, the loan, the partner that said they were going to help you. It doesn't matter. Whatever it is, and they just keep stringing you along. First of all, [\h__\h] them. And second of all, you're letting them do that, but they're chewing into your future and you're giving it to them. After today, you have one less day on this planet. If that doesn't terrify you and make you have motivation, I don't know what to tell you. You've already lost then. Because it comes down to one decision. Are you going to bet on yourself? not talk about it, not journal it, not sit there and pray about it, not you know have a conversation with Chat GPT or your magic eightball about it, not vision board it. Bet. Bet. Put all the money down, all the hours. Make the call. Fire the damn excuses and bet on yourself. None of this heroic you want to see me, bet against me. None of that [\h__\h] I mean, bet on you. Who cares what somebody else? But I mean, go all in on you. What's the worst thing that happens if you lose everything right now? And if you go, "Well, that's a terrible piece of advice." It's actually the best advice I can give you because if you go in on yourself, everything. All that. You just go all in on yourself. You bet it all. You bet the house on you getting to where you want to go and you lose, you wind up right back here. Well, you're already here, so you know how to accomplish this life. You can't lose what you never had. But if you make that call and you bet the house on you, I promise if you do, you're going to win. It is inevitable because you cannot stop somebody that just keeps going and going going, "I know I'm going to win." You might not have any idea. Stop waiting for certainty. Just execute. Figure out some of the steps you need and then just start going and the rest of the steps will show up. But I promise you, if you keep waiting for someone to come and help you, someone to make good on their promises until you feel ready, until it feels safer, until you move, climb, whatever it is, you are going to be 65 years old, broke, angry, bitter, inflamed, divorced, and still talking about your potential. I'll listen, I'll give you the split test that changes everything. It's easy. This is for you. I live this way. When you are faced with adversity, when something challenges the hell out of you, lean in. When it gets uncomfortable. And here's how you know it's uncomfortable because you want to run out of the fire. Not I can hang out in this discomfort. Then it's not discomfort. You've been there before. I'm talking discomfort where you go, I got to get out of here. When it shows up, make more [\h__\h] noise. Push harder. Dig deeper. When you have all the fear and all the doubt running through your mind, you just put a big grin on your face. [\h__\h] move anyway. Because most people look for ways to avoid risk. Anybody that wants to be a high performer conducts themsel like one and they look for ways to control it. And you have to start with yourself. If you can't control yourself and your own emotions, you cannot control your environment. Because that means you are reactive. You aren't taking actions to cause the reactions that you want. What reaction do you want? Do you want the reaction to be I make a million dollars a year in profit? What actions do you have to take to get that? Do you want the reaction to be I run uh sub 25K. I have an incredible marriage. I have sex five times a week. I have these great kids. I have a business that went global and makes hundreds of billions of dollars a year. Whatever it is, what are the actions required to get that reaction? And right now you guys are reacting and then taking actions. You get how [\h__\h] up that is, right? You don't run from discomfort and fear and doubt. Weaponize it. You don't talk about your goals. I hear this all the time. That's what this means. It means you don't talk about your damn goals. You schedule actions and executions and then just do them. And the goals just show up. I've said it before, the goals, that target that you want to hit. That's the last thing on your list. It is all the things that you do on your way there. And who you become on your way there because now you can repeat it because you know how. The first time you walked, you ate it. You just smoked yourself into everything in the room. You fell down, you cried, you banged your knee, hit your face, maybe knocked out a tooth, I don't know. Whatever it was. But everybody listening to this, if you're in your car, can stop the car, turn the ignition off, put it in park, turn the ignition off. I have to say all this before somebody's like, "You said get up and walk around. You can do circles around your car because you know how to do it now because you were afraid. You had doubt." And you know, actually, let me back up. Children are born fearless and unstoppable and disciplined in the right direction. Adults in their life screw all that. Yeah, let that land. But you don't talk about your goals. Just schedule it and do it. Don't ask for shortcuts and hacks and cheats and what's this one sheet code that I can do to get there. Double, triple, quadruple the reps. 10x the reps until it goes back to neuroplasticity. Just keep running the reps because that is all your brain understands. So if your brain understands that right now, how many of you guys could run up a flight of stairs? Everybody for the most part outside of a a physical issue. How many of you guys could pick up a pencil and write your name, somebody else's name? Almost everybody. What about use your cell phone to a reasonable degree to make a call or send a message? Everybody, how about taking this and unscrewing the top? If you're listening to this, I'm holding a water bottle. Unscrew the top and take a drink. Everybody knows how to do this. That's because you put in the reps, but you don't even think about that. What about telling time? There was a time you looked at a watch and went, I don't even know what that means. Double the reps, triple the reps. It's because you are training those neurological trenches in your mind to do the things that you want to do. And right now you are training them to procrastinate and run away acting like a [\h__\h] Because the version of you, the one that you want that's fit, wealthy, and magnetic and powerful and respected and all the stuff that has everything you want and the life you want that you keep trying to validate away from because heaven forbid it calls you out on your lack of responsibility, your lack of accountability. That version of you that has all that stuff, that version doesn't stop. That version doesn't run. That version doesn't hide. He does the uncomfortable [\h__\h] things before he feels ready. Doesn't ask if it's perfect or when am I going to get my guarantee or can you sign a note? Can you give me a promisary? He makes the moment perfect by what he does with it. There's no way that dude runs from objections. Most of the objections are in your own head. If you aren't doing it or it didn't happen for you, it's your fault. You objected. The person that's winning doesn't run from objections. They obliterate these because they just run through them with fact after fact going I got a stack of receipts behind me that prove otherwise uncertainty doesn't scare you when you're like this still happens you just don't run you get that right like it doesn't you have to be okay I'm just comfortable with being afraid that's how I look at this people oh I'm never afraid then you're an idiot and you're a liar I never miss because I don't procrastinate like a coward am I afraid plenty of times. I'm just comfortable with being afraid, but I don't get shaken and rocked all over the place by things when they're not guaranteed or certain. I bring the calm. I control the situation by my actions because I want that reaction. And here's the craziest part. Some of you guys just don't like that man. That woman is already in you. You can argue, "Oh, I've never been like that." Are you walking? Yeah. Okay, then it's already in you. Can you ride a bike? Riding a bike works on the same principle as electroshock therapy. Yeah. You wipe out, it [\h__\h] hurts. So, you don't want to get on the bike anymore. You don't want to do it. Still did it. Person inside you that's winning, that's stacking all the wins, that just does it. Not fearless, committed. The one that never misses that that guy can't come out, man, till you stop dragging that tired old, busted ass, broken version of you into every new opportunity. You've got to kill the current you before the future you can be more. They got to die. And the one that's got to commit it is you. That's the game. That's it. That's how this works. Because listen, I'll leave you with this because I want it's Sunday. I want to go inside, hang out with I'm very transparent. I want to go hang out with my sexy ass wife and my great kids and we're going to watch church. Josh Hton, he's a kick-ass preacher. I love this guy. We go through every We have dinner together. We hang out, play games. I think they're actually inside playing Mario. But I'll leave you with this. If you're not going to take the bet on yourself, who the [\h__\h] are you waiting on? Who are you going to bet on? Listen, follow me on that. Like, even just saying this, it's mind-blowing to me. If you're not going to bet on yourself and you're going to go, I'm going all in on me. Who are you waiting on? Who are you going to bet on? Nobody wants your future to be successful. Nobody has more of a vested interest in your success and your prosperity and your respect and all of the things that you want. Nobody has a bigger interest. Nobody has a more vested interest in that than you. So, who's coming to save you then? If you won't bet on yourself, who's coming? Who? your friends, your uncle, your mommy and daddy, your boss, they're busy. Like all those people that are making promises that are never coming through, those people are busy playing the game of wait and see. Not yet. Your family, man, they'd love to help, but they're terrified you're going to outgrow them, so they're not going to do it. You think your boss is going to come running to save you with a raise that he's promising you? He needs you average. Here's why. He needs you to be average, so he doesn't have to fire you when you become [\h__\h] amazing. because they'll have to pay you more and you might take his position. You, it's always been you. The bet has always been you. No matter how many times and how many ways you look at this and how many different angles that you spin this, it has always been you. And the moment that you realize this, you will stop entertaining objections from a lesser version of yourself. If you'll stop quitting at the 80% mark and calling it effort, except I gave it all I had. No, you didn't. You'll stop blaming your stupid circumstances and situations and whether something happened in the last year and that's why you couldn't succeed and you'll start being much more resourceful and just doing nothing but hunting solutions. And then when somebody says what are you waiting for? You can say I'm not [\h__\h] I already started because I you have you have so much you have so much going for you and somebody has convinced you otherwise because from right now from this moment forward right now you just you bet the whole house on you everything you've got instead of going well I have these responsibilities and I have all these things yes you do and they are waiting for you to bet the [\h__\h] house on you and then when you play you play to win that's it. I got to go. Never miss.