Honestly, I wasn't even going to do this podcast, this one. You have to understand, I've been at this since January 1st, every day. And I have probably about two dozen podcasts that have never been loaded. I've never put them out. And they're all on cures. They're answers to the problems. And you know what? I'm starting to see and I've noticed a an alarming trend. And it's some of you actually. You guys just can't stand when your egos get bruised because the dogma that you've been taught is wrong. You come running out and you make clips of my videos and you snip out pieces for your attention because you're not getting it cuz you're a toddler. And what you're saying is now being challenged by your own audience because they're listening to me and going, "This guy makes sense. This guy's logical. This guy actually follows physiology. This guy's a doctor. This guy actually cares. He's not trying to inundate us with marketing. Where have I marketed to you guys? I'm going to talk about cancer. You know what I'm going to do? I'll tell you this. I'll make it really easy. Pardon my language. I'm going to [\h__\h] cure cancer on this podcast right now. This one. And I'm sure something's going to flag and some sensor is going to lose their mind. And I don't really care. I'll tell you what the cause is. I'll tell you what you need to do. And I'll tell you what needs to happen. And if you need to email me, then feel free and get all mad and take snippets of this and go, "That doesn't really make any sense." and my aunt had cancer and my grandma had cancer and I don't really care because I'm coming out here to give. So if you're taking like this really gs me, man. Like some of you guys just first of all you steal my stuff and you post it all over Instagram and use it as your own which is embarrassing. And second of all, you steal my you never give me credit for it. But this is all me. I don't see you guys doing any of the work. Yeah, it irritates me. It's disgusting the way human nature has changed because I'm the one working 16-hour days while you sit on your butt with your affiliate codes and your bro science research and your wannabe. I worked in a gym. I'm smart cuz I know how to do a curl and I took my NASM or CSCS or whatever it is that you did that makes you think that you're qualified. Except I've actually seen patients. And what's wild is when you attack me, it says everything about you. But I'm never attacking anybody. I am telling the truth. Listen, the medical world is corrupt. Big pharma is bigger than the cartel. It is killing people for profit. It is managed decline. The drugs 99% of the time don't work. I know more about I have forgotten more about peptides than 99% of the instab bros out there that can't stand that I am undermining all their lies that they've been telling their audience. Yet, at the same time, I'm not sitting here hammering you guys with marketing. I'm just telling you the truth. Go ahead. I always say it. Buy the black card. It's 10 grand. You get me for the year. It's worth every penny, I would say. And I think it's worth a hundred grand to be honest. And you get my live call every Monday where you can ask me anything you want. You get my whole archive and all the protocols and everything you got. But I only take wires. If you're going to pay a credit card and you're going to complain, you're going to whine, you're going to send me a bunch of things going, "Can I do this? Can I do that? Can you donate it to me? Can I have this really big problem? Can you give it to me for free?" No. And I have no regrets saying that because you know what my wife said to me? We go for a walk almost every night. A one mile walk, right? Doesn't matter. Snowing, raining, cold, hot, doesn't matter. We just go for a walk. I love being with my wife. You know what she said? Nobody sees all the work that you put in, babe. She said, "Nobody sees it. The years, the decades that you've put your nose to the grindstone for everybody else except yourself. Nobody sees that. Nobody sees the hours I spend all day every day building this stuff making sure that you have the right information just to have some ass clown come out and go what he's saying isn't correct. I looked on chat GPT and it says you're listen go ahead then don't listen to me. But to think that you like you have the audacity to spend 10 minutes a day posting and griping about somebody exposing you for doing stupid things, giving bad advice and harming your people, thinking that some peptide is the answer for your client when you don't even understand the physiology or that you read the physiology coloring book and now you think you're an expert, but you've never seen a patient over 1 million. All provable, too. That's what's even more hilarious. I don't know. Mankind is Jesus is a wild dude, man. Because the perfect person, right? He's got the patience. Cuz I some days just want to Thanos the planet. Just have you all gone because it's just entitled. I had somebody send me an email angry because I wouldn't answer my email because they kept peppering me for how to do a leaky gut protocol. I'll help you. I post all my stuff for free. If it's anything beyond the capacity of what I post for free, pay me cuz I'm worth it. Or don't. But then don't complain when I don't. I you send anything to apply at unlocktheblackcard.com that isn't a wire transfer. It will be ignored. My CFO and my executive assistant both are like they are told to ignore it. So you can it's just going to be deleted. I'm not here to help you. You decide what you do with it. So if it is triggering you, if it's making you upset, don't listen. It's not that complicated. Let's get one thing straight right now. You're not out here to help if you're taking stuff from me and either using it for your own gain and not giving me credit for all the work that I put in or using it to try and discount what I say to directly inflate what you say because you don't like that I put eyes on you going what you're saying is wrong. Again, it's because I've forgotten more about human biology and physiology and most people will ever learn. And people go, "That's really cocky." Absolutely. I got the receipts to back it up. Listen, with cancer, here's the deal. You guys are taught that it's this mysterious enemy that is outside in. What a be it's a comfortable lie because it absolves us of responsibility, right? It makes us victims of bad luck or genetics. Neither which are true by the way. That is pure [\h__\h] Pure [\h__\h] Cancer isn't something that happens to you. It's not. Cancer is something that your body resorts to when its fundamental operating systems have been pushed past the breaking point. This isn't philosophical speculation, you guys. They Oh, drives me insane. This is cellular biology. It's the cold truth of human physiology that has been ignored for at least half a century in favor of more profitable, more destructive lies that cost you and people you love and you guys keep running fundraisers for it and throwing the money into cancer research. They're never going to research a cure. They're never going to. And if this is something you're like, "That's [\h__\h] I hate that. I did like the lymphoma leukemia society can kiss my ass because they just raised and I would have I didn't know that back then now just a bunch of liars right all the people that do that hope for a cure liars all these people are for profit listen you just for cancer you are right now at this very moment listening to this podcast right now right this second you are a cancer fighting machine every second day every minute every moment precancerous and malignant cells just arise in your body and every second of every day this elite very sophisticated internal security force just comes in and hunts them all down and executes them right there on the spot. It's not a metaphor. This is the literal function of your innate immune system. Specifically, NK natural killer cells and cytotoxic tea cells kill what doesn't belong. Self or other. That's it. They're running surveillance 24/7 365 discovered in the 1970s. Natural killer cells are your frontline defense for cancer for everything. They're like a spec ops team of your anatomy. They're constantly running like patrolling everything using activating and inhibitory receptors to perform what immunogists and immunologists call missing self and induced self. That's it. It's a recognition system. Missing self and induced self recognition. That's it. They check the ID of every single damn cell. How about that? They just look to go. Do you have a hall pass? Awesome. Do you not? You're out. It's that easy. Healthy cells display a very specific protein signal. MH class one that acts as a self badge. stressed, infected, cancerous, diseased, whatever it is, they either lose this badge or they display something called stress lians and they act as a big giant signaling flare that says, "Kill me." That's all they say. There's nothing fancy. And the natural killer cells, they bind, release perfor membrane and then they inject grandzymes that trigger programmed cell death, which is called apoptosis. This system is so effective that without it life as we know it is not possible given to you by God. I didn't think of any of this. I didn't come up with any of this. I am not the inventor or discoverer of this. This is all God, baby. This is all God. You are built to not have disease. You have an immune system for a reason. Except here's the problem. And this is where the world's screwing us up. The system has a very critical vulnerability. It's metabolically very expensive. Immune surveillance, it's my radar dish on my head, is not a passive process. It requires vast amounts of adenazine triphosphate and it requires very precise hormonal and inflammatory signaling to function correctly. This is the [\h__\h] in our own armor. This is the weak point. This is where the three biological failures begin their very insidious work, killing you. If you just hear me out for whatever I'm on here for, 30, 40, 50 minutes, you will, I promise you, by the end of this podcast, you will know more about cancer, what causes it, how to stop it, how to prevent it, how to make you an a completely inhospitable environment, ecosystem for anything pathological whatsoever. Not just cancer. I'm talking influenza, whatever disease that comes along, any pathology that shows up, fungus, it doesn't make a difference. If you just listen, give me an hour, you will know more than 99% of the medical experts, research experts, you'll know 100% more than every Insta bro out there with their gym membership claiming right now to be a peptide expert. For freak's sake, man, it bugs me. Yeah, today I'm lit. Listen, look it, I'm going to go over them because you need to understand the systemic failures, the biological failures that I came up with because they are responsible for the immune problem 100%. I'll prove it every time. Failure number one, systemic inflammation. We have been taught to think that inflammation is swelling in the wrist or the ankle after some injury. That is called acute inflammation and it's a required healing response. Systemic inflammation is different. It's this lowgradewide fire primarily driven by our modern diet and our crappy lifestyle. It's characterized by chronically elevated levels of inflammatory cytoines like TNF alpha, tumor necrosis vector alpha. That's what it's called. Interlucan 6, IL6, CRP, C-reactive protein. So you guys understand what people are saying when they throw acronyms at you and try and sound smart. This inflammatory soup is so catastrophic for the immune system that 2013 cancer cell the study there's in cancer cell demonstrated that chronic inflammation directly impairs the cytotoxicity or the cytotoxic activity of natural killer cells NK cells. The ones that are doing what? running surveillance making sure that they're self or other. Do you have the badge? Don't you have the badge? Should you die? Should you live? That's it. Am I punching holes in you or not? Am I filling you full of grandzymes or not? That's this is how simple the system is designed to make and it works against every pathology. Every pathology. So listen, since inflammation impairs cytotoxic activity of the NK cells, the NFCappa B pathway, which is the master regulator for inflammation, follow me. when it's turned on, when it's chronically activated, right? Systemwide fire actually suppresses the expression of the perforin and the grandzy genes and NK cells means it can't do its job. It can't find it. It can't punch holes and it can't inject anything. It literally takes the people that are going around the little cells, the little warrior cells inside you and disarms them. Says you can't you can't do it. What do you think's going to happen to the cells then? Cell or other your body's getting rid of cancer all the time. It can't do it if you can't do that. Go even further. This inflammatory environment damages your DNA of and it specifically of rapidly dividing cells and tissues. So it damages not the cell the DNA of the cell increases the mutation rate. It creates much more potential cancer cells for your now handcuffed immune system because it can't do its job. So watch your immune system has a reduction in numbers because of the inflammation. the DNA gets damaged. So, you create more damaged tissues, more mutated cells to overwhelm the immune system. It can't keep up because the immune system has doesn't have the numbers to do it. It's like a double hit. You create more en enemies while you disable your own frigin army. And that's just failure one. Yeah, this stuff gets to me, man. I'm right about this. I am 100% right% right all the time. All the time with this stuff. Look at insulin resistance. When you constantly every day like a freaking metronome, you just keep doing it. This high glycemic diet, this disastrous garbage that you guys put in your body going, "This influencer said this protein's the best. I'm going to squeeze this tube into my mouth and it's going to be healthy." Why? Because that guy said it was great. Are you out of your mind? Your cells are bombarded with glucose. So, protect themselves. They downregulate. Turn them off. insulin receptors. Welcome to insulin resistance. insulin resistance. Yes, I'm irritated. Your pancreas just starts pumping out more and more insulin to force glucose into cells leading to hyperinsulinemia. Chronically high insulin levels. And here's the cancer connection. Cancer cells are little they're little glucose junkies. 10 to 20 times more insulin receptors. That's what they have. Specifically, by the way, IGF-1 receptors all over their surface, right? Just covered in this stuff. It's like a acne. Look at the Warberg effect. I explained this the other day for which, just so we're clear, I'm not going to take credit cuz I didn't come up with this. daughter Warberg won the 1931 Nobel Prize for this described how cancer cells primarily use glycolysis for energy. Glycolysis is insanely inefficient and they do it regardless even in oxygen-rich environments. This is so inefficient. So they need this constant massive supply of what? Glucose. High blood glucose, high insulin are like a personalized. It's like a plate at a buffet that just never runs out of food. It's like a delivery service for the nent tumor. 2020 review in nature reviews cancer outlined that hyperinsulinemia directly activates the P13K AKT mTor pathway right it's this big cascade which is a central driver of cell proliferation and notorious oncogenic pathway so insulin isn't just feeding the cancer it's actively giving it the here you go grow and divide orders go figure but it doesn't have anything to do with this right today I'm in a mood I'll tell you that how about this though listen The damage doesn't stop here. It doesn't stop here at all. insulin resistance cripples your immune function. T- cells, NK, natural killer cells, which I talked about right at the beginning, are also metabolically active and demand require. It's a necessity. insulin signaling for their glucose uptake and their aector function. So when insulin resistance sets in, these little immune cells become starved for fuel in this sea of abundance. They can't access the glucose they need to power their cytotoxic activities. They can't do their job. So your immune cells are literally starving to death while cancer cells go, "Man, keep giving me fuel, baby." That's only two failures in one more ATP problem. And you guys think taking MC C is the answer. There's so much more than just that. This dick ticks me off, man. Cuz it is a billion trillion dollar industry that this is killing people, man. And you guys just spoon feed your own stupid logic going, "This guy doesn't know what he's talking about. Why? Cuz you don't like me? Because your face? Screw you. Don't listen. Then I'm giving you the answer." And you go, I don't like the delivery, though. You're using hurty words. Like, you Insta bros need to shut up and think about the ultimate reason why you're even here on this planet. You think it's to what? Scoop up as many hearts and likes on social media. You think that it's supposed to be you're supposed to be what? Popular on social media. That you need to have the biggest YouTube channel, the biggest Instagram, I have all these Tik Tok subscribers. What is wrong with you? What is wrong with you? You guys go out and you criticize people giving information to help mankind because it it taps your ego because you're a little [\h__\h] Yes, it aggravates me. Grow up. Look at failure three. ATP shortage. This is the core failure. The fundament this is the fundamental energy crisis of your entire system. M isn't going to fix it. You need so much more than that. Your you have to even know why it's happening. Your mitochondria are the power plants. There's my 3M island cooling tower for a nuclear power plant, right? So, they're the power plants of your cells. They produce 90% of your body's energy currency, which is ATP, through something called oxidative phosphorilation, which is significantly more efficient than glycolysis. This occurs across the inner mitochondrial membrane through a bunch of protein complexes called the ETC, the electron transport chain. Modern life is this mitochondrial insult. Period. Processed foods just soaked in industrial seed oils, soybean, canola. I don't care what these people went. They're really not that bad. Shut up. Yeah, they are. You bet they are. They generate oxidative stress that damages the ETC is delicate. Environmental toxins, chronic stress, poor sleep, the cortisol levels, the fact that you guys freak out when you like I got cancelled yesterday on social media briefly and I didn't lose my mind. You guys would lose your [\h__\h] you have 700 followers and you'd go nuts if you couldn't get on Instagram. I have 1.5 million people and I went, I guess I got to find a different way to help these people and give me information. That's why I have Rumble. All of you guys should be looking at me on Rumble. You want this information? It's never going to go down. I do this cuz I care, man. But you guys get stressed out about the most garbage things. But all of these things contribute to mitochondrial dysfunction. So when the ETC is compromised, ATP production nose dives. The cell enters this state of energy deprivation. This creates a very powerful evolutionary pressure. Cells that can survive and replicate without relying on functional mitochondria are the ones that are going to be selected for cuz your body is a survival machine. We are actually very difficult to kill. Any doubt? Go to Las Vegas at about 2:30 in the morning on an elevator up to one of the cheaper hotels or something like get go to Treasure Island and ride the elevator up to not the nice area, the one that only goes part way. And look at all the train wrecks in the elevator that are about 250 with a cookie this big and a drink that's half the height of them and a cigar and it's a woman maybe. Who knows nowadays? You guys are so screwed. So here's the problem. If they're being selected for, it's only one cell that can do that. Cancer cells. They're switched to glycolysis while inefficient per unit of glucose, right? Still allows them to generate ATP rapidly in the cytoplasm. So it bypasses the broken mitochondrial machinery. This is the problem. 2015 cell metabolism. The study, it's actually a paper, not a study, showed that mitochondrial dysfunction is not a consequence of cancer, but a prerequisite. The ATP shortage literally forces the damn body to select for cancerous cells. Listen, this energy disaster, this crisis destroys the immune system. It's just as devastating, right? Natural killer cell activation, migration, cytotoxic killing, all ATP in intensive processes. There's a study in immunity shows that te- cells with impaired mitochondrial function can't differentiate into effective memory or aector cells. So they become functionally they're paralyzed. So the ATP shortage not only creates the selective pressure right to become a glycolytic cell but also disables the very system designed to eliminate it. Listen these three failures they're not isolated. They're not they are a mutually reinforcing cascade of collapse you guys. Systemic inflammation promotes insulin resistance. insulin resistance leads to mitochondrial damage and ATP shortage. ATP shortage exacerbates inflammation. It's this vicious, what do I call it? A self-licking ice cream of failure. It's a self-perpetuating cycle that step by step dismantles your defenses and rolls out the red carpet for cancer. But they're treating cancer as something that comes from the outside. Now you've got an understanding now. You know more than 99% of the medical doctors out there about cancer. I don't care who you are. Yeah, you do. So own that. Own it. You can take this, take notes on it, make a little Q card. I don't know what you want to do, but I am. And now you know more. If you don't want to take that and own that's a problem between you and God. So now with all this understanding, this knowledge bobbing around inside your head. Look at the current standard of care. It's a breathtaking monument to I want to say misplaced aggression, but that's not it. To stupidity and ignorance, the war on cancer. This has been fought with all the strategic nuance of a jackhammer. Nothing. We declare war on a tumor, but in doing so, we bomb the whole country. the country is the patient's body. If you haven't figured that out, chemotherapy, which is the cornerstone of this entire war, is a class of cytotoxic poisons. Listen to me. Chemo is a disaster designed to kill rapidly dividing cells. It's notoriously non-specific no matter what they say. Liars. It can't distinguish between a cancer cell and a rapidly dividing immune cell, a gut epithelial cell, a hair follicle. I realize I'm bald, but hair follicle. The result is a systematic annihilation of the patient's already compromised immune system. You're being conned. Like for crying out loud, this is probably going to get pulled because it's the truth. You're being conned. You're watching a magic show. It's Sig Freed and Roy where the magician is pointing at something flashy over here distracting you while the real trick happens in plain sight. Here the Just so you know, I get where I'm going with my metaphor. You're like, "What the hell is he talking about?" The flashy distraction is the doomer. The slight of hand is the 250 billion with a B a year industry that has no interest in the truth because the truth ain't profitable, baby. So, you're welcome. I just gave you the biological playbook the to solve all your problems with this and I got no money out of this. How much did you guys pay me? Nothing. This video should go viral. It should have a 100 million views. Guess what? It won't. Cuz either I'm not a pair of tits on a trampoline. I'm not doing something controversial against politics. I'm just telling the truth. People don't want the truth because it's been demonized. Except I just solved cancer. You're welcome. Three failures. Three biological failures. immune collapse is the product of those three failures. Let's just talk about the grift that's going on. How about this? I may as well touch on it cuz I'm that annoyed. Talk about the five. I'll just go five cuz I could do this all day. Five most poisonous, most lucrative con jobs I think I've ever seen soulless medicine. I'm 52. I've been a doc for a long time. I've seen a lot of weird things. This takes the cake. The frontline chemotherapies. This is the bread and butter of oncology and they are a masterclass in making the root cause infinitely worse. Look at to doxy rubicon. It's the red devil, right? They call it that because guess what? It turns your piss red. Turns your urine red. And it's devilishly toxic. My god, it's so toxic. I can't believe people allow this to be put. I am one of them. I got nothing to stand on if I I could never chastise you for doing it, but I can try and tell you not to. The mechanism, let's explain it. It's a topo isomerase 2 inhibitor. It's a big fancy term. Simple term means it's a grenade. Literally, I'm not kidding. It's a grenade. It blows up your DNA. But listen, the real party trick is iron mediated free [snorts] radical generation. Just remember what I just said. It literally creates this hurricane of oxidative stress that just shreds the What do you think? What do you think it's going to shred? Just take a guess if you're listening. Yell it in your car. Everybody look at you weird. Who cares? The inner mitochondrial membrane. Oh my god. Maybe SS31. Just saying. It systematically destroys the electron transport chain. Remember failure three, by the way? The ATP shortage, doxy rubeson manufactures it. It nukes the power plants. Listen, the resulting energy crash is so severe that it a lot frequently. It's alarmingly frequent causes life-ending heart failure. Permanent life-ending heart failure. It's a condition known as cardiomyopathy, by the way, if you need to know what it's called. We treat the disease. Watch this. Is so dumb. We treat the disease of energy failure with a drug that induces total energy bankruptcy. And the cost for all this awesome sabotage. You ready for this? Hope you're sitting down. 15 grand a dose at least. At least. Oh, but my insurance pays for it. You're buying your own death. Look at cis platinum. This one is a platinum based heavyweight. It works by doing something called cross-linking your DNA. It gums up the work so cells can't replicate. That's the logic behind it, right? But platinum is also a potent mitochondrial poison. Just so you know. Really? Platinum based? I'm not kidding. You think I was kidding? I'm not. It directly inhibits key enzymes in the KB cycle, the TCA cycle, right? which is the whole electron transport chain generate ATP NADH2 that whole thing right induces this is the best part disastrous catastrophic ATP depletion massive oxidative damage but the real money maker for the industry is the side effect profile watch this excuse me red line I can't even get it out 100% cumulative renal damage kidney damage ephrotoxicity they have to hospitalize you for aggressive IV hydration just to save your kidneys from the drug that they're giving you. You don't die from the cancer, man. You die from the acute renal failure caused by the treatment. Hey, you wonder how much this one costs? Let's have some fun. Two grand per dose and you'll need dozens with a D. Look at Taxol. Pletaxel is what it is. Derived from it comes from a UT tree. Designed to stabilize microtubules, right? It freezes the cell's skeleton so it can't divide. Guess what else has a whole bunch of microtubules? Just take a shot. Take a shot. It's a thing that's operating right now. Nervous system, specifically your nerve cells. So, you know what you get and you'll hear the complaints. Just look, just Google it. Don't even take my word for it. Peripheral neuropathy. See it all the time. Burning, numbness, the pain in your hands and your feet. And usually permanent it gets worse. There's a massive metabolic insult induces massive severe insulin resistance and muscle and fat tissues. What do you think it exacerbates then? Failure 2. Go see, are you following this? If it exacerbates failure 2, the insulin resistance, that's going to ensure that any cancer cell that survives the initial assault that it gives has a sugar-rich environment. Waiting for it. It's like trying to put out a grease fire by throwing bacon at it. It's about 10 15 grand per infusion. You guys keep paying your insurance premiums. You bet. Go ahead. 5 FU 5 chloro uricil is what it is. It's an anti metabolite. This thing is this is a comes in and it just pretends like it's a building block for DNA and RNA, right? It tricks the cells into actually bringing in a poison into its very structure. Except the cells that divide the fastest aren't just cancer cells. They're the lining of your entire digestive tract. Oops. The florura cell induces mucositis so severe it makes Crohn's and ulcerative colitis look like they can't eat. Suffer catastrophic diarrhea. So what do you get with catastrophic diarrhea? If you understand anything about human physiology or gastroenterology, you get malnutrition and dehydration 100% of the time. This is gut damage that causes this systemic endotoxmia. It leaks lipopolyaccharides, right? Bacteria, bacterial fragments into the bloodstream from your sewage treatment plant, which triggers this giant blizzard of systemic inflammation, massively worsening which failure? One failure one, the systemic inflammation problem. So, it destroys the barrier that keeps toxins out and ensures your body stays on fire. And the price, it's cheap. It's a few hundred bucks per dose, but you're going to need a continuous drip for days and days or weeks and weeks. You want to do a few more? Let's do more. How about cyclophosphomide? This one's a real piece of work, by the way. This is such a [\h__\h] show. This is an alkalating agent that adds a nasty little alkal group to DNA. So, it causes in your DNA. If you add an alkal group, it's going to cause just glitches and breaks. But the metabolite, it's a urinary tract toxin that causes something called hemorrhagic cyitis. You I could look for a fancy explanation. I'm not going to. up blood and its most damning flaw, it's powerfully immunosuppressive. Selectively depletes regulatory tea cells and wipes out a huge swath of your functional immune responders. So watch the resulting imunosuppression lasts for years. So it leaves you, if you're the patient and you've taken this, leaves you a sitting duck for the very cancer recurrences the treatment is supposed to prevent because your immune system can't work. You think your immune system for is for the cold and the flu. Your immune system, the ENK cells are for everything. I explained it at the beginning. That's why I need you to understand this. And you need to understand all the physiology before you go, I'm going to do that. Listen, this stuff, man. Cycloposphomide, it willfully, directly, and knowingly. This is what they're using it for. To destroy the only system that you've got that's capable of providing long-term, durable protection. Couple of grand a dose. What's your life worth? These aren't wonder drugs. They're weapons of mass cellular destruction with profit margins that would make a cartel. They would blush. they'd lose their mind. They'd be like, "Holy [\h__\h] we need to sell more of this." That's why I call Big Pharma the legal cartel. You bet your ass I'm right. You need to take this and distribute this podcast to everybody. I'm just telling you that right now. The in the entire model, you guys, is designed for recurrence, for dependency. It's for the next line of therapy. It's this revolving door of toxicity. And the only way out is bankruptcy or death. And I see it all the time. Some of you guys know I got a message from one of the my dear members just love her and she said they had to mortgage their house to pay for chemo. And do you think that these guys do you think that these guys actually care about her or her friend or the people that had to do that? They're bleeding all their money away for a drug for a treatment that's not going to work. Do you think they care? They don't care. I don't care if you're a multi-millionaire or you make 30 grand a year. Bleeding you dry for something that's not going to work is disgusting. I just look at this stuff, man. The censorship. Look at the censorship around all this. It's not theory. It's a business plan. Watch. Try posting a video about research. Watch on fenbendazol. Just try. It's a $20 antiparasitic drug that actually is remarkably effective in disrupting cancer metabolism. Put it on YouTube. Knock yourself out. I'm on YouTube. I just said it. Who knows what's going to happen in this video now. It gets flagged and removed for medical misinformation or just general misinformation. The same platform, you ready for this, you dicks? That runs ads for chemotherapy drugs with side effects, including death. Oh, I've got ton of these because I've been through this for over a year now. Try citing the Japanese study showing the potent anti-cancer effects of nicotine in certain. Just watch that. Nicotine is a is so many great studies about nicotine. You'll be drowned out in a in a chorus of all of you Insta people for the most part. But smoking, it kills. It's addictive. It's a deliberate conflation to protect the narrative. Just to be clear, 2014 study showed nicotine induced apoptosis in small lung carcinoma cells. Try finding it. Took me forever to find it. It's buried. How about Ivormectin? The hysterical response to the COVID use that everybody was using it for, which was a dry run for suppressing its cancer applications. Just so you know. Didn't know that, did you? Absolutely it is. 2020 review pharmacological research detailed the the mechanisms. Ready? Might want to write this down. Inducing mitochondrial dysfunction in cancer cells, activating immunogenic cell death, inhibiting proliferation. The evidence is there. What do you think? That basically says it screws up the cancer cells and turns off their ability to replicate to make more. The evidence is everywhere, but it's a generic off patent molecule. There's no billion-dollar franchise to be built. So, it's labeled horse paste and memory hold. You guys, this is the hypnosis, the social conditioning. We've been trained to fear the solution and beg for the poison. We've been brainwashed to believe that the only that that the most expensive, most toxic, most invasive interventions could possibly work. We distrust simplicity. We're addicted to complexity. Complexity kills everything. But we're addicted to complexity because it makes us feel like the problem is too hard for us to understand. So, we don't take the time to bother, which is why I keep coming out here every day. So we must submit to the high priests of oncology. How about you look at the money? It always comes back to the money. Just so you know, a single course of the CART tea cell therapy, half a million. One year, one year of a novel targeted imunotherapy like Kitruda whatever quarter million stem cell transplant. Listen, go ahead and come back at me with numbers where you go, you go to this place and I go to that place. Have you? You haven't. So shut up. I'm right and I'm giving this to you guys because I care. The total economic burden of cancer care in the US is projected to reach about $250 billion annually. Follow the money. It doesn't lead to a cure. It doesn't. It leads to a sprawling ecosystem of hospitals, oncology centers, pharmaceutical reps, surgical centers, insurance billing codes, and research grants. All predicated on the management of a damn disease that is created by creating an environment that allows the pathology to proliferate. A patient cured by a metabolic protocol is a customer lost for life. Look at this is why the epic study it's a real study which proved metabolic health right normal insulin huh weird normal insulin sensitivity low inflammation functional ATP production has a 65 to 85% lower incidence of all cancers. Look at the Nurse's Health Study. Data from this decadesl long study consistently shows that factors like high glycemic diet, which drives insulin resistance, by the way, obesity. Listen, you're fat. Obesity, it's not a hurty word. You're fat. There's no big beautiful. You're trashing your system because you're too arrogant to go, "Oh, maybe I am. It's a state of chronic inflammation when you're obese. I don't care what you say." Are the strongest predictors of cancer risk. Slashes cancer risk by 65%. Figure it's ignored. Solve those. Slash your risk. Ignored. Why? because it's not patentable. You can't bill insurance company for 10 grand for a prescription, for some good healthy foods, a whole bunch of movement, and getting out of a toxic environment and some weight training. Listen, the system is financially incentivized to let you get sick and then sell you the most expensive, most destructive solution imaginable without completely killing you, but making you require more treatment. How about the Dude, I got to drink some coffee. Hold on. 41 minutes in here and I'm I could just do this all day. That's how irritated I am today. the retractions of papers, silencing of doctors. This isn't a tinfoil hat conspiracy against health. This is AI really I most of you doctors disgust me. It's a protection racket for a business model. It's the old guard defending their castle against the peasants with the torches and the pitchforks who have discovered the truth. You ready for this? I'll blow your mind. I'll blow your mind. The body, the body heals itself when you remove all of the debris and the obstacles to healing. That's it. Paradigm shift is this. I'll give it to you. It's easy. It's easy. I'm getting hot. That's why I took off my hat. Everybody wants this hat. Makes me look weird though, so I should probably keep it on cuz otherwise people It's two different podcasts. You just filmed it in stages. You guys all cry about everything. How about this? You just stop attacking the tumor and you maybe just support the host. How about that? Just support the host. You You're the host if you haven't figured it out. Listen, I let me look remember what I said about SS31. Just take this for a second. Condrial targeted pep peptide, right? collectively accumulates in the inner mitochondrial membrane where it binds to something called cardiolippin which is it's a phosphoipid that's essential for the proper structure and function of the electron transport chain complexes. So by doing what it does which is stabilizing cardipin SS31 100% reduces the ROS reactive oxygen species productions. It improves ATP synthesis prevents mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening which is a key step in apoptosis by the way if you're like what the hell does that mean? Look at research and cell reports. I talked about this one before shows that in aggressive breast cancer models, SS31 treatment restored mitochondrial function in the tumor micro environment. Listen, here's what that means because you're like, okay, and it means it didn't just slow the cancer down. It caused the cancer cells to either rediffiate into normal cells or undergo apoptosis. Figure out what you are or die. That's what it was basically saying. It restored the cell to function or caused it to nuke itself. And just so you know, now the restored metabolic environment made the cancer cell survival strategy completely obsolete. I can't run glycolysis anymore because now I'm running a normal cell. That's it. Look at look at all the look at all this stuff. All look at my three failures of biology and look at cancer. There's a bunch of repurposed compounds. Look at fendazol which as I was talking right anti-homeic. It's what did I say? Disrupts the microtubial polymer polymerization but it also just activates EMPK which is the cellular energy sensor that improves insulin sensitivity improves mitochondrial biogenesis. It attacks the cancer structure while at the same time addressing failures two and three. Go figure. insulin sensitivity and ATP if you're trying to remember what they were. Look at ivormectin. Acts on chloride ion channels in cancer cell membranes. So here's what that means. It disrupts their electrochemical balance. So that causes problems. Can't function. Also induces imogenic cell death. Sends signals to reactivate the human system. That's ivormectin. How about nicotine? Just nic. I'm not saying go smoke. I said that the other day. I'm not saying vape. I'm not saying chew gum. You saw all that stuff. You're just going to get diarrhea and puke anyway. So don't bother. I'm saying nicotine. patches, leaves, soak your feet, soak your hands, put the patch on. Despite its catastrophic reputation, that's stupid black label BS. Nicotine through very precise receptors, nicotenic acetylcholine receptors, causes apoptosis in every cancer type and it's been it's been shown to do this in so many research papers. It's neuroprotective. It's anti-inflammatory. You know what that means? It counters failure number APC 157 accelerates angioenesis in your people go, "Oh, yeah, but that's bad. That's going to feed the tumors. It's going to give them all the blood supply. The blood supply, the vascular supply to tumors is chaotic and uncontrolled. This is very precise and detailed. It doesn't work like that. Never mind the fact that BPC modulates the immune system to reduce systemic inflammation, protects organs from toxic insults. It counters the damage caused by the conventional treatments that people are taking all the time. Yeah, don't worry. I'll talk about MC because I know somebody, what about MOS C? How about MC? You SS31. You say you have to take M C before M before SS. Yes, you do. Absolutely. And I am right. I'm right. I don't care what you dumb insta bros. You jackasses coming online and trying to take my stuff and going bull you have to repair the cardipin the inner mitochondrial membrane before you do mcy if you actually understood physiology and biochemistry that would make no sense whatsoever you guys are painting the car cuz it's rusty as it's driving off the cliff steering wheel first fix the direction then fix the car but hey I can only keep showing you guys the science behind it before you guys go no my ego says I have to argue then argue you're still wrong doesn't matter that's like saying you can argue against gravity all you You're still going to be wrong if you say it doesn't exist. Look at MOS C, right? That's the one that's the mitochondrial that comes from your mitochondria, transllocates to the nucleus, goes into the nucleus, regulates metabolic stress response genes. So this, by the way, Matzi, it makes you so insanely insulin sensitive. I got to tell you this, yesterday I took it. So I I didn't eat till late. I ate a very light breakfast light for me early about quarter after 6:00 and then I didn't eat again until almost 2. And I trained and I had I took M shortly after I trained. Holy crap. Did that literally suck all the glucose out of them. I didn't realize how powerful it was. I took 5 milligrams. I take Monday, Thursday, right? And I took five, which is hypothetically for your kangaroo what you should be taking. This is for my kangaroo, of course, not for me. And my kangaroo took it and oh my god, I noticed it. It just got progressively worse for about an hour. So, it works very effectively to suck the glucose out of your bloodstream and shove it into the muscles. There's a whole bunch more to the story, but we've been on this for almost an hour, so you got things to do and so do I. But it improves insulin sensitivity, glucose metabolism in spades. Which means, guess what? It attacks failure, too. Listen, you guys, I love you. I really do. For all of you guys listening, I really do. I do. I love you very much cuz you're giving me your time. And it's the one thing despite how much we as human beings squander our time. It's the one thing that no bank account is growing with, right? We're losing it all the time. But the common thread is undeniable. These interventions work by restoring metabolic health. They don't attack the tumor. They reduce inflammation. They improve insulin sensitivity. And they repair mitochondrial function. One, two, three. The three failures. They don't kill cancer so much as they restore the intracellular environment where the cancer is no longer a viable survival strategy for a cell. It doesn't want to switch to glycolysis because it's functioning in in the ecosystem where it can proliferate. It could do its job. Yet all this information systematically very successfully suppressed. Social media platforms. I get cancelled all the time. I do. Why? cuz I tell the truth. When I didn't get cancelled, when I was sitting there bitching at people, I you should make better decisions in your life. I realized you're not going to You'll make better decisions when it comes down to a catastrophe for the most part, which is sad. And I'm guilty of it, too. So, I'm not sitting here pointing fingers. I'm just saying that if I can give you advice, hindsight's always 2020, right? It always is. But social media platforms, they censor discussions on Finn Bendazol and Ivormectin for cancer and medical journals are retracting papers right now, left and center, that threaten the oncological establishment. Why? Because the entire economic model of modern oncology is predicated on chronic care. The censorship isn't a conspiracy. It's not. We live in 1984 and you damn well know it. It's a straightforward protection of a trillion dollar market. And a lot of people are you fight for it, man. Like the hypnosis of social conditioning is deafening because you fight to defend it and they've got you so conditioned to go, "Yeah, I'm going to you'll argue against me even though because it goes against what you've been taught to believe." And if you pull that thread, that means everything else you believe is also a lie. And you don't want to do that. So you just go right back and you're like, I have to stay in the good graces of my peer group. F your peer group. Get a new one. This is why I have this is exactly why I have the black card. The black card apply at unlock the card. Do this is why I have it because the group is family. The group is people that want to be healthy and strong and understand what to do and become as just combat all the problems. I give answers faster than any of you doctors ever will. Ever. Yeah. And I'm a doctor, by the way. I just don't run you through 47 different specialists and bill your insurance for a couple of hundred grand if you're like 10 grand. You spend more than that on your insurance. Hell, most of you guys spend more than that on your cell phone in a year. Listen, you can listen this is a big cross roads for a lot of people. You can go down the path. I've said this before of endless management model that everybody has which tells you you're broken and your body is the one that you have to fight against. I've said this before and your only hope is this lifetime of toxic immuned destroying interventions that profit from your sickness and all are preying off of the three biological failures. You can do that or you can sit there and go hey you know what maybe I should look at the three biological failures specifically even the mitochondrial version of it but look at the three biological failures which the model say states my model that says it's a self-healing system of astonishing intelligence that's built by God. It says disease is a signal of a foundational failure of three of them specifically. And it offers not a lifetime of management whatsoever, but a repair of the root damn cause. And here's the best part. It's mechanistic. It's provable. And it renders current cancer cell or cancer care completely obsolete. So you choose. I don't know. The cure for cancer isn't found in some new or more toxic chemotherapy. It's not some new radiation or some new surgical intervention. It just they keep giving the f they slap new names on the same stuff. There's no new cancer. None. All cancers are the same. And if you go, "No, they're not." Yes, they are. All cancers are a product of the same problem. And all cancers are the same. They're just in a different spot. But you guys have become so indoctrinated that you go, "No, pancreatic cancer isn't the same as thyroid cancer." Yes, it is. Yes, it is. It's the same thing. All cancers are the same. But then they go, "We have to treat them differently." Which makes you the product. The answer is found in the restoration of metabolic homeostasis, like just harmony of your system, right? silencing the inflammatory fire and restoring the insulin sensitivity and fixing all the power plants in your system so you actually run the way you're designed. I've said it over and over again. You have the tools. You have the science. You have the answers. Most of you guys don't want to look at it because it's so uncomfortable because it challenges everything you've been taught for 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 70 years. And you're like, "No way. There's no way that that's not it. Why do they have all this?" They you start running questions in your head just so you can stay where you are because it's uncomfortable to change. The question isn't can we cure cancer. It's not. The question is do you do you personally have the chops, the balls to just give the finger to some failed profitable war and just go full throttle, skinny pedal to the floor towards the truth that health comes from inside you. Fix the terrain, turn off the fire, and guess what happens? All the smoke disappears on its own. How do you like them apples? Anyway, I gotta go. Never