Man, I started talking without my microphone on. So, it's been a long day. Hell, we're almost 7:00 right now. Sitting here with my Coke Zero filled with probably nanotech. Apparent, excuse me. Apparently, if you have nanotech in you, people can pick up your Wi-Fi signal because you're broadcasting. I'm pretty open to a lot of crazy science and things that I see. I I really am. Like I think I I think the the listen to me and I want to explain something. By the way, this is going to be a very short podcast about the nonsense of it's just they got to kill the fake science and why oral peptides. This is here I'll make it easy. Bioglutide versus reta truth tide because I had in when I said ask me questions I had at least three dozen questions asking me that exact thing. So I'll just make a podcast on explain it and then you have the information. You decide which one you want to use. You decide which one works and you decide which one is BS and which one is the apex predator because I promise you it's red or truth tide is that it is all apex baby. But to go back to science real quick. I mean understand when people go I follow the science. I don't follow philosophy. Religion God. Let's just use God. That's a very good one because I believe in God 100%. But the Bible's been undefeated since its inception, since it started being written. The purpose of science is to disprove the science that came before it. I just want you guys to think about that. I'm not getting into a big theological discussion. I'm just saying I want you to understand the the premise of science is to prove something that disproves something. So if you look at it, science is constantly evolving and it's accepted everywhere, but yet it is constantly never accurate. Because science, even look at Roger Bannister, you'll never break a 4-minute mile because it's not humanly possible. Your heart's going to explode. It's going to cause cardiovascular damage and you're going to die. Roger Banister did it and then 27 other people did it this next year or the same year actually. Science said it was impossible. So I I just want you to think about that statement that the purpose of science is to disprove all of the science that came before it and all the hypotheses that are ahead of it. So it's never really accurate because the next thing that gets proven somebody is going to attempt to disprove. The one thing you cannot disprove is the Bible. In fact, what's frighteningly accurate is that the world is catching up to the word. Some of you guys need to take a knee and have a conversation with God. Get your head right. Get your soul right. But that's not what this is about. Just bioglue tide versus Reddit truth tide. It's that simple. 3 minutes in and I'm already talking about this because it I I did a quick video that I'm going to post in probably about an hour on social media about one versus the other. I see just all these knuckleheads coming on and jumping on. They do it for clout and for likes and follows and attention and yeah, buy my free [\h__\h] but or subscribe or whatever it is, but it's not real. It can't work. It violates every law of physiology. That's like saying gravity doesn't apply to you. Like look at Do you ever This is why though that these this is why it gets so much traction. It makes me laugh because the human body hasn't changed. Physiology is physiology outside of epigenetics which are tiny little things. It doesn't change. Physiology is still physiology. the gut works the way it works. I mean, we are a tube within a tube, basically after you look at it, right? So, rin and lumen. Just remember those two words and you can figure the rest out. But you ever notice that we live in this world where people just want cheat codes for every damn thing that exists, whether it's a game or food or weight loss or training or anything. And if you're making any success, then you are obviously someone who has a cheat code, which isn't accurate. But nobody wants to do the work. Nobody wants to understand the biology even, which is why I come out here for you guys. So, you actually just have somebody that goes, "Here, let me quickly teach you what the hell's going on in that meat suit that is, it's like a meat popsicle on a bunch of sticks that walks around the environment. You know, you are ambulating around a gravity controlled environment. Most of you guys have no idea even how you're doing it. Nobody wants to understand biology. They just want a pill they can pop a brunch brag about on Instagram later, which is why garbage like oral bioglutide even exists. I'll explain it from beginning to end without getting super irritated. Biology doesn't negotiate. I don't know if you guys have figured that out yet. You can try. But human physiology isn't impressed by any marketing or stickers or ads or influencers and your stomach just doesn't give a [\h__\h] about how pretty a label is. It looks at a capsule of peptide and it does exactly what it was designed to do. It shreds it into amino acids and then flushes it out. That's not medicine. That's not health. That is dinner. And you have to understand that's physiology. And people are still buying it. People will go, it's a billion dollar marketing budget. And I'm sure some they'll make billions on a bunch of idiots that go, "But it's going to work for me." It's just like anyone in the comments. I don't care who you are. If you go, "Bro, oral peptides work for me." First of all, shut the hell up. No, they didn't. Second of all, you are easily hypnotized because that is a placebo. It's not possible. It is not possible. Period. So, you are violating all the laws of physiology and human biology just yourself. But you can explain that away. No, you have trust me, bro. It worked for me. I have the results. No, you don't. Show me the blood work. I'll say it every time. It's because you guys would rather believe in some fairy tale than than just deal with reality. I'm going to burn that fairy tale to the ground right now because it pisses me off. I'll show you why reiterat reatrite isn't just some weird peptide that is on par with semaglutide or trespide. And I realize I talked about this stuff a lot, but even reatrite it is easily reat true and m longevity 100%. You don't have to spend countless dollars and hours doing things. You can literally just do those and you're good. four years. When do you stop? When do you want to stop having longevity? I I don't know. I It's a weird question to ask. Somebody ask me that all the time. Like I said, with True Tide, apex predator of fat loss and performance and longevity. It's what it's going to win every time. Toe toto toe will win every time and not by a little bit. The margin is going to be massive. I mean, look at the basics. Just to look at why oral peptides cannot work ever and they never will no matter what you do. Peptides are protein chains. So, you eat protein every day like a good man or a woman. If you don't, you already have a problem. But what happens to that protein? Your stomach acid does it denatures it. So enzymes like pepsin cut it into these tiny little fragments and then proteases in your small intestine break it down further into amino acids which is what your body absorbs. And most of you guys understand that. Most of the bodybuilders understand that. But that's basic physiology and that's also how digestion works. So when somebody tells you that they've put semiglutide in a capsule, they're not giving you medicine or a peptide. They're giving you the most expensive protein shake on earth because that's what biolutide is. It is semiglutide with better marketing. I don't care about the IGF and all of that. None of that. It doesn't work. So, it doesn't really matter. So, it's semiglutide. It doesn't survive stomach acid. It cannot survive hydrochloric acid. It doesn't survive the gut wall. It never makes it into systemic circulation, which means it never binds to receptors. It never signals your hypothalamus. It never changes dopamine firing. It never touches your insulin sensitivity. It never oxidizes fat. It never does a damn thing. It does nothing. It's not possible. Argue with me all you want. I'm still right. You just look dumber. Now, some genius out there, this is what frightens me. Some genius, which means you had to be somewhat intelligent and understand chemistry and biochemistry, decided to invent a chemical. It's like a band-aid for this problem where it gets broken down. Snack, right? Sodium. Sodium and capriate. There's a bunch of other stuff in there like hydroxybenzoil. There's a lot to it, but anyway, sodium and capriate. It sounds all kinds of high-tech, right? It's not. It is a blunt weapon. Here's why. This thing does so much catastrophic damage to your body. And yet people are going to go, "I don't care. I just want to be skinny." You're insane. It raises gastric pH. It dissolves mucosal lining. And it forces your gut to let peptides sneak through. That's not elegant or scientific. That is a biochemical assault on your physiology. And what do you get in in exchange? Here, I'll explain it cuz it's easy. You get massive heartburn, digestive issues, nausea, stomach irritation, and even then even then with all that where it actually makes it through less. Fact, this is numbers and pure science. Less than 1% of that peptide survives. 99% wasted. So, you're paying this premium money and life is you're paying with your health for scraps. That's like buying my 9/11 Turbo S and driving it through a demolition derby just to get the [\h__\h] smashed out of it just to get to work. Stupid. Incredibly expensive and guaranteed to get demolished. I I don't understand how some of you guys do this. I really don't. But you do. And you're going to do, you won't listen to me. I already know. A lot of you guys are going to be like, I'm not listening to this guy. He's wrong. I'm not wrong. And I come out here because I give a [\h__\h] So you don't have to be wrong. If you look at Reddit, True Tide, okay, right out of the gate, injectable required. If you don't like needles, too damn bad. Period. Well, what about I I'll say this for if they're listening. There was this lady, I don't know if it was a lady, might be a dude. You never know, on social media just because of the name, right? Said, "Well, I thought you said you were totally against oral peptides. Why did you say that? That stack, which was Carterine, oustine, and uh maybe MK-677, RAD-140. I know there's a couple, but those are all oral. I thought you were totally against oral. Here's your sign. They're not [\h__\h] peptides. Before you open your mouth, realize what you're opening your mouth to do. If it's to say dumb things, take your top lip, anchor it to your bottom lip, and shut the [\h__\h] up. It bugs me. The world needs more teachers like me in school, to be honest. My dad used to keep a foam brick. He was a teacher for a while, too. While he was a pastor, he used to keep this foam brick and he throw it at students. I'd keep a real brick. Oh, I'm sure somebody's gonna be like, "Oh, then you'd get in trouble, bro. You'd go to jail. I'd like to see you try." Which is why Gen X is always going to survive and Gen Z is going to get annihilated by anything that comes into their life. Reddit True Tide is injectable. That's required. You're welcome. It's stable. It's 100% bioavailable. There's no demo derby that you got to go through to get there. It is straight into your circulation right into the tissues that matter and it's doing the things it's just flicking all the receptors it needs to because it look listen here's why here's where it gets incredibly lethal. It's not a single pathway peptide like semiglutide triple agonist. I've said this so many times but listen to me. Three keys, three locks, three major systems all lit up simultaneously. GLP-1 shuts down hunger. It slows the gastric emptying so you actually absorb your nutrients. That's a big deal. flattens that post-meal glucose spike and your appetite gets suppressed. So, your cravings get muted and your blood sugar becomes stable. Check that box. But now, GIP improves insulin sensitivity, which is lifesaving. It drives nutrients into muscle. Excuse me. It drives nutrients into muscle instead of into fat. It smooths out lipid metabolism. And so now you don't just eat less. You partition all that fuel, which is what food is, right? into it's a smarter partitioning into the right places. Now you throw in glucagon, which I already said in my post earlier. It's the nuclear option. It mobilizes fat from storage. It signals the liver to burn triglycerides like like the nitromethane, like rocket fuel. And it keeps growth hormone and IGF-1 pathways alive. So you actually burn fat without sacrificing any lean muscle whatsoever any whatsoever. So now if you look at bioglutide, that's their logic, right? to include IGF-1, but you can't absorb it. Even with snack, you can't absorb it. So, you're going to trick somebody to take some bunky [\h__\h] product. I'm going to disrupt it all. And yet, it doesn't have any bearing. And if you really wanted to mix in just that, man, you could take CJC, you could take a Pamarellin, you could take Tamra, you could take so many other things and just mix it together. But if you're like, I really just don't like needles. Then enjoy being fat or just get some actual discipline and just do the work. I don't know what to tell you. But semiglutide and tepatide demolish muscle. DEXA scans prove it. 70% is tissue, muscle, glycogen, bone, connective tissue. 30% is fat. And the rebound effect is astronomical because it never attacks the neurological issue. It never handles the hypothalamus, nucleus encumbent. It never goes and deals with any of that stuff. So you can sit there and get upset, which you do, and brag and whine and go, "Well, it worked for me." You have to monitor it. I had somebody go, "Well, 8 months. I've been on it for eight months. It's worked great. I've lost 30 lbs." Are you [\h__\h] me? 30 lbs. In 8 months, you can do that just by taking away the soda you drink every day. You don't need tepatide or semiglutide. That's what I'm saying. When you take radide, we're talking weeks and it's just fat. 24% 24% weight loss of which is just fat. I don't know what to tell you. You guys are making bad decisions, man. Like Reddit is is not it's not calorie math anymore. It is complete operating system reprogramming. I say it all the time. Clinical trials, they're not subtle. 24% of their body weight in less than a year, which is double semaglutide and it is just fat. It is not stripping your muscle, making you look like you're all cactic, like you're a cancer patient. double and preserves lean mass because glucagon agonism maintains anabolic signaling while fat burns off. That is biology, which is exactly why biolutide can't work cuz it talks about it, but it can never do it. You know what it is? It's a bunch of you noisy idiots on social media talking about how great you are and you're just not great. Stop using chat GPT to think you know something cuz you don't. It bugs me. I'm 52. I had to learn all this stuff the hard way. You know, actually learn it. Never never might look at the neurology cuz this pisses me off. Fat loss isn't just about hormones. It's about neurology, which is why I talked about this. Your hypothalamus controls energy balance, right? Hunger, satiety, thermogenesis. Semaglutide hits it really weakly. Like just gives it a little blast. Redatride lights it up like Vegas. Appetite signals crash. Your satiety signals go through the roof. energy expenditure skyrockets and it resets that pain in pain in the ass dopamine signaling problem in the nucleus encumbent which is the reward center which means food stops hijacking your brain so that's all you think about now you don't your cravings stop running the show motivation mood executive function cognitive function they all skyrocket instead of crash so you don't feel like running around in a fog all day you don't just eat less you guys you stop you stop acting like a damn slave to your food you make choices like a disciplined human frigin being Again, it's why patients don't just lose weight. That's why they get their lives back. This is why people call me. You know why I have a cure program? So I actually give people the results they desperately want that some knucklehead in a white coat is not doing or god forbid some influencer is hypercharging them for that is doing nothing because they don't know anything. You want to join my cure program? You send me the No, it's not automated. You are going to send me the word cure just like that all caps. C R E. You send it to my DM. I will be I'm very transparent. I only have two versions. $25,000 for 25 days, $100,000 for 100 days. I decide which one you do based on what you need, not you. Cuz if you go for the cheaper option, you do not want to get better. And do I automatically choose the 100K? Hell no. Most people I don't cuz they don't need that much time. They don't need that much instruction. But it's not daily check-ins and holding your hand and stroking your ego and making sure you feel all right. It's giving you results so you never need me. When you're done, you just send me a thank you and go on with your life. That's what a doctor should do. So that's it. You're welcome. If that's what you want to do, contact me. If you aren't ready to do any of that, don't ask me about it because I'm not going to take you on as a client. Now, like look at the just to come back to this cuz this irritates me. Look at the longevity aspect of reat. Semaglutide slows down like slows blood sugar which is great, but reat goes after the entire metabolic syndrome problem. Obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver. Oh yeah, you're going to die from that. Just so you know, you fix those three, you don't just lose weight, you reverse the engine that's aging you. So cardiovascular risk plummets, inflammation goes away, drops, actually becomes non-existent. The cytoine storms disappear. Mitochondria stop sputtering and gasping for breath and they start cranking out ATP like and and never mind the biogenesis that happens when they start multiplying. You get more mitochondria. That's this none of this is cosmetic, you guys. This is life extension. If you think for a second that I I'm not on I'm very transparent. I don't take Reddit true type yet. But you're damn right I'm going to not for that I'm taking I'm going to take such a small dose it's going to be negligible as far as what it's going to do appetite wise which is a problem because half the time I eat but I I forget or I'm so busy I just have to stuff it all in at the end of the day which is not a good habit just so you know. I just I'm busy. I run 16 hour days and I love working by the way. My wife and I love working. So before somebody's like that's not healthy. Maybe it's not healthy for you. It's healthy for me, but I'm also the one wearing a $350,000 watch. No, it's not bragging. It's that I like things. I want to be able to buy things. I want to be able to have the life I want. You know what that requires? Investment of your time. Even this listening to this, most people are going to be like, "Oh, dude, I'm done listening to this guy. Just another bald guy bitching. Dude, I'm a bald guy with an IQ that is so high and I know so much because I actually give a crap and I take the time to learn it. Not to brag and go, look how smart I am. This is a ton of things I don't know." every day. I learned a bunch of things from my buddy Heath today that I had no idea. What I do know is what I know I know really well. And those things I share with you because if you don't know them really well, it doesn't make you stupid. But if you don't use it, it makes you ignorant. And if you don't learn it, it makes you ignorant. So I'm giving you the information and save you 11 years of school. So you just get the information. That's why I come out here. If you look at this, it retitrutide preserves muscle while stripping off the fat. It protects the single most important predictor of lifespan, lean body mass. Muscle is not vanity tissue. I don't know how to tell you. It is endocrine armor. It is what keeps you alive. That endocrine tissue is what keeps you surviving. It allows you to take a hit. It regulates glucose, burns fat, produces myioines that keep the brain sharp, and the immune system balanced and actually working the way it's supposed to. Redat True Tide safeguards all of that while burning all the crap that's not supposed to be there that you put on your body with all your bad decisions. That's why it's not a fat loss peptide. It is a life a life a longevity a health span peptide. Like this is one of the best weapons against aging itself. I don't know. Sometimes I just want to give you a slap in the mouth because you're still messing around with oral things like biolucide. You're not innovating. It's like you're freaking laring. You're cosplaying as a biohacker while swallowing a bunch of chalk. that's gets dissolved actually in your acid. I can't you can't make this stuff up. You can't you can't outsmart your own physiology with hopes and dreams and wishful thinking. Biology doesn't give a crap about your IG influencer with the shredded abs or the Tik Tok guy or girl that has a billion followers. Either the peptide survives and reaches the receptors or it doesn't. Oral peptides. I realize I'm talking about biolutide, but oral peptides, period. Never ever do ever. So keep arguing. The equipment that you're using to argue with is on my side. Meanwhile, you look at Red True Tide and it's sitting here clinically proven receptor engaged, fat annihilating, muscle preserving, health span extending peptide. It's not even a contest, you guys. It's not even a contest. Biogglutide is you're a snake if you're selling it. You're also a snake if you're selling semiglutide or tzepide not telling people the truth. Retatriotide is the future. So listen here's the truth. You can keep pretending these capsules are going to save you and you buy your $60 little little $60 bottle and you listen to bozos that don't know how to pull their pants up when they have a conversation on Instagram. They want to be a child. where you can inject a molecule that actually changes human biology for the better. Side effects are almost non-existent before somebody asks. And when do you have to stop? When you decide you can stay on it forever, but then you have to determine the dose that you need to stay on for longevity, not for fat loss. So, there's a great answer to a ton of questions, but you can't do both. You can't have the oral and the you can't you you can't still sit there and think that all the things you're hoping for and wishing for are going to happen because you take them out of a bottle that some guy or girl sold you because they're saying, "Trust me, bro. One road leads to delusion and the other leads to actual results." I'm going to I'm going to use my preachers's line here. Let me land on the plane. Oral peptides are never going to work ever. Snack is lipstick on a pig. It's the easiest way to explain it. It is lipstick on a pig. It is a sprinkle covered turd. Biogglutide is a scam that pres on your ignorance. Redatride is the real deal. It is the triple agnus, metabolic reprogramming, dopamine reset, muscle preservation at obliteration, longevity extension. That's what that does. That is retatrite. So stop lying yourself with your little fairy tales that dissolve in acid anytime you swallow them because that's what this is. Biology doesn't negotiate or care or wonder about your feelings or whether maybe tomorrow it's going to work. Injectables win 100% of the time. Red True Tide wins. And if you actually care about fat loss and performance and longevity and health span and muscle and quality and all the things and cognitive function, executive function, there is only one road forward, Reddit True Tide. And it's not a plug for you to buy it from me. Yeah, go ahead. Buy it at Elite Biogenics. I think it would be the smartest thing because you get a guy that gives a [\h__\h] right here telling you about it. But if you don't, that's on you. But if you're ignorant enough to buy a peptide because you like the guy talking about it or the girl talking about it and they convince you and then you want to lie about it because you don't want to feel stupid cuz it didn't work and I know it didn't work cuz it's not possible. You need to go look in the mirror and negotiate with your boss and then give your boss a slap in the mouth. I'm out here trying to help you. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.