 udaumount查 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected all the time, I want you to actually use the freaking system. You have this machine that you're born with, it is a juggernaut the day you're born. And what ends up happening is people beat it up and then doctors follow up and add insult to injury and give you treatments that don't matter, don't do anything and actually cause further damage, creating a much more lucrative profit machine out of you than a referral machine or a good review machine. Because what happens is they give you things that cause future issues that they get to treat, which makes them more revenue and turns you more into a profit machine. And that pisses me off. So I'm just going to tell you how to do everything and then we'll go from there, right? Yes, it is a Charlie Brown mug. I got this from my mom. She sent my whole family a bunch of these. My mom's pretty cool and she's scraping 83 and yeah, she's killing it. That's good. My mom's pretty rad. Charlie Brown, right? Think about it. We are the 27th of December. If you guys ever watched any of some of you guys might not even know what that is the Christmas Charlie Brown special with a little tree. And it's one of those things that you think about and it realizes has nothing to do with the podcast, but the clock never stops. Like I remember when I was a kid, that was a TV special and I had to wait. I got something called a TV guide. You had to look at it and go, okay, it's going to be on Friday at seven o'clock. And then you had to wait. Then you got to watch it. And then if you missed it too bad, right? Like things have changed so much. Like now I can pick up my phone. I can go on this computer and I can watch anything I want like this. It's lost a little bit of its luster because of that because the anticipation was pretty wild. Everything is instantaneous and people say it's really great. But I think delay of gratification is being lost and the expectation and the entitlement is rampant. And we don't know how as a society, I think for the most part to handle things that normally would have just been nothing like people overreact to everything, even in my comments, you guys, people react and get worked up and angry and bitter and aggressive and hateful and just noisy about things that just wouldn't have mattered 25 years ago. People, it just wouldn't, you would have just brushed it off and kept that you wouldn't have cared. Nobody would have been hunting down something to be triggered about. They just wouldn't have moved on with their day. So maybe you guys look at older people like me and go, huh, maybe this guy actually knows some stuff. So I'm not just going to go over BPC. I'll give you a whole rundown of it because you asked, but I'm going to go through an entire way of using BPC as like BPC as wild man. It doesn't just do one thing. It does all the things. You got to understand that like BPC is so next level. And it's one of the things it's Riverside FM, which is who I use for podcasts, is it took my most used word, BPC-157 for the year. Remember, I've been doing this since January 1st, 2025. I'm coming up on an entire year of producing content on YouTube and podcasts. That's pretty rad. But that means I talk about it a lot because it's awesome. I think that's easily a forever peptide. I'll even explain it. Do not take two milligrams every day or anything like that. That's far too much. But you guys have to understand, you guys have been told, and I've said this so many times at Health is this complex thing that diseases and inevitability to you and that your body is this weird shrouded mystery and the only hope is surgical intervention or a bunch of chemistry that they concoct in a lab. You guys got to understand that is garbage. It's there to manage symptoms and ignore the cause. That is a very profitable story for them. But it's a lie. It hurts you. Imagine if you like, I'll give you two examples right off the cuff. KPV. I woke up. I might have told the story, but I woke up one night. My gut was really bad. It felt almost like pancreatitis. Yes, I've been through pancreatitis. I know what that feels like. Brutal. And I got up and I took two milligrams of hypothetically for my kangaroo, took two milligrams of BPC, and 500 micrograms of KPV. And 25, 30 minutes later, I was asleep. I woke up the next day, felt like a million dollars. So what I'm telling you is that's a big frigging deal because people end up in the hospital for things they don't need to be in the hospital for. And the hospital is a very dangerous place. It's not there for anything other than profit. Oh, I'm sure that's going to get some sensor all pissed off. And whoa, it's medical misinformation. I can show you the proof. There's astronomically large amounts of research that prove that I'm right. I am right. Listen, the truth is this most chronic disease, the stuff that slowly trickles through and ruins your life stems from the same three frigging things, the biological failures, the same ones that I came up with a long time ago, not hundreds of different things. There aren't hundreds of different diseases. There are three, and those three have different symptoms, but it's the same problem. And I, like I said, give me my Nobel Prize, not for anything other than I want to go down in history as everybody knowing that is the root cause of all disease. And the issue is that's probably a fantasy because it would expose, believe me, everything I'm doing here is exposing the truth. What I find interesting is I come out here to help and people still get all butthurt. And it's because people are so fragile and soft that it goes against the narrative they've been indoctrinated by. Yet they're not getting any better. What are you waiting for somebody to give you some magic answer? I'm giving you the answers and I do it for free. Look, go through these three, three failures, then I'll go over BPC and everything else, by the way. One, the first one, you this rampant uncontrolled systemic inflammation, your body's emergency alarm is stuck in the on position to insulin resistance. Your cells are becoming deaf to the master hormone that tells them to take in fuel, right? The glucose and three, the chronic ATP shortage, your cellular power plants, the mitochondria are failing and they're leaving you running on fumes. Solve these three and you don't just treat disease, you prevent it, you reverse it and you make your body inhospitable to pathology. You're designed this way. You've been taught that you're not, but that's not the truth. I know what I'm telling you. I know what I'm doing. And I'm not telling you to buy something. Like I said, what do I always say about the black card? You want to join the black card? It's $9,997 for a wire. Here's what it comes with. You get my live Q&A call. I do every Monday, not the Sunday call, the Monday call, private Q&A call. I stay on for a couple of hours and answer everybody's questions and solve all their problems, no matter what they are. And my answers are right. You get the entire protocol library and you get the VIP community where I actually, it's me. You send them, you put a message in there and it's me. So not only do you get to interact with me for real like this and I give you the answers, you actually can ask me questions and you could throw everything you want to me. Labs, I don't care. I'll help you as much as I can without crossing some weird line that I'm not allowed to cross. But I literally give you everything you need because I, and the community is filled with people that are genuine badasses who love life and want everybody else to have a badass life. I have a no asshole policy. If you're an asshole, I won't even let you in. I don't care how much you pay me. By the way, that amount is going up to $25,000 as of January 1st. So if you want in, you better hustle ass because I'm not looking back. It is wire transfer only. You want to get in? Here's how you do it. You ready? Write this down. Apply at unlockthecard.com. It's an email. Jen, my CFO or Amber, my executive assistant will answer that email with this response. Here's the wire information. Here's the bank we use. Here's everything you need. They'll send you the sheet. You send the wire. You're in a day to three days, depending on when it is because if it's the weekend, I can't verify the wire and trust me, bro, doesn't work. Right? They will verify before they give you anything. That's number one. Number two is if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, my company, knock yourself out. Everything's there and it's all legit. It's all tested and everything is done in a very professional way. And the best part is that if I give it to my family, I'll give it to you. If I wouldn't give it to my family, it's never, ever going into your head. That's how tight I run this thing. You look at me and you look at how I run my life. You'll mow down while it's true. But I don't care. I still come out here. If you don't want to buy from them, that's fine. You don't want to buy from my companies, that's fine. But that's, those are the only two things I ever sell. So if somebody comes up with something else, what about this? I don't do it. If you don't ask me a bunch of questions, I'm not going to answer them until you either join. Because if you're going to send a bunch of questions to the email, they're just going to say, here's how you join. Listen, I need to show you about all of this because BPC, I talk about this so much in my group, but BPC is this naturally occurring juggernaut peptide and it's not science fiction. It is pure biochemistry. It's physiology. The data published, by the way, in the world's leading journals everywhere. Irrefutable. Irrefutable. Look at this. BPC-157, body protecting compound. We've talked about this plenty of times. Body protecting compound, 157. 15 amino acid peptide sequence. It's this chain of building blocks that's found naturally in human gastric juices. Your stomach makes it. And I think about that for a second. The most corrosive environment in your body, right, is that of hydrochloric acid designed to dissolve food, chop up protein, produces a substance that protects it. It's not some foreign chemical. And if you go, well, yeah, that's logically why you can take it orally. Doesn't work like that. Doesn't work like that. You go ahead and take BPC-157. For all of you guys that are going, I take it orally and it works. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. It never has. It never will. It's not possible no matter how many ways you try and stabilize it. That's like sitting there and going, I'm going to take a steak. I'm going to throw it into a wood shepard and I'm going to expect a cow to be standing on the other end. It is not possible. It won't pass through the enterocytes. Number one. Number two is all the proteolytic enzymes demolish it. Hydrochloric acid cleaves the hell out of it. And the biochemical PhD bouncer, your liver takes it and shreds it. That's how it's designed. That is how it's designed. You cannot take it anything other than subq. Period. You guys can argue all you want. Say it worked for me. It worked for my friend. What about it? Nazily. Watch. The only way it works, there is only one method. Subq. Period. Period. Everything else is bro science, sales, mumbo jumbo BS. That's it. But it's not something foreign. It's not a drug. It is a native signaling molecule. Your body already uses to heal from daily wear and tear. It's, by the way, it's primary function to cytoprotection, cell protection. It's like your body's built-in repair crew. It circulates and fixes damage. But check this out. This is why I said BPC doesn't do one thing. It does all the things because its job description is far grander than just patching up the stomach lining and solving tight protein junctions and up regulating occluded and zonulin. It doesn't, listen, it does, yes, it solves leaky gut. Also has to be injected. BPC works by systemically programming your bodies or reprogramming your body's response to injury and stress. But it does it at this fundamental level. The key, I don't, I've never seen anybody explain it like this. So I'm going to try and explain it from A to Z. The key is the nitric oxide pathway. So follow me. Nitric oxide is a gasotransmitter. It's a signaling molecule, but this thing has two faces. You have endothelial nitric oxide synthase called enos, which produces nitric oxide that relaxes blood vessels, proves blood flow, and is extremely protected. Then you have inducible nitric oxide synthase, enos, which produces massive damaging amounts of nitric oxide during inflammation, which leads to all the tissue destruction. So follow me. The genius behind BPC-157 is in its selectivity. If you look at the Journal of Physiology 2014, it shows that it specifically promotes the activity of enos, which is the good guy, while at the same time suppressing the expression of enos, the bad guy, this like Jekyll and Hyde, right? It's like this molecular white glove traffic hop, right? It's no go, it directs the healing response down the right path so you get the right results. The enos activation triggers this cascade. Watch, improved blood flow, so that means right out of the gate, which is huge. It is more oxygen and more nutrients delivered to the damaged tissues. All the metabolic waste and toxins stripped away from those same tissues, it upregulates growth hormone receptors, making your cells insanely responsive to your body's own repair signals. It promotes the formation of new blood vessels called angiogenesis to rebuild the supply lines to those injured areas. This is all married together, which is what makes this thing so incredible. And it accelerates the expression of key genes like VEGFR2, which are crucial for tissue regeneration. And this is just one thing, one thing. So in short, look at this. BPC-157 takes a system that's broken, stuck in the inflammatory loop, and it reboots it, flips the master switch from breakdown to rebuild. Look at my three biological failures, because this is one of the ones you need to understand. Just connect the three biological failures, connect the dots. Systemic inflammation, BPC-157 is a very potent anti-inflammatory, but it's not like an NSAID that just blocks a single pathway, right? Cocks to inhibitors. It works upstream. So 2015, the European Journal of Pharmacology showed that it significantly reduces pro-inflammatory cytokines like TNF-alpha, which is what I talk about all the time, NF-Kappa-B. So by controlling the nitric oxide system and suppressing the inflammatory cascade at its root, right, at its fundamental level, it calms down the entire system. That's just one of the three failures. Look at insulin resistance. You already know, if you've listened to me for any amount of time, you shut down the inflammation and insulin resistance goes away. This is about signaling. insulin resistance is driven by inflammation. So when BPC-157 reduces that systemic inflammation, it removes a major blocker of insulin signaling. Your cells can hear insulin again. Furthermore, improved blood flow from the ENOS activation means better delivery of glucose shuttling into the muscles. 2019, Life Sciences on Diabetics showed BPC-157 administration led to improved blood glucose levels and accelerated healing at a massive scale like orders of magnitude massive, showing what? Restoration of metabolic function. And I'm still just warming up, baby. Look at the ATP problem, the ATP shortage, right? ATP is energy, energy, the currency of life that we use as human beings. Listening to this, moving my hands, everything we're doing. Mitocondria are the power plants, inflammation and poor blood flow damage mitochondria. So by restoring the blood flow and reducing oxidative stress, which is what this does, BPC-157 creates an environment where mitochondria can function properly. 14, Journal of Physiology highlighted its ability to protect against toxins, all toxins, which work by destroying mitochondrial function. That's how toxins operate. More oxygen, less damage equals more ATP. It's that simple. We could break down the fundamentals of biochemistry if you want, but you have better things to do with your life. So I'm trying to just give you this. The core of its power, this is the core of all of it, right? Is its ability to do this. Its ability to not, it just doesn't, it doesn't put a bandage on one problem. It fixes the entire underlying environment that caused all the problems in the first place. One peptide, one tiny little, listen, let's go organ by organ. How about that? You want to, the research is astounding. It's, the research is friggin mind-blowing, cardiovascular damage and fibrosis, which is a massive problem. So after a heart attack, scar tissue fibrosis forms, right? It weakens the heart muscle. 18, Study in World Journal of Cardiology, they gave BPC-157 after a heart attack. The results, dramatically reduced infarct size, tiny little damage, right? Improved heart function, improved ejection fraction, significant reduction in fibrosis. How? By promoting angiogenesis, bringing new blood supply to the damaged area and modulating the healing process to favor regeneration instead of scarring. That's just the cardiovascular system. Look at liver problems. Liver problems are rampant, by the way, because of the hyper use of medication for useless things like just about everything. The liver is your detox center. It is designed for this. 2010, Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology looked at liver damage induced by toxins. They gave BPC-157 and they showed near complete, do you understand what I just said, near complete resistance to the damage the livers were protected and the mechanism, watch, it's super easy, up-regulation of cytoprotective pathways and again, control of the nitric enos, the nitric oxide system and reduction of the inus, right? The induce, inducible, right? So this prevents the inflammatory cell death, apoptosis, programmed inflammatory cell death, renal problems, kidney problems, kidney disease, all of this stuff is married together. Kidneys are a filtration system that is, oh, it's fragile, man, the glomeruli, little tufts of vascular chair that they're so fragile. It's this filtration systems that are very easily damaged by toxins and poor, crappy blood flow. 2001, Journal of the American Society of Nephrology examined kidney failure from toxic drugs like NSAIDs. Huh, NSAIDs. Some of you guys take that stuff like Skittles. BPC-157 administration normalized kidney function, counteracted the fall in blood pressure and restored renal blood flow so it functioned properly, directly protecting the delicate filtration structures from failure. Neurological problems. This is the one that nobody wants you to know and everybody says can't be done. I disagree. Your brain and your spinal cord, listen to me, your brain and your spinal cord can heal. Proven, 2019, they showed this, frontiers and behavioral neuroscience showed BPC-157 promotes the regeneration of severed nerves. It accelerated the recovery of motor function after spinal cord injury. Here's how it does this. It does this by protecting the neurons from death, promoting the outgrowth of axons, the nerve fibers, creating pro healing environment in the CNS, the central nervous system, which is by the way notoriously bad at regenerating. Until now, you know what the problem with all of this is? I could do this all day, baby. I could do this all friggin day. The issue is that BPC-157 cannot be patented and it is cheap as dirt. Even if you're like, I had to pay 150 to $200 for it. Holy Jesus, you guys are so cheap. You'll go out and spend 150 grand on a truck that doesn't save your life. You'll buy a house that you can't afford because it's too much house and you'll spend insane amounts of money on your health insurance and all of the drugs you need to take, but you won't do something that costs a fraction of the money that'll save your life. Your brain is... It makes me nuts. Okay. Look at tendon, muscle, ligament damage. This is where BPC-157, by the way, is studied the most. 2009 Journal of Orthopedic Research compared BPC-157 to placebo in healing Achilles tendons. This is awesome. BPC-157 group showed significantly greater tensile strength to the point where the tendon actually healed and was indistinguishable from the other side. Better collagen organization, faster functional recovery. It doesn't just speed up healing. It leads to a stronger repair. It stimulates fibroblasts, which are the cells that build connective tissue, but you keep taking your aspirin. Go ahead. Lung problems. Lung... Watch. Lung fibrosis. This is a personal one from me. Lung fibrosis is a death sentence scarring in the air sacs. Imagine things... Follow me. Imagine things, let's say hypothetically, for a kangaroo that ever had C19, has lung damage because of it. 17. This is before C19, which you guys experienced, which was a... I gotta watch what I say. Here, I'll hold this up. You all might want to look at what I'm holding in my hand. You're welcome. Okay. Journal... 2017 Journal of Applied Physiology. Lung fibrosis. BPC-157 treatment in lung fibrosis prevented... Vented. Are you hearing this? Prevented the development of fibrosis and reduced the inflammation and healed and reversed existing fibrosis. It protected the delicate alveolar structure, the little sacs inside there, the alveoli, and it treated and reversed chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, pulmonary fibrosis, and C19. You keep taking your puffer though, right? Good job. And before somebody starts rambling on about cancer, you have to understand basic physiology and practical biochemistry and biology because I can just hear it. Something that promotes growth. I heard it makes cancer. I heard it doesn't... It's gotta cause cancer if it's doing all this stuff. Of course it does. What should I do? I'm going to again and again dispel that with real research. This is the most important misconception to absolutely demolish. The answer is a resounding, resounding friggin' no. It doesn't. It doesn't. It does not cause cancer. It's not possible. In fact, just so you know, the evidence proves the opposite. BPC-157 promotes orderly, controlled, healing and growth guided by the body's natural regulatory systems. Cancer is pure chaos. It's this disordered, chaotic, disaster growth that evades all the systems. That's the problem. 2017 oncology reports directly tested this. They applied what's the... BPC-157, two cancer cell lines. The result? It inhibited cancer cell growth and migration. Just like that. How about that for a mic drop? Boom! It promoted apoptosis, programmed cell death in the cancerous cells. Watch, there's another study. Journal of Physiology 2007 showed that BPC-157 counteracted the tumor-promoting effects of all the other agents. I would this not be part of the arsenal that everybody has in their life? Think of it this way when it comes to cancer. This is the best way I can explain it, is because I want to build my wife's beautiful dream house. So think of it this way. A construction crew building a house according to a blueprint. I hand the blueprint to Min Chuck and I say, here listen, you got to build this beautiful home for my wife. This is important to me. I adore my wife. I do. I love my wife so much. I want to build the life and everything she ever wanted in her life, no matter what it is, because it's my job as a man. I realize that's off the script, but I just adore my wife, Randy, so much. The blueprint is good growth. Demolition derby is cancer. BPC-157 empowers a construction crew. It doesn't start the engines on the derby and everybody's smashing into everybody. It restores control. So that's how you have to look at this. Look at longevity. This is probably one of the most profound aspects of BPC-157. Everybody's running around looking for some fountain of youth, some springs, some next chemical, some BS that Gary Brekka is trying to sell you that I think is so full of crap. If I see another peptide patch from that guy, I don't know. I kind of want to get in the ring with him because it bothers me so much because it's a bald-faced lie. This is never going to work as a peptide, ever, ever. The skin is designed to keep out. It just doesn't work. That makes me so angry because they're playing off you guys and bilking you for so much money and they're such lies, which is why I won't pair with. I get asked every single day for people to, can you join my company? Can you come do a podcast for me? Every day I get dozens and dozens of requests and most of the time the answer is no. I'll go if it's valid but not a chance otherwise. I'll go speak on a stage in front of 100,000 people if I know it's going to help somebody. But if you're trying to spin off of my credibility and my knowledge and have me endorse your product and I look at your product and I go, that is pure horseshit. I'm never going to do it. There's no amount of money you can give me. None. I will not sell my soul for cash just because you want me to come speak at your conference because I care too much about mankind. I am here for a purpose. My purpose is to save everybody, all of mankind's health problems. That's why God left me here. That's why I'm here. Take it however you want it but I absolutely believe in every single person that listens to this podcast and I go, I want you to win man. I want you to be healthy. I want you to be strong because I've been on the other side of the equation laying in a bed texting my wife saying I'm not going to make it till the morning and it was real. It wasn't me giving you some Insta Bro story. It was terrifying and they rolled me out of a hospital in a wheelchair missing a lung. I care whether you like it or not. I care. Like I love everybody enough to give you the information so you can go have this great life. Free from all the shackles of the nonsense they're trying to convince you you need. Look at aging man. It is the accumulation of cellular damage, the decline of mitochondrial dysfunction and the slow creep of systemic inflammation called inflammaging. Sound familiar? Does that entire cascade of events sound vaguely familiar? Maybe like my three biological failures? This is why I am right you guys. BPC-157 directly counteracts the hallmarks of aging by reducing inflammation, protecting mitochondria and enhancing blood flow to all the organs and promoting systemic repair and addresses the root cause of age-related decline. Listen, you're not going to stop the clock. That's not the point of this. That's not what I'm saying. But at 45 years old, if you can't touch your toes or you can't sprint with your son or daughter, you have a problem. Whether you want to admit it or not, that's not normal. You have just been convinced so much that when you're 45, you should just be sitting on the couch yelling at a football game drinking beer. That's not it. The mechanistic evidence is overwhelming for BPC-157, a compound that heals the heart, the brain, the liver, the kidneys, world journal cardiology, frontiers and behavioral neuroscience, journal of physiology and pharmacology. It is everywhere while protecting against the cellular insults of modern life is by definition a longevity compound. Agreed? It doesn't just add years to your life. It adds life to your years. It sounds cliche, but it is a fact. Look it. We have a naturally, follow me, we have a naturally occurring peptide, okay? Master signaling molecule that targets the three root causes of every single disease known to man has demonstrated reproducible efficacy in the journals that are peer reviewed that everybody uses as evidence for everything else for healing everything from severed spinal cords to serotic livers to failing hearts. It does this by hijacking your body's own innate healing pathways and cranking them up to astronomical levels and know that doesn't burn you out. That's not how you're designed and it's not a drug forcing beyond your body's capacity. That's the difference between a peptide and a drug. A drug goes, you're going to do it whether you like it or not. A peptide goes, you're going to do it to the max effort that your body's capable of. Not the same. It has a stellar BPC-157 has a stellar, stellar profile, safety profile. No evidence of carcinogenicity, none, zero, zero. In fact, it has the opposite shown in oncology reports proven. There's probably 15,000 research papers that prove that it has none, no carcinogenicity, none whatsoever. The old model you guys has broken, the model of one drug for one symptom for one organ is dead end. It doesn't work because you're not parts. You're a system that runs like a system. Systemic repair is the answer. Understanding that the body is this interconnected system and to heal it, you have to address the core three failures. You know what's funny is my buddy Mark, I talk about Mark a lot, it's funny, Mark is a good dude, right? But he said, I got this guy yelling at me. I'm the guy yelling at him in my podcast because I actually care. Like this, it makes me so upset because I actually care about you guys. I really do. I want you guys to have it all, man. I want you to have all the money, the most incredible marriage, the most powerful, unbreakable mindset, the most juggernaut, savage, like, grizzly, bare, freaking health. And I'm trying to give it all. So yeah, it gets frustrating sometimes. But listen, BPC is not a magic bullet. It's a key. It's a master key to your physiology that unlocks your body is very profound, very largely untapped ability to heal itself. Everybody's looking for the fountain of youth in all the wrong places. It's not, like I said, it's not some remote spring over there. It's your own freaking physiology. The science is published, credible peer review journals, the data is everywhere. It's not, it's not the if this is possible, which is what the people would if it's not FDA approved. Are you out of your mind? The FDA can take a flying F at a rolling donut. They do not have your well being in mind. If you don't get that by now, we are not going to be friends and I'm totally okay with that. The question you should be asking right now is what am I going to do with all the knowledge that this guy, this Spartan keeps giving to me with Dr. Trevor? What's he giving me all this knowledge? What am I going to do with it? I've given you the blueprint to health. I don't know hundreds and hundreds of times. Listen, you want to talk about turning the system from reboot into overdrive? Let's go a little further. Watch, you guys aren't ready for what I'm about to drop on you. Because what I just showed you is the foundation. How about we build the entire skyscraper and makes that building in Dubai look like it's tiny? Think of BPC-157. What did I call it? What did I call it when I said I'm going to have the guy build my wife's house, right? The master form it the master contractor, right? He's got the blueprint and gets the site ready. But in order to build this whatever house, cathedral, whatever you want to call it, you need a specialized crew. That's the stack and you guys start throwing shit together like you're just like, I don't know, I heard it does this. You guys need to stop listening to bro science and Reddit and Cora and going, this guy said it and he's jacked and that guy said it and he has a big following. None of that matters. I wouldn't care if I had one person following me. I still know what I'm talking about. I know my stuff. I know my stuff because I'm not going to tell you something that's going to harm you. I'm going to tell and I don't tell you to raise my bank account. I tell you because I want you to have the information. We're not the same. If somebody's trying to mark where have you seen me market anything? Where have you seen me just push nonstop product? Never. In fact, I never do. And for all of you guys going, you talk a lot about the products and the stuff, but you never talk about dosages. Number one, talk to your government officials about why I can't talk about dosages legally. All you muppets out there doing it. Enjoy your problems in the future. But if you want all of that stuff and the real answers, I'll give you two things to help you. Black card. It's not hard. Weird. All the answers seem to flow out of that machine. And number two is every single research study I have ever posted, every one of them has the precise dosage. And you guys are all like, oh, you never talk about anything about dosages. Go to Instagram, type the keyword, click the big button twice, click the button. It'll say, Hey, you're asking about this. Yeah. Okay, here you go. Click the button. It'll bring up a Google form name, email, username, put those in if you're like, I don't want to, I've never spammed anybody once. And then the next side of that is a Google doc with exactly what you're asking. And you guys still are like, Oh, you never talk about it's too complicated. Then I got nothing for you. In fact, then you deserve to be sick. Here's your sign. I'm trying to help you, but I have to do it a certain way. If I don't, you're going to lose me as a resource. Enjoy that.  enjoy that because I'm out here busting my hump for all of you guys every day. Nobody's doing it like I am because I genuinely care. So let's go through this awesome stack and then I'm going to bounce because I got stuff to do and I want to hang out with my family like I always love being with my wife and kids. TB-500, we've already talked about BBC, TB-500. This peptide is all about structural repair. 2003, Journal of Investigative Dermatology showed it up regulates this actin polymerization, right? It up regulates actin, the protein that forms the cellular skeleton. It's the scaffolding for everything. It promotes cell migration, so repair cells get to the damage site faster. And Synergy, by the way, baby, BPC-157 preps the site with new blood flow and TB-500 floods it with the actual construction crew. I'm just getting started. Look at KPV. Oh, I'm going to drop it all for you guys. You guys just got to listen to me if you want. I can't give you dosages. So if you're all mad about that, I don't know what to tell you. Maybe just to actually follow the instructions that I just gave you. KPV, it's a tiny little, it's a super, it's a tripephite. It's tiny. It's a molecular fire extinguisher for inflammation. 2003 in peptides, the paper demonstrated this incredibly powerful suppression of TNF-alpha and NF-kappa B, which are the master switches of inflammation. Watch, while BPC-157 manages the broad nitric oxide pathway, both INOS and INOS, right? KPV is your targeted speck ops unit, putting out the worst of the worst, the hottest inflammatory fires. It clears the debris so the rebuilding can actually happen unobstructed because the problem, the gatekeeper to everything in your life that is going to go well, the thing that gets in the way of that, inflammation. The end, the end. If you want to complicate it, you can, but it's not. I'm right. It is always an inflammatory problem. GHK-Cu, copper, call this one like a plumber or an electrician, whatever you want to do, some kind of tradesman. This copper peptide, it's a complex, right? They slap a copper ion onto it. It's the master regulator of tissue remodeling. And what is it remodeled? Look at Journal of Anti-Aging Medicine 2000 shows it modulates over 4,000 genes. It increases collagen, elastin, glycosaminoglycans. It's not just rebuilding the walls, you, right? Your walls. It's rewiring the nervous system. It is neuronal armor. It protects your neurons, your brain, man. It relays blood vessels, the pipes. It works synergistically with BPC because it ensures that the newly built tissue is high quality, functional and very well supplied to Samarillin, ipamarillin. Boy, these things, they're like, like project managers. These are your growth hormones, the critagox. A lot of you guys know about these, but most of you guys, you're missing the fundamentals about them. I'm trying to give these to you. So take your ego and throw it away. They don't inject GH. They signal your pituitary to produce its own in a natural pulsatile rhythm a thousand times better because it isn't riddled with side effects. Yes, you can get slight transient water retention on to Samarillin. Again, did you hear the word I said before that? Transient, one to two weeks. If you're getting it any longer than that, you have a different problem in your system. You might want to look at that, which is why you don't just pick up a stack of peptides and throw them at yourself, which is the problem. You guys treat them like vitamins. They're not. You need to understand that. That's the problem is all these idiot insta bros and want to be experts who go, I just know everything about it because I have a store. That doesn't mean anything. It means that you have a store and you have some contact that's giving you stuff and it's probably bunk. By the way, Genosha is the one that tests all my stuff. What about you guys? Because my COA is legit with a guarantee behind it. How about yours? It's not. I guarantee it. There's no fake COAs in mine. 2007 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology Metabolism confirmed to Samarallan's efficacy and boosting IGF-1 levels are astronomical system. That's a huge number. This is the systemic command. Growth hormone is the signal that tells every cell in your body to grow, to repair, to rejuvenate, BP157 and the crew are working the specific job sites to Samarallan and Ipamarallan provide the economy-wide boom that makes every single repair project more efficient. So look at it this way. To Samarallan, fills the reservoir and Ipamarallan opens the gates. That's how you have to look. It's the easiest way to look at it. To Samarallan, up regulates that growth hormone. So there's more of it. Ipamarallan opens it up, lets it go. At night, by the way, empty at night, half hour before bed with the exception of one thing. If you're on progesterone cream, you do not take it at the same time at the end of the day because progesterone cream will blunt the effects of growth hormone analogues and secretagogues. But again, no instepro is going to tell you that. That's why you got me, which means this is the only time I will ever tell somebody to take it at the beginning of the day. Take the progesterone. Progesterone is going to knock you out and make you sleepy anyway. So take the progesterone cream, rub it on whatever part you're rubbing it on to absorb it and most of the time is vaginal. So I'm just telling you, if you're a dude taking it, that's a whole other conversation. Take that at night to Samarallan and Ipamarallan. It's the only time you'll hear me say this, take it in the morning. It's the only time you'll hear me say that though, other than that, no way. So watch, look at this entire process. Okay, this isn't additive. These aren't like one on top of the other. It's multiplicative. I've talked about this before. It's this biochemical, beautiful symphony. BC157 secures the site, the build site and ensures blood supply. KPV shuts down all of the inflammatory fighters so everything can work. TB-500, remember inflammation, it's the destructive force of the universe. TB-500 brings in the structural crew and all the scaffolding so it can be built properly and everything can get to where it needs to go. GHK-Cu ensures quality control and functionality of the new build so it's actually high quality. It works the way it's supposed to. And to Samarallan and Ipamarallan activates the entire corporate structure so it maxes out the potential. You're not just healing attendant, you guys. You are taking your physiology, your biology and you are orchestrating a full system. You ready for this word? Youth restoring regeneration event from the cellular level up. You want to know cutting edge? It's this. It's not the latest and greatest or newest chemical that come out from Pfizer. It's this. This is how you win, man. This is how you win. Anyway, listen, I hope you guys got something out of this. I gotta go. Never miss.