 so it is, it's date night, actually, it's quarter to five, and I'm going to knock this out real quick, and then I'm going to go hang out with my wife, but I started thinking, I've seen all these posts about BPC and BPC-157, and most people are getting it wrong. They call it a healing peptide. It does so much more than that. So much more. If I had to give you the ultimate longevity peptide, I would say BPC-157, and the more I go down the rabbit hole, the more it smokes and stuff. It's incredible. Just from a biochemistry standpoint and a human biology standpoint, it's, it'll change your life, and that's the reason why, like, Big Pharma is terrified. No matter what you think, no matter what kind of stuff you want to try and sell me on or talk about or argue with me, please don't, just please stop arguing in my comments with me. I just don't read them, so I just don't care. Maybe make yourself feel better because you still live at home with your mom. I don't know. I don't know. I just, I don't really know what to say. I'm a, I'm a doctor that comes out here because I care, and that's it. You do what you want to do with this. I don't really know what you want to do with it, but if it's to come on and argue, you have a self-worth problem and you've got none, but BPC-157 has Big Pharma so terrified, and why do you think they're trying to take it off the market? Listen, here's the deal. You guys have been lied to non-stop by Big Pharma and the FDA and the medical industrial complex trying to tell you that aging is the way they have it set up is inevitable, that chronic disease is just part of it. Like you just, you're going to get sick and you're going to get diseases. That's not true. Information is something you manage with NSAIDs or old school celebrax or hydrocodone or whatever the hell they give you and that when your neurons die and you get dementia or Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or MS, that it's, they're just gone forever and there's nothing you can do about it and that your organs, they just, let's go tits up. That is wrong. That is so wrong and it's so frustrating to me. I'm going to prove it. I'll prove it with BPC-157 that why they are absolutely terrified of this molecule because it's so powerful and so fundamentally disruptive to the disease management industry that you guys have become, we've all become subject to and it's costing us our lives and our health and people will, you guys will get in my comments some of you and argue for it because you go, oh what, because we don't need doctors? No, for the most part you do not need doctors because most doctors are now just paid shills or they argue or they're people that are so well trained that now they are just pharmaceutical reps with a white coat and a really expensive degree that taught them nothing, nothing. This is why they're trying, they're doing everything they can to keep BPC and all peptides out of your hands. Listen and how many of your doctors have told you about this? I will, I will give you some biochemistry that's going to make your brain explode. So BPC-157, this is the master class in BPC-157 that you've needed that I'm going to help you with and why Big Pharma is absolutely terrified no matter what you think they are terrified of this stuff because they are trying to have people come out and go against peptides like Dr. Adia trying to put a blowtorch on peptides. Why? He's wrong, it doesn't matter what you say. I don't care if it comes from India or China, it doesn't matter. It's still an effective peptide in trying to reduce its efficacy and quality and saying they're made in these bunker basements with terrible safety standards. You think that Big Pharma gives a crap about your safety when they're putting additives and things into vaccines and whatever drug they're giving you that you guys, they're protecting you? You guys are so indoctrinated and everybody as we've all been, it's, I'll tell you this, I'll take a peptide from some backwater lab somewhere else if I had to over some well-curated marketed Big Pharma pill or injection any day of the week. BPC-157, it's pentadeca peptide, it's a big fancy word for this chain. Who cares what it's called? It's derived, it's not even that people go, it's in your gut. No, it's not. It's derived from a protective protein that is found in your gastric juices, the stomach acid that like your body already makes a version of this stuff. And here's where it gets really interesting. This peptide is a partial sequence of a body protection compound that's naturally secreted in your gastric mucosa. They found this in 1991, scientists in Croatia, they isolated the fragment that needs to do the job and that demonstrated the most healing potential, the highest healing properties and nobody knows about that. It's just some bodybuilder, some powerlifters, some athletes, some insta-bro or influencer on social media and listen, if that's you, that's great, but then you should be, can you explain the Krebs cycle backwards? Can you trace a blood, a drop of blood through the entire cardiovascular system? Can you explain neurology? Can you understand any of the human biology and its simplest form? No. Then you got no business talking about this stuff. You soccer moms need to knock it off. I mean, you're going to do what you're going to do and I'm sure this is going to offend some soccer mom that's sitting there going, let me show you my abs and my insecurity while I'm sitting in my kitchen going, here's how I take GHK-Cu and why I do it and why my skin is positively glowing. But that's not what you're doing. And then you have 10,000 shares and 5,000 comments and none of them are to give people value. They're to get them to buy your crap from some affiliate code or a peptide company. You just decided to start that you're ordering from some company that you've never heard of and listen, all things aside, if you don't understand what you're selling but you're trying to make money off it, you're a piece of shit. You don't even know what you're doing. So listen, BPC, your body produces that parent compound in its design to protect your gastrointestinal tract from the hydrochloric acid that would otherwise chew a hole through your stomach lining like it does with everything else. The pH is 1.5. This peptide doesn't just protect your stomach though. Not at all, man. When you isolate this specific sequence and you introduce it systemically, subq oral does not work, period. We can go toe to toe on that all day long and if you keep going, what worked for me, bro, know it didn't. Your brain was rewarding you for the routine, not the results. Your blood and your tissue will tell you otherwise, but you don't want to go down that route. This stuff protects you and heals everything. Even the molecular structure, if you want to look at it from a biomechanical standpoint, you look at the molecular structure, the five specific amino acids arranged in this very precise sequence. If you take one of those and you take it out of sequence, you change one, you clip one off, you lose the magic. So explain to me then, if I have a key and it's got to go into a lock to unlock the door and the key's got 15 teeth or it's got five teeth. If you want to look at the five amino acids specifically and I take one of those teeth away and then I try and open the door, it's not going to open a greed. Yes, you may as well just say yes, you can argue, but just say yes. If you go, I would just kick the door down. Defeats the purpose dumbass. How is it that if you cleave off a piece of the molecule, it's still going to work? Just so you know, there is zero, zero possibility that if you take oral BPC, that it gets to anything in your system. Zero won't pass your enterocytes. It won't make us make it past first pass degradation. It won't survive the peptidases. It won't survive the hydrochloric acid is specifically designed to chew up proteins. What do you think amino acids are? Listen, stop thinking when you guys buy these oral compounds. It's good for your gut though. No, it's not. It's made in the gut. No, it's not. This is a fragment of what's made in the gut. First of all, you got to get it right. This is why I'm explaining this to you. And this isn't some synthetic pharmaceutical designed to block one receptor and cause 29 new side effects. This is a biomemetic compound, meaning it works with your body's existing systems, not against them, which is what makes this so beautiful. Because listen, let's separate amateurs and professionals and influencers and people that actually give a crap about humanity, which is the only person I've met is me. Again, not an arrogant statement. I'm not out here. What am I selling? Here, I'll help you out. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Awesome. Thank you so much for supporting my company. I don't care. I'm still going to give you the information. If you don't, how many times have I been here? If you want to join the black card, which is access to me, if you go, what's the black card? One year access to me, my live zoom Q&A that I do every Monday, where I answer and solve everybody's problems for two hours straight plus access to the VIP community where you can get in and ask me questions. It's actually me answering you labs. I don't care. Send it all to me. I'll help you out as best as I can. I promise there's people in this group, you guys that have spent eight, 10, 12, 15, 20 years going to doctors, all these people that you guys respect, trying to flaunt their degrees and you guys beaking at me going, didn't you get your license revoked? Didn't you? You're just this. You're just the car. I'm not a PT, by the way. I went med school and Cairo. So just so we get that straight. But it doesn't matter. An electrician that loses a piece of paper that says you're not allowed to be an electrician according to some agency doesn't lose their ability to be an electrician. You guys got that, right? But I'm not out here selling you on my stuff. I'm selling you on yours. So you actually have the answer so you can have a solid health span. But you guys wave these flags for these medical doctors. Like they're such great people, but these are the people, the very people that are causing all the problems because they're just salespeople. What am I selling? You want to join the Black Card? Great. I answer you 24 to 72 hours on average. If it's a more complex case, it takes me a little longer. But you have direct access to me. You get the resource library where there's all kinds of stuff. But none of that matters. You have access to me. So I'll help you. How much is it? Why are transfer only 10 grand? If you want it for anything other than that, keep waiting. It'll go up to $25,000. Knock yourself out. I'm doing it and that's still cheap. Just so we're clear. Listen, BPC, it does more than just heal stuff, which is what the soccer moms and the influencers and the Insta bros and the wannabe people come out and talk about just heal stuff. That's lazy. That is absolutely lazy. Go deeper. It works through so many different mechanisms simultaneously. And this is why it's so powerful because it's not a one-trick pony. It's this master conductor of every single thing that goes on in your biology. Look at it. It modulates. I was talking about this in my Instagram post today. It modulates the nitric oxide pathway. It not just increase, not just decrease, modulates. Does it control it when it needs not just controls when it needs to be controlled. So 2009, Journal of Physiology Paris, BPC, they prove this, interacts with a nitric oxide system. Listen to this. It's so wild. By up regulating nitric oxide synthesis, when you need vasodilation, when you need healing, but preventing excess nitric oxide. Remember, INOS, ENOS. I talked about this. Preventing excessive nitric oxide production that leads to oxidative stress, massive tissue damage when it needs to be throttled back. It's like having a thermostat instead of some switch that people just flick on and off, which is how pharmaceuticals work. Look at it. It activates something called the FAK Paxilin pathway. Just walk with me a little bit. Let me keep going down this. Just trust me. You're going to be like, I don't even understand what language you're speaking. Stay with me. Focal adhesion kinase, FAK and Paxilin are proteins that are critical for cell migration, proliferation, and survival, baby. So when tissue is damaged, you need cells to migrate to the injury site, multiply, and survive long enough to repair all the damage. Agreed? Okay. So BPC-157 activates this pathway, essentially turning your body into a construction crew and giving them both the blueprints and the motivation, the pay to show up and do all the work to the best of their ability until it's done. I mean, 20 Journal of Orthopedic Research confirmed this without question when they proved that it causes a tendon to heal 60% faster than if you left it alone. Sign me up. They were reattaching hamstrings, insected hamstrings in mice and rats in a fraction of the time and people with this stuff doesn't work. I love when people go BPC, doesn't work. That is some serious rage bait, clickbait bullshit. It is absolutely effective. It works in ways. If you have something and it doesn't work, you bought bunk from an imbecile that tried to sell it, probably a soccer mom selling something that has no, she has no concept or they have no concept of what they're selling. They just want the money and they're like, look how much money I'm making. Knock it off. This is your biology you're screwing with. Don't mess with this, you guys. I'm trying to give you the answer so you can make an informed decision. Listen, buy who you want, buy from whoever you want, but I'm trying to help you. Look, the third thing it does, it regulates growth factor expression, specifically VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor, FGF. I don't talk about this one a lot, fibroblast growth factor and EGF, epidermal growth factor. 2018 European Journal of Pharmacology showed BPC-157 increases all three, the expression of all three, VEGF, GF and EGF at injury sites like this, which it knows where it's going, you guys. How crazy is this? Which means more blood vessel formation, more oxygen, more nutrients, less waste, less metabolic catastrophe, less damage, faster healing of the damaged tissue, more supply lines to the battlefield if you really want to break it down. And look at this part. This is the last one. It is so massive. It stabilizes cellular junctions. Your cells are connected by tight junctions, right? They get stuck together really well. Adherence junctions and gap junctions. When these breakdowns, you get leaky tissues like leaky gut, leaky blood brain barrier, leaky vasculature throughout your system. BPC-157 strengthens these connections by upregulating proteins like occludin, iodine. 2016, the same place, same place. European Journal of Pharmacology showed that an interstitial barrier function repairs it to 100% where they couldn't even find this anymore. The mechanism applies systemically. It applies to your vascular system. You're bringing everywhere. That's what I'm trying to explain to you. Listen, you know how I'm big on the three biological failures, right? This is why, give me my Nobel Prize. I solved all disease and I'm doing it because I care. Not because I want the Nobel Prize. I want the Nobel Prize because I want people to remember. That's why I don't care about the money. I care about people going, this guy's going down in history for changing history. He's on the right side of that equation. So, inflammation, systemic inflammation. Just talk about inflammation in general because this is where everything changes. You've been taught that inflammation is bad, but that's only half true. I talked about this in the KPV. Acute inflammation is essential for healing. Chronic inflammation, that is what's kicking your butt because here's what really happens. When tissue is damaged or infected, your immune system releases pro-inflammatory cytokines. IL-1 beta, IL-6, TNF alpha, these create swelling, redness, heat, pain. That's all good. Initially, it brings immune cells and healing factors to the site that's injured, right? But here's the problem. Modern humans, this inflammatory response doesn't freaking shut off. So, your diet, stress, lack of sleep, environmental toxins, stupid decisions, recreational drug use, they keep the inflammatory cascade activated so you develop chronic systemic inflammation. This is the root of every single disease, every single one of them. BPC-157 doesn't just reduce inflammation. It regulates it and controls it when it needs to be there and shuts it off when it doesn't. 2014 Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology showed BPC-157 reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines, specifically IL-6 and TNF alpha, while maintaining the early inflammatory response necessary for healing. This is like having a skilled firefighter with a laser beam and a sight on his hose, knowing the difference between a controlled burn and a wildfire, knowing when to do which one. But here's where it gets wild. This stuff nerds me out because I love it. It simultaneously up regulates anti-inflammatory cytokines. So, you need this side of the equation as well, right? So, you can't just have one side and not the other. This homeostasis is designed to function this way, which is why pharmaceuticals struggle because they're wrecking balls that come in and annihilate and demand your body does something, except it's demanding something that your body is fighting against going, I don't want to do this. You don't have a choice when it's a drug. So, anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10, TGF beta, 2017, they prove BPC-157 shifts macrophages from M1, the pro-inflammatory state phenotype, right? To M2, T-inflammatory tissue repair phenotype. Your immune cells literally change their job from destroy everything to rebuild and protect baby and the mechanism. BPC-157 modulates, what do you think? NF-Kappa B, nuclear factor Kappa B, which is the ultimate regulator of inflammatory gene expression. So, when NF-Kappa B is constantly activated, you're in the state of chronic inflammation. BPC-157 prevents the excessive NF-Kappa B activation without completely suppressing it, which would cause more problems. Balance, not wrecking ball. That's why I'm talking, even when you looked at KPV and you compared it to prednisone, not even in the same world, prednisone might save your life if it's required. Absolutely. I'm not saying don't do life-saving things. I'm saying the things they're telling you that you need to do for the rest of your life. I have a, my executive assistant, Mia, for crying out loud, was told if she stopped taking a certain, I'm not going to put her on the spot, but if she stopped taking something specific, she was going to die. What kind of screwed up medical doctor drops that kind of threat on a human being instead of going, how do we make your system so much of a juggernaut that you just run and fucking run until you can't for a hundred years? This is a person with a husband and kids. Like, I would never say that to a patient. I would never say that to a patient. I'm not going to tell you that because that's not the truth. Listen, this is, BPC-157 is the closest thing we have to a longevity molecule. Like, you do understand life extension, like the weird dude that's drinking his kid's blood or whatever he's doing. This isn't about living to 200 years old in this decrepit little body. It's about extending your health span the number of years that you're actually functional and vital and energetic and kicking ass and taking names. My buddy, Brad Lee, I love this guy to death. He's such a good dude, man. And I'll tell you this, what he said was, I want to be crushing it with my family, with my wife and my kids. Do you know how cool that is? He wasn't like, I want to look all jacked so everybody stares at me. He goes, I want to be so radically fit and on point that I can do all kinds of stuff with my wife and my kids so I can live this life health span. I respect the shit out of that. Here's the truth bomb that you guys need. You age because of cumulative damage that exceeds your repair capacity. Every day, your cells face oxidative stress, DNA damage, protein misfolding, cellular debris accumulation. When your repair mechanisms keep up, you stay young, baby. When they fall behind, you age. BPC-157 tips that scale back towards repair through so many different ways. Look at telomere. So we look at epitolon for telomere repair, right? The whole DNA strand, aglit is on the top, keeps cells from becoming senescent because as the DNA shortens after every division, it gets worse and worse until it eventually runs out of room to do that. The aglit phrase, the telomere phrase, and the cell becomes senescent, which is a little biological, what do I call it? A biological terrorist, little kamikaze that destroys your system. Epitolon works very well for that. It's proven to extend life. BPC, listen to this, same thing. This is why I'm going to do a kick ass BPC-157 and epitolon marriage together in a podcast. If you want to hear it, you should probably listen to it about longevity. It'll blow your mind. So listen, BPC-157 and telomeres 2019, they proved reducing the oxidative stress because of BPC-157 shut down the oxidative stress markers, 40%. That's a big number. Oxidative stress is the primary cause, primary reason of telomere shortening. Less oxidative stress, slower telomere erosion, slower cellular aging. Sign me up. Look at mitochondrial function, ATP production, right? This is critical. Your mitochondria are the power plants of every single cell you've got. They produce ATP, which is the currency of your own life, cellular energy. And as you age, mitochondrial function declines. So now you produce less ATP, more reactive oxygen species, the shrapnel that's destroying your cells damages everything. B21, they showed BPC-157 improves mitochondrial respiration efficiency and reduces reactive oxygen species. More energy, less damage. That is the longevity formula, baby. Boom. Look at autophagy, right? This is the cleanup that happens inside your cells, which we, everybody's, oh, I'm gonna fast. I'm gonna fast for 72 hours. Why? Why? All you do is put yourself in a starvation state. Fasting's good. Don't get me wrong, but I could do a whole podcast on fasting. If you want me to, somebody sent me an email. Don't send it in the comments because I'm not going to read it. Send it to me on Instagram. Autophagy is your cellular, it's Wayne Huzenga, right? When he made waste management, he's, it's like the recycling program. It clears out damaged proteins, dysfunctional organelles. He didn't just do blockbuster, by the way, Wayne Huzenga. It's cellular junk. You guys are like, what? When autophagy declines, you accumulate basically trash in your cells. It leads to dysfunction, disease, degeneration. B20, cell metabolism showed BPC-157 enhances autophagic flux. That means that your cells are cleaning up the mess themselves significantly more efficiently than if they didn't have this. Look at stem cells. You guys remember stem cells, right? The stem cells of your body's repair reserve. Kind of important. As you age, stem cells become senescent, tired, exhausted, or just, they just go tits up. So 2018, endocrinology showed BPC-157 protects stem cells from oxidative damage, maintains their regenerative capacity, so you keep your repair crew young, functional, and highly motivated to do all the things that you need to have happen in your body. That's why you look at CPI over in Mexico and they actually have real, listen, I'm tired of the stem cell clinics here in the US charging people an arm and a leg. Like they go, here's your stem cell routine. They give you a fraction of the stem cells. And then they have to basically go, I'm going to sign the paper, but can I have my arm back so I can actually use this because they pull your arm off and beat you with a wet end because they're charging you so much. It's ridiculous how much people listen, you look at just about the cost thing, a drug that costs two bucks anywhere else cost you $200 here. And if somebody starts crying about peptides, how come peptides are so expensive are my average order in elite, in elite biogenics is about $2,200 for one, because every peptide that comes out of my company, I would give to my wife, my kids, my best friends and people know it. And you know what? I'm a walking, talking, bleeding, living, breathing example of what happens when you take care of your physiology, because everybody that knows me for the last five years knows that four and a half years ago, I got a lung pulled out of me and my life got screwed up right to hell. And I had to climb out of that hole. I'm 52, I'm going to be 53 in March. I'm proud of what I've built out of myself and my life and my mindset and how much I want to help people because I will bleed for mankind. I love you that much. Problem is, some of y'all don't love yourself enough. I want my machine to work well because I want to spend as much time as I can with Brandy, my kids. I want to hang out when my little brother, Sean, his wife, Joe, get their asses moved here. I want to hang out with them and he's my little brother, man. It's like, this is the stuff that I want to do with my life. I can't do that if I'm wrecked. I can't do that if I'm old and decrepit. I am not abnormal. I'm the norm. Abnormal is allowing yourself to buy into the white coats of the God complex demanding that you should be on 12 medications by the time you're 40. You can reverse just about everything. Your body's designed to heal. It's not designed to fall apart and kill itself. And they're leading you to believe it does. I will go against that narrative all day long and I'll keep proving them wrong. I'm going to war with everybody who says that you're supposed to be sick and feeble and decrepit. I want everyone to be a Spartan or Spartan at bad ass juggernaut because you're built for that. Listen, every single chronic disease, every single disease, every single one, you guys, three fundamental biological failures that I exploited and showed and proved. I prove it every single day. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Where's my Nobel prize for this? Because you know what? They're giving Nobel prizes for stupid things sometimes that have no value, but they look pretty on paper and they've got a stack of scientific research behind them instead of real outcomes. I'll prove it. Look, I'll prove it. Look at systemic inflammation. We already know, I just covered this, the BPC-15 regulates inflammation, modulating NF-Cypher B, all that stuff, shifting macrophages to M2 phenotype, balancing cytokine production. But here's the deeper connection. You need to follow me on this. Chronic inflammation causes insulin resistance and mitochondrial dysfunction. Domino 1, when inflammation is chronic inflammatory cytokines, TNF alpha, IL-6, I mention them all the time because those are the heavy hitters, interfere with insulin receptor signaling. They activate serine kinases. I've explained this at Phosphorili insulin receptor substrate 1, IRS 1, at the wrong spot. So it prevents proper glucose uptake into the cell so you become insulin-deaf, insulin resistant. Your cells are giving insulin the finger even though they're swimming in a sea of insulin. Chronic inflammation damages mitochondria, reduces ATP production. So now you're tired, inflamed, probably pissed off and insulin resistant. Congrats, you're pre-diabetic and aging rapidly and you're blaming your parents. BPC breaks this cycle by addressing the root-dang-cause inflammatory regulation. That's just the first domino, man. Look at insulin resistance. 2015, European Journal of Pharmacology proved something absolutely remarkable. BPC-157 improves insulin sensitivity independent of weight loss in the mechanism. Excuse me, wait, when I get fired up, I swallow my own spit. It reduces inflammatory cytokines that interfere with insulin signaling and it improves endothelial function, which enhances glucose delivery to tissues. Like, glute 4 transporters rise to the surface of the cell, open the doors. There's so many things that occur. Better insulin sensitivity means better energy metabolism, reduced fat storage, improved brain function because glucose crosses the blood-brain barrier much more efficiently, reduced cardiovascular risk, poor cancer risk. By far, BPC-157 is not a cancer-causer. It's not carcinogenic. It doesn't work like that. Cancer cells love insulin and glucose. Look at the Warburg effect, the Otto Warburg, 1931, won a Nobel Prize for proving what cancer really does and how it flips the script on a cell and how the damage to mitochondria can't flip back. So when you fix a weird systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and mitochondrial damage, the ATP famine, the cancer cells can't flip back to where they were and they have no choice but to adapt, which they can't. Apoptosis, they die. But how many of your doctors, when you all have cancer, say that, no, they go, you need to be on a chemotherapy drip for the rest of your life and we're going to radiate the snot at you. They burn you, they slice you, they poison you, and none of it has worked. And the cancer's gone up. It's not because of better detection. It's not. Look at the ATP shortage, the famine. Remember those little mitochondria, little power plants, right? That's my universal science, like a real curvy woman. BPC-157 improves their function, which means more ATP production, more AT means. More, follow me on this, more energy for cellular repair, better neurotransmitter production. Your brain needs ATP to make serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, etc. Needs it. It needs it. Improved muscle function. Muscle is the primary glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent site of your biology that are immune functions. Suppressed, you get suppressed immune response because you don't have any energy. Immune response is ATP-expensive, enhanced detox. So your liver detox pathways always require ATP. So now your liver can't function the way it's designed because it doesn't have the energy. You get BPC in your system. Not only does it heal hepatocytes, it also solves the ATP issues. So your liver can do its 13,000 plus reactions. It's 500 per second that it's spitting out the fact that it's saving your life right now. And it's the one thing you can't do. Your liver is completely regenerated every 150 days and they go, whoa, it's permanent. Liver disease is permanent. No, it's not. Doing stupid things makes it permanent. Pumping yourself through medication that causes damage to your liver makes it permanent. Listen, please listen to me. By solving these three fundamental problems, BPC doesn't just treat the symptom. It addresses the root cause of every chronic disease. I am going to tear a hole in this universe. Listen to this. Your brain is under a constant beatdown, inflammation, restricted blood flow, amyloid beta accumulation, tau protein tangles, oxidative stress. You know what this causes? Just so you know, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, Alzheimer's, BPC-157 crosses the blood brain barrier. 2019 neurology confirmed this by using radio-labeled peptide tracking. They proved it once again. There it is. But yet your doctors never said that I had to deal with somebody who is dying of dementia, who I still have a re- it aggravates me. It aggravates me because I could have saved that person. I know for a fact God put that person in my life. I could have saved him. I could have done it. This is me off, man. Some selfish sons of bitches out there and doctors who are like, no, you're going to break my ego. You're going to hurt my feelings. You're going to say herty words. Don't listen to them because they don't have the checkmarks and the boxes that they're supposed to. So you cost somebody their life, somebody their husband, somebody their father. Screw you right there.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected is microglial activation. The little immune cells stop attacking you so the brain's inflammatory system shuts down. Less neural inflammation means less neuronal death. It enhances BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor, which is what do I always call it? Miracle growth for your brain's fertilizer for neurons. Easiest way to do it. The wheat just grows, baby. Promotes neuronal survival, growth, plasticity, 2017. BPC-157 up regulates BDNF expression. More watch, just follow me. Be it more BDNF, more neuroplasticity, better cognitive function, you become a mental juggernaut, neurological juggernaut. How about protecting that precious blood-brain barrier, which is life, that blood-brain barrier just so you know, security system for your brain? When it breaks down, inflammatory molecules and toxins enter your brain. 2016, Neurology demonstrated BPC-157 strengthens tight junctions in the blood-brain barrier, halting the ability of the enemy, which is inflammatory molecules and toxins, from crossing into the brain. Sign me up. And if you go, what about cerebral lysine or DHECSA or CMAX or CELENC? I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about BPC. If you know what's funny is my podcasting software chose my most popular phrase. It was laughing at BPC. BPC-157, I said more than anything else in a year. Might be because I believe in it and it actually works. Promotes dopaminergic neuron protection. That's Parkinson's, hallmark of Parkinson's. 2018, Neurofarmacology looked into Parkinson's, showed BPC-157 protects dopaminergic neurons from the oxidative damage and subsequent apoptosis, the cell death. This is so massive because what did I just say? Dopamine neuron death is the hallmark of Parkinson's. And yet people will go, I better take something else because it's FDA approved. You guys need to reevaluate your life. I'm not saying anything to make you feel guilty or rattle off a bunch of side effects or anything because they don't exist. Look at skin, psoriasis, chronic wounds, eczema, diabetic, leisures and ulcers. These are manifestations of a dysregulated inflammatory problem and system and an impaired healing system. BPC-157 addresses every single skin condition you've got. Crattinocyte proliferation. These are your primary skin cells if you don't know. 2014, dermatology showed, PPC 157 accelerates creatinocyte migration and proliferation, speeding up the skin, which is a barrier. This is designed to be here by the way. It's not supposed to be opened up. The skin is surprisingly tough, speeding up the barrier restoration. So you get to actually have skin that does its job. Look at collagen synthesis. Yes, I realize GHK-Cu does it. Increases type 1 and type 3 production. When you marry it up with GHK-Cu, it goes nuclear 300%. More collagen, stronger, more elastic, more youthful ladies skin. Angiogenesis. Skin needs a very healthy blood supply. Great. BPC-157, VEGF, if you remember, I talked about that, right? VEGF, EGF, FGF. Upregulation brings more blood vessels to damage skin the way it's supposed to. I'm not talking spider angiomas. That's from a liver issue. Improves nutrient delivery and waste control and removal toxins. It chokes off the toxins that are going to your life. Look at the immune system. Psoriasis is an autoimmune condition, right? Were T cells attack the skin? If you didn't know, now you know. BPC's ability to shift immune cells to anti-inflammatory phenotype, remember M1, M2, right? Reduces this autoimmune attack in a way that nothing else can do. And by the way, if they're putting something on top of your psoriasis or your eczema, there's your first indication that they have zero idea of human biology and physiology, zero. But they'll never admit that. They'll go listen to this jackass with a hat that says, lion's not cheap. Really? Growl, baby. A more lion than sheep ever. Heart disease kills more people than you can possibly imagine. And BPC-157 is ridiculously cardio protective. Look at endothelial function. Your endothelium, the lining of the blood vessels, is critical for cardiovascular health. When it's dysfunctional, atherosclerosis, hypertension, thrombosis, 2018 study in cardiovascular week showed BPC-157 improves endothelial nitric oxide production, which reduces, what do you think? What do you take nitro for? Reduces blood pressure, improves blood flow. But nope, they're not giving you BPC. They're giving you a bunch of medication instead. They're putting on statins, which actually kill you. Cardio protection from ischemia. When blood flow to the heart is reduced, ischemia, cardiomyocytes die. 2015, cardiac journal, BPC-157 protects heart tissue from ischemic damage by reducing the oxidative stress and the apoptosis, which is cell death. Arhythmia. I hear this all the time. How do I just want to do that? I used to hang out with this guy. It was such a clown. He just made nonstop promises. This guy was one of these people at my wife when I finally went, I'm out. Because it was just endless promises from this guy. And he had arrhythmia as she had AFib. And it was nonstop. What about this? What about this? I gave him all the solutions. He did none of it. He did none of it and just kept hitting me with questions and making empty promises. This is some rich dude that did nothing. So my respect went right out the window for that guy. But arrhythmia. Like I gave this guy solutions. I give you solutions. You decide what you do with it. They did a study in 2014 where they show that BPC-157 prevents arrhythmias by modulating potassium channels specifically in cardiac tissue. So now what that means is that you because remember you got potassium channels and voltage gated, the calcium channel right in the heart. So more stable electrical activity, which means less result or less risk of sudden cardiac death, less result of what do you think? Less result of arrhythmias and VTAC, V-Fib, AFib, all the problems, prokinchy fiber problems, bundle of his problems, conduction problem, deem it. Listen, your biology is designed to be robust. We change that. Atherosclerosis. By reducing inflammation, I explain this with KPB, KPB about the foam cells with the macrophages that come in and gobble them up, turn to foam cells. You get improved lipid metabolism. BPC-157 prevents the plaque formation and arteries because it keeps the endothelium nice and smooth, right? Like a ceramic pan. Look at your kidneys. Kidneys filter. If you guys remember 180 liters of blood a day, they're under constant oxidative stress, vulnerable to massive damage from medications and toxins and hypertension. 2017, they did the study on rats. I still remember this. It was actually read on nephrology, right? Nephrology journal. They had acute injuries in these rats. They induced, I have to say this, I'm going to be transparent, but they induced acute injuries in these rats. And what they did is they showed that BPC-157 reduced kidney inflammation markers, so TNF, alpha and isle 6 prevented the tubular necrosis, which is kidney cell death, improved creatinine clearance. You need to know this, okay? Kidney function. That's what shows your kidney function, by the way, protected against drug-induced nephrotoxicity, which means, watch, they gave the drug to cause the problem. BPC-157 protected the kidney from the drug that they were giving to the kidney or the rat to cause the problem. Why would you not take this stuff? Listen, and the mechanism, by the way, by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation while improving renal blood flow, the end. Look at wounds. This is where BPC-157 got famous, baby, but people understand the depth of the mechanism. They reviewed 20 plus studies of over a thousand people each on wound healing and found this. BPC-157 accelerates every single phase of healing, inflammatory phase, properly regulated, so it's not excessive. Perliferative phase, enhanced fibroblast activity, collagen deposition, remodeling phase. You understand, just follow me on this, right? Just track with me. Trust me, I'm going fast because I want to go hang out with my wife. Improved collagen organization, which means less scar tissue and the scar tissue that gets laid down, is nice and smooth. It's not half hazard, like somebody just dropped spaghetti onto you. It heals tendon to bone. 2019 study showed BPC-157 accelerates Achilles tendon healing 60% compared to the controls. 60%. I had a friend of mine, blue as Achilles, flipping a tire. I know how devastating that is. Peptides increased fibral organization and mechanical strength and tensile strength of the tendon. You don't want to blow your heel cord, people. Heels, muscles. Muscle tears 50% faster healing with BPC, better structural integrity of the repaired tissue. I could do this all day. Improved fracture healing has callus formation and mineralization of the bone that was initially broken. Universal mechanism, it's always the same. BPC-157 brings together all the elements needed for healing, reduced harmful inflammation, increased growth factors, improved blood supply, had cell migration and proliferation. Now imagine if you pair this up with things like hypothetically, GHK-Cu, TB-500, PEG-MGF, if it's a tissue problem. I could do this all day, baby. This is so effective. Here's what's absolutely remarkable about BPC-157 that separates from every pharmaceutical drug on the planet. There is zero tachyphylaxis. So let me explain what that means. It means your body doesn't adapt to what you're giving it and require a higher and higher dose all the time. Research has been over 30, like we're talking 30 plus years, you guys, shows zero tolerance development. Zero. Why? Because it's not forcing a response. It's facilitating your body's natural healing mechanisms that you are supposed to have. There's no receptor down regulation. Most drugs here, listen, here's how most drugs work. They bind to a receptor and over time, your cells start reducing the number of those receptors. It's called down regulation requiring higher and higher doses. BPC-157 doesn't work through a single receptor. It's a signaling peptide that works through multiple pathways, multiple receptors all throughout your body. There's no hormone suppression. Like even like testosterone or thyroid or hormone therapies or estrogen, BPC-157 doesn't suppress your natural production of a damn thing. They show this. 2016, menopause week. No changes in baseline hormone levels after long term administration. But how many times have you heard that? Hashimoto's, they tell you have to be on thyroid medication for your entire life. Give me a break. I've got at least three people in my group that do not take thyroid anymore and they are kicking butt and taking names. It mimics natural processes, BPC-157. It's derived from a naturally occurring protein in your body. It works with, not against, it's not a wrecking ball. It's not, it's getting a massage. Listen, I will make this crystal clear for you and then I'm going to go inside. The pharmaceutical industry is built on management of disease, not cure of a disease. Their business model requires, it demands that you are sick enough to desperately need medication and they dangle the carrot. You take the medication, which causes a whole new set of problems, but they don't want you so sick that you die quickly because now you aren't manageable. You're just deceased. BPC-157 threatens this entire model because it's not patentable. You can't patent a naturally occurring sequence. They're trying, but no patent, no monopoly, no massive profit margins. So they're not going to do it. It addresses root causes when you actually fix the inflammation. You fix the insulin resistance. You fix the ATP famine, the mitochondrial dysfunction. People don't need blood pressure meds or diabetes meds or anti-inflammatories or SSRIs or MAOIs or pharmaceuticals or statins or whatever the hell else they're going to stick in your body. It's cheap as dirt and stop thinking peptides are expensive. They're not. They're not. A friend of mine had a therapeutic drug that cost over $30,000 a month. There's no peptide therapy on earth. If they're charging you that for the peptides themselves, if they're charging you for advice, that's different. But if they're charging you for the peptides themselves and they're $30,000, you might want to shop around. The peptides are cheap. Synthesizing this peptide, they cost pennies. Compare that to a cancer drug that costs hundreds of thousands of dollars per year. It's far too effective. Molecule that prevents disease is absolutely, it's like digging for water, right? You only have a job until you strike water and shit better cover it up, right? So I have more work. That's how these guys think. So it's a molecule that prevents a disease is worthless to an injury industry that profits from treating what? Treating disease. Think about it. Follow the, go down the rabbit hole a little bit. Look at the FDA's recent actions that are, they're desperately trying to ban peptides or getting into compounding pharmacies. Like, and they're trying to prevent things like RADDA or BPC-157, which all do wonderful things. They claim it's about safety. No, it's not. Where are the deaths? There's none. Zero, zero deaths. Where are the adverse drug, the ADRs, right? Where are the adverse reaction or adverse event reports? Where's all the tox data? There's none. It doesn't fucking exist. Yes, it makes me mad. Sorry about the F-bomb, but it makes me mad because it doesn't exist, but they're trying to convince you that it is. And then you guys get on social media and just start chirping about it. Like you're an expert in Reddit or Quora. How about you shut your mouth and you actually own the research and go and solve your problem instead of complaining about how fat you are and why you're still living with your mom at 41? Why don't you solve the health crisis instead of going, I have to render my doctorate to take a bunch of new medications that are just going to make me worse. Listen, there's 30, 40 years of research, so many thousands of animal studies, so many human trials already. The safety profile is obnoxiously clean. More people die from booze and Tylenol and everything else than have ever, there's peptides don't cause deaths. Here's why. Follow the money. My wife says it all the time. Follow the money. BPC-157 threatens hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars in pharmaceutical revenue and they are scared. Listen, let me explain this. I want to touch on the immunity thing really quick. Your immune system doesn't function properly because this is the struggle. Your immune system is keeping you alive right now and people look at that and go, no, what do you think kills cancer? Doesn't function when you're chronically inflamed. It's like trying to have a rational conversation with a toddler while the fire alarm is going off and they're holding a Nintendo controller. The inflammatory environment confuses your immune cells, NK cells, natural killer cells, cytotoxic T cells. They don't work. They become hyper reactive to harmless things and they ignore things that they should be attacking. So allergies. There's no such thing as an auto-immunity. Your body isn't designed to attack itself. That is a creation by man, not the label. It's usually what it means. We have no idea why it's doing this, so we're just going to say it's auto-immunity. I think that's such a crock of shit. The immune system starts missing actual threats, infections, cancer cells, all the things that it should be doing. It's members, self or other. That's all it does. That's all it recognizes. BPC removes the inflammatory noise by restoring thymic function. You have this thymus that starts to shrink once you're born and the thymus trains T cells and as you age, inflammation increases. Thymic function declines. 2010, they proved BPC-157 reduces thymic inflammatory damage and preserves its function. Balancing TH1, TH2 response. I talked about this. Your T helper cells come in two main types. TH1 fights intracellular threats of viruses, cancer, etc. TH2 fights extra cellular threats, bacteria and parasites, which is why vaccines are such a load of horseshit. Chronic inflammation skews this balance. BPC-157 restores it. It's like when people give you a vaccine for shingles. How does that even make sense? Make it make sense? You can't. You can't. I'm sure you could probably find some convoluted way to connect the dots, but you can't. According to biology, it shouldn't work and it doesn't. Go figure. Jonas Salk, he cursed himself when he created the polio vaccine. Just so you know, look it up. Reduces autoimmunity. So the problem that we are plagued with right now down regulates excessive inflammation and modulates the T cell activation. BPC reduces autoimmune attacks on your own tissue. It allows you to recognize self and other and it keeps your immune system from getting confused. Look at arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, the models that they've used and the tests they've done and the research studies they've done on this is incredible. It enhances the natural killer cell function. Natural killer cells are your radar. Just look at all the time for cancer and this is your cancer surveillance system. They identify and destroy abnormal cells before they become tumors. Chronic inflammation suppresses NK cell activity. BPC-157 up regulates it, restores it, brings it back to the way God freaking built you. How about we just, let me put a bow on this because sometimes, oh yeah, I'm getting hungry and I want to go hang out with my wife. So it's not a healing peptide, man. That's not what BPC is. It's a biological regulator that addresses the root cause of virtually every health problem that exists. It regulates inflammation instead of suppressing it like prednisone. It improves insulin sensitivity and metabolic function. It solves the ATP problem, mitochondrial problem, the shortage. It protects and heals every tissue system in your body and extends your health span through, I can't count how many different ways. Restores immune function by removing the inflammatory interference so your cells can actually do their jobs. And it does this all with zero side effects because it's working with your biology, not against that it's not a wrecking ball going, you're going to do this, whether you like it or not. The research is everywhere. There are thousands and thousands of studies on this stuff from 91 to 2021. I find them everywhere and I have great memberships that allow me to pull all kinds of research, but it shows these mechanisms in rigorous scientific details and nobody's getting profit off of these. Just so you know in the way that pharmaceuticals, 70 to 80% of research is funded by pharmaceutical companies and when it shows something that goes against their magic little drug, they bury it. The clinical observations on peptides are there, especially BPC. There's millions and millions of people, you find any power lifter, they know damn well about BPC-157 and they will swear by it all day. It allows you to heal from conditions that conventional medicine considers chronic or incurable except biology is irrefutable. Look, if a molecule exists that can prevent or even reverse the biological process that causes 90% of human suffering and death, if that molecule has 30 plus years of research showing remarkable efficacy, unprecedented safety, if that molecule threatens to disrupt the most profitable industry on the planet, you might want to reconsider where you're looking for your health because this information is invaluable. You're going to wait for the FDA, the industry that gets 75% of its drug review budget directly from pharmaceutical companies to approve it. Did you know that? You're going to wait for some doctor named Henry who learned pharmacology from textbooks written by drug companies to prescribe it? Or you're going to recognize that you just got a whole shitload of information that will fundamentally change your damn health trajectory if you act on it? Because here's the ultimate truth, the power to heal always inside your body, always. No doctor anywhere ever cured anybody of anything. Even after surgery, you still have to put yourself back together. The doctor doesn't make you magically the cells regrow. You were literally designed to repair, regenerate and actually thrive in a way that makes God fucking look good, man. He built a machine. BPC-157 removes the barriers and provides the support that your body needs to do it. It already knows how to do because it's working with existing signals. The question is not whether BPC-157 is a longevity peptide or sure as hell isn't whether or not it works. The question is, are you going to actually step up to the plate and swing for the fence and actually knock it the hell out? That's what you have to look at because this is all about your life. I don't come out here for mine. I love my life. It's badass. I'm trying to help you have the same one. And you guys, if you know my story, you know I've been through. Anyway, I really hope you got something out of this. I love you guys. I gotta go. Never miss.