Today's most of you guys about to listen to this are going to lose your marbles when I explain this. If you see me shaking holding this cup, I don't know if you can see it. You see that? This wrist hurts. It's like an 11 out of 10. I don't really like you can see it swollen. Like I don't know if you can see right here. You see all the needle marks on my wrist. I look like a pin cushion today because I've taken KPV is hands down the best local anti-inflammatory on the planet by the way. Makes predinazone look gay. It is. It's so good. And uh don't take too much. You'll have a big old herz reaction. I'm telling you, fantastic. I mean, it was to the point where I could barely open and close my hand today because of so much swelling in here. Swelling causes most of the pro like inflammation causes most of your problems in life to be honest. Really, I and I talk about this all the time, but this stuff like I've had issues with my wrist. It came on very instantaneous. Subtle in the morning and by the end of the day I could no grip strength, couldn't hold anything. Can almost not hold like like holding up the coffee is pretty challenging. I talked about it yesterday, but what I have been doing is like I said, stabbing the life out of me with peptides. And I can I couldn't do this yesterday. It's radial and ulnar deviation that kind of bug me a little bit, right? And uh and loading it. If I had to load it for a a push-up, I would just be dead. It would be challenging. But today, go you guys are about ready to go bananas. So, I had an interesting question. I had a really interesting You guys throw all the questions at me. By the way, if you if you throw a stupid question, yes, there are such thing as stupid questions. I'm not going to answer it. I'm not going to make a podcast out of if you're like, "Oh, let's see if he does it." Man, I'm not [\h__\h] Mikey from the Life Serial commercial. It's if you know, you know. But what I'm going to tell you is if it's something that's got some value, that means other people want to know the answer, too. So, respect the podcast and respect what I'm bringing to the table. And if you can't, you don't belong here. I don't want you here. and I will find you and get you pound like just get you the [\h__\h] out of here. So listen before we go I I need to open with this. This isn't meant to treat, cure, prescribe, diagnose, advise, triage. It is only hypothetical, educational, entertaining. It is theoretical and none of this is even real. This is all fabricated. This is like watching Transformers and thinking that Bumblebee is going to roll around the corner. If you know, you know. All right. Now, can we get started? Trenalone. Yeah, I knew you guys were about ready to lose your mind. Trend. Tren. Yeah. The the most pretty much one of the most powerful substances on the planet. Holy moly. That stuff that stuff is unreal. When I see what it does to people, turns you into a juggernaut. And right there, I just lost most of you guys. So, listen to me. 7 minutes. Listen. 7 minutes. That's the average time it takes for a scared Listen, shut up and stop thinking you know more than me in this. You don't. Some Insta Bodybuilder. I don't care how many how many IFBB Pro trophies you've won or how many Olympias you've won or how many competitions you've been. First of all, bodybuilding is not a real sport. It is discipline. Absolutely. It's insane what you guys do, but you're not an athlete. So, stop it. Stop getting mad. You chose it. Yours is how to get as large and jacked and symmetrical as possible. That's not a sport. That's not a sport. Because if if I'm I'm going to tell you right now before because I'm sure I just pissed off so many people. I really don't [\h__\h] care. You guys need to grow up. It's not a sport. Bodybuilding is not a sport. It's ridiculous. Do I think it has its it's its merit? Absolutely. If you're not doing bodybuilding movements in your training, you're an idiot. You're leaving so much on the table because you need to. But it's not a sport. Again, put a bodybuilder against a tight end or a running back. I'll wait. They're going to get murdered. And if you go, "Well, yeah, but what can they lift?" Probably the same amount of weight, just faster and better and more times. I I don't know. Bumpstead is the only, however you say his last name, is about the only one I've ever seen who is an athletic son of a [\h__\h] That guy, holy [\h__\h] I watched him doing jump squats on a mat. That guy can get some vertical and he is not a small human. So, man, if you ever hear this, dude, I got nothing but respect for you because you are See, I can't I can't do this. I got to force it. Force it in there. You are a savage human being. That's all I got to say. But listen to me, please. I come out here to help. 7 minutes is the average time for a scared, very frail, elderly person to die. To die after a fall that breaks their hip. 7 minutes. It is the longest 7 minutes of their short remaining time on this planet. I'm not kidding. That's a horrible thing to think of. This is a very serious conversation. You think I'm joking when I talk about Tremble? No, I'm not. You guys have been You guys demonize everything because of some idiot out there, some Reddit forum or some Kora forum or a bunch of experts that parrot research. they can't even pronounce 3/4 of the words on. I mean, 7 minutes of pain and terror and the crushing realization that their body has absolutely betrayed them. They didn't die from the break, by the way. They died from the chain reaction of systemic failures that followed it, the loss of m muscle, the brittle bones. It was a countdown that started decades earlier. That last 7 minutes was just the end. It was just the icing on a very terrible cake. And here's the problem is we accept this. I've said this many times. You need to get it through your head. We accept this as a natural part of aging. It's not. It is biological surrender. It is psychological surrender. And I promise I'm going to talk about trendone in a way that you probably have never heard. I don't care if you have an open mind or not. Don't get in here and start quoting your own research. Just don't put it in my I'm about ready to turn off comments, by the way, because some of you guys are such [\h__\h] [\h__\h] It's unbelievable. I have I have people telling me what some of you jack wagons what you guys are just a bunch of bag of dicks. Like what is wrong with you guys? You guys five. It's unbelievable to look at what you guys get in and how mad you get when I'm right even though you're like you're not right. The micro doing was the most hilarious thing in the world. You guys got so pissed off, but yet you're a bunch of ass clowns. Go back to pumping each other behind the woods, man. Like what is wrong with you guys? Grow up. If you want to be a toddler, don't do it in my house. Because if you were here in my house, I'd smack you in the mouth because the disrespect is appalling because it's tolerated. Because you do it behind the safety of a screen. Do it in front of my face. Do it in front of anybody's face. See what happens. The part knock your teeth in or give you a give you a good hard lesson, throw you a beaten on the mat. So, let me tell you, as 52year-old, you should be concerned. But the point is, grow up, man. I come out here to help you. So, if you're going to get in my comments and act like a toddler, I just turn off comments and problem solved. But trenbalone is the most powerful and demonized tool that we have to stop the surrender, the biological and psychological surrender. I have to unlock this wrist. Just let that just dangle in the air a little bit by hearing the word trenalone. And how many of you guys just lost your mind? You've been conditioned. You've been conditioned by the bodybuilding bros that think they're experts because they don't even know how to do a cycle, right? Like most of you guys taking testosterone have no clue what you're doing. You're doing it because you somebody else told you to do it or you looked it up on chat GPT because that's always accurate. You guys do know that chat GPT is a pleaser, right? Did have you figured that out yet? Are you just that ignorant? It doesn't give you the right answer. It gives you the answer that makes you feel good. It wants to please you. What are you going to do when it doesn't do that? All a sudden it decides to go full Skynet on you. I'll wait. The word trenbalone triggers this mental soundtrack of bro science horror stories all day. It's going to melt your liver. It it it turns you into this jealous psycho paranoid sex crazed monster. It's pure poison. Like you guys, it's you guys think it's like a Voldemort to the supplement world. Steroids shall not be named in polite company. Like that's what you think. You're right. If you're a mindless idiot, a chainsaw, I don't know, a skill saw. Lawn darts. They're also pure poison. If you try and do something to each other with it, a car is a weapon. Most of you guys drive. I'm going to tell you, cars have killed more people than traalolone. Yet, most of you muppets drive. Listen, in the hands of somebody that knows what they're doing, it is a tool of breathtaking precision. The problem isn't the tool. It's the ignorance of the people using it. It's a lack of intelligence guiding its use. And I think you need to really understand that, which is why I'm Yes, it pisses me off because the ignorance of the world right now is so overwhelming. And just so you know, I talked to one of my really good friends. His name's Heath. He's uh he's also my attorney and he's a great great dude, man. He is hyper intelligent. And we were talking about health care outside of the US and health care within the US and how it is so radically different and we are so conditioned to think that we have the best healthcare in the world. Not a [\h__\h] chance. Not a chance. The healthcare here is embarrassing. It is embarrassing. It is it is managed decline and sickness management. There is no healthcare here because it would cost them their trillion dollars that they're gleaning and bulking from the population. So, I'm going to put an I'm going to run Trenolone through an autopsy with you guys and I will explain it using real knowledge and real science and pharmaccoinetics and neurology. And I'm going to debunk all your little fairy tales that that you guys run a dialogue in your head about and show you that this molecule when you actually wield it with the right thing with the with the right knowledge isn't just less toxic than you think. It could be the closest thing you have to a legitimate longevity hack. Holy [\h__\h] Did you guys just freak out when you heard that? A way to build a body that resists decay? Why would you not want to do that? I'm not talking about some insane super physiology physiological dosage that you can't that you need a whole jug of this stuff every day. But you guys have been sold a narrative that's designed to keep you weak and dependent on a system that profits from your decline. I'm trying with all I've got to give you back the truth. Let me explain what trenbolone actually is. Just get molecular for a second. Follow me. Because if you don't understand the engine, you're always going to be afraid of all the horsepower it's creating. So just follow me. Imagine imagine testosterone as the factory standard human sports car, right? You sit there, that's your your sports car. It's reliable. It's effective. It's the blueprint for male vitality. We've talked about this a ton. Trenolone is that same car brought to a specialist. It's like my 911 brought to Shark Works and it's been rebuilt with a space age engine that's like they pulled it out of the Millennium Falcon and it actually works. The hardened chassis, nitrous oxide system, it's just the fundamental design is there, but it's performance characteristics are just next level. You with me so far? The magic lies in two chemical alterations to the testosterone base structure. Okay, there's so much chemistry behind this, but you really need to know this. The 910 double bond. This is a genius modification in your body. An enzyme called aromatase. It converts testosterone into estrogen. This is why guys on highdose test can get bloated and develop gyno, right? [\h__\h] tits. They get puffy nipples and then next thing you know they got boobs. They have to have them cut out. Trendel's double trendone's double I'm just going to call it trend because trenalone gets tired. Sounds like I'm trying to say a sandwich meat. Trend's double bond makes it structurally possible. Say it again. Impossible for aromatase to latch on. It can't do it. It is for all intents and purposes aromatization proof. The anabolic signal, the build muscle command comes through with crystal clarity without the estrogenic side chatter that comes with every single other compound on earth. That's the first piece of genius creation. The second is resistance to five alpha reduction. So in tissues like the skin and the prostate the enzyme five alpha reductase converts testosterone into DHT dihydrotestosterone which is a much more potent androgen. We know what happens when this goes skyhigh. Tren is a very poor substrate for this enzyme. It doesn't convert to AI don't know like a like a super trend in these tissues which means its androgenic profile the maleness that it imparts is potent but very unique largely avoids the brutal prostate enlargement and accelerated male pattern baldness that's associated with very high levels of DHT. So you guys don't have to worry about running out and grabbing finasteride which you shouldn't anyway because there's a whole host of problems that comes with that. And if you're a male the first one is that eventually your dick stops working. So knock it off with your finasteride. Just be bald. I'm bald and I look [\h__\h] amazing. So, the result of all these two chemical creations is that remember this is all synthetic. The result is a molecule with an androgen receptor binding affinity that dwarfs testosterone. So, it doesn't just politely knock on the door of the cell. It has a master key. It walks in, takes a seat at the head of the table, puts on the crown, and initiates transcription of anabolic genes with efficiency that is almost terrifying. It's so effective. Now, here's the problem. The Jim Bro lore talks about two main versions, acetate and anadate. This is a very critical distinction and you need to know because it's all about pharmacocinetics, the science of how long a drug moves through your body. I need more coffee. So, the trend hormone itself is identical in both. Yeah, most of you guys didn't know that. And if you did, great. The difference is in the Esther. The fatty chain attached to the hormone molecule. The esther is like a it's like a parachute. determines how quickly the hormone is released into the bloodstream after injection. So follow me. You put it in right away. Put it in nice slow drip, right? So tren ace, trenolone acetate, it's what they call it. Has a very short lightweight esther. The parachute opens quick. You get this rapid spike in blood levels within hours. Sharp peak, quick clearance. Halflife is about 3 days give or take. This is for a tactical user, the bodybuilder who needs to feel the compound quickly and then have it leave its system fast. If I hate to say this, but if there's a drug test or some side effects pop up, it's like a sprint. So you can stop it and things you can mitigate the problem very quickly. Trenmbolone has a very long heavy esther. So the parachutes very slow to open. It provides this very gradual steady release which is this gives you this stable consistent blood levels over a much much longer period of time. So the halflife is more like 10 days. This is for somebody who is much more strategic about it. fewer injections, less hormonal roller coaster rides. The it this is where the key to longevity lies. And I'm going to come back to this in a second because I need to put to rest some of the bro science bunk that you guys have been indoctrinated with that is completely false. So, I'm going to burn all the books and knowledge that you've got that are based on fear and I'm going to take the three biggest myths or four, whatever I can come up with, but I can think of three right off the top of my head. I'm going to vaporize them with real damn science. So, the first one people always talk about right away. I heard this because I got asked this question. And this is from an email, by the way. So, you are the only person who has ever sent me an email. I'm not going to name you. Where I actually went, this might actually make a good podcast topic. A lot of you guys send me podcast topics and I'm like, that's the dumbest thing in the world because you want the answer without paying for it. Not going to happen. Good luck. Nice try though, bro. Trend is not liver toxic. This is literally the granddaddy of misinformation. is categorical falsehood from a born from a fundamental misunderstanding of pharmarmacology completely. The liver toxicity associated with steroids is almost exclusively the domain of alpha alkalated 17 oral compounds like anadrol, dianabol, winstrol. These things are oral. They have to be alkal alkalated alpha alkalated 17 because it has to resist first pass degradation of passing the metabolism of going through the liver because the liver is destroy. It's like a like a bouncer with a a PhD in biochemistry. That's what I said before. And it goes, "That doesn't belong here. We're going to destroy it." And then it just cleaves and destroys and demolishes and turns it into a husk of a body that's unrecognizable just to be excreted in order to resist that alpha alkalated 17 molecule. That's what they do. Very toxic. Just like pegasalation. Very toxic. Which I said before, why would you pegalate Skittles? Skittles are pegalated. Skittles, big bag of colorful pills. You call them candy. I call them poison. Yeah, pegalated, which means they're designed to last in your system longer. Do you ever wonder why? You should probably start questioning things a little more, you guys. But these alpha alkalated 17 molecules, these they're chemically altered to survive first pass metabolism. Their journey through the liver after you swallow them is what's going to either allow them in or get them destroyed and killed. So the alteration is what makes them hepotoxic. Tren is in is I am intramuscular. It bypasses first pass degradation. in the first pass metabolism completely. It doesn't even exist. It enters systemic circulation directly and goes to work on androgen receptors in muscles and bone and the brain. It is not a substrate for significant liver metabolism whatsoever. You could search PubMed for a thousand [\h__\h] years. And you would not find one single credible controlled study demonstrating that trend causes liver damage in a healthy individual at reasonable doses. The fear is a ghost story told by people who don't understand basic and practical biochemistry. And frankly, it pisses me off because everybody gets in the comments and thinks they're an expert, but they're not. I got an IQ that would put your pee brain in the [\h__\h] cellar in this subject because I'm tired of you guys coming in and going, "I'm an expert." And then trying to argue with me in the comments when I just want to punch you in the face. It's which is why if you go, by the way, if you go, you blocked me. I tried to, but you blocked me on Instagram. It's cuz you're a dick. You ever think of that? It has nothing to do with me going, I don't want to debate you. I don't have the time to debate. I know I'm smarter than a house plant is smarter than you if you're arguing with me about that because I just come out with what I know. Do you know why I'm always right? Cuz I don't open my mouth when I'm not. Cuz I'm not five. So I'm giving you the answers. That's like arguing with a teacher who knows their subject more than you do. And you're like, I think I deserve an A and you got an F and you put 1 plus 1 is orange. I think you're wrong. Just to be very clear about our education system, it is so broken. It's unbelievable. You can graduate. No student left behind, right? bad for their psyche. Yeah, sure. How about this one? Tren and cholesterol. So, I'm trying to think of the ones. So, it's not liver toxic. You will never find a study that shows that. Trenin cholesterol. This is hilarious to me because it's built on a foundation of one of the most ridiculous damaging lies of modern medicine. And I addressed this in a podcast as a standalone podcast. The belief that lower cholesterol is better. Just to be very clear, the entire premise is backwards. We've been sold this fear that a number a number that for a healthy robust human should be a big damn number. Your cholesterol isn't supposed to be low. Just to be very clear, this thing right here, I'm tapping my head for all of you guys listening. This gray matter here is for all intents and purpose a big fat ball. Keeps you alive, though. Allows you to be creative. It's got trillions of dollars worth of ideas in it. It's got falling in love in it. It's got health. It's got autonomic function in it. It's got all kinds of things that we haven't even tapped into yet. So, I'm going to dismantle the [\h__\h] out of this lipid, hysterical nonsense that I hope you just never read again. There's a study called the Framingham Heart Study. This is the cornerstone. I've used this so many times cuz it's they screwed up so bad. This is the cornerstone of the cholesterol is bad dogma, and it it revealed in a very inconvenient truth that they didn't teach in medical school. They don't at all anymore. Just so you know, it's not taught in med school anymore. While the study initially found a correlation between high cholesterol and heart disease in middle-aged men, it's follow-up data. You ready for this? Uncovered a devastating contradiction for everybody. Individ they used 50 years old, but if you look back at the data, it's more like 40. But for individuals, people over 50, low cholesterol was a far stronger predictor of mortality than high cholesterol. They weren't even playing the same game. You heard me right. Data showed that as you age, having a cholesterol below 200, where do they want you? 190. 160 to 190 is where they want you. And they put you on these crazy drugs called statins that are incredibly hepattoxic that make Winstrol orals and Anidrol 50s look like a birthday party. That's how damaging statins are. Don't take my word for it. Don't even listen to what I'm saying right now. Look it up yourself. No, I'm not going to link you to studies. I don't have the time for that. You guys need to just start accepting somebody actually knows what he's talking about. I realize the truth or the trust is very limited in the medical world or the doctors nowadays because of all the C19 [\h__\h] but I'm one of the real ones. I promise you that. cuz I'm not asking you to buy my stuff. I've said it before. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Great. You don't? Great. Knock yourself out. I don't care. You want to join the black card and you want to sit there and actually get help and have somebody that understands this very well, who wants to make you healthy and strong and give you the answers, including dosing and everything, join. If you go, it's not worth six grand, cool, because it's going up to 10 next week. So, take your pick. And after they're all sold out, it goes up to 25,000 as a buy in and 2 grand a month to maintain. And if you go, "Well, that's ridiculous. I'm never going to pay it." You were never going to join anyway. So, you choose. Having a total cholesterol level of below 200 was associated with a much higher risk of death, not a lower one. And here's why. Because cholesterol is not a damn villain, you guys. It's the fundamental building block of life, your life, my life, everybody that is listening to this right now. The idea that total cholesterol of 160 to 190 is ideal is a brutal health destroying fallacy for a functioning anabolic human being. He said that anabolic human being a total cholesterol number in the 250 to 300 is not high. It is normal and healthy. Here's why low listen here's why low cholesterol is so catastrophically damaging. You your brain is% cholesterol by dry weight. It is the bedrock of every neurons membrane and the essential insulator the myelin sheath that allows your nerves to fire with speed and precision. Low cholesterol levels are 100% directly linked to cognitive decline, memory loss, depression, violent behavior. We're talking dementia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, all of that stuff. The brain cannot repair itself without an incredibly large amount of cholesterol. Starving it of this crucial substrate is a recipe for neurological decay. And yet, if you look at the number of people that are suffering from dementia and Alzheimer's, it is mind-blowing to me because the number keeps growing and yet they aren't putting this together. No, they don't want you to know that. That's why every single steroid hormone in your body is synthesized from cholesterol by the way. Testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, cortisol, vitamin D, all of them. Yes, vitamin D is considered a hormone. Low cholesterol means low hormones. What the [\h__\h] It means a shutdown of your endocrine system leading to fatigue, low libido, muscle wasting, poor recovery, and a metabolic freeze. You are literally starving your body's chemical messengers of their basic raw materials. And then you, this goes right back to even looking at something like M C. If you look at MOSC and methylene blue, follow me on this. And you could even use you can even use SS31 in this, but you don't need to. Just MC and methylene blue, which are two incredible compounds to be taking every single day, even every second day if you have to. If you don't have the energy to do the work that your body is already programmed to do, it doesn't matter what compounds you give it to do the work. Do you understand what I said? If you have a car, it's the best example I can give you. So, sorry. It's like, I want this cup of coffee so bad and I have the cup. I have the machine. I have a coffee in it, but I just never put the coffee in the cup. I can want it all I want. I'm never getting a cup of coffee. That's like your tank of gas in your car is always empty, but you keep putting performance parts on it. All you're doing is wasting time and money, and that car is aging, sitting there, getting worse. Seals are drying up, bearings are getting dry. Like, it just becomes a train wreck. Fuel lines are getting brittle. I could do this all day. Listen, I actually do know what the hell I'm talking about. Don't think because I cuss I'm not ridiculously intelligent. It's because I just don't care anymore. I want people to get the information. standing up here using a bunch of giant words is just some idiot bragging. It doesn't matter how I explain it as long as you understand it. Cholesterol is is critical for cell membrane integrity in every single tissue in your body. It is vital for immune system. It is the precursor to bile acids which are ne necessary for digesting fats, absorbing fat soluble vile vitamins like K, A, D, E. You can't even absorb them. Which is why when you have a gallbladder taken out, by the way, when you have your gallbladder taken out, if you aren't taking it, if you aren't taking MCT oil, which bypasses and shves it into your metabolic oil, you didn't know that, did you? Take MCT oil with your with K A and you will absorb them. Don't and you're not going to absorb them. I don't care what you take. I don't care care if you take TUDCA. I don't care if you take bile salts. I don't care if you take ox bile. None of that's going to help. You should not have your gallbladder removed under any circumstances. My opinion, low cholesterol means weakened cellular structure, crippled immune response, massive malnutrition, and you guys think that trend is what's cranking up your cholesterol. No, it's the stupid medical dogma and big pharma that is trashing your cholesterol. You guys need to listen to me. So, just listen, take all the things I just told you about cholesterol and apply it to trend. in a state of health with a robust cholesterol level of 250 plus even getting up to 300. A longevity dose of trend which would be hypothetically in the 100 to 150 per week might cause a shift in the ratio. It might lower HDL slightly and raise LDL but this is not obliteration is metabolic repprioritization is I guess the best way to explain it. The body under trends influence is in a massive anabolic overhaul. Requires tremendous tremendous resources to build and repair tissue. LDL is not just bad cholesterol. It's not what it is. It's low density lipo lipoprotein. It's a delivery truck that shuttles nutrients and antioxidants and yes, cholesterol to peripheral tissues for repair and growth. A temporary shift in lipid profile under these conditions is basically the body redirecting resource resources to where they're needed the most. muscles, bone, nerves being actively rebuilt. The danger isn't in the shift of of cholesterol in the ratio itself. The danger is starting from a position of weakness. You understand the difference? A cholesterol level already starved. This is, listen to me. This is why it's so crazy. If you're hammering statins all day and then you run out and you take Tren, what are you [\h__\h] high? You're going to do so much damage to your system because if you're starved at 180, that is the brittle foundation that can't handle any metabolic stress. That is the problem of how do you think this applies to everything else. The goal is not to have a perfect lipid lipid panel on paper. The goal is to have a lipid panel that supports a high functioning anabolic and neurologically sound biological system. The one you are running 24/7 365 every day. It's called your body. Trend does not obliterate cholesterol. It exposes a pre-existing state of metabolic fragility. Listen, in a healthy human with a healthy baseline, this kills my wrist. Stupid. its impact is manageable and it's far outweighed by its incredible and profound systemic benefits. I I don't know what to say. And should you guys all run out and go buy Tren all day? No, it's not what I'm saying. But the myth is there because it's easier to fear a molecule than to confront the monumental error of three plus decades of nutritional advice that has made us weaker and sicker. Think about that. Think about that. The one I I got I had a couple of people and you guys sent me some interesting questions, but one of them was like, "Hey, is it trenough? That means it's really bad, right? It says it's toxic." No, it's not. Trenough, the infamous tren you you people you guys get injections and you hack your brains out, which is sometimes some of you I get actually questions the number the [\h__\h] that you guys ask me is unbelievable. Wow. You guys ask me some pretty personal questions about yourselves too, by the way. So, you would trust me, I tell you that. And I'm not going to violate that trust. So, I'm not talking about it on a bus. that the after an injection sometimes people get this cough this sudden violent dry coughing fit for I don't know a minute or two the bro science explanation is usually some variation of the steroid is hitting your lungs I really tried to say that with a straight face I did I did the real explan explanation is more mechanical and significantly less dramatic just to be just to be honest it's caused by a small amount of the oilbased solution specifically the salt solvent, the benzyl alcohol or the PEG. Weird. The PEG, which I told you is slightly toxic. Yeah. But it enters the small vein or capillary that travels to the pulmonary circulation where it causes this transient localized irritant effect. That's it. It's uncomfortable, probably scary as [\h__\h] I don't know. I don't do it. But it's not a sound of it's not a sign of some profound accumulating toxicity and your lungs are being shredded. It is a technique related issue. Usually mitigated by a longer [\h__\h] needle injecting slowly. Stop micro doing this stuff you [\h__\h] The halflife is 10 [\h__\h] days. That doesn't even make sense. Goes right back to micro doing red truth tide. I can't. I just can't. The bro science is strong in some of you guys. But you just use a longer needle. Inject slowly. Aspirate to make sure you're not in a vessel. You guys sometimes just jam a needle in your butt and then just fire away. And you wonder why you feel like crap. You just plugged a vein. You struck oil. The problem is you don't want to strike oil. Aspirate. Pull back on the plunger, people. It's okay. I've been a doc for a long time. The number of people that I have had conversations like this with is in the tens of thousands. No, I'm not doing a podcast on the proper testosterone administration technique cuz I'll probably get banned for life on YouTube if I do that. The real Listen, the real dangers of tren are not these cartoonish infantile myths. They are potent and very real androgenic effects on the system that require very careful intelligent management. This is being smart about how Listen, how many of you guys can go right now and go get a bottle of aspirin? How many of you guys? Everybody. What about a as much booze as you can fit in your trunk? Every one of you guys that's of drinking age. Okay. What about uh cough syrup? Okay, cool. What about fertilizer at Home Depot? What about Warfin? Rat poison. How about thin for killing bugs and stuff? Can you get that? Yeah. So, how many of you myopic idiots actually go out and take that port in a glass and drink it when you get home? You don't. But the opportunity is there to make stupid decisions. Correct. But yet, for some reason, when trend shows up or anabolic steroid or a peptide or anything that has to do with what's not mainstream that you've been indoctrinated in, this is what should make you question everything. It becomes, "Holy [\h__\h] that's cancer-causing. That's going to kill you. That's toxic. It's wrecking your liver." It you guys are buying into the dogma that is not designed to make you healthier or stronger. It's been designed to make you sicker and weaker for the last three decades. I'm not out here because I have fun doing this. I mean, I like doing this. I'm out here because nobody else is telling you the real information. Toxicity when it comes to anything is never just an onoff switch. It is this sigmoidal curve. So, understanding the curve is the difference between a physician and a prisoner of a compound or a drug or a peptide or whatever it is. Well, peptides are never toxic. So, at a micro dose, yeah, you heard me say it. Micro dose by the way of Tren is about 50 milligrams a week. Yeah, exactly. If you guys are like, I do 2 millig, all you're doing is shutting yourself down, making your balls really small, and pissing off your wife cuz you can't get it up. And no, all the seialis in the world ain't going to help. ET41 or changing your dosage are about the only things you could do. But at 50 milligrams per week, trends effects that the whatever the effects, I mean, all of them, they're subtle. It's not very much. Maybe a slight increase in nitrogen retention, minor metabolic bump. At 100 to 150 milligrams per week, you're in what I would call the sweet spot. Powerful anabolic and androgenic stimulus that will finally go to war against sarcopenia. It'll improve bone density. It'll elevate metabolic rate without pushing the body into this state of insane stress, this overwhelming stress which will happen. And then you're just run, you're overreving the engine, right? So, you can't do that either. This is more of a therapeutic longevity focused range. 100 to 150. Now, follow me. I'll go right towards the other side of the equation. crank the dose to 300, 500, 700 a week. Like some of you guys are batshit crazy. Now you're in the realm of competitive bodybuilding, which you have left the realm of therapy and entered the realm of pharmarmacological warfare, I don't know, against yourself. At these doses, the side effects, just to be very transparent, man, they're unavoidable and they are severe. Insomnia, night sweats, because of the intense metabolic and neurological stimulation, it's going to disrupt your sleep. You can take all the dip you want. It's going to not help because your sleep architecture, excuse me, your sleep sleep architecture, the way it's designed, the circadian rhythm with the expansion of the channels in the brain, the lymphatic system doing the flushing, the removal of amaloid plaques and the towangles, all of that stuff and the thermmore regulation, all of that is just thrown for it's into just pure chaos. Lipid disruption. Now you have a suppression of HDL which becomes very significant. So now you have long-term cardiovascular risks. hypertension trend can increase red blood cell production of the hematocrit. But you don't have to run out and donate blood. It's not going to help. You can do it, but you're going to be doing it all the time. You may as well bleed yourself out then because it's ridiculous. That is the most dumb thing I've ever heard when people go, I go and I donate blood every 3 weeks, every month, every 6 weeks because it keeps so I don't have to worry about my blood pressure. You understand homeostasis, right? So when you guys are running out and donating blood, first of all, you're giving blood that's laced with everything possible to the Red Cross. Dude, you selfish prick. And sec Yeah, it bugs me. It bugs me. We are desperate for clean blood. Stop being an idiot. Don't do it. But number two is your body is literally going to go, "Okay, I'm going to go back to doing what I was doing." As soon as you do that, except now that you're low, your flatbones go bananas trying to catch up. Homeostasis. Your body is always seeking a set point. You've altered the set point by taking some kind of a compound. It would be the equivalent of taking ariththropotin, which is going to simulate RBC creation, red blood cell. So it would be the equivalent of taking ariththropoidan going and donating blood and staying on ariththropoid. You're telling your system to do it. So when you go and listen that's why I'm telling you this. Please think this through. If you're going to do something at least do it right with a competence of understanding what you're doing, not the bro science from a Reddit forum where somebody thinks they're an expert just because they have some bodybuilding trophies. That doesn't mean you're an expert in the pharmacological realm. It means that you know how to stick a needle in your ass and you have some great genetics and you know how to lift weights. All fantastic, but that doesn't make you an expert when it comes to health. It makes you a very jacked human being that looks like Captain [\h__\h] America. Not the same. I think see some of you guys have the the value a little screwed up. But trend will crank up your hyp. It'll crank up your blood pressure. Now, blood pressure, it is like a volleyball. It is all over the place. So, don't freak out about your blood pressure. And by the way, 140 over 90 was normal up until 2017. And then they made it 120 over 80. And now they're trying to make it 110 over 70. And you know, no, I'm not kidding. Do you know why? Because it allows them to fit more people into the bell curve and prescribe many more anti-hypertensives. Are you nuts? Do not put that crap in your body. But if you have is because the other thing that it's doing is and it's not just the hematocrit is you get a lot of vasoc constriction when you do this. So you get elevated blood pressure that honestly at that point 700 milligrams per week. I hate saying this part because it bugs me because I'm not a big fan of hypertension medication but it's got to be medically managed. Just does. And I I know I'm the last person you'd think would say that, but I'm I'm looking out for somebody and I would be. See, if I was in this for myself, I wouldn't tell you that stuff, but I'm not. I'm in this for your health. And here's the other part that people don't put together with trend is that the psychological effects, the potrogenic load on the CNS, the central nervous system will crank up anxiety, irritability, some paranoia in predisposed people. It doesn't just turn it on, you know, turn into this ragefilled monster. That's not how this works. This is not the compound that's making you crazy. It's amplifying underlying tendencies. So it's like when somebody says money changed them and they became an [\h__\h] Nope. Just exposed them. They were always an [\h__\h] Things don't change you. It just exposes you. Success and failure introduce you to who you are. Just understand that any moment you can change that. Now listen. The toxicity of all this is not just inherent to the molecule. It's a direct function of reckless dosing. It's the difference between a glass of red wine and drinking a bottle of vodka. Responsibility. Do I think alcohol is good in any dose? No. It's pure poison. And you we know this. And I'm sure somebody's going to get in my comments just, you know, I think I might just turn off comments because most of you guys just don't have the emotional maturity to manage a conversation like an adult, which bugs me cuz it's just disappointing. Like it wasn't like this 20 years ago. It's just everybody now is a cell phone. Let me tell you my opinion. I will [\h__\h] you like I hurt your feelings. Listen. So, I I'm just going to probably do that cuz people come here to learn, not to get in the comments and look at all you nut jobs. Let me be very brutally scientifically honest. If you're genuinely concerned, follow me. If you're genuinely concerned about toxicity, trend shouldn't be your primary fear. There are compounds in the arsenal that are objectively quantifiably harsher, much worse. So if Tren is a chainsaw, then there are some industrial wood chippers that will destroy. Like I I could run a list a mile long of stuff and you got like people always just go right to Tren like Super Draw, right? This is an oral first of all. So what is it? Alpha alkalated 17 delivers savage gains and equally brutally savage side effects. It causes massive liver enzyme elevations, crippling lethargy. It makes you tired as hell and sky high blood pressure within days. Day days. It's short short-term bulldozer. That's what you should look at this thing. Anadrol. This is the one. This is funny. Anadol is hilarious because it's famous for causing some massive water retention and dramatic strength gains. You guys, it's like water-based testosterone. People just get insanely strong. But it does it at the cost of a very significant liver strain and it's notorious for spiking blood pressure to some seriously dangerous levels. Halotestine. That's a big one, man. And I and I'm just thinking of the ones that you guys have asked me about. I don't normally do podcasts like this, but I mean why not if I have the knowledge, right? Halo tested. So this is the most androgenic oral cuz it's oral oral steroid and insanely hepotoxic to the point that it would never I don't care what realm I'm in that would never go in my bar hole ever. It has a very very short half-life which gives you violent hormonal fluctuations known for roid rage. It's the only one that is is valid because if you guys go, "Oh yeah, yeah, roid rage from tren." Nope. That's like saying you get horny from trend. Nope. You get like none of the most of it is not from that halo testin for sure. This stuff it's one of the harshest compounds on the market. Stay away from this stuff. I don't care how bad you want the gains. Think of how long you want to live on this planet. And if you're like, I don't care. I just want to be jacked. You're a selfish prick because somebody out there loves you or cares about you or wants you around longer than you do and you're acting like a toddler. So if you're going to be in my comments and go, well, it's only good for take it for a short time. We're not going to get along. Windstrol. Okay, this is the the most this is the one everybody uses to dry out, right? And this has been around for a long time. A lot of these have, but it's damaging to joints. Dries out the sinovial fluid. It gives you achiness. Massive injury risk. Just to come back to that joint drying out for all of you guys that go, I took Deca and it made me feel great. No, it didn't. It made you hold water. It flooded your joints with extra fluid. It didn't solve the problem. It didn't heal your joints. It flooded you with water and it wrecks your dick. And if you go, it didn't do that to me. Okay, bro. Oh, you're the greatest. Argue. I I don't know why you even bother to open your mouth sometimes. But it gives you decad. And the metabolites of Deca stay in your system for about a year. So it's detectable is what I'm telling you for about a year. So if you have an issue with getting doing a test, it's going to show up for sure. And you need kerbergine to solve the problem. You can't take whatever you're going to take Clomid or anything like that to solve or an AI, an asterisol or any of that stuff to help with the problem. You can't. it's not going to solve the problem because that's not what's causing the problem. So when you guys take an AI and you wonder why you still can't get it up and you take handfuls of seialis like they're going out of style and you still just sit there with this flaccid thing hanging between your legs and your wife's like today I'm ready to do anything. It's not the the problem is that you don't you're not see this is where understanding physiology and chemistry comes in. You're not taking the right compound. So if you send me a message right now and go well that's happening to me. What do I take? I'm going to send you a membership link to join the black card cuz I sure as [\h__\h] am not answering that in an email. So go to someone else if you want to if that's where you're like fine I'll go somewhere else. Okay. I don't know. I'm I have ethics. But Winstrol trashes cholesterol profiles. It dries you out. It crashes HDL to I've seen single digits in blood work. Single digits. Just let that sit for a second. And how brutal that is on your system. What did I say about cholesterol? How important is it? the most important compound in your body next to your blood. What else is there that I've seen that is significantly worse that makes trend look like it's a vitamin C? Methyl trienolone. Oh yeah, this is a methylated. This is the oral version. This I didn't even think about this. I don't know why this didn't come to me at the beginning. This is the oral version of Tren. This one is genuinely and verifiably hepattoxic. It's arguably the most potent and dangerous anabolic steroid ever synthesized on the planet with a toxicity profile that makes injectable tren look like it doesn't it looks like water. That's how savage this is. Tren is not a gentle lamb. But understand in the hierarchy of pharmacological intensities and components and things you can put in your body. It occupies a lower middle ground at best. It sure as [\h__\h] is not the apex. So, I'm trying to get you guys to understand that because the issue is what people don't understand, they fear or get or or ostracize. And neither one of those should be should be done. You can use trend for longevity. And you guys just went, "Oh, you lost me, bro. I'm out. I I gave you credibility until that." Okay, I'm still right. You just don't like it because it goes against the dogma. Because let me I'll even explain it. This is the paradigm shift. We instead of using trend as a tool for vanity, use it as a tool for vitality. The single greatest biomarker of mortality and loss of independence is in in aging is sarcopenia. Remember what I explained at the beginning, 7 minutes, broken hip, grandma Matilda, life flashing before her eyes, dead. Sarcopenia, the relentless wasting of muscle and bone as you age. HRT with testosterone is an extremely wellestablished and scientifically validated strategy to combat this trend. You could pretty much view it as the next generation. It's the hyper potent form of HRT. The benefits for extending health span are not just about muscle size, by the way. They're about systemic function. Let me explain. Tren increases your basil metabolic rate because it enhances because it metabolic activity of muscle tissue, improves insulin sensitivity. Yeah, exactly. So, it fixes the insulin resistance problem that you have, but it does it at the receptor site. So your body becomes a more efficient engine or furnace I guess rather preferentially burning calories for energy and lean tissue maintenance rather than storing them as inflammatory visceral fat that kills you circles around the organs right this is a direct attack on metabolic syndrome that underpins most age- related diseases it's anti- listen it it is like a guard it's it's like a bouncer in front of muscle and bone so Matilda that fell down and had 7 minutes if her bones were strong and her muscles were strong it wouldn't matter or she would have just hopped back up and said, "That's all you got, gravity. That's it." The anti catabolic effect is legendary. It binds to glucocorticoid receptors and it blocks the catabolic muscle wasting effects of the stress hormone called cortisol. Might have heard of this. But at the same time, it promotes bone mineralization. So you don't have to take these weird drug like they want you to take a drug to remmineralize your bone instead of going how about you lift heavy things and take something that makes all that lifting have a 10x ROI. Make it make sense. Please tell me you guys are putting this together. The way this works, reducing and rather eliminating sarcopenia and preventing osteopenia ends up preserving the functional strength and structural integrity that keeps you upright and out of a nursing home. Listen, if you want to run out and get all the drugs to help maintain your manage or manage your decline, that's on you. I'm actually going to I'm trying to give you a solution. And if you go, does it have to be trend? No, I'm just doing because somebody asked me about it. I thought it was a great subject. And look at your brain. Look at the neurological impact that this thing has. Your your brain is loaded with androgen receptors. Did you even know that? So transpotent androgenic action gives unbelievable neuroprotective effects. Whoa, this [\h__\h] wrist is bugging me right now. Enhances really is it's almost distracting. Enhances synaptic plasticity. It improves drive and focus and overall sense of well-being. Combats apathy and brain fog and depressive states that usually accompany lowering or decreasing hormone levels. Like if even someone with just general low testosterone, 35 years old, low tea, depressed, anxious, frustrated, apathy, brain fog, all of those. So listen, you think that's going to get better when you turn 80 just magically because you're taking 12 different subscription meds. No, what you're doing is you're making somebody rich, some jackass member of the W upregula. How about healing? You heal faster. the study that I talked about 24,000 people that they did a study on testosterone and these were all regular normal people not people that were already athletic and doing like because you guys look for anything you can argue well yeah but what were these 24,000 people were they all healthy of course they're going to be more healthy what about regular people they were all regular [\h__\h] people regular people by the way regular people are healthy just to come full circle on that irregular people and abnormal people are not you guys have it backwards it's just because they've normalized something doesn't mean that it is normal it means that they've normalized it You think Only Fans is normal? You think showing a pair of tits everywhere is normal? You think Instagram because you're nursing a baby, that's empowerment so you can show your boob with a baby latched onto it? Are you kidding me? You think the violence, the rape, the deaths, the shootings, all the stuff that they portray on TV and stop it with your gun laws. Welcome to owning a gun. God bless Texas. Take away your guns and you will lose everything. I will tell you that right now. If you go, "Oh, another cowboy American." You bet your ass. Yippi cay [\h__\h] But I'm going to tell you this. You guys need to look at the system you're in and understand the system is designed to take you apart, not build you up. I'm giving you the answers. But I'm just one voice, so your job should be to share it. But too many of you guys get in the comments and argue like a bunch of 5-year-olds. Like listen to me. It increases it upregulates it trend upregulates the synthesis of collagen and and most of the other structural proteins systemically which means faster muscle tissue repair, faster ligament repair, faster tendon repair, faster skin repair. So you recover more quickly from the injuries of the cumulative micro damage of daily [\h__\h] life. Okay, great. So it slows your biological clock if you really need to understand what I'm trying to say. It slows down the aging process, but instead you guys would rather take statins and renal drugs and beta blockers and anti-hypertensives and Prozac because you're having a sad day or whatever else it is. Listen, even look at the cardiovascular paradox of this entire thing. In moderate monitored doses, the increase in RBC production, red blood cell production, hematocrit is actually beneficial for older people because they tend to be anemic. So it improves, follow me. So it improves oxygen delivery to tissues. So that nothing's hypoxic. You don't wind up dying because the potential negative, which is an increase in blood pressure. It's not a reason to avoid the tool. It's a reason to monitor and manage it proactively. It's a reason to pay attention to the machine. You guys will spend more time washing your car than you will looking at the body that drives the damn car. You should treat yourself as a physician. If you really need to know, you're trusting your health with people that don't that I would never trust my health with ever. You bet your ass this is personal because those people I said it in my post yesterday because a lot of you 90 95% of you health care professionals you guys disgust me because what you're a doctor you think you're so smart you think you're so good I'm a doctor I'm not I'm not arrogant I don't devalue a patient I don't demand that they do some indoctrinated protocol because it's mandated above all do no harm but you guys you guys locked my wife out of a hospital, escorted her out, locked her out, and then proceeded to pull out a tumor and my [\h__\h] lung, and then left me with 12 prescriptions in a wheelchair, told me, "Too bad." But hey, at least you're alive. [\h__\h] you. [\h__\h] all of you that even remotely think that C19 and all that stuff is valid, that you think Remesae is valid, that you think you're hyper antibiotic driven nonsense medical shove it down your throat, give you drugs, look it up on chat GPT because I have the intellect of a crayon is valid. Yeah, it's personal. I want to burn down the entire pharmaceutical industry, the entire medical world because it's broken. It is a dated, broken model. So, listen. Yeah, it makes me mad. That's why this is personal. So, I almost died. My wife almost ended up being a widow. My kids almost ended up without a dad because of the medical world. So, you guys can go right to hell. I don't care how mad you get in my comments. I don't care you flex your stupid ego and your dumb degree. You're an [\h__\h] if you think that. There's a special place in hell for you. It ain't going to be for me because I'll be looking down from heaven at you going, "See, you should have helped people." But I guess you didn't. You know what I know? Heaven is real and hell is hot. So here ask yourself why why is all this if it's so if it's so true if it's so true doc why is it suppressed why is trend relegated to the shadows of getting in in some weird website or I don't know some bathroom in a gym whatever it is you guys do because a population that is physically strong and mentally sharp and metabolically efficient and hormonally capitalizing on their own system is a population that is independent. It doesn't need a dozen prescription meds to manage the symptoms of its decay. It doesn't generate massive profits for the sick care industry. The war on steroids and the indoctrination that you guys fall for and sit there and go like I had some dumbass get in my comments about Tylenol. How about we talk about the elephant in the room, the the steroids and how much damage they cause. None. None. In com in comparison to Nsaides, are you high? You can't even begin to get into an argument with that. I will bury you. And yet at the same time, people will argue because they can't find it on the internet. The war on steroids was never about health. It was about control. It's about pathologizing the pursuit of biological excellence. Let me explain. And I let me let me go over exactly even how to do this. How about that? How about that? I'll just go right to let's go right to the meat and potatoes cuz I was going to keep going, but it's I'm 60 minutes in and I got [\h__\h] to do. A tool this powerful has never been it's not supposed to be used in isolation. It's the centerpiece of a synergistic system that's designed to maximize the benefits and proactively manage risk. It's not a bodybuilding cycle. This is a lifelong protocol. So, I'll give you a blueprint hypothetical for your kangaroo. Safety conscious longevity stack. How about that? Yeah. Where are you going to find this? Nowhere else on the internet, I'll bet. So, transfate 100 to 150 milligs per week. Longster is non-negotiable for longevity. Do not use acetate. Gives you stable blood levels. Avoids those peaks and troughs that contribute to insane amounts of side effects. Stability is the foundation, right, of long-term strategy in anything, in anything you do. Business, marriage, all of it. Test in anth. Oh, we're going to go full boore on this one. 100 to 150 milligrams a week. This is also critical. Gives you that base level of estrogen, which is essential for cardiovascular health and neurological function and joint lubrication and function and health. And it prevents the excuse me, it prevents the complete shutdown of your indogenous production and creates a balanced hormonal environment that you can live in and pilot your body in. Right now hypothetically could you met Metformin? Yeah, I don't think you need it. I think instead I started thinking now reatride to combat the insulin sensitivity and M C to activate EMPK pathways. So your mitochondria are doing fantastic things. Methylene blue to work with the traffic jam in the electron transport chain. BPC57 systemic healing every day. TB-500 every 5 days. I think KPV for any kind of inflammatory injury. Copper every day 500 micrograms. I could do this all day. Could I add more? Absolutely. But that's where I would start. That's what I would look at. Maintain the genesis, the systemic inflammatory control, the insulin sensitivity, the mitochondrial health. Could you add SS31? Of course. Could you add SLO PP332? Of course. Could you take carterine? Could you take ostrine? Could you take all? Yeah, you could. But I'm just giving you the basics. So you don't need to right now. You want longevity, then start thinking about longevity. Don't think about immediate results going, that's longevity. That's not how it works. It this it's this is about creating a biochemical environment that screams youth at a cellular level. But this is why trenanth is far superior to acetate for this purpose alone. Acetate is very short aggressive blasts. It's rapid fluctuations are insanely stressful on the system. And ananth is like the marathon of life. And you asked, by the way, before you was like, oh, you're you're so you're advocating this. I am giving a podcast for information. Whatever you do with it is up to you. But it is a slow and very anth is a slow and very steady release. It is gentle. It is constant pressure on the anabolic accelerator. So it stands on that skinny pedal just a little bit. It's a difference between a sugar rush and a very sustained high quality fuel burn. And for longevity and like I said for anything, stability is everything. So listen, this isn't meant to be some prescription. This isn't meant to be some advice to tell you to run out and do this. its information. This is a permission slip, I guess, is the best way to explain it. To think for yourself and question the dogmas that are handed down to you by institutions with vested interests in your compliance and your damn decline. They told you that trend was a demon. Reddit tells you Trend was is a demon. All you Insta Bros and bro Science idiots go, "Oh, it's way better to take Cypionate or Inanthate." No, it actually probably isn't. They're wrong. It's a reflection. This that's what this is. Understand? It's it reflects the intelligence or the stupidity. That's the way this works. And what I mean is it reflects the intelligence or the stupidity of the hand that holds it. In the hands of an idiot, trenolone is destructive. In the hands of someone that's paying attention to what it's trying they're trying to accomplish, it's restorative. But there's a million things you could say that about. Take antibiotics every day for 20 years. See how you turn out. Right? You you guys get this? And I think maybe you guys are just looking for reasons to complain and whine about things or to point fingers at demons that you don't know anything about because they're not even a demon unless you use it as one. It is dependent on the hand that holds it. The path to a longer, stronger, more vital life isn't followed isn't isn't found by following some well-lit, comfortable path of convention. It's found by having the courage to walk in the dark and hit the controversial corners of science and bring back the [\h__\h] truth. You guys, it's about taking radical responsibility for your own damn biology. You guys are always afraid of the molecule when that's when when any kind of new information comes out. But that's not it doesn't matter. You guys, you should fear the ignorance around all of the stuff that you've been told. You should fear the ignorance out of all of the supplements and all of the chemistry and all of the peptides, all of the testoster, all of the things. You should fear the ignorance around all of that, not the molecule. And then do everything you can to eliminate all of that ignorance. That's the best thing I can tell you. Anyway, I got to go. I got stuff to do. Never miss.