So my dad, he died at 67 years old. I want to talk about alcohol because man, it is this socially accepted. It's a destructive force in a way that I think a lot of you guys don't understand because it's so widely promoted. Like it is a pharmaceutical nightmare with some really funky labels that come out of California. It's a disaster. My dad died of endstage liver disease and understand that my dad got he called me one time. It was horrible. Like even just remembering the call. I think it was the last time I ever talked to my dad and I got this phone call. He was in the hospital and I he was in the hospital long before that. I mean he was in the hospital to survive to stay alive. He wasn't coming home. 67. I'm 52. I mean that's only 15 years from now. And if you go yeah a lot can happen in 15 years. Why are you giving up? Why are you giving up? Like I'm 52, man. This is normal. This fit, lean, strong, athletic. This is And I got one lung. I've been through more hell than most of you guys would go through in 10 lifetimes. Whether it's financial or physical or psychological or it doesn't matter. It's that's nothing to brag about. Like that sucks. But I remember when my dad called and I'll never I can still hear his voice and my dad's been gone for 12 13 years. And he said, "Hi, Trevor." He started asking me all these questions like, "Can he borrow money?" And then, "Can I bring him food?" Like, he he wasn't there. When your liver goes, you just flood your system with toxins. You don't understand how badass my dad was when I was a kid. He was the ultimate woodsman, the ultimate hunter, the ultimate fisherman, the ultimate carpenter. My dad could play soccer so well, it blew my mind to watch what that dude could do with a soccer ball. Swim like a fish. But I remember he asked me all these questions and then right at the end he says, "Trevor, I'm dying. 12 years still gets me." You know, you know, I don't even give a [\h__\h] if someone sees me upset or crying and I don't care. That's my dad, man. Yeah, I miss my dad a lot. A lot of things I I should have done differently with my mom and dad. But if you think for a second I'm coming out here because I want to get some clout or I want attention, you can just keep right on [\h__\h] scrolling. My dad took Tylenol by the handful and I've talked about that and I'll do a podcast on it. Insaids, you know, 15, 16, 18 a day. Took something called bufferin that they have in in Canada. It's just another because a doctor told him to. You think I come out here because I want to brag on my knowledge. I want to help everybody. I know I'm not going to be able to cuz most of you guys aren't going to listen. You're going to go back to your stupidity and your poor decisions and your excuses and your what's the cheapest, easiest thing I can do instead of what is the smartest thing I can do to have the best possible life. And you think somebody's going to come and [\h__\h] rescue you when you're sick and dying. And the truth of the matter is they're not. You should have thought of that when you weren't sick and dying. I know because the only reason I'm still here is because God whispered into my wife's ear, "Go get him out of that hospital. They're killing him." That is the only reason I am here. So don't think that people, for the most part, are going to care about you as much as you want them to. It's not a negative statement, pessimistic statement. It's a fact. But my dad should still be here. A lot of bad decisions and a lot of bad advice. And his son, the doctor, was just his son. I wasn't the doctor. So he never listened to me. My mom misses my dad so bad. They're best friends. Like my uh my wife, she's my best friend at 20 years. Last thing I would ever do is put myself physically in a position that's going to hurt me. So for all of you guys that go, "Well, then why do you train so hard? That's overtraining. That's not smart. Why do you work so hard? You should have balance. You should have connection. You should have all the [\h__\h] that you guys preach while you sit at home, you fat [\h__\h] on the couch, screaming at a football game while you're drinking beer and eating pizza and ordering Door Dash, Uber Eats, whatever it is at 1:30 in the morning because you got no impulse control and you lose a wrestling match with your goddamn [\h__\h] fridge. You know, the problem is with you and your complacency. You're complicit. Actually, it's not even that. It's because you're tolerated. All your dumb decisions are tolerated. You're an alcoholic because it's tolerated. You're a drug addict because it's tolerated. And then you look down at people that are actually doing something to become better and stronger and healthier for them and everybody that they love and care about. I love my wife enough to take damn good care of myself financially, physically, psychologically, so she has the best version of me. So I owe her that. Like we've been sold this fairy tale that alcohol is Man, I didn't think this podcast was going to be this hard, man. I mean, it's just about booze, right? Guess I miss my dad a lot more than I thought. And if you for one second think real men don't cry. 2931 Ridge Road, you come to my house and I'll show you exactly what a real man looks like. How dare you think that you can throw away your body, your health, the gift that you have because it's tolerated to be fat, sloppy, gross, addicted, useless, and worthless because it's tolerated and you demand to be accepted that way. [\h__\h] you. I'll take any one of you guys and your life with two lungs. I'll take any one of your lives. Two lungs. So save your judgment. Alcohol is cultures friendly lubricant now. Woman, have a classy little night cap and your your heart healthy. Get out of here. What a lie that is. One glass for your heart. Two for a good time. That's what you guys think. But that isn't science. That is marketing. That is ad copy. Alcohol is not your charming little friend. You know what they You know what alcohol is? It's an arsonist sitting at your freaking dinner table with a big grin on their face cuz you have no idea they're about to torch your life, torch your neurology, hijack your hormones. It's going to sabotage every system that you have that you've built to keep you alive. Like, you want the hard truth? There is no safe amount. I'm tired of the French paradox [\h__\h] That's not true. That's a paradox with a Merllo label on it. There's no social sip. They're just the one at the wedding, man. I'm just a social drinker. Every drop is a slow motion heist of your neurons, your entire endocrine system, every organ you've got. And you think, you think you're dodging the bullet because only one drink is what you have every weekend. You are paying the same biological mortgage as a raging alcoholic just in slightly smaller installments. I wasn't going to do this podcast because alcohol is such a weird subject for people. You guys get defensive about it. Well, you're so much better. What the hell does that have to do with anything? I'm not talking about me. I make a shitload of mistakes. I'm coming out here so you actually get it. Maybe so you actually rip the label off that pretty little bottle and look at what really happens. How it how it rewires your brain. It scramles your hormones. It turns your cells into a war zone. What if you could fix all that damage? That's the question you should be asking. Cuz you know what people do is they go, "Well, I'm this far this far gone. I may as well just can't get any worse." Yes, it can. Yes, it can. Early death is worse. I mean, it's like it's like when you come home late when you're a kid, right? supposed to be home. The street lights come on. They come on. You're still not home. And you go, "All right. Well, I'm late already. Screw it. May as well stay out. I promise you it'll get a lot worse." I know because I've done it. 5 minutes late is not the same as 45 minutes late. 45 minutes late, you're grounded for the entire damn summer and you can't sit down for a week. 5 minutes late, maybe a SWAT, you're grounded for the weekend. They're not the same. Listen, you understand that your brain, just to be very clear from a purely neurological standpoint, it is this complex electric grid, the most complicated actually electrical grid on the planet. 86 billion neurons firing in these coordinated little storms of electricity and chemistry. You know what alcohol does? It comes in and it hacks the crap out of that grid. It's like handling it's like like handing a 5-year-old a crowbar, letting him loose in your living room. That's what happens. It's just chaos. Here's what happens when you drink. Just so you know, if you go, "Well, you're holding a coffee cup." Denazine, oh god, it's amazing. The most studied easily, this black coffee is the most studied substance on the planet. And if there's some s out there that says, "Well, coffee is really bad for you." Punch yourself in the face. Do the world a favor. When you drink, it latches on to GABA A receptors. They're the brakes of the nervous system. So, it floods them with with inhibitory signals. So the buzz that you call relaxation is simply neurons that are forced into chemical slowdown. They just mellow, right? Your prefrontal cortex, which is just so you know, where all judgment happens. It it's what weighs all the risk, keeps your impulses in check, make sure you don't text your ex, do stupid things. Yeah, that turns off. Which is why just one more turns into a night that you only reme remember in little fragments. Just one more though, huh? And let me help you out. While those brakes are jammed, alcohol also snips the accelerator. So, it suppresses glutamate, which is the main excitatory transmitter. I've said this before. So, when you finally stop drinking, the system rebounds hard. And that rebound glutamate surge is why the withdrawal feels like your nervous system in a lightning storm, right? Tremors, insomnia, seizures, right? The DTS. Dude, you guys have no idea how bad it is because your system has been even been wreaking havoc on your system and now it's trying to figure out how to solve the problem that you've created. Listen, your dopamine spikes in the reward pathway so hard your brain thinks you've just discovered fire. It's how amazing it is. But over time, all those receptors, they downregulate, which means they turn down the volume. So your baseline dopamine just sinks. Without alcohol, your life feels dull and muted. It's like somebody took a pillow and just stuffed it over all your ambition. It's not weakness. It's simple biochemistry. Never mind the fact that it, you know, how hard it is to cross the bloodb brain barrier. This does it. So, it crosses the bloodb brain barrier, hits micro GA, which are the the brain's little immune soldiers for lack of a better explanation, and it dumps cytoines, which are the chemical smoke signals of inflammation. This, just so you know, this oxidative stress strips away synapses and trims gray matter. your brain bl like Ray Charles is your gardener just randomly cutting things so memory lapses fog I guess like premature cognitive decline they're not just aging you guys this is the invoice for years of doing weekend stupidity you called it fun believe me I've been a bartender for a long time when I was younger the nonsense I saw when you binge drink hard enough and you hammer the NDM or NMDA receptors which is the other half of the excitatory system you hit them so violently that they die dead like die die die die die die die die die die die not this isn't metaphoric or metaphorical you understand blackouts aren't some comic anecdote these are episodes of measurable neuronal death even moderately drinking accelerates the brain's aging curve so you get older faster what are you doing think of your endocrine system as a boardroom and I used this example the other day where hormones like testosterone estrogen thyroid hormones cortisol all this stuff they negotiate the daily contract of your life non-stop, always in negotiation. Alcohol comes in, kicks the door open, flips over the table, yells at everybody like a hostile takeover artist, and goes bananas, and rewrites everything in the worst possible ways. Like, start with the HPA axis, which is the stress command center of your brain. A few drinks spikes cortisol for the temporary buzz, but you use it chronically, boost, and you get a baseline cortisol that's so high, it feeds belly fat and chronic anxiety, and that's all it's good for. See, it's not the sugar or the calories in the alcohol. It's the rest of the damage. You look at dudes, your testosterone tanks it. Alcohol impairs leading cells, which are the cells. And never mind, it also cranks up aromatase activity. So, it converts what little testosterone you've got left into estrogen. Leadig cells, sperm, testosterone. Muscle mass dies, libido tanks. Yeah. You know, everybody jokes about it. You drink too much booze. No lead in the pencil. Yeah. recovery from workouts drags like a you're wearing a burlap sack around your legs. You're trying to hop through something. And women don't get a free pass either, just so you know. It scramble alcohol. It scramles estrogen progesterone rhythm. So your cycle's a disaster. It honestly it'll mimic PCOS, polycystic ovarian syndrome. Yeah. And see you guys go out and get treated for this stuff. Meanwhile, there's no stuff there. The stuff is the booze you're putting in your bark hole and your fertility. Coin toss. What am I am I going to get pregnant? Stop drinking. Problem solved. insulin resistant. There's so many things. It's like plaque in a pipe. Beta cells in the pancreas lose sensitivity. Glucose lingers in the bloodstream. This is just setting the stage for type 2 diabetes, which is 100% man-made. Thyroid output tanks. Your metabolism just gets drugged in a quick scent. You gain fat even when you're eating like you actually give a [\h__\h] about your body. And that's where I'm talking you guys. I get messages from you guys every day. Okay. Well, I've been doing everything. Why am I still gaining weight? Should I take Red True Tide? Yeah, you should. You should also stop drinking completely ever. Water or this black coffee. I'll say it again. Your coffee, it should just look like a like blacker than a witch's crotch. That's what your coffee should look like. Take a look at that right there. Your body's master clock. By the way, alcohol sabotages the hell out of it. Sabotages pineal melatonin. Shreds your REM cycle so you get none of that delta sleep when all the like where the lymphatic system flushes all the toxins. It destroys circadian rhythm. So you wake up like you borrowed somebody else's body who beat the [\h__\h] out of it. the one that stayed up all night doom scrolling while getting punched in the sack. That's what happens. Sleep becomes this shallow knockoff of what your biology demands. So now every repair process from muscle synthesis to memory consolidation is going to pay the price for this. And this might come out as me sitting here going, "Why is this guy just yelling at me like I'm one of his kids?" Yeah, actually I am because I give a [\h__\h] about you like I would one of my kids, right? I got two kids and I care about them both. Even sometimes on the days I just want to bang their heads together. Even light drinking. Listen, before you guys go, "Well, I just drink occasionally." It tweaks growth hormone and sex hormone network so violently that over the years those little micro disturbances become macro damage and destruction. So here's the result just to make it real linear. Early metabolic syndrome, we've already established that that causes most disease processes, mood instability and a hormonal profile that's screaming accelerated aging. It's like systemwide carnage. Take the thousand foot view on your system. Just do it. Start with the liver. This is the body's detoxification engine. You cannot live without a liver. My dad is a great example. Ethanol is oxidized, right? Ethanol is oxidized into acid aldahhide, which is a reactive aldahhide that cross links proteins and DNA, which is not a good thing. Like you gave your toddler a bunch of superlue, just gluing everything together in a chaos in a little chaotic disaster. That's what happens. Then fat starts to accumulate. It's called benign steosis. And then silent inflammation. You get this you have this global systemwide inflammatory response this lowgrade inflammation which is the precursor for all kinds of problems never I'm not talking diabetes I'm talking kidney problems heart problems any cardiovascular pulmonary all the [\h__\h] that can go wrong and the last stage of this game cerosis which is essentially the petrification of living tissue you're turning your liver into a piece of petrified wood it's turning into stone and you don't need to Be a lifelong binge drinker. One daily drink cranks this up. One. Oh, you guys with leaky gut, alcohol is trashing that, too. Eerodrods those tight junction proteins I talked about in my leaky gut video. So, guess what? You get leaky gut. Endotoxins, right? The lipopolyaccharides, the fragments. Those flood into the portal vein. They reach the liver and crank up systemic inflammation. Your microbiome, which is the ecosystem of bacteria that helps regulate everything from your mood to your immunity, goes from organized conversation to fullblown prison riot. Your cardiovascular system gets beat up, endothelial cells stiffen, so your vascular system stiffens up. It loses all the suppleness and pliability. You lose vascular tone, so the system doesn't even operate right to maintain peripheral tension. Right? Nitric oxide signaling falters. Remember what I talked about yesterday when I was talking about methylene blue? blood pressure rises, arrhythmias become more likely. This there's so many things that happen. You are voluntarily ingesting a poison that in large enough amounts will kill you and yet you do it anyway. ROS, reactive oxygen species, lowgrade inflammation. That's what they do. From your brain to your kidneys, DNA damage, cancer risk spikes. There's a bunch of them, but just imagine from your mouth to your colon and everything in between. turns off your immunity, turns on white blood cells into these tired, sleepy little puppies that do nothing. And so the infections that you normally should be able to brush off, you know, you're not supposed to get sick, right? You're system is supposed to do what it does to keep you from getting sick. When you start getting sick, people have labeled that, well, that's normal. Everybody gets sick. [\h__\h] Your system is supposed to be robust enough that it doesn't get sick. That's why you have an immune system. So when you constantly go, I get sick all the time. Then your immune system is fooar, [\h__\h] up beyond all recognition. If you don't know, I mean, every organ from your neurons to your kidneys pays compound interest on all the weekend fun of drinking a bunch of alcohol. And you know, I I could sit here and just beat this into your skull about how bad it is, but how would we solve the problem? If you stop drinking, you still have a bunch of repair work to do. And biology loves a redemption arc. You quit drinking and your body launches this automatic repair campaign. So cells start cleaning house honestly within hours. But the damage is bad, you guys. It's deep. Mitochondria are limping around. Hormones are scrambled. They're not working right. Tissues are hyperinflamed. How about I just give you the list? It's Saturday and I want to go hang out. Last night I went to bed at just 11:30 and I didn't get a chance to really see my wife. So, how about I just we'll just lay it out. Enment. Okay. Enament. So, you need enem your body. Hypothetically, all this is educational, hypothetical, and purely for entertainment, not to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, or any other thing like that. If you know, you know, we know. We good. All right. Oh, alcohol burns through, excuse me, NAD+ like you dropped a match in dry grass. I grew up in the prairies. Lots of dry grass matches, bad bed fellas. NAD+ is the currency of mitochondrial energy. Without it, your ATP production slows down and fat piles up in the liver. You have to know what's going to happen before I can tell you how to fix it. Nicotenomide monucleotide, which is NMN, replenishes NAD+. So, it fixes the electron transport chain spark. And methylene blue is the one that goes from complex 1 to complex 4. It bypasses the traffic jam by carrying an electron to keep that proton gradient. So you keep cranking out. You get a nice fat yield of ATP. I talked about this yesterday. So this is going to help with that as well. So picture mitochondria flipping from old push mower without an engine to my 911 Turbo S. ATP goes up, oxidative stress drops, and liver stops drowning in triglycerides. I mean there You get such a benefit. Your cellular power plants multiply and the old ones get tuned up. So all those little nuclear reactors that are tired and broken because of the binge drinking and the booze and the glass of wine, you say, "It's healthy. I just have it with my friends." And you guys slurp it all weird and get a bunch of purple teeth. The hell's wrong with you guys? [\h__\h] weirdos. You undo all that damage. No. BPC-157 guaranteed gut repair. So we've got NMN BPC-157. So alcohol leaves your gut lining look like a just a bombed out bridge. It's a disaster, right? They've ran pave makers, if you know what they are, they dig holes in runways when military comes in. Don't ask me how I know that. Tight junction proteins break. So those LPS, the lipopolysaccharides, I said, slip through those the spaces and endotoxins slip into the bloodstream and then the liver fights this constant lowgrade chemical warfare. BPC-157, it's like a molecular contractor. It promotes angioenesis, which is new blood vessel growth. So tissues can actually rebuild their own supply lines. Fibro blasts are are laying down fresh collagens. You're running through all that old crappy tissue and you're replacing it with new tissue that actually does its job better. Epithelial cells, they knit the barrier shut. So you those those tight proteins, those tight junction proteins actually do their job. They shut that gap that you're bleeding that sewage into your bloodstream. And the gut liver access finally gets the ceasefire notification. It stops doing damage to itself. So if you have less endotoxin assault, the liver's inflammatory cytoine storm is going to stop which makes time and space and takes the pressure off the system so it actually has the energy reserves to regenerate. Cuz without it, all you're doing is trying to put out the fire all the time. Does that make sense? Because you're just going to sit there and and try and mitigate the damage, but you don't have enough of a reserve to go, how do we fix the damage? You're just trying to mit mitigate the results of the damage, not stop the damage or reverse the damage. She keep pouring booze into the system. Sorry, my nose is itchy. GHK-Cu copper NMN BPC1 GHKC. This stuff's awesome. Alcohol floods every tissue with ROS, reactive oxygen species. This is like a molecular arsonist of biology. And so this brings in the fire brigade. It boosts SOD, super oxide dismutates and catalates which are the little firefighters inside your own system. And it does this in fact while doing this it scavenges up all the free radicals directly. So DNA repair enzymes switch on. Collagen synthesis accelerates. It's not just it's not just for making you look young you guys. I mean you can tell look how beautifully young I look from all the copper I take. It doesn't make it's not magic. I still look like I'm 52. and neurons that are battered by oxidative stress start to clear all the fog. So, you start to lose that brain fog that you've had. Think of it like hitting the the refresh on the cleanup crew in your system and they all get replaced by new workers. M is the next one. So, NMN, BPC, GHK-Cu, MOS Matsi is cool. It's I told you already it's like one of my favorite peptides because when mitochondria fail, you don't just feel tired. You run your life on extremely low voltage. M C which is remember it's a peptide encoded in your mitochondrial DNA itself flips the metabolic breaker and act remember it activates EMPK which is the master regulator of energy balance. So it drives fat oxidation and it stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis so you make more neurons that were starving for ATP start firing clearly again. Oh, this is about to get really cool you guys. And then muscles regain endurance so you can train. Even insulin sensitivity improves. This stuff is wicked. It's wicked. It's like upgrading the city's entire power grid after a blackout where all the wires got torched and you just came in and replaced everything with brand new stuff and a new power plant to make even more juice. Sign me up. Kiss pepin's another one. Alcohol, it leaves your system just in disarray. It's punched full of holes. It's like a crashed computer. Testosterone's down. Estrogen's down. Cortisol is misfiring. And Kiss Pepin is I actually did a podcast on this. I didn't post it because it just I got really technical and when I actually posted it on Instagram, it got flagged and pulled down. Yeah, but free speech, right? Free speech. My post this morning got taken down three times about methylene blue. Are you kidding me? All you AI sensors, [\h__\h] you. You guys can show the most horrific [\h__\h] all over social media and YouTube, but you can't say something about what's going to help a human being. What is wrong with every single sensor out there? F all of you. F all of you. That's all I got to say. You guys are hurting people because you're keep you're you're hoarding and hiding information. [\h__\h] I just want to smack somebody right now. You guys deserve to have all the information that helps you. That's what I know. That's why I'm out here. Kiss Kiss Pepin. It's like hitting control altdelete on on your system. It starts it all over. It stimulates G&R release. It nudges the hypothalamic pituitary gonatal loop back towards normal. And in men, I'll tell you that means rebound testosterone production. Yes, that's a big deal. Steadier ovulatory cycles for women, more predictable estrogen, progesterone rhythm, fatty liver changes, so you shut down those inflammatory cytoines. The hormonal system starts to find its beat again, if that makes any sense whatsoever. You know, I I was thinking about methylene blue. Funny, I took methylene blue today. I actually noticed it just to be honest. I mean, it's the first time I took the dosage that I took today. I usually take just a teeny little bit, but I and I feel it like not I don't know how to explain it. Just feel really good and lots of not good like euphoric good as in my energy systems are running which means it is doing its job which means I also am all kinds of jammed up between complex one and complex 4 in the electron transport chain. So understand this stuff's real. I am never you know what's interesting? Unlike the pharmaceutical world, I'm never going to tell you to take something I'm not taking myself or wouldn't take myself ever. Outside of something that is designed purely for a female because I'm a dude. I have no interest in being a woman. I'd make an ugly woman anyway. Well, I'd be just nasty looking. You It's like you threw me up in the ugly tree and I hit every branch on the way down just the whole way. But methylene blue, this is the final one. The final piece of the puzzle. What are we at? Five, six things. This is picture mitochondria as these little nuclear reactors, right? And when they are they have this little production system in there for energy and the system the the system gets jammed. So what methylene blue does is it acts as remember what I said yesterday it acts as this temporary electron shuttle in in the etc and it bypasses the damaged complexes in this case remember one complex one to complex 4 and it keeps the electron flow moving and sustains that ATP output even when even when alcohol has bruised and beaten up and taken out chunks of the machinery which it's done. It also mitigates hyper production of nitric oxide so you don't get this weird vasoddilation where you're always wanting to pass out. Protects neurons when you have withdrawal storms which you will. It reduces the it reduces oxidative markers. It protects neurons during withdrawal storms and the cytoine storms that you're going to have. Withdrawals is what it is. You got to suffer. It'll even help stabilize testosterone and normalize the ALT A ratios with your liver. This is just going to help. It gives you the juice that you need. The stuff is amazing. 76. Like I said, it was probably cooked up with some by some dude in a lab coat whose grandma was like, "I need something to dye my curtains." Like, that's literally what it was. Listen to me. If you're asking for dosages, you need to message me. I'm tired of people sensors. Double rainbows to both the all you sensors. F you, man. People deserve to have healthy, strong, powerful, and you guys, you guys deserve to be just juggernauts and the lie of the health care system and the pharmaceutical world. I want no part of it. Disrupt the whole thing. Get mad at me if you if you're part of that world. I don't care. Society sells, listen, this is about Buddhist. Society sells moderation like it's a commercial on Amazon, you know, Hallmark commercial, romantic commercial. It's a candle at dinners and two glasses of wine and a wink that says, you know, you've earned it and we're going to do something later and get naked and get freaky about it. Call it what it is. It is brilliant marketing for a slow self-destruction. You're not relaxing. You're renting disease by the sip and you are paying interest in stolen years. That's how real this is. So, if you look at what I just explained, they'll help. They'll solve. They'll reverse. But if you're still pouring poison into your blood bloodstream like a muppet, you can't remodel a house while you're still throwing Molotov cocktails through the windows. You guys, step one is always going to be the same thing. Put out the fire. Step two, if you've done step one, is where all of this stuff comes into play. Then knock yourself out cuz it'll change your entire [\h__\h] life. Listen, alcohol doesn't just give you a hangover. It rewires your neurology and it hijacks your hormones and it batters every organ system that you've got in slow motion. Quitting is not punishment. You guys look at that as it's not. It's liberation. Once you've quit, once you've quit, NMN, BPC-157, GH, KCU, Mati, Kiss Pepin, and methylene blue. That's the blueprint for cellular repair and metabolic resurrection. Your body is designed and built for recovery. It is constantly in a state of recovery. It's what it's designed to do. That's how you're still alive. Could you imagine if you got a cut and it never healed? It's not how it works. Your body goes, "Oh, vitamin K, thrombin, proth, thrombin, fibbrinogen. It knows what to do. Let it stop putting [\h__\h] in the way." So, the question isn't whether or not all of the stuff that I told you can one day work because you decide to read about it. Do some more research about it even though you keep pounding alcohol. How much research do you do on the boozy drink? None. You guys go just grab it and pound it out every day. What about the Advil? I had some knucklehead. I hope you're listening. I hope it's you. Well, yeah, but these aren't tested. And what? They're not approved and they say for research only. And what about any of the [\h__\h] Go take your Advil bottle, open it up, pull out that little white packet, open it all the way up and look at the 05 font and three words will pop out somewhere in that giant thesis that's written on that thing that says may cause death. You go ahead and keep taking that dumbass. But you're worried about peptides or sarms or serms. Well, I heard they have a bad rap. Celre, remesae, nsaides. Get out of here with your unwarranted, uneducated, [\h__\h] headline reading, Reddit forum gleaning fears. Learn about human biology. Listen to me. Listen to someone else. If you don't want to listen to me, you don't like me because I'm too rude and crude or I'm smacking your mouth too in the mouth too often. But learn about the systems before you open this bar hole to give advice on what you think somebody should do when it comes to their health and you going, "It's not tested. You shouldn't do that. It says not for human use. Just so you know, most of the medication you take probably not ideal for human use. But a lot of you [\h__\h] still take it and you think it's okay and you get mad at me for calling you out on it. Listen, I am out here trying to help you and I actually give a [\h__\h] You know why? Because nobody is coming to save you. You think they are, but they're not. You have to do it by yourself for yourself, which means you have to have the information so you actually can make an educated decision. People hide that stuff like it's gold and they bury it somewhere so nobody can see it. I'm out here ripping it open, bleeding all over the place so you have it. Why? Because your body is a recovery machine. It is a juggernaut. The question isn't whether or not this is going to work what I gave you. If you drink and you stop today, this is everything you should. You should message me and go, I need it [\h__\h] now. All of it. You can buy it at Elite Biogenics. You go buy it somewhere else if you want. I don't come out here because I'm like, I have to build sales. I come out here because nobody is helping you. The real question is when you stop romanticizing the very substance burning down your [\h__\h] future and you start rebuilding the life the way you were wired to live. That's the real question. I'm out. I don't want to talk anymore. I got to go. Never miss.