So, listen, my my best friend in the whole world next to my wife, and my wife is my best friend, hands down. The the guy that I consider my younger brother, um, he lost his dad like just two days ago. It really bothers me actually. And I never knew his dad at all. Nothing. You know, I've only known this guy a handful of years, four years or so. Three, four years. And he is like 52. He's the closest thing to a little brother I've ever had. And it it it was dementia took his dad and he wouldn't listen. Not him. The dad wouldn't listen to all the things that would work. And listen to me. Let me explain this to everybody that is tuning in to what I'm about to say. This is going to be a long podcast. I'm going to explain everything about dementia. I'm going to go over exactly what to do. And some of you guys aren't going to like it. I don't really give a [\h__\h] I don't listen. I I'm tired of pandering to the people that go, "Well, you have to say certain things and you have to do certain things and you got to stay within the guard rails of this." You guys aren't experts. I am. I am. Listen, I don't claim to know anything about being an attorney or an engineer or some kind of world-class physicist. I don't know how to build a house with my bare hands. I could probably figure it out, you know? I don't know how to engineer a car from start to finish. I can wrench on a car all day long because it's fun for me. I don't know how to take apart the electronics like this Roadcaster Duo or build a computer with my bare hands. I don't know how to do any of that stuff. But you know what? I really know human biology, physiology, endocrinology, embryology, neurology. [\h__\h] I am exceptional at that because I damn well make sure I am because I want to give you everything I've got. But when I hear people that you guys get in, listen to me. Yeah, I'm in a mood. Even my wife was like, "You need to go out and do a podcast. You're lit. This is perfect." Like, I'm tired of people and this is all about dementia. And so before this isn't meant to cure, treat, diagnose, triage, prescribe, advise. It's only for entertainment and education. And it's all hypothetical. If you know, you know. All right? Are we done? Good. So listen, I'm tired of people fighting against the things, the very things that will actually help them while they justify at the same time what's hurting them as if they're so [\h__\h] righteous. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? You get in the comments of people like me or anybody else who actually wants to help. Not these idiotic, I'm so smart. Let me tell you about my stack people. Shut up. Shut up. You get in the comments of people. You try to cancel people. You attack people. You try and discredit people. Form your little queer posi and talk about people. You put every ounce of energy into going against anything that goes against the dogma that you are living every damn day. What the [\h__\h] is wrong with you guys? What is wrong with you guys? You know, here's the problem. I saw a post about Bruce Willis. I don't know Bruce Willis at all, but you know what? Something inside me bothers me. I want to help him so bad. Like if one of you guys happens to know who he is or can get in touch with him, I don't care if he ever knows me. I don't care if he ever I don't want any credit. I don't want him to even recognize. I don't want a [\h__\h] thing. I want to help him cuz it tore me up because he's losing his mind. His identity is gone. I don't know Demi Moore, but I'm 52. I've been watching these people since I was a kid. I've been watching Bruce Willis since Moonlighting and Cybil Shepard where he back kicked the light switch and turned it off. Since the dieh hard day. since all of it. And you know, when I see that, I go, there's no reason for that guy to be in that state of mind because my grandparents grew up to be well into their 90s. They didn't have dementia. They didn't have Alzheimer's. They didn't have any of that. I'm tired of these man-made diseases that all of you guys are fighting to defend going, "You don't understand. My grandmother had it. It was terrible." Well, you should have [\h__\h] done something about it instead of plugged them full of poisons, trusting the people in the white coats who are doing the problem, who are causing the problems. Anyway, they tore me up. Like I want I literally want to I want to name this episode. Somebody get this in front of Bruce Willis. And I told you I don't give a [\h__\h] if he never knows who I am. If he's like, "Where did this awesome cure come from? Where did this where did this Oh, I can't say that. Oops, I said it. I don't care. Where did this solution come from that actually got me back on my feet and fixed me?" I don't know. I don't care. I don't care if he never knows. If he never finds out because at least somebody helped this guy, you know, and it's here's here's the issue. the latest and great greatest treatments for him and anybody else going through this are going to do what they've always done. They're going to cause more [\h__\h] harm. But a lot of you guys, you defend the source of the problem, the pharmaceutical industry, the indoctrinated doctors, and go full nuclear attack on any potential solution. I'm not talking some magic [\h__\h] powdered ball sack or some weird Himalayan root that you found. And before you go, well, what if that actually works? Try it. If it works, then great. If not, then bounce and try something else. And not even because the solution might not work. By the way, you guys get in the comments and just defend full throttle. You go so ballistic, but because it you defend it not because it might work or it might not work, but because it goes against what you've been taught to believe would work. Listen, I've been through chemotherapy. It just about killed me. And screw off with you telling me your grandma survived because of chemo. If she survived because of chemo, she did not have cancer. You tell that to my grandma when they saw the tumor, they probably caused the tumor. It does not work. Not a [\h__\h] chance. Organ failure accounts for 97% of deaths labeled as cancer deaths. And what do they do? They create new versions of the same basic chemical ideology. Kill the cancer cells. Never going to work. Every single human being has cancer all of the time. 1% of your cells are mutated cells. Your body turns over 1 billion cells a day. If 1% are mutated cells, that means you have cancer all of the time. Everybody gets rid of it all the time. All the time. Except now we're producing epinephrine, norepinephrine, cortisol, these powerful cancer-causing chemicals cuz everybody's so strung out instead of interferon, interlucan, and all these things that actually prevent and mitigate problems like that. And so what do they do? They stroll in and they radiate you. They poison you. And now don't tell me that they can only target a cancer cell. They can't. I don't give a [\h__\h] The only thing I've ever seen do that is methylene blue and light married together. But you think that is what they treat people with? Not a chance. Why? Because it [\h__\h] works. It is a trillion dollar industry designed to make more money and keep you scared. I've been through cancer four times. Are you out of your mind? It is terrifying to look at my wife and go, I might not make it. But the last thing I'm ever going to do is listen to a [\h__\h] doctor. And I am a doctor. It's amazing to me the level of incompetence that people just It's in your own brain. Chemotherapy almost put me in a box. Listening to the medical world almost put me in a box. And if you go surgeon saved your life, bro, medicine saved your life. You know what medicine's very good at? Emergency care. Phenomenal. You know what? It sucks at healthcare. Rock bottom. The turd on my shoe that I stepped in in my yard is worth more than any of their contribution to being healthy. Seven. If seen, if your body turns over a billion cells a day, and this is about dementia. I'm just still hitting cancer real quick. and you radiate and poison and you create more turnover. You have to physiology, human biology, [\h__\h] this is what happens. For all of you guys just about to argue in my comments, shut up. Shut your mouth. Pay attention to somebody who's smarter than you are right now. I don't care how many degrees you have. I have degrees a mile long after my name. It doesn't matter. Who cares? I don't care about any of that stuff. I care what you've actually gone through. Find me. Find me a oncologist who suffered through the same [\h__\h] they give their patients going, "I cure all my patients. You haven't cured a single [\h__\h] patient." You know why? Cuz no doctor anywhere any time in the history of history, including myself, has ever cured anybody of anything. Your body does the work. The chemistry or the surgery gets the [\h__\h] out of the way. So save your ego. But if you poison somebody and radiate somebody and the body has to make up for all those dead cells you've just created, it turns over more cells. Agreed? Yes. So instead of 1 billion now it maybe 7 8 9 10 billion cells a day. If the rate of mutation is still only 1% which it's not. If you look at mathematics and you look at any of how the body works it's going to actually go up. So the rate of mutation even if at 1% 1% of 10 billion 1% of 1 billion which one's a bigger number. So now you have more cancer cells. That's why they have something called chemotherrapeutic induced cancer. It aggravates me. You guys just keep following all day long. Oh, I'm sure I'll catch [\h__\h] for this from some weird threeletter agency. Good. Go [\h__\h] yourself. I come out here to help people cuz I genuinely give a [\h__\h] I'm telling you, 4 years ago I got lit by God. You think for a second I'm not coming out here to go I'm going to give you all like I will bleed for you to make sure you have the answer. [\h__\h] It makes me so angry. And the same goes for most pharmaceutical products as healthcare products. Just so you know, they just renamed the poison. And a doc like me gets labeled as one of those guys who hates medicine. No, I don't. Actually, not at all. I think medicine is phenomenal when it's used to save people, to help people, not to give them health, keep you alive in emergency situations. You know what? I hate the liars behind the fancy science while they hurt people for [\h__\h] profit. If anyone, any one of you [\h__\h] gets in my comments and tries to go against me using modern pharmacology as their defense, you can [\h__\h] right off. I'm going to apologize directly. Only reason I remember her name is cuz it's spelled this way. P O R T I A Porsche, I'm assuming it is. Listen, I apologize for all the swears cuz you said you can't listen to this with your babies around. I'm just too lit. You're And this isn't her. This is about everybody. Listen, like you guys are more concerned about being right, the people that argue. You're more concerned about being right and defending your feelings and ego than you are about helping anybody but your house but yourself. Stay out of my house. Stay out of my house. I don't want you. I'm here to come out to help anybody who needs the help, not to sit there and get into some weird flame troll war in the comments. I'm never going to acknowledge you ever. So save it, you You know, and even worse are the influencers and the bro science pseudo experts who read one too many Reddit posts who come and try and argue against this weird thing called human biology. I'm right, you're wrong. I don't give a [\h__\h] what degrees you have. I've got a, like I said, a mile after my name. I don't care what credentiing agency approved your permit, your license, your diplomate. So many self-centered, self-righteous, fragile, ego toddlers are running around the internet. It needs to be renamed Chuck-E-Cheese. That's just call it that instead. It's not Instagram. It's Chuck-e-Cheese. I am right about everything I say. And I'm not arrogant. It's egotistical. You bet your ass I've got a big ego because I'm exceptional at what I do. Because I care so damn much about you people that I make sure I'm the best at this. Because people count on me. They count on me to come out here. You think they count on the argumentative babies trolling in the comments? None of them. They don't know anything except their own insecurity. Listen, until you're smarter than me, until you care more than I do about these people who listen to me, until you're willing to give all you've got to make sure they can live with all they've got, respectfully, [\h__\h] right off. Are we good? Because listen, I I need to I need to get started. I'm already 12 minutes in and I've just been on a rant. I'm just that lit about all of this between my buddy and and thinking about Bruce Willis and all this stuff. Like, you don't understand. This terrifies every single person that's listening to this. The thing that you see in old your parents, elderly, their eyes, the thing that worries you when you look in the mirror as you get older, my attorney even said it. That's my biggest fear is losing my mind. The fading of your mind, the loss of your ability to do and comprehend and think and function for yourself. Dementia, Alzheimer's, that slow, agonizing, it's like a theft of everything that makes a person who they are. And you know what the problem is? Medical world. Oh, it's inevitable. It's inevitable. Spartan Dr. T. It's inevitable. And they hand your Did they hand little grandma a prescription for [\h__\h] Nmenda and then send her home with a hug, maybe a fist bump. They'll tell you just, you know what, just manage your symptoms. They've given up on solving the problem. They've just surrendered because it doesn't make them any money. I'm going to tell you. You know what surrenderers for? [\h__\h] losers. Losers. If that's you, you're a loser. I got nothing to say to you. I don't even want to talk to you. I won't even acknowledge you. That's how disgusted I am with people that quit. What if I told you listen? Oh, what if I told you you didn't have to wait for some pharma company's magic bullet if you just the tools actually exist and not to manage symptoms? That is not helping anybody. We're talking reverse filled a like reverse. I mean, full reverse. Rebuild a broken brain. And that is not hope. You know what hope is? It's an empty [\h__\h] mindset that gets people so addicted to, well, maybe tomorrow will be better. Tomorrow's better when you make it better. This is a strategy. I'll give it to you cover to cover. And you know what? The only thing I'm not going to give you are anything about exactly the quantity. Why? Because some weird sensor is going to say you can't do it. Your goal isn't to manage decline. You guys, this is war. This is war against the people that want to wreck your body, your health, your mind, and convince you that that is natural and that is normal. Let me explain here. Here's what the war is against. For when it comes to dementia, there's only four problems that you have to fix. Just four. You have to reclaim or restore cerebral blood flow because it's it's your brain is starving. So you need to reopen all the supply lines. You need to rebuild neuronal networks because all the structures, all the neurological structures in here are just collapsing. So you need to send in something to do the work for you. It's not going to be managing symptoms. You need to clear all the metabolic waste that's building up because everything is filled with garbage. So you need to send in garbage trucks, send in cleaning crews, whatever you want to call them. And then you need to recconnect neurotransmitter, I guess reestablish neurotransmitter balance because none of the communication works. Hence why you can't function cognitively. So you need to rewire the entire thing. It's not a surgery and it's also not one problem. It's like a metabolic assault on their mind which means you need to counter assault. You need, you know what you need? You need a goddamn neurological revival, baby. That's what you need. And most doctors treat this with one drug, one mechanism. That's like trying to put out a forest fire by spitting on it or pissing on it. Are you out of your mind? We're talking water bombers and helicopters and every firefighter and hose with a diameter of my head just blasting to put this fire out and then all the people that come in and plant all the trees and then magic fertilizer that makes all the trees really grow fast. That's what you need. How many times has somebody explained that? Never. Never. You need to stop the bleeding. Okay, that's the cornerstone of all of this. And I mean the hemorrhage in your mind and it's like let let me explain because you need to reclaim neurovvascularization and neurogeneration or regeneration because this is if you're not going to do this it doesn't matter what I tell you to do. So by the way before I go any further before I'm about ready to snap cuz I'm 17 minutes in and I'm feel like my blood pressure is about 200 over 100. If you guys don't get how much I care I don't know what to tell you. Man I'm 52 years old. You know, one of the coolest things that I had yesterday, it just kind of popped up and I don't know if it was God talking or whatever, but I looked down and I saw The Rock liked one of my posts and it actually made me go, man, if I could help that guy, I I don't know if he needed help, he could just read. I don't even care if he if he just got information from me and never and never acknowledge me. I don't give a [\h__\h] You really don't understand how desperately I want to help mankind. But you know what I don't want to do? argue with the idiots and [\h__\h] in mankind that argue to stay right where they are and keep defending the very things that are causing the problems. So listen to me. If you're not going to do all of this or pass this on to grandma, grandpa, uncle, aunt, or some Bruce W [\h__\h] Willis, don't do any of it because you can't cherrypick what you want. You either fix the problem or you just let that fire smolder and burn into some raging inferno and take you out. Are we clear? Cerebral. I don't care if you get this at Elite Biogenics. I don't care if you don't. I don't care what. I just care that you take it and you faking do it before somebody goes, "Oh, you're pedalling your company." Well, you bet your ass my company is better than anybody else's. You know why? Because this guy gives a [\h__\h] I'm not like, "Look at all the cool products we're making." I'm like, "Look at all the people we're helping." So, if you think anything else, go [\h__\h] yourself. That's the mood I'm in right now. Step one, I will spell this out like a third grader. Cerebrrol. No. If you're asking me for dosages, no. You can go on social media, type in the keyword when I post this, and you can get the research study and then if you want it, then you can actually buy it. And if you want exact help with this, and it is this important to you, you can come and hire me one-on-one as your consultant or you can just do the black card membership. And if you go, there you go, pedaling your membership. What are you nuts? You think I'm just going to come out here at I got to pay for my life somehow? And you know what? Just to be very clear, if somebody was going to save my wife, god forbid something happens to them. I care how much somebody was going to charge me just to save her. If I believed in them and they knew they could do it and they could help her, I'd sell it all. Spend every dollar I've gotten everything a little more besides. So, stop thinking it's about paying me. Yeah, you bet your ass you're going to pay me. You know why? Cuz I don't want the $49 whiny complaining. I should be able to get you on the phone all day long. Get out of here. I got no time for you cuz all you're going to do is argue. Yeah. I keep deviating from this because that's how how frustrated I am at the current model of conduct and mankind cerebr. There you go. If you ask how to spell it, I don't know, [\h__\h] Google it. Look it up. Stop using it for porn. Instead, start using it for something good. It is a concentrated, this is what it is, just so you know. It's a concentrated shot of something called neurotrophic factors. There's a bunch. BDNF, NGF, GDNF. Think of these things as they're like master signals for your brain. and they're screaming at your neurons to grow, to repair, to form new connections, to plasticize, for neuroplasticity. It's not a drug masking a system. This is the raw material required for rebuilding the entire factory itself. This is the single before you need to understand the single most powerful neuro regenerative agent available available on the planet. How many of your doctors have told you about that? just this one right here. So, cerebral ly, but then you need energy to run the system. I'm going to string this together so you actually understand why this works. And if you go, well, how's how come anybody else hasn't talked about this? Because I don't know how much this would all cost to buy it. Let's say it let's say it costs 10 grand in I'm making it up. I really It might be a hundred bucks. I have no clue. But let's say it's 10 grand and it gets somebody back their entire life. That's not really a lot of profit, is it? For people. There's your answer. I almost threw my mug at the screen. I'm so pissed off. So you need energy. Cerebralin, all those things, those factors, those growth factors need power. Methylene blue. Methylene blue, just so you know, I've said it before, isn't some die that came out in 1896. This is like mitochondrial jet fuel. It steps into the electron transport chain, which is the it's the energy production assembly line inside every single cell you've got, and it makes it run at about 150%. Efficiency, not over revving or overdriv, just makes it become radically more efficient. Because remember what I said, it it takes, excuse me, it takes the jam up in the ETC, the electron transport chain, and it bypasses, it goes from complex one to complex 4, and it bypasses the mess that's there that's slowing down and getting rid of that proton gradient that's required, and it keeps it going, and it just makes this fat, wicked, juicy ATP yield that just turns out nothing but fat [\h__\h] energy like it. And so now here's what happens. You take that energy, you translate it into the neurons, supercharges the neuron power plants that are what? Creating ATP. It mops up all the oxidative waste. Oh, I didn't tell you that part, did I? Cleans up all the oxidative waste that's coming out. And it prevents the aggregation of a specific type of protein, which is the garbage that clogs up neurons in Alzheimer's to proteins. It's an energy booster. It's a cleanup crew that's outside of a massively disgusting construction site that just needs to be so that you come back and it looks like a golf course when you're done and it's a pre preventative mechanic all at once and if you go are they needles are they what are they does it matter now you have to fix all the issues that are outside in the system BPC57 this is it's the ultimate healer in the body it repairs the gut the tendons it repairs the blood brain barrier it fixes the system so all that peripheral inflammatory response, never mind the tight junctions in the gut, all get tied up nice and neat, so they actually work at 100%. And just so you know, by the way, the blood brain barrier. So, I was going to get into a big Tylenol conversation about all you idiots out there taking Tylenol as as what? What are you taking poison and waiting for somebody else to die? You stupid [\h__\h] What's wrong with you? Shuts down the electron transport chain, just to be very clear. And um this is my quick rant on Tylenol, what you guys are doing. And destroys the liver first, just so you know. Liver failure kills more people than from NSAIDs than alcohol. You're welcome. Yes, really. You can argue with me all you want. I'm still right. So blood brain barrier, right? It's like a security fence. So when it gets leaky, here's what happens. Inflammation and toxins pour in. So cytoines and toxic materials. It's not the lipopolyaccharides that come in through the gut, but it's still toxins. And it causes something called neuroinflammation, not hydrophille, which is water on the brain before somebody goes, "Oh, hydro," cuz I had somebody ask me that. Neuroinflammation, which is the primary driver of cognitive decline. You know what BPC57 does? Doesn't patch it. Fixes it. Makes that fence, that barrier between the bloodb brain barrier, makes it work perfectly. It's like a It's like uh what's his name? Bill Murray. Cattyshack. Just the ultimate groundskeeper. Just blowing up gophers. It's what it is. GHK-Cu. Copper. You need copper because this tells your body to rebuild its own structural proteins, collagen, elastin, it reinforces those tiny little blood vessels inside your brain. Because if you remember what I said about copper, the vascular system is muscular, right? And if those muscles get relaxed, which they do when they're when you are lacking copper, they can't maintain pressure. They leak. They can't function properly. And your brain, just so you know, if you've ever done jiu-jitsu, if you get a blood choke, I don't care how good you think you are, that's a very uncomfortable position. And you will be out so fast, 7 8 seconds, because your brain goes, "Put them down quick. Lay them down." Because do you know why you pass out when you have a single episode? It's because it's easier to pump blood horizontally than it is vertically. So your body goes make it as easy as possible. Take all the obstacles out of the way and just get blood to the brain. It will sacrifice everything. It'll vasoc constrict everywhere in your periphery just to get blood to your brain. Well, so what this does is copper improves circulation and delivery of all the other components and compounds to the brain. Remember the issue is the brain. The issue isn't a testicle or your big toe or the liver. It's your brain. You know what else copper does? GHK-Cu stimulates nerve growth. So you're not feeding the brain. You're also rebuilding all the roads that lead to the brain. So far we're checking boxes. You with me? So the next part of this entire beautiful structure is you need metabolic and energy capacity function. And you need all of this stuff to work right because your brain is the most metabolic the most metabolically greedy and hungry organ in your entire body. It consumes about 20 to 25% of your energy and it makes up about 2%. So if your metabolism is broken, your brain is running on vapor, you need to fix the engine. NAD+ is the currency of cellular energy and repair. So it it fuels the certuins which they're like the master regulators of cellular health. They control DNA repair, mitochondrial function, the survival pathways. So age, just so you know, age and disease, drain your NAD plus account. You spend till you're about 65 working and stacking away tiny little bits of money, but never investing it. And then you want to live off of 800 grand that you have sitting there. And you think that's going to get you going for the next 35 years. Except that's going to last you probably about 7 years. And if you go, "Bro, how much money are you spending?" I like to live life [\h__\h] So I don't challenge me on that. You want to learn how to make money? again, sign up for a program with me and then or don't. I don't really care. Then open a book, listen to Patrick Bet David, listen to Pedro Sculian. They'll all teach you how to make money. Listen to Dan Martell. These are all people that I take notes off of because they're playing the business game better than me. Just so we're clear. I give shout outs to people that do it better than I do. Why? Because they are. You don't have to pay me for anything. You can learn this stuff all on your own. But to come back to that, you live off of this tiny little bank account and you deplete the [\h__\h] out of it. That's what age and disease do. They deplete that bank account faster, that NAD+ account. So what this does ND+ is like you just won the lottery and 300 million just showed up in that account and you're like I could go for decades. I could go for generations. Now you following why you need to do that because this stuff works. You you fix the system give the system you take away the inflammation and the problems with the system. You heal up and seal up the system. You give it a blood supply and you help it grow new nerves. Cool. Now you give it energy so it can do all this work and you have to fix the nuclear reactors that are producing this energy which is Matsi. Matsi is one of the coolest peptides on earth. It's a mitochondrial signal. It comes from the power plants themselves. Remember what I said? It's already in your DNA. Tells your body to become metabolically flexible is a easy way to explain it. It tells it to use energy differently. It reduces insulin res or it reduces insulin resistance which is a massive massive look at the diet you guys are eating. What is wrong with you guys? It is a massive metabolic stressor on your brain, insulin resistance. So, you're tuning the engine. It's like my 911 Turbo S when they get in there and they tweak the ECU. You look at these guys from ES Motors and they make these Porsches, their 1800 horsepower Porsches, and they put in all these parts and then they tune the engine so it actually works. That's what this stuff does. So, now you're just cranking out power, but it's it's a daily driver. You are a daily driver. You guys listen to me. And then you have to add in five aminoq. This is like a cheat code because it inhibits an enzyme called N&MT which burns through your NAD+. The NMT, it's the bouncer, right? It screws everything up. So, by blocking it, you send your NAD plus levels through the roof without having to inject massive amounts. So, you take NAD+. This allows you to have your own and it keeps you from burning through it and screwing it all up in the first place. That's what the five amino 1 1 MQ does. It's a force multi multiplier of cellular energy and it's like it's like finding a way in my 911. And I know I keep using this car, but it's a fun car. It's like finding my way in that 911 Turbo S to get 500 m to the gallon, but still make the same amount of power and fun factor. Do you see now how this goes? So, okay. So, now you need to solve the colonergic enhancement and neotropic issue. And I'll explain what that means because now you have the infrastructure that's being built and the power is being turned back on. I'm trying to go through this categorically so you understand how this works. Now, you need you need to turn the lights back on. So, you have to restore the communication that your brain has. So, fennel paracetam, I've talked about this stuff before. This stuff is gangster. It is the closest thing to a limitless drug that exists. Now, if you were going to do this, it wouldn't just be fennel paracetam. It would be anorasetam and oxarasetam and alpha GPC, which is all the stuff I'm going to tell you about right now. This isn't this isn't your grandfather's rasetam. This is like the fennel paracetam hydroide is a very advanced version. It powerfully upregulates acetylcholine receptors, which are the key neurotransmitters for memory and learning. Do you see now how this works? It also has massive neuroprotective qualities and it gives you a ton of neurological resilience. So, it makes your brain cells tougher and smarter to bring it to a third grade level and before somebody gets triggered and insulted. Shut up. I'm giving you information so you can win. Add in alpha GPC because this is the raw highdensity. It's the precursor to acetylcholine. You need this because you can't have communication without the raw material. This is the So, my neighbor right now, she's building a giant pickle ball court indoor all tricked out. This thing is dope. her name's Ruth and it's like I think it's 2200 ft² it's going up just on the property next to mine and it's like I'm watching them frame it up and put all the structure and the steel beams and all the stuff that they're doing. That's this is all the lumber and the steel beams. It's not the building. It's not what it looks like at the end. This is all the raw material. That's what alpha GPC is. It's the lumber and the drywall and the steel for rebuilding the memory houses. I mean, I hope you guys are getting this. And if not, I don't know. I got nothing to say. You join, don't join. Look it up. Find something. I really don't know. anorasetam and oxyracetam. The reason I'm looking at is cuz I'm looking at the clock. I'm 32 minutes in and 12 minutes it was me getting pissed off at people being a bunch of [\h__\h] screwing up their life intentionally because they're too arrogant. So anorasetam and oxyraetam these modulate ama receptors. So it enhances the speed and efficiency of neurotransmissions. So not only does it go across the syninnapse, not only does it go that across, it does it faster and more efficiently. So they sharpen focus, they enhance memory formation and recall. And it gives you real clean mental energy so you don't have this fuzzy dirty signal and you're like, "What was that? What was that?" Like you don't get like that. It's just sharp. This is the software update for your entirely newly built hardware that you've done. Now you have to fix the vascular system and the inflammatory system. You need to mitigate the inflammation. So you got to put out the last remaining fires that you've got. And you have a few. Hold on. I need to drink some coffee. KPV is it's this weird little anti-inflammatory peptide because it calms something down called a micro gal cell. It is micro gal cells are the immune cells of your brain that have gone completely rogue and are now just pissing and barfing and spewing out inflammatory cytoines. If you remember what I talked about with leaky gut, inflammatory cytoines are a big problem. And if you remember what I said about systemic inflammation, it is the platform of most disease processes in the human body. So KPV tells them, hey, listen, you don't need you can shut down, man. You're all good. It's the the fire extinguisher for neuroinfl inflammation. That's why when people go, I'm going to take KPV for my injury. That's why it doesn't work nearly as well as BPC. Just so you understand, KPV is much more of a neurological thing than it is inflammatory process or a leaky gut thing. It is much more effective for your for your nervous for your uh your brain primarily just for neurons. Redatride. Oh yeah, you knew this was coming. This is the ultimate longevity peptide. Listen, it it is a triple agonist GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon. All for metabolic health. That's what it is. It improves insulin. Listen to me. Improves insulin sensitivity, promotes weight loss, reduces the systemic metabolic dysfunction that pours gasoline on the fire of vascular dementia. So, by fixing the body, listen to me. By fixing the body, you protect the brain. You can't. They're not separate. That's why a guillotine shuts you off. You separate the head from the body, you don't have to be a vampire, you're going to die. You understand that? Like, do you really understand that? So, now you have to look, okay, great. Now, I got all these things. What do I do with this? So, I'm going to put together exactly how you deploy this military campaign. So, if I was going to do this hypothetically on an experiment for my kangaroo named Bruce, let's just say first eight weeks, this is like Normandy. you're landing D-Day. You have to smoke the neuro regeneratives and the foundational neurotropics because if you don't, it doesn't matter what you do next. You have to have this. This is an important part of this. And if you're missing this part, if you're going, "Okay, I got it. I'm just going to buy it all." This is why you're going to screw it up. Which is I It's like they'll hand you a bottle of Tylenol and you'll have these nipple nuts going out and taking handfuls of it that are pregnant who I just found out that somebody died doing that. Why? Cuz you're [\h__\h] stupid. Again, it goes right back to you not you shouldn't be able to even turn on the vacuum cleaner when your parents are home if that's who you are. You you got no self-worth and self you have no you can't govern yourself. What is wrong with you? So cere here's the first phase first 8 weeks cerebral methylene blue BPC-157 GHCU the copper you have to secure the platform the foundation first until you do that it doesn't matter what I add. This is why a lot of pharmaceuticals don't work because they hammer you with everything and they go, well there we got to watch out for contraindications. So before you ask me, are you doing this because of contraindications? No, peptides don't have contraindications. You just can take too much and just kind of get sensor desensitization. I'm doing this so you build thing. It's like you build a house and you put up the framing and the roof, but you forget to pour the foundation. Never going to work. That's why pole barns suck. Stop getting mad if you're like, "Oh, I have a pole bar. I've had it for 30 years." You guys are [\h__\h] weird. You get so defensive about [\h__\h] Leave me. Have my example. Shut up. Second phase. This would be probably the next, if I was going to do this, it would be the next at least at least 2 months, 2 to 3 months. So now you have to you have the foundation any this is the heavy hitters. NAD+ MC C five amino 1 MQ and layer in all of those neotropics that you got from the first one. So now now you light up all the new neural networks that you're you're building, right? So now do you understand foundation push hard to bring in the heavy artillery to start reconstructing everything after this? So now what are we at? We're at four or five months in at least. So month five or six maybe six at the moment because you want to make sure this is done right and you will know this is a game changer. So if you think this is going to be something you can do inside of 3 weeks again don't listen to me. Don't listen to anything I'm going to tell you to do then because this isn't going to help you. You're just doing it to rush it because you want to find the cheapest, easiest way to do it. me, I'm concerned about going, how do I make sure that person gets the results, which is why people call me and not you because I actually give a [\h__\h] So the next four, eight, 8 weeks, 10 weeks now, you solidify everything in place. So read a true tide to fix the metabolic health. You just have to be careful, adjust the dosages to like you just see how the response is. Remember, you can't untake something. Read a true tide. If you took too much hypothetically or your kangaroo took too much, they'll feel really nauseated for a day or two. So start really low. And if you go, what's really low? I already told you how to get this information. So you move from basically the intensive care unit to the All right. Now I'm in the elite performance unit. Right? So you with me so far? But listen to me very, very, very well right now. This entire thing is useless, useless, complete waste of money and time and energy, effort if you ignore the foundation. The non-negotiables are the lifestyle. I'm not. You can't sit there and go, "Well, grandpa gets really grumpy if he doesn't get his cheeseburger from McDonald's." [\h__\h] grandpa's cheeseburger. Do you like grandpa? Do you like having conversations where he still remembers where the bathroom is every day? See, I remember my coming to my house and every morning she would ask me, "Where's the bathroom?" I didn't realize how bad it was until she really forgot everything. So, save it. I got a personal investment in this. Oh, she's gone. But I've seen it firsthand. Some of you have, too. So, your brain, listen to me. I'll go I'll even go over. Listen, I'm going to give you all diet, fasting, sleeping. I'll do it all. Here you go. So, diet, Mediterranean/ ketogenic hybrid would be your best because your brain runs on two fuels, glucose and ketones. In dementia, the brain becomes incredibly insulin resistant. Hence why you have reatride, but it can't use glucose. So, you give it ketones. High healthy fats like things like avocado, fatty fish, olive oil, protein, smash protein all day long. Moderate, not hyper high protein, but moderate protein. And you're going to annihilate carbohydrates. Just nuke them. Nuke them less than than 50 to 70 net carbs every day. Eliminate sugar altogether. I don't care how grumpy they get. I don't care how bitter they are. I don't care if they try and unlock the front door, lock them in the [\h__\h] house. Do not give them sugar. That's the problem. Eliminate all processed food. Eliminate all industrial seed oils and which are the most inflammatory substances known to man. By the way, I'm tired of these people coming out with peer-reviewed research shows that inflammatory seed oils don't really exist. Who is funding the study? This isn't a diet. You guys listen to me. This is metabolic warfare. And if you're not willing to do it, don't get in the game. Don't step in the ring. If you can't box, I just taught you how to box. Now you're ready to go. If you really want to look at it, 186 fasting, give your body an 18-hour window every day without food. This triggers autophagy. Yes. So does working out. So do all these other things. But I'm tired of people going against the narrative just to create an argument. You know what arguments create? Controversy. You know what controversy creates? Views and likes and follows. But it doesn't mean that it's right. I don't give a [\h__\h] if three people follow me. I don't care if my YouTube channel shrinks. I don't care if nobody follows me. I care if somebody gets this information. One person. You put this information into one person's hand and they walk away with a better life and they solve the problem. I win. I win. 186 fasting triggers autophagy and not some weird that stupid old lady doctor, whatever her name is. I know exactly who she is. I just don't want to give her credit. Who stirs water with a glass [\h__\h] rod. Get the hell out of here, man. Your brain is broken. I think you need this protocol cuz you got dementia. One of my favorite guys to listen to is Jordan Scot. I love this guy, Buck. I love this guy. He tells it like it is. He is intelligent. He knows how to run a podcast. He knows how to deliver information. He's a jiu-jitsu guy. How could I not like him? He builds a great family. And he actually gives a [\h__\h] about people. You can tell him I said that. I think he's great. But I love how he calls out the nonsense, but for real, not for views or likes or follows. He does it for real. Like him or not like him, I don't care. I like him. This is my show. So you don't like that I said that? [\h__\h] off. You're welcome. So 186 fasting autophagy. Yes, it works. Yes, it's fantastic. I came off a fast today. I stop eating a date night at 8:00 on Fridays, and I don't eat again until 2:00 p.m. the next day. Every time I'm hungry, and every time I feel like a million bucks, and I eat everything under the sun on Friday at date night, holy moly, my wife and I go to town. But autophagy is the body's process of cleaning out all that cellular garbage. I remember at the beginning I talked about garbage trucks for your brain cells. Here you go. This is what it is. This is the garbage men and trucks. It improves insulin sensitivity, promotes ketosis. This is a non-negotiable. I would do this. You want the protocol? Just talk to me because I don't have time to go into this. I'm already 43 minutes in. Deep sleep. Deep sleep. I told you I'm going to give you this whole thing. Deep sleep. This is your brain's glimp. Yes, it's with a G. I'm saying it right. Somebody said you said glimpmphatic. I thought it's there's a lymphatic. Glimphatic. G L Y M P H A T I C. Glimpic system. Kicks into high gear because that's what washes away all the metabolic waste. The amaloid plaques. Huh. I'll let you figure out what those are for. what those cause. Maybe look at things like multiple sclerosis. Just a thought. Those accumulate during the day. If you don't sleep, you don't clean. If you don't clean, you don't have any you create neurological problems. Period. If you need help to sleep, hypothetically, dip, the sleep inducing peptide. This is the most cool peptide for sleep. It restored circadian rhythm. I wouldn't use it for more than 20 days, but it works. You get real sleep. The kind where your body actually heals. Deep restorative sleep. Exercise every damn day. Every day take grandma or grandpa out for a walk. An hour, 45 minutes to not an hour, an hour. Go for a walk at a 16 to 18 minute pace. If you go, "Well, they can't walk that fast." Go as fast as they can and make them do it to the end. It pumps blood and oxygen to the brain. You have the skeletal muscle pump. You think your heart is doing all this work? Every time I'm moving right now, my muscles are pushing blood back towards my heart because there's these one-way valves inside my veins that allow blood to only go one direction. And every time I create a contraction, it pushes against those valves and they pushes blood back towards my heart. Weird how physiology works, right? I would at least four times, four times a week, go for a walk. I throw in resistance training to be honest. Build some muscle. Muscle is an endocrine organ that releases BDNF. You're literally exercising the brain back to health. If you need to lose weight, if you want to get abs, and by the way, I don't give a [\h__\h] if you have abs. I'm tired of seeing that knucklehead. No abs. Uh, [\h__\h] off with your abs. Let me help you out. You know what the byproduct is of being fit? You have abs. If you chase abs, you're not chasing being fit. You're chasing abs. People go, "Well, you have abs, Bachmire. You have abs, Dr. T." You're right. I train because I like to train because I wrestle every demon that comes into my life when I train. The byproduct of my training is I look like this. I don't train to look like this. They're not the same. Give these people cognitive stimulation every day. Your brain is a muscle that you need to use. No, physically it is not a muscle. just treat it like one. You need to use the new tools that you're building. So read, read, learn a foreign language is one of the best things you can do. Read a learn a foreign language. Get off electronics. Learn a foreign language. Read books. Do puzzles. Play an instrument. Music is one of the craziest things to get people to become more intelligent. You are the foreman of your own body directing all the construction crews to build anything you want without any direction. They just stand around bumping into each other collecting a paycheck and you end up right back to where you started. But now you're just going to be more frustrated. This is the protocol. You're welcome. Track progress. You're welcome. Cognitive tests, blood work, A1c, fasting insulin, and inflammation markers. Even if you had to do brain imaging, hypothetically on your kangaroo, this is very aggressive. I'm going to tell you that right right now, just so you know, like things like methylene blue has serotonin interactions. Red or true tide changes your metabolism fast. So, you need to pay attention. But aggressive times call for aggressive measure. Sitting back and watching the mind disintegrate of somebody that you love and care about is not a strategy. throwing surrendering to the medical world that goes, "We're going to keep doing the same thing, but renaming the drug and watching them still decline is not a strategy. We're not here to manage a [\h__\h] decline. We're here to engineer the damn neurological revival is what I called it at the beginning. The goal isn't to add years to your life. It's to add life to the years you've got. You should be restoring the person's essence, their memory, their wit, their life, their self. You guys don't understand how important this is. Like, dementia is not a it's it's not a single disease. It's not just getting old. You guys, it is a systems failure plural. It's a cascade of biological catastrophes that culminate in the collapse of the most most complex structure in the known universe, the human mind. I I explained the pathologies, but may I don't know, maybe you need to understand this. You have a starving brain. Like I said, it is 2% of your body's weight, consumes 25% of the oxygen and glucose, you guys. It's a metabolic hog. I mean, it's just a pig. Just wants it all. And it has this dense intricate network of these tiny tiny sometimes they're one red blood cell wide in diameter right tiny blood vessels the cerebral microvascule and it delivers all the resources it needs 24/7 365 and with age and inflammation and metabolic disease like the diabetes like obesity like which are both a product of a normal disease or not a normal disease or both a product of a disease that a lot of people have right now called stupidity. These vessels stiffen, they get leaky, they get restricted, they die off and blood flow drops and then the brain begins to starve. Neurons start of starved of oxygen and fuel begin to malfunction and die just like anything else. This is vascular dementia. It is slow motion suffocation in real time. And that's only the first pathology of this metabolic dysfunction. That's the second one. That's the broken engine I was talking about. Like I said, the brain's primary fuel is glucose. But for the brain, in order for it to use glucose, it needs to respond to insulin. Well, most people, especially you guys in your poor shitass diets, the brain becomes insulin resistant. So, neurons are surrounded by glucose, but they can't hear, right? They can't hear the insulin signal to let it in. That's why when people have diabetes and they crank up the insulin, the problem is that's like going, "Hey, that person's deaf. Turn up the speaker." That's why type 2 diabetes, they're not treating it properly. But that's a whole other conversation. I've also solved that equation. They're starving in a room full of food. That's what your neurons are doing. They're in a room full of everything. It's just a buffet and it's got all the right food, but it's starving. So, this is so prevalent, by the way, that some of these people are they I love it. They call Alzheimer's and dementia, type three, diabetes. So, now the brain's energy production crashes without energy. Nothing works. No repairs work, no communications work, nothing. That's pathology 2. Pathology 3, neuroinflammation. And this is like friendly fire. By the way, the brain has its own immune cells. Remember I said they're called micro ga. and their job is to patrol constantly. They're always doing surveillance, right, for pathogens and clean up all the debris. When they're triggered by chronic systemic inflammation, diet, gut issues, stress symptoms, and I'm not talking stress because your favorite character on your soap opera tell novela diet. I'm talking real stress from the metabolic garbage or the medication and pharmaceutical system or the stress from the environment you're putting people in. These micro ga become overactivated. So, they shift from protectors to like attackers. They start spewing out. What did I say before? Inflammatory cytoines which are chemical signals that damage all the healthy neurons and all the synapses. So now you're not you're affecting the cells and the gaps where this like all of the structures all of the neur neurological structures. They're like a police force that's been on duty for too long and just starts shooting at civilians. And here's the problem with this. The inflammation is constant. It is this low-grade fire that burns down the entire neurological neighborhood. That's path pathology 3. Pathology four proteinopathies. This is the garbage. You want me to spell it again? Proteinopathy because I know somebody's gonna say, "What was that called?" This is the part that everybody knows about but misunderstands. Everybody hears about this. You You're going to hear me explain this. You're going to go, "Oh, oh yeah, I heard about that." Amaloid plucks and tile tangles. These aren't the cause, by the way. They're the symptom. This is why I struggle with this. Believe me, I'm trying to maintain composure. They're the garbage that piles up when all the cleaning systems fail. The garbage men fail. Amaloid beta. This is a protein fragment that normally is produced and then cleared. Well, if it can't be cleared, so if the brain's waste clearance system, the glimpmphatic glymphatic system, which primarily it works only actually during deep sleep, less than 1% at any other time of the day, deep sleep, which is why deep sleep matters. When it fails, this sticky garbage accumulates outside of neurons and it forms these plaques that disrupt cellto cell signaling. Now, you've got a communication issue. and tao. This is a protein that acts like um if you look at a a railroad track, the railway ties, my dad used to collect these things. They always smelled like creasso, right? But we'd use them in the yard. You'd use them around the garden, a box in the garden, or flower boxes and stuff. Always make you smell really bad. But those things stabilize the track, right? So they're like these ties on a railroad track. They stabilize the structures that transport nutrients within the neuron. So when the neuron is sick, lack of energy, inflammation, etc., The towel protein detaches and twists into tangles that that choke the neuron from the inside out. If that if you understand that. So the garbage is a problem, but the problem of disposal, not production. It's not a it's not a it's not a production issue because it's going to be produced. We have metabolic waste. It's that you can't get rid of it. So conventional and medicine, here's what it does. It tries to clean up the garbage without fixing the [\h__\h] garbage truck. Explain how that works. There's a there's a bonus pathology to this. I guess you could call it number five just as I'm talking about this. There's an entire neurotransmitter balance. So the network is muted. The primary neurotransmitter for memory and learning is acetylcholine. In Alzheimer's, the neurons that produce acetylcholine are usually the first to die. So the entire colonergic system, remember I talked about alpha GPC and fenopraetam, oxyracetam, and anopracetime and alpha GPC like all this stuff matters, right? So this is why I'm talking about this stuff cuz even cerebral ly the entire coneric system which is the network responsible for attention memory and learning goes to hell. It goes it's like just gets turned offline. This is like cutting the phone line or turning off the Wi-Fi like taking my phone and you just got nothing. But in a major city where you need to get in touch with somebody the communication grid fails. So here's what it looks like. So I guess it's it's five not four. I mean I I guess I could include the last two together but you have starvation, you have broken energy. You have microg GA attacking the friendly fire, right? You have the garbage issue, the glimpmphatic system, and then you have the severed communication line. So all of this stuff together, it's giving it one drug that like this is the problem is modern conventional medicine, they give it a squirt gun. The entire approach is this pathetic strategy, this mildly inhibiting an enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine. That's it. Like apt mantene, right? Like this. It's just drugs that do nothing. How is that? How is that even going to work? But then they sprinkle in a bunch of hopes. Not a strategy, you guys. So, think about this. In the face of a catastrophic systems failure involving vascular collapse, metabolic famine, inflammatory war, toxic war, and waste accumulation, their best solution is to slightly prolong the activity of one single neurotransmitter among hundreds. This goes back to my comment about Premarin and Horsepice being the answer to menopause, per menopause, hot flashes. Got it. You guys are so fooled. It's unbelievable. Goes right back to what I said about a forest fire. I'm going to spit on it, piss on it. I told you I want the water bombers and the helicopters and like fire hoses. What did I say? Dimension the size of my diameter like my head just like a cannon putting these things out. You can't put this fire out the way they're doing it. It's not possible. If you understand now the physiology I gave you, at least a little snippet of human biology, you can't. It's not just ineffective. It is it's like a personal philosophical surrender. It accepts the premise that the brain can't be repaired. But that's the same premise saying that the heart cannot be repaired. Yet TB-500 walks through the door and does it all the time. So now the best we can hope for is a slight temporary delay of the inevitable decline. Why? Why the [\h__\h] would they do this? Here, I'll help you out. Two reasons. One, laziness. Two, profitability. It's what I said at the beginning. The medical system is built on single drug, single target solutions. They want pills that hit one receptor. The complexity of a multiffactorial systemsbased approach like this one I just talked about is anathema to their model. It doesn't fit into a 15-minute appointment. Can't be solved with a little prescription pad or digital. Now that they do, it requires real thought, real effort, actually understanding human biology. It requires a doctor and the patient to become partners. Just love the [\h__\h] out of each other in this complicated campaign against what's going on. That is hard. Writing a a prescription for airpt is easy. You understand the current model is so profitable for the entire system. A patient with dementia is a customer for life. Mediocre drugs forever. constant doctor visits they require money money eventually need nursing care home bugs me a lot. There's no fi financial incentive for for remedy or cure. It's only an incentive for perpetual and very expensive management because a cured patient is a lost customer. A managed patient is just it's a subscription base. It's a recurring revenue stream. You know what they've monetized? This is disgusting to even say despair. just created an entire industry around politely ushering people into darkness rather than giving them the tools to fight to kick in the [\h__\h] darkness just till they bleed daylight just like it says. They tell families to prepare and accept. Never tell them to fight. You kidding? You have any idea how scrappy I am if you haven't figured it out by now? You know what I gave you? So I guess there's five, not four. Five pathologies. You take them on head on. Vascular insufficiency, GHK-Cu, BBC57, exercise, metabolic dysfunction, ketogenic diet, MO C redrutide, neuroinflammation, KPV diet, proteinopathies, fix the glimpmphatic system, the function, the sleep, prevent the tangles, throw some methylene blue in there, neurotransmitter imbalance issues, flood the system with alpha GPC, enhance the receptor sensitivity for fennylopraetam, oxyraetam, anorasetam. We don't manage the disease. If you listen to this, this is systemically unwinding and reversing the underlying causes. But this really bothers me. Like I I take this one very personally. Honestly, I'm thinking about Bruce Willis, you know, to me more. I don't give a [\h__\h] what you think about Hollywood. I don't care. These are human beings. I don't know them at all, but I know how devastating it would be to watch my wife and my wife not know who I am and my brain being filled with like everything magical and beautiful and she just not knowing anything about me. I can't get my head around that. She's an incredible woman. And this is the inverse for Demi Moore and Bruce Willis. I don't care if somebody knows who I am or I have any popularity. I really don't give a [\h__\h] But I do care that people get better. And I I can't imagine what's happening when she looks at him and he just doesn't know. He's just he's got nothing but a blank look on his face and they're they're going to poison him till he's gone. Like conventional medicine looks at burning buildings and gives you little cups of water. Like I want to show up with, like I said, water bombers and fire hoses that are just giant and buckets and fire lines and I want to douse this thing. And then once it's out, I want the cleanup crew to come in and construction crew to come in and build it all so savage and full industrial grade that it's impossible to break down. Just rebuild the whole [\h__\h] thing stronger than it was before. Because the old model is obsolete. You guys understand that? This is a relic of a failed paradigm. The old model of healthcare is broken. It's obsolete. It is gone. It has completely failed. You guys have got to stop asking permission to get better. Stop listening to these white coats. Stop listening to the pharmaceutical industry. I'm tired of you guys. You guys get in the comments and just fight against me. But then then [\h__\h] off. If you go, "Well, you're you shouldn't curse. You're a doctor. I don't care what you think about me. I care that you take the information. You actually go you help somebody. You have the tools. So you can build all of this stuff yourself. It's your body. Why are you trusting it to somebody else who does not have your best interest in mind and they get to go home at 5:00 no matter how [\h__\h] you are? I gave you so much information in this. What are you going to do with it? You going to comply with a little decline and go, "Okay, I guess this is what I'm going to Are you going to actually declare war on the stuff that's trying to hurt you and kill you and the very systems that you are defending that are causing the problem?" The choice is always yours. I got to go. Never miss.