It's a wild world we live in. I don't know about you guys, but I mean, when when I was, like I said, I'm 52. When I was growing up, feelings were part of life. Welcome to being alive, right? We live in a world right now that's afraid to feel. And I don't mean emotionally sensitive before somebody just pops off about that. I mean, biochemically allergic to discomfort. Make it make sense. Like, we've built a culture that thinks feeling sad is depression. Listen, everybody that's listened to this podcast or is listening to it right now has had some guy or girl put their heart in a blender and hit frappe and just demolish them. That's not depression. That's emotion. That's feeling sad or whatever it was you felt. But feeling sad now it's I mean it's labeled as a pathology. It's depression. Fear feeling fear is a anxiety disorder. Feeling anger is toxic masculinity. I can't even make that make sense. And if you feel shame, well that's internalized oppression. Nope. Absolutely not. That's called being human. That's being a human being. That is your own nervous system trying to get your attention. It's tapping you in the head saying, "Pay attention. Listen. This is your GPS." The second you silence that signal because some overpriced white coat with a god complex told you that it's chemical, you're done because you've unplugged that biological GPS that's designed to help you. I mean, the truth is this. Your emotions aren't broken, you guys. They're not. You are. And this is probably going to set somebody off that goes, "You don't understand. I have depression." No, you don't. No, you don't. There's no such thing. I have anxiety. No, you don't. I had some guy go, "You ever hear of the 30s, bro? It's called the Great Depression for a reason. It all of you guys are thinking the same thing. That's probably one of the dumbest things I've ever heard. That's not why it was called the Great Depression. I just can't help that. Like, here's your sign. But that's what I mean. Some people argue and string together events and connect dots that don't exist to make sure that they get the attention for something that doesn't exist and treatment for something that doesn't exist so they feel valuable when they shouldn't. Not in that position. Absolutely not. You have no value. And if somebody takes offense to that, you are that person. You feel valuable by being valuable, by giving value. You don't become valuable by being the lowest, most disrespectful version of yourself and staying there demanding approval and acceptance from everybody else along with a prescription. Your emotions aren't broken. They're not they're not they're not broken by whatever trauma that somebody told you you have. I has heard somebody and somebody that we know. You're trauma bonded. My wife and I looked at each other and went, "What?" Not not talking about us. This is somebody else talking about what they have in their life. Traumab bonded. Listen, just because you string words together doesn't mean that's what it is. Right? I I just I can't. I said it yesterday. I just can't with this bro science everywhere. You are not broken. Excuse me. By your trauma, your alleged trauma, real trauma. Talk to anybody that has actually been in real war. Whether you agree with war or not, whether you decide which side you're voting for, I don't care about the politics. I mean, talk talk to somebody who's lost lost somebody. Trauma, my wife locked out of the hospital while I'm on life support. That's pretty [\h__\h] traumatic. But you're you're not you're not broke. Your emotions aren't broken because of mom's genetics or some weird manufactured trauma that Tik Tok said you had or by a system that taught you that your own feelings are dangerous to you. You're broken because the system that's talking to you tells you that your own feelings are a pathology. You need to dissect this because you guys are are making decisions based on diseases that don't exist because labeling emotion as a disease and and chasing dopamine like like you're in Vegas. You guys outsource all of your cognitive ability to social media and all it's doing is destroying the neurology. It's destroying the physiology of people. It's destroying the the psychology. Hell, even the hormone the endocrinology of people. It's this an entire generation that used to build empires and now can't even build can't even build self-worth without Instagram or Tik Tok or some kind of like input and a pharmacy refill. You guys are creating the most dangerous system in the world and it's self-propagating in the wrong direction. You're not depressed. You're not You're not depressed. You're not broken. your signals are corrupt and you're just being poorly regulated by yourself. There is a massive difference between a clinical disorder and a natural emotion and that line is gone because we've taught people now to treat those the same. Here, here's why. Because it's easier to sell the solution when you convince people that they're sick. But the biological truth is on my side. Like physiology and biology, your system, human biology is on my side. Emotions are neurochemical outputs from the lyic system designed to drive behavior based on internal state and external cues. I'll say that in very basic English. Your brain feels intentionally. It's on purpose. You can break this down to all kinds of things. Fear triggers something called a sympathetic activation. Your fight, flight, or freeze. It's not random. It's mobilizing energy for a threat avoidance. That's how it's designed. It keep it kept you alive. Whether you go you need to do that or not anymore is irrelevant. By the way, yes you do. The idea that some wild jungle animal isn't going to come out and kill you while you're walking down a path to your village. No, that for most people doesn't exist. But fear is still necessary. The illusion that you think it's not is the problem. Sadness triggers serotonin and oxytocin recalibration is it's grief. It's withdrawal and in it's recovery. It's that last piece, you guys. Recovery doesn't come from a pill. It doesn't come from al This isn't alcohol. It's coffee I'm showing right here before you guys are like alcohol. It doesn't come from booze or vaping. Anger spikes cortisol and it spikes uh testosterone. It's a response to a perceived threat or some kind of boundary violation. Somebody's coming into the space that you are defending and that you have marked as your own. Why do you think animals pee all over everything? And shame, man, this is a popular one. Activates something called your anterior I love neurology. Anterior singulate cortex. It's a sing this is a it's a signal that you've you've deviated. This is the problem because this is where the hypnosis of social conditioning comes in. That's why I love this. Because you've deviated from your tribe, whatever your tribe is, wherever you've been recruited, your Facebook group, your neighborhood, your classroom, whatever, you've deviated from the values or more importantly your own integrity. That's the one that should be the most important, by the way, is deviating from your own integrity. Every emotion you're trying to avoid with pills or lotions or potions or scrolling or food or fake positivity, whatever nonsense is biologically engineered and installed to help you survive and evolve all of them. What do you think is going to happen when you turn all that off because you take a pill? Because instead of mobilizing emotion right now and paying or metabolizing rather, instead of metabolizing your emotion, we suppress it. What do you think's going to happen? Like some of the words I hear people use, I shouldn't feel this way. That's not a diagnosis, but you label it as a diagnosis and then you numb it with SSRIs or benzo or distractions or likes or follows or only fans or self-care masks or whatever nonsense that comes through the system. Drinking coffee, by the way, for all of you guys that are just listening to this. But if you numb it, congratulations. You've just told your brain to stop updating your operating system and you've what is my son always calls it something when he plays video games. Um, I was going to say you you set the system to ignore, but that's not what it is. AFK. That's it. Away from keyboard. That's what you've set the system to do. But even me saying that about Pierce, and Pierce is a very, very hyper intelligent kid. No. Before somebody goes, "Well, just another proud dad." No, my son's a badass. My son is a badass. He's got 12 He is 16 years old and he's got 12 years of jiu-jitsu and Muay Thai and getting into boxing. Are you kidding me? He's got more time in front of an And he trains three to four times a week. He gets into fights three to four times a week and before somebody takes that out of context, why would you not want your child to know how to fight? My son is a dangerous little son of a [\h__\h] And at 16 years old, he's got more time on the mat and in front of an opponent than most black belts. And I've watched him humble the crap out of men twice his size. And I've heard, this is where the insecurity kicks in, by the way, which is hilarious because this is more emotion where I've heard men, grown men, talk. This is when my son was 15. And I made a post about how badass I was proud of my son. And grown men, 45year-old men in the comments. You, you [\h__\h] dude, get on the mat with me. Let's go. Even if I lose, I'll make sure you remember me. Even if you're super good, I don't care. But for you to say, I'd roll with your son. I'd fold him over and snap his wrist if he tried that on me. What do you [\h__\h] You're threatened by an Instagram post and a father who's proud of what his son has done. You know, I got a buddy of mine, Tom Delas. This guy's such a good dude. Like him or not, I don't care. I like him. I think he's a great guy. And the guy can't stand bullies. You know what you are? If you do that and you make threats towards a 15-year-old and you're 45, you're a bully. I got no problem putting you to sleep repeatedly in front of your kids. And I got one lung. But the reason I'm saying that is my son is to to go back to that AFK. Even that statement, there is a word, an acronym AFK that says I'm setting it up to be boring. You guys get that? Like he goes away from it and he goes and has dinner with us or we go do something, we go outside and we shoot or roll around or wrestle or whatever it is we do, just hang out, have watch, whatever. And he sets it up so it plays his character for him, which to me is weird cuz I was raised on an Atari. So, it was a joystick and a big red button in a box and just a cartridge you stuck in. And it still took forever to load. But that's become normal. Like even just saying it, I realized it's become normal to do things on automation so you don't have to do them. And that's what people are doing to their emotions. And that's what I mean by numbing out your emotions. I'm not saying my son does that. I'm just using the example of that AFK setting it to ignore, right? It's like setting that little setting on your chat, ignore. I'm not here. Don't tell anybody. Why would anybody know? It's like I saw Instagram said that people now can see where you are. Are you crazy? No. Nothing could go wrong with that. Why do you think I always carry? But listen, if you ignore emotion long enough, it metastasizes into behavior. Because if you listen, follow me. This is important because and you'll see it. Just take a second before you start jumping all over the comments and losing your mind because somebody is pointing a finger back at you. When you don't express sadness, it becomes rage. You don't express rage, it becomes resentment. This is a cycle. Sadness becomes rage. Rage becomes resentment. If you don't express that resentment, now it becomes apathy. And apathy, that is the breeding ground of all failure. But you see that you can follow the hierarchy. And some of you guys are somewhere in that hierarchy. You need to catch yourself before you become somebody that is caught in perpetual failure and just apathetic because you don't know how to get out of it because you're surrounded by people that are convincing you that you should numb all your emotions when in fact that's the compass. That's the GPS. I mean, look at dopamine and everybody wants to blame dopamine as if it's some villain chemical. Yesterday I made a post about dopamine and some people lost their minds in my in my DMs. Dopamine isn't the problem. The problem is you're stealing dopamine without earning it. Dopamine is not pleasure. That is rookie. I don't know enough bro science information. Like I said, these Insta bodybuilding gurus with pro cards and followings that think they know everything. No, you don't. And stop thinking you do and giving people advice because they trust you. Dopamine is not pleasure. It's anticipation of reward. It's motivation. That's its purpose. It's the gas pedal in your biological vehicle. So even if you look at the neurology behind it, it's produced in something called the vententral tegmental area, VTA. It doesn't matter I guess what it's called, but it's shoved into something called the nucleus encumbent. I talked about this before when it when I was talking about addictions, how nicotine can't become addictive because it doesn't fit. Tab A doesn't fit into slot B. But the nucleus encumbent, prefrontal cortex, and the amygdala, that's where this that's where this all happens. It's not nerd speak, by the way. That is a blueprint of your drive system, for your body, for your emotions, for why you do things because it's why you chase goals. This is why you have to put this stuff together. And and the amount of people that don't know how to change their tire, but yet drive cars is frightening. It's the same as people that don't understand how their own I don't expect you to know what the tegmental area is, eventual tegmental area. I don't care. I just I read this stuff all the time because I've been doing this for 30 plus years. But I'm telling you, if you don't know what your own biology does, I think that's a problem. I just do. We teach our kids all the time. It doesn't matter if they want to be doctors or anything else. Why would you not know about the machine that you have that you are piloting around this gravity controlled environment? You're ambulating around using it, but you don't know anything about it. And that's what everybody's counting on, which is why they give you a pill or an injection that tells you to not feel a certain way. But dopamine is why you chase goals. It's why you get out of bed. It's why you build businesses and families and empires and all the things you do. But when you hit that dopamine button, that little lever, right, you're like like skinners of rats just banging away for food pellets with no resistance. And and not even just resistance, no cost, no friction. You destroy receptor sensitivity required for drive to exist even in the first place. That's why this is such a problem. I'm looking over my phone over my shoulder because I was going to grab it. That's why that phone is a problem. Between you, me, and I don't know, the five people, the five million people, whoever hears this, I don't really care. I don't do this for followers. I do this to help people. I hate my phone. Like, I actually do. I can't stand my phone. It's almost like golden handcuffs because we make a ton of money by helping a lot of people, but a lot of it is predicated on the damn phone. So, that's why I don't like it. But if you look at the phone and even just the receptor, go back to the dopamine, which is that is a dopamine industrial machine. But when you when you hit that button over and over over again, scroll, swipe, even the rage comments. What did I say? What did I what did I say about all of the stuff where I was talking about that hierarchy, right? You don't express sadness, it becomes rage. Well, look at the comments. Look in look in the comments of just about any confrontational, which shouldn't be confrontational, but look in the comments of any confrontational post, even mine, you will see rage. But the rage is only coming from I can if anybody comes into my comments with rage, you are resentful, but you are resentful for the person you see in the mirror. But what does rage become? Rage becomes resentment and right sadness rather sadness becomes rage and rage becomes resentment and then if you don't express that resentment that's what becomes apathy and that is the catalyst to all the problems which is why I'm explaining all this because if you don't understand your drive system you can't tap into it but you're still going to ignore it. See that's the issue is people are ignoring and ruining it without understanding how it works. You're flooding the the system like a like a junkie with a with a dopamine fire hose just blasting you. I mean, all of it. Look at what it is. Reals, carousels, you know, P O R N because apparently you can't say the word cuz people lose their mind. G drinks. Seek validation. Look at me. Pictures of jets. Listen, I don't care if you have a jet. I think it's awesome, but why are you posting it on social media over and over and over again? And if you if that's part of your identity, great. I don't know. I just I want a jet. I don't have one yet. I will. I might post it because I think it's cool, but that's about it. Not to brag about. Look how much I earn. Look at what I do. I don't know. I have a bunch of cool cars in my garage. Some of them you guys haven't even seen. So what? The one you guys see all the time. It's a 911 Turbo S. You know why? Cuz I love that freaking car. It's so fast. I already said ES Motors. They're going to build my next one. If they're listening to this, you're building my next 911. It's coming up soon. So we're going to have to talk cuz they have a 1900 horsepower option. I'm in. And if somebody goes, "Well, isn't that dopamine?" No, it's actually what what I just said. That's why you set goals, why you get out of bed, why you build empires, why that is dopamine when it's functioning at its normal doing its job. This is a real problem, you guys, because I'll explain why, but even the processed sugar and the instant feedback and the like I watch people I get some of you guys, you guys will make an order and instantly send me a DM go, did you get it? Did you get the payment? Did you get it? What's going on? What do I call my holy [\h__\h] Relax. The only reason you won't get your order, by the way, is if I got to you're a bumble [\h__\h] and you don't remember your own address. 52. I still remember my address when I was in the first grade and my phone number and my zip code. My postal code back then it was. I even remember the names of all the streets around and all the kids I went to school with. How do you not remember your own address? Yes, Bumble [\h__\h] That's what you are. So, relax with the instant feedback. Don't worry. I'm the guy that's actually on your side. If you're cynical or skeptical because all these muppets have ripped you off, I don't know what to tell you. I've been out here for 11 years and all I'm trying to do is help people and I'm succeeding. Do you know what's interesting is I get people calling me sending me messages about the cure program and they go, "Are you serious? 100 days, $100,000?" Yeah. How do I send the wire? Because they've been let down by the medical system so many times. And if you go back and you look at my story four years ago, I'm a walking example of what I do works. I'm not some fitness guru. I'm a doctor and I give a crap about people, but I'm also going to do what's going to help you get to where you want to be and solve every damn problem you've got because that's why you trust me. You don't you don't come to me because you want a pat on the back or a cheerleader, at least not at that level. When you pay me $100,000, you are coming to me going, "I want the results and I don't want to have to think. Tell me what to do, coach." Which is what I do because I know how I would be. If you want someone that you can hold hands with and sing kumbaya around a fire and be a cheerleader, I'm not the guy that you want for your healthcare. Like I told you, I have some guy, he was like, "Of course I want your help. I just don't have the money." Well, then you don't want my help that bad. I just want a little guidance. I'm not going to give it to you because I have a hard line. That's the problem is people expect and it's entitled. Also a result of the dopamine instant feedback problem. I mean, here's the here's the kicker. Your brain responds by downregulating dopamine receptors to avoid the overload from you hitting that pellet, that button, that lever all the time to get the food pellet, which is the dopamine pellet. And here here's the here's the basic explanation. The more you chase all these easy highs, the less motivated you feel, even for things you actually used to give a crap about. Let that let that sink in for a second. That's why your job feels boring. Your goals feel impossible. Your relationships are all stale and dry. I've been married to Brandy for well over 20 years now. You don't think we've have had ups and downs? Tons. There's probably days that she wants to smother me at night with a pillow. But at the same time, she is my best friend. I am her best friend. I adore my wife so much. Like you guys have no idea how crazy about my wife I am. And and we have the most insane wild no holds barred coming off the top rope sex life. We have the most beautiful connection. and we talk to God all the time together. We raise incredible kids. I love my life with Brandy. You can't feel like that if you're hitting that lever, chasing dopamine all the time, which is part of the problem. You've shortcircuited your your messolyic reward system, if you really want to know. And you've done it so badly that the only thing left that that spikes your brain is the next meaningless distraction. But this isn't just psychological, it's structural phys. Your brain is malleable. So, you're physically rewiring your brain to avoid purpose and chase pleasure. How is this not a plan by a system that doesn't want you to win? That's probably going to get this podcast throttled back even that like, do bells not go off in your head when you guys hear this stuff and go, "Well, there's probably a problem with some of that." And all that rewiring, just so you know, that's why depression, anxiety, apathy, addiction, and not addiction in the sense that you're thinking, addiction in so many other ways, are skyrocketing in people who have more than they've ever had before. Makes sense. I say it all the time. Listen, let me give you the physiological master key that I guarantee you no doctor, no psychologist, no psychiatrist is ever talking about. Emotion, and no coach, by the way, ever. Emotion is energy. Literally, emotion is energy. And let me see if I can break this down as easy as possible. Emotions aren't just feelings. They are full body physiological events and they're orchestrated by these things called neurotransmitters and hormones and your autonomic nervous system. And it does it all in the it just cascades, right? These autonomic nervous system cascades that just flood your system. I mean, adrenaline, cortisol, remember what I said? They're released during fight, flight, or freeze. That's anxiety. That's fear. That's anger. That's not mental. It's chemical warfare inside your system in your bloodstream. Look at serotonin and GABA. They stabilize your mood. I talked about this yesterday, how it stabilizes GABA. And I was t and uh and serotonin, right? And then I talked about the whole leptin and dopamine thing with red. There's a lot of things I talked about yesterday, but anyway, serotonin and GABA stabilize your mood, but they're built in your gut and your brain stem. That means that your diet, your circadian rhythm, and your gut health determine your emotional regulation. What are you putting in your barcool? What are you eating? Well, the package says it's healthy. It came in a package already. It's not healthy. And testosterone, men and women, by the way, it's not just about muscles and your libido. It governs dominance, which is important, by the way. Dominance, confidence, setting boundaries, and the lower the low the more you kill assertiveness. If you look at these people like, I wish I could be like you. They're assertive. Why? Because they probably have a lot of testosterone. Never mind. Look at oxytocin and vasopressin. They're connection molecules and they're they differ by one amino acid by the way. So they're very similar, but they're released, you know how they're released? They're released through trust, eye contact, but not in the nerdy geeky way sitting on a bed facing each other, but trust, eye contact, a physical touch, not through some emoji on your phone or whether or not you got the proper Instagram comment. If you try to positive mindset your way through emotional suppression while living in physiological chaos that that is going to that's going to burn you out. In fact, it's going to burn you out or make you so hyper that you break down. Because here here's let me explain how it shows up. Chronically low dopamine. What did I say? Apathy. Think about this though with your social media or anything else. I'm not just talking about social media. Just the instant hits you guys need all the time. So hyperdopamine all the time. Bang bang bang bang bang. hitting that that that lever for the food pellet. The food pellet if you look if you know Skinner's rats a whole experiment but if BF Skinner if you don't know just look it up cuz I don't feel like talking about it right now. That was intro psych. That was a millennia good teacher though. But dopamine eventually you burn it out by not burning out the receptors as much as your body downregulating dopamine because it goes I I can't do this. It's too much. It's preventing all the other things. Your body knows you better than you know you. Your innate intelligence that controls your system knows you better than your cognitive system. Knows you better than your cognitive thought by far. So, low dopamine, apathy, low serotonin, negative, tons of negative rum, rumination, and all kinds of mood swings all over the place. And stop making fun of your spouse cuz they're probably looking at you saying the same thing. When cortisol is high, which means you have low DHEA, panic, fatigue, an aggressive massive overreaction. Look at the comments on social media. low testosterone and poor thyroid, depression, period, with zero fire in your body, by the way. Nothing. Like, you're just a dud. So, when someone says, "Just be more grateful and sit around while your neuroendocrine system is tanking," what they're doing is they're essentially asking a car, the best F1 car ever, to win the race when the engine's on fire, there's no gas, and the tires just blew off. That's what's going on. You can't you can't like the the cost of avoiding pain is it is it's crippling you. Let me just zoom out for a second. Okay, so people everybody talks about this on social media. They I want meaning and strength and peace and fulfillment and purpose and all this stuff while they're ringing their little bells and playing a harmonica or whatever they're doing. But all those things require pain. That's the one thing nobody talks about. They say you should sit here and Rhonda burn your way. Listen, I got nothing against her. But sitting there trying to manifest a cup of coffee still requires you to go get the damn cup of coffee. It will not show up. Manifestation is real when you do the freaking work. That's manifestation. Manifestation is your brain goes, I'm going to will this into existence by getting your ass up out of the off the couch and going to do the actions that are going to get you what I'm thinking about. I don't know how else to explain it. So, with your vision boards and your chanting and all the stuff you do, great. But if you don't do anything, who cares? Because all those things that you want, the strength, the money, the peace, the power, the the purpose, all the stuff requires pain. And pain is now labeled as what? A mental illness. Are you kidding me? We've sold people on the idea that life should feel like a spa day. If you're tired, something's wrong. You're stressed out, you're probably traumatized. And if you're upset and really triggered, you need to save space. No, you're experiencing this thing called life. Welcome. You're just alive. Welcome to being an adult. Your biology is responding completely appropriately to stimuli that require a response, not a sedative. Here's what happens. You avoid pain long enough and you don't become peaceful, you become worthless. You become useless. You sit at the bottom and look up at everybody else and complain. When when you avoid pain long enough, there's no safety in that. There's a whole bunch of stagnation because growth by its very nature requires a stress response. You don't build more muscle without a stress response. without pain. It's impossible. It requires discomfort. It requires metabolic demand. It requires nervous system adaptation. It requires behavioral transformation. Welcome to being I don't know how else to explain this. It's that frustrating. You can't shortcut any of this stuff. There's no hack for becoming an adult and having emotional maturity because when you try, what happens is you steal from your nervous system the opportunity to evolve. That that's the death of greatness right there. And it's voluntary and it's being labeled as necessary as a pathology because a high functioning nervous system stuck in a low stimulus life chasing meaning through comfort while bleeding vitality through sedation and stagnation. That's what you're creating. Look at your life. Instead of getting mad for once, look at your own [\h__\h] life. Like look at look at psychology. Just just back up and look at the psychology of this for a second. You're not you're not too sensitive. Nobody is too Maybe you're just being too sensitive. No, you're underdeveloped. Children are hyper sensitive because they don't have the capacity to express feelings. They know what they want. They don't know how to express it or explain it. They just know what they have they don't want and they want something over there. A lot of a lot of toddlers dressed up as adults right now and people will get mad about that. We have built an entire generation that was never taught how to process emotions and are only taught how to avoid them. You're never shown that grief has a purpose or rage can be something that serves you or anxiety is just information or sadness is integrating something that happened so you can process it and move on. So now we live in a society where emotional literacy is replaced with identity politics. Come on. Come on. Where every feeling is a moral verdict and and disagreements are treated like abuse. How could you how can you even have a relationship if you do that? You can't. Like I said, if you have anxiety, if you're actually, let me back up. You don't have anxiety. If you're anxious, definitely must be trauma related. And when you're depressed, I've heard people now talk, well, it's genetics because my mom was depressed, my dad was depressed. When you're angry, it always goes back to the same thing. Toxic masculinity. I'll say it again. Not a chance. Not a chance. You are a human being with a functioning limbic system trying to adapt in an overstimulated, undernourished, pharmaceutically dependent world. What you need is not a diagnosis. What you need is a little bit of freaking discipline. You need some resilience. Real resilience. Not the manufactured resilience that when people go, "I'm really resilient. I'm so resilient." But then when something happens in their life, they go, "And when when stress happens, sometimes I just shut down." You're not resilient then. You're a candy ass. You need neurobiological regulation. You need an identity that's actually created through suffering and struggle and adversity and obstacles, not swiping and gleaning it from somebody's post. Because here's what nobody nobody wants to tell you. They don't. You know, you come out here and you tell the truth, you get ostracized for telling the truth because it hurts. Mental strength is not born in safe spaces. It's made, forged, and created in emotional problematic fire. When you sit in your discomfort long enough to understand it and then metabolize it and then repurpose it so you get to where you want to go. So, what do we do? That would be the question I'd be asking. All right, great. Tell me, Doc Spartan, what do we do now? Start listening to the frigin signal instead of trying to shut it down. I think a lot of people don't even know how to do that. Like here's what it would look like in the body. When you're feeling anxiety, ask what part of your life is misaligned. Where is the screw up? That's your amygdala firing a warning signal based on predicted outcomes. When you feel sadness, ask what needs to be grieved. That's your serena. When you feel sadness, ask what needs to be grieved. That's your serotonin system adjusting to loss. When you feel anger, where are the boundaries? Where are the lines that have been crossed? Whether it's mental or physical, that's testosterone and norepinephrine giving you the energy to correct whatever the hell injustice it is. When you feel and when you feel shame, ask what part of your character needs some serious refinement that needs to be polished. That is something called that's your anterior insula evaluating the moral conflict that you have. When you pay attention, your system recalibrates itself because you're telling it to. When you suppress it, the system compensates with a whole whack of dysfunction. I I don't know if that really makes sense to you guys because you guys are taught to to bury it and suppress it and hide from it and then you live in dysfunction and you think it must be a problem based on the new symptoms that show up. But those symptoms, whether they're physical or psychological, are a result of trying to suppress the original signal. Do you get it? Pay attention. Your biology doesn't care about your feelings. I don't know if you figured that out yet. It cares about your survival. And the only way to become powerful and deliberate in your life is to evolve into the type of person who can listen to their feelings without being owned by them. I'm not saying numb them out or run away or scroll. I mean that that's not listening to your feelings. Let me find a meme that makes me feel better. I mean feel it, learn from it, and then take some action and then adapt so you have a new direction. That's evolution. And I'm not talking about science and God. I mean, that's how human beings in one lifetime evolve into the best version of themselves. That's what mastery comes from. Because it doesn't come from suppressing your emotions thinking that that's going to make you better because you hid from them. Listen, the world, this is the truth, the world isn't short on emotion whatsoever. It's short on emotional adults. It's not that people are feeling too much. It's that they're never taught to do anything with what they're feeling. They're they're never taught how to do anything with that. It's just noise that they need to cover up with a pill. That's why I said they now they pathize it and pharmaceuticalize it and then scroll away until nothing's left but apathy and numbness and a bunch of static and noise on a little tiny glass screen that you hold in your hand. The people that overcome all of this, and I I'm not saying get off your phone, do what you want. That's that's not what I'm telling you. I'm saying that you can't chase the numbness which is also chasing distraction cuz it's numbing what you're doing right now. Do you see this connection? You have to chase meaning but the meaning is for you. Most people are changing chasing meaning based on somebody else. What does their meaning have to do with anything? And if somebody goes, "Well, you should be empathetic towards other people." Holy [\h__\h] Like that's what I mean though. Even saying that makes me realize that's what people say. That has nothing to do with this. It is your damn life. You better live it. not live it according to what somebody else wants to say thinking you're being altruistic. You're being a [\h__\h] idiot if you do that. Build because when you want to make sure everybody else is happy, you are the one who's not. When you chase happiness, that is also a problem. Do the things that are difficult to create the life you want and the byproduct becomes your happiness. A lot of you guys got it backwards. Chase meaning and the byproduct is you get happiness. These if you want to change your life, you can't fear the discomfort. You have to use it to get yourself somewhere because your nervous system was built for war. It's built for battle. It's designed for this. You're conditioned to think it's not the emotion that you're trying to avoid. That's the weapon that you're supposed to be holding and using. Stop asking. Stop. Stop. You could tell this irritates me. Stop asking to feel less and trying to hide from all the things that you're feeling inside. They're designed to do something. That is your GPS system going, "Go this way. Fix this problem. Do all this stuff because it's going to take you where you want to go." You guys go, "I can't get my life to go where I want it to go." It's because you keep ignoring all the signals your brain is telling you. Start learning how to understand the feelings and then act powerfully anyway. Not go, I have these feelings, I have to shut down. The future doesn't belong to the most medicated or validated or emotionally safe bubble people. It doesn't and it never will. It belongs to the people who can regulate their own damn nervous system and control their mind, their their psychology and feel every single ounce of their life without running away from it. That's how you become successful. Because everything else when people go, "Bro, I need your morning routine. Bro, I need your business plan. Bro, I need to see how you run your marriage, like all of that stuff." No, you don't. No, you don't. What you need is my psychology, which I come out here and I explain all the time. It's also why I have that mastermind. But you do not need another blueprint. You need psychology. And what I mean by that is you need an upgrade. I got to go. Never miss.