every day out here in this chair with my cup of coffee. No, this does not do anything bad. Yes, it is black coffee. There's no other way to drink coffee, by the way. You know, I I got a lot of messages from you guys about actually was really specific. probably I don't know the last three days everybody hit the same button at least 300 3 400 messages about heart disease. So the thing with heart disease before I even get into it and and I'll explain everything and how to handle it and mitigate it and everything. There's a very viable option but this is there's a lot of facets to heart disease. It's not just a linear progression. There's a lot of things that that happen in order to cause it, which means there's a lot of things to unwind, in order to mitigate it or reverse it. And that being said, this isn't you. You guys got to listen to me. When I come out here and I do these podcasts and I give you these pieces of hypothetical just for entertainment and education, information videos, whatever you want to call it, they're they're designed around a general fix. But to get into the specifics for your precise situation, yeah, honestly, 95% of the time, this will work. Everything I put on here, it'll fit 95% probably higher, 98% of the people. But there's that 2 to 5% that there's some underlying things going on that need to be handled, and you're going to wind up only having, you know, A-50% result versus 100% reversal. So, you need to understand that before you go any further. And does this work 100% of the time? Does it work at 100%? No. 98% of the time because of, you know, certain idiosyncrasies and things that are just happening that that I'm not aware of because I'm not sitting in front of you doing a full diagnostic, which is exactly why I have the cure program. And somebody asked me about the cure program the other day. Hey, I want to be in your cure cure program. I'll be very blunt again because I went and explained what's involved and for some reason they went, "Oh, I didn't know it was that much." Well, then you don't value your health. I really have no sympathy. I think it should be much larger of an investment. 25,000 for 20 25 days, 100,000 for 100 days. There's no promo code, no discount code. That's not how this works. But I'm the one that decides which one you do. It has nothing to do with the money. Nothing. Which is important. You guys need to understand that. Like when I had thoracic surgery, when they took this lung out, I didn't get the cheapest surgeon I could find or look on Groupon. In fact, it was all an act of God. I wasn't even They were going to ship me out of state. They said, "I'm going to put you on a plane." I was I couldn't even walk to the bathroom on day three because I would get gassed out and pass out. I couldn't function. I couldn't take a breath. It was a It was brutal. And they were going to put me on an airplane. I wouldn't have made the flight, just so you know. And if you know my story, you know I just sat there and I thanked God for 10 minutes and 30 minutes later, Trevor Blackmire. Yeah. Just letting you know, your ride to the hospital is uh is going to be here in half an hour for your surgery tomorrow. And my wife had just left. And and so I mean this I'm a walking miracle. in ways I can't comprehend. But it taught me a lot of lessons about health and what I thought was healthy and how healthy I was versus oh like what real health is and how most of these insta idiots and if it's you you're an instil thinking that you're a little magic powder and you're matcha and how caffeine's bad. I had the one guy tell me I actually got this mix of herbs and it gives me vasoddilation instead of vasoc constriction and I am so alert and oxygen isn't the problem yesterday when I was going over the morning stack with a draftyl and nicotine and caffeine that had nothing to do with vasoddilation. So when people come in with their little hey let me tell you what I take here I'll help you. I don't [\h__\h] care because I don't you're coming to me for information not to try and get me to come to your side of the equation that's usually wrong. It's not meant to be a jerk. I've usually forgotten more than most people know about this subject and will ever learn because I nerd out on this and I read this stuff all the time and I've seen over a million patients. I actually know my stuff cuz I care. But just to follow on the on the cardiac health thing, I I want you guys to understand that if I give you something and you apply it 100% the outcome is going to blow your mind, but you have to be willing to do it. I'll just leave it at that. Otherwise, I'll sit here and wind up talking for another 5 10 minutes just about some psychology behind this. But nothing works unless you apply it. Business, marriage, fitness, health, whatever. But all the nonsense that's being put off everywhere, take this pill, take this route, rub this thing on your eyeball, whatever it is, none of that's going to work. Biology is always on my side because it doesn't change ever. You can argue with me in the comments all I'm just going to block you and delete you now cuz I just I have no time for idiots. But if you're one of those idiots, stop selling people false hope and and weird cures that you have a affiliate code for that just doesn't work. Knock it off because people are trusting you with their health. And personally, I think you're a [\h__\h] idiot because you're hurting people for profit. I won't. That's why I said 25,000 or 100,000. If your problem is going to take 50 days, 60 days, you're paying the 100. There's no graduated, you know, metered billing cycle. It doesn't work like that. It is one or the other. Why? Because I've done this enough. But I don't do it based on price. Because if you come in, you're like, "Here, I want to give you 100 grand. I'm in." And I go, "Dude, this is going to take me 12 days to fix your problem. I won't let you pay it cuz I have ethics." So maybe that's something points you in the right direction. I don't know. But anyway, that's as binary as it gets. 25 or 100. That's it. It's all I got. Heart disease. A lot of questions about heart disease. Remember, this isn't meant to cure, diagnose, treat, triage, prescribe, advise, nothing. This is just me talking. and heart disease. Listen, it's not an event. You ever noticed that? Like most health issues are treated as some kind of an event like you paid to get on stage and or you watch somebody on stage and it happens to be diabetes. That's not how this works. It is not a oneandone. This is a subscription model of deterioration. You don't just wake up with coronary artery disease or clogged arteries like you tripped and smashed your face into a whopper heavy all with nothing but cheese and mayo on it. Like you earned that. It's monthly payments you've been making on that. Just compounding interest, bad decisions, slow bleed of habits, and then one day all of a sudden, bang, you cash out with a stent or a bypass or toe tag, maybe, I don't know, it it can get really bad real quick. Like I told you, one of the guys in my group, a lady uh left anterior descending, that's the widowmaker. That's the one. You block that one and bad things happen to you in a way that you usually go and meet our creator. But if you look at the medical system, they're not here to fix you. They're not like if I'm part of the medical system and I see it and so I just tell it as it is. They're here to rent you back your life one prescription at a time. Listen, that's exactly how this is. They're renting you back your life and your health and they're doing it through this prescription and that one and all the lies and BS that they feed you saying this is going to solve the problem, but it never does. It manages the problem so you stay just sick enough to need more of whatever they're giving you like statins and beta blockers and ACE inhibitors and like congratulations, you survived. Let's go. Survived. That's like crashing your car nose first into a wall, replacing one tire, and then going, "It's roadw worthy. We're good." And you were doing 60. Not a chance. Listen, the truth. Reversing heart disease is not about luck or pills or some miracle diet. The Mediterranean diet gets pushed for that. It doesn't reverse things. It helps you. It doesn't do the reversing. Even you, medication doesn't fix the problem. It mitigates the problem. And no doctor anywhere any time in the history of mankind, including myself, has ever cured anybody of anything. You do the work as a human being. Surgery, all that stuff. They saved my life. They took the stuff out that was killing your life. And then you stitch the system back together. What you have to look at is how do I stitch the system back together as fast as possible and as powerful as possible. That's how this works, right? Because that's how biology is. You fix the for heart disease. You fix the machinery, the lining of the pipes, right? the muscle pump, the power plants and all the cells, right? The mitochondria, the clock that governs your aging, the calendar, right? And the fuel system that drives your metabolism. That's that's the stack. That's five things that you have to handle. It's not two, it's not one pill, it's not 30 things. It is five. If you're still freaking out thinking that there's probably a better shortcut and you don't want to take so many things, then you're the [\h__\h] problem. You know, it it frustrates me because people like this culture doesn't want solutions. It wants comfort. But comfort is what's digging your grave. Comfort is the shovel. Look at So here, I'll just lay them out because I I have a lot of things to do today. And honestly, for the first time, I'm actually kind of a little behind. So guy, I love coffee. And a lot of these you've heard before, but I think the issue is you're like, well, if you're going, well, is there something new? No, there's biology. It's how you stack it together and what you do with it and how long you do it that matters and what you do in conjunction with that biology. Because it's just like I said about TRT. TRT does not make you jacked and fit and athletic. The work does. Period. You can argue in my comments all you want. Human biology is on my side. And anyone that's an athlete knows that. BPC57. Think of this as like it's like AI almost said Teflon, but that stuff's really bad for you. It's It's like the I don't know the ultimate coating slash repair slash It's such an epic peptide. Think about this. The vascular theular endothelium, right? The cells, they're only one cell layer thick. If you've ever taken a hisystologology class and seen under a microscope, they're not very big, just one. So imagine this, easiest way to look at it is imagine a fire hose. All that pressure when they crank that open made out of Kleenex tissue paper, right? What's funny is Kleenex is actually a name brand. It's like saying I have to go xerox something except you're not xeroxing, you're photocopying. So just side notes, this is what my brain does. But that's what your arteries are. They're just made out of tissue paper. A single layer of endothelial cells that controls blood pressure, clotting, and inflammation. And when it's healthy, oh man, it's slick. That's why I was going to say teflon, right? It's just slick. Stuff just fires through it like nothing. The copper manages vascular tone. There's so many good things about like when it runs, it runs. But when it's damaged, all that smooth inside, it's like covering it in those little tiny hooks on a Velcro pad. Velcro in your arteries is like LDL particles. and macrofages that get stuck. That's the big one. Not less than the LDL issues, but they form foam cells and now you've just started to plaque and destroy your arteries. And no, it has nothing to do with high cholesterol. Nothing. And they've proven that. The Birmingham study has shown 40 years they've been trying to prove that high cholesterol causes heart attacks and strokes. And all they've managed to do is prove that high cholesterol, according to them, which is a [\h__\h] number by the way, you should be over 300 all day long. And they want you at 180. And they'd be happier if you were 160. Except the fat ball here between your ears, your brain is primarily it's fat. Cholesterol. Yes, they're the same. Stop arguing with me. Just stop it because it bugs me. You guys stupid arguments because you think you know something cuz you asked Chad GPT. Just shut your mouth. Cholesterol, you need it. Your hormones don't tank if it's running. Cholesterol is important. But all they found out is that it keeps you from getting Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, all kinds of other things like that, neurodeenerative disorders, right? EPC doesn't just slap a patch on on the endothelium, right? So it it's smooth. It restores endothelial nitric oxide synthes enos. Want to get fancy about it? That's the enzyme that generates nitric oxide, right? Take those nitro pills when people have angina or anything like that. The nitric oxide is the gas that makes your muscles relax or your vessels rather relax. Nitric oxide is why your blood pressure goes down during exercise. Remember the um no explode, right? Opens up your vessels. Yeah. Try doing a grip intensive workout with that stuff in your system. Well, your forearms are going to explode. But that's why your arteries dilate when you're aroused. Without it, your vascular system is permanently in like butt clench mode, but it's not just your butt. So, just go a little harder down this road because I want you to understand this. BPC-157 reduces oxidative stress on the vascular wall. It increases something called VEGF, which is vascular endothelial growth factor, and it accelerates angioenesis. I've talked about a lot of this stuff a ton, so if you've watched me for any amount of time, you're like, "Oh, I've heard all this stuff." But angioenesis is the growth of new capillaries, right? Which means a ton better perfusion to eskeemic tissue, which is tissue with a reduced blood, reduced blood supply and reduced oxygen perusion, right? So the translation is that starving tissue gets oxygen again, right? you don't lose toes or you don't lose heart muscle and get all fibrodic and you don't lose time which is what happens. So if by the way if you're because this is what I hear people Yeah. but I heard that I had some guy say this about glutamine. Just take 30 milligrams of of glutamine every day and uh it'll fix your leaky gut. Some of the stuff that you guys come out it doesn't even make sense. That's the fuel that feeds the cell. It has nothing to do with repair. It doesn't even make sense. But hey, what do I know? But if you're thinking cuz that's why I'm bringing this up. Can't I just take L arginine is the one I always hear for nitric oxide? No. No. Arginine is raw material, right? That's like going if I look at the the sand on the beach. Can't I just take that and make glass out of it just by looking at it just by by putting it in a what? A bag and a glass is going to come out. Doesn't work like that. That's raw material. You have to do all the processing. BPC57 is what fixes the machinery, the architecture inside. That's the difference between giving a kid Legos and going, "Go ahead, build me a skyscraper." And then hiring a freaking architect. They're not the same, right? TB-500. I mentioned this the other day. This is this is one of my favorite peptides, man. This thing is so good. It does. And I told you why primarily it solves the athletes heart problem. If you are an athlete of any of any shape or size, and I mean a real athlete, not AI decided to call myself an athlete because I'm an Olympic hot dog eater. I mean a real athlete. like you've been running your engine at full throttle and you can do some pretty gnarly stuff. Good chance you have athletes heart. You don't want your heart to grow. It's just one area of the heart that grows, but you don't want it to grow. That's a bad thing. It's the only muscle in your body you don't want to grow. Understand the heart doesn't heal like skin, right? You cut your finger and new cells stitch up. They knit up that gap, right? You kill a chunk of myioardium, you're stuck with scar tissue forever. Scar tissue doesn't contract, you guys. It just sits there like dead weight and your cardiac output tanks. Which is exactly where TB-500 rewrites all the rules. It upregulates actin. Remember actin polymerization which is one of the most abundant proteins in ukareotic cells. Just follow me on this so you understand just going through some basic human biology. Actin regulates movement, migration, cell and cell signaling. So that's what allows everything, the fibroblasts and when you have a wound and everything to crawl into the wound to try and fix it. Without it, cells can't rebuild any structure. TB-500 is like giving we got a guy down the street here. He's building a house. It's like giving the construction crews the scaffolding they need to get to the second floor if they're not using ladders and repair all the stuff after we get a tornado and it rips the roof and everything off the top of the house. That's what it's doing. It's giving them the way to get there without them looking at it going, "Boy, I sure we could we could get up there and fix all the problems." That's what this does, right? If you if you look at I guess preclinical models, they they'll show reduced infar size. So infarction is an issue like it stops working, right? It's the easiest way to explain it. But that means that like myioardial infarction hearted, right? Dead piece of tissue stops conducting signal. We can get into the bundle the bundle of hiss and perkingi fibers and all that but voltage gated calcium channels cuz the heart is a totally different contractile muscle than anything else right smooth muscle versus anyway I could do this all day this is how much I love this stuff but the rub on this is that there's less scar tissue more functioning muscle with TV500 right so now you understand if you can conduct a signal like imagine you have it's like if you had a slab of scar tissue anybody's ever torn a muscle and you get to that certain point you're like it's like real stuck right here and you know exactly where it is it's because that scar tissue isn't moving at all. And just to be very clear, the side on the ends of the scar tissue are where the weakness is. The scar tissue is not going to have a problem. That's rugged. It's like a callus, right? Bone callus after you break a bone. Where the callus is, good chance you're never breaking that again. But on either side of that, it's weaker because it can't keep up with the stronger part, right? Do you understand how that works? So if you if you look at how this is designed, the less scar tissue and more functioning muscle means it can contract fully. It can conduct a signal fully and it also does this is some really cool stuff. I I'm going to go full nerd mode in this. So, it recruits something called endothelial progenitor cells. They're they're like stem cell kind of entities that circulate waiting to repair vascular damage. Like the human body is so cool, man. Like it's so cool. I I love working on cars and I love working on humans so much. Like they just it's it's my jam. I love that. Just to be very transparent, my buddy Sean, he's a business partner and just a very, very dear friend of mine. And I told him, I said, you know, I just tried to get the f out of healthcare cuz people don't listen. You guys don't listen. You just want the easy fix and hope it goes away and then get mad when it doesn't. So, I'm like, I'm done. I'm done with you guys. And then I started answering a few questions and making a few videos and everything exploded. And, you know, he goes, "Dude, you have such a gift for explaining this." He goes, "You really know it." And he goes, "You just, it's like you're calling." He goes, "You got to do it, man." And [\h__\h] he's right. So, I'm giving you all I got until God calls me home. How about that? I'm just going to tell you straight out, full transparency. Yep. I'm going to still tell you psychology and get your brain right. I'm going to teach you how to make a ton of money, and I'm going to teach you how your body works so you actually know. And then you can ride off into the sunset rich, fit, and a bulletproof psychology. That's just you're just an unstoppable juggernaut of a human. How about how about that? Right? So if if let me come back to the endothelial pro progenitor cells, right? This that's real cool. So they float around waiting to repair vascular damage. That's all they do. TB-500 doesn't just fix the heart. It rebuilds the entire micro environment around it. So even if you go underneath the paricardial sack, right? The the it's like a big bag around the heart that keeps from doing anything. It repairs all the stuff that's damaged. How about that? Before I go into this too far and you go, "Dude, you lost me." It's like you went from, you know, 10th grade to thesis, grad level thesis. I'm not trying to. I just really like this stuff. But here's the brutal truth. Understand this, you guys. Without TB-500, every heart attack that you have is a one-way ticket to significantly less horsepower in your system. Like, you go from a flat 12 to, you know, riding a bicycle with a bent wheel, crooked spokes. Mod modern cardiology, it just it can't stop that slope. TB-500 does. And if you go, well, why don't they use it if it's so good? Because it's dirt cheap. That's it. I don't have a longer explanation because there isn't one. It can't be patented because your body has it. Well, it's it's thyus and beta 4. TB-500 is the synthetic version because it has a much longer halfife. Thyus beta 4. It's the fragment that is that you need is the TB-500, but you it doesn't make them any money. That's a disgusting thought. It's like the legal system. I talked about it yesterday. It's designed to be complicated and reward sneaky just sacks of [\h__\h] that just want to hurt people, right? So, you have to take matters into your own hands. So, just keep this in mind as I'm going through this because as much as I want you guys to have a great long powerful healthy body, like when you're 80, you're still going, "Dude, I could keep up with all of you guys." Which is normal, by the way. Like I said the other day when I said aging gracefully. Get out of here, man. That's something that some idiot said when as they got fatter on a couch watching the wheel, right? Mi. Yeah, you already know how I feel about MODC C. This is like the ultimate metabolic switch because MO C, first of all, it's your body's designed with it. It's actually designed with this one. This is so rad because it's what you could tell I love this stuff. It's what what helps it increases fixes your ATP, adenosine triphosphate problem. ATP is what everything is built on in your body. Everything. I mean everything. I don't care what it is from neuroindocrine system to erections. like it is everything is built on ATP which means if that system is failing it doesn't matter if you fix everything else do do you guys get that if you are having a digestive issue it's it has an ATP problem if you have a neurotransmitter problem it has an ATP problem right you guys understand without ATP it can't do the things it doesn't have it's like having the more you put performance parts on your car and the more you fix your car and the better it gets the better it looks the more efficient it goes but you just never put gas in the tank doesn't matter Make sense? So the heart is wicked energy hog. This thing's a it's it's greedy and it should be. It's just doing non-stop work. And every contraction takes ATP, adenosine triphosphate. Mitochondria crank it out nonstop. And when mitochondria fail, cardiac output collapses. Contractile volume is less. The power of the contraction is less. The which means oxygen perusion is less cuz getting to the periphery is a lot harder. Right? Think about it. And if you've ever seen blood, it's pretty like it's syrup. It's like it's viscous. So getting to the tips of your fingers and some of these capillaries are one cell in diameter. Well, your heart here is getting blood to here. And for you guys listening, I'm just touching the tips of my fingers. That's a big deal. And we to sit here and go, "Well, it's not that big of a deal." Man, it is like faking magic. That's the closest thing you can say. Harry Potter can go pound sand because he's got nothing on the human body, right? But when your cardiac output collapses because of ATP, that's heart failure. It's a power outage in the most en energy demanding tissue in your entire body. While you sleep, it's going. While you're awake, it's going while you're doing driving, breathing. It does. And it does it all on its own. It just runs the way you like your vagus nerve is actually what's slowing your heart down. By the way, you're normally tacky. Most tachicardia is over 100 beats a minute, right? So most pe like your normal cardiac rhythm is tacky is tacocardia. Your vagus nerve, right? the communication between that and your brain and everything. It slows your heart down. I could get into pacemakers and explain all that, but there's a lot of things involved here. This which is why heart disease is much more complex than I was I was trying to explain this at the beginning. I could do this. I could probably do a twoe class on this. It's so there's so much to go over and you guys would learn a lot and I'm an entertaining [\h__\h] So, I would give you everything I got and you'd have a lot of fun. You'd probably come out cursing like a sailor though. though. So, MOT C is a mitochondrial encoded peptide that acts like it's like the nuclear option on metabolism. It activates I said this before, AMPK, right? The it's the master energy sensor. When AMK lights up, right, they tap it, fat oxidation increases, glucose uptake improves, oxidative stress drops, so free radicals reduce, right? yourselves go from these sluggish, tired old steam engines to, you know, like the Rev, just this finely tuned, hybrid, high-performance power machine, which is how you're designed, by the way. You're not designed to be sluggish. You're designed to be a hyper. You come out of the gate, my 911 Turbo S, that's you. The day you're born, you come out, you start, get all the fluid out of your lungs, you are, that is you. All you do is screw it up. It makes me think of Michelle Feifer. What? Why is my brain drawing a blank? anyway where she says, "You all start with an A. You all begin with an A in my class." Dangerous minds, right? Where she's like, "Everybody begins with an A and all you can do is screw it up basically." And she says, "And if you start to go down, we're going to pair you up with somebody that is at an A so you can get back to an A. But everybody begins with an A." That's how you are. That's how your physiology is. You begin with an A. You aren't born crippled and weak and tired and broken. You are born perfect and you wind up chewing that up through habits and decisions and exposure and incidents of duress, but you always begin with an A. So you always begin like my 911 Turbo S. You always begin whatever you want to give yourself a reference to F22 Raptor, whatever. Just something high performance. But if you look at a neurological level, better mitochondrial efficiency means less ROS. It's not an advertising thing. It means reactive oxygen species. ROS are like sparks in the wiring. too many and the whole system just shorts out. M C is that fire extinguisher and the electrician all at the same time. It's like fire medic, electrician. It it not only puts out the spark, but it rewires the gang panel, the breaker box, so you stop tripping that circuit all the time. Right? If you look at it, clinically proven, by the way, to improve exercise tolerance. Let me explain what that means cuz we hear this and people read these things, they parrot these phrases, they have no concept. So I want you to have all the information. So the next bro science jackwagon that gets in your life and tries to convince you of something, you can go, "Haha, [\h__\h] That's not what it means." And you can just flatline that son of a [\h__\h] I want you to have all the answers. It means that you don't feel like you're dying walking up the stairs or going to get the mail and your mailbox is 10 ft down the driveway. It's it's not placebo. It's not noibo. It's mitochondria doing their damn job. Hiton for sure is part of this. Right. So now we are four I had to check four in. Right. And I said, "There's only going to be five five things you you reverse it." I mean, really reverse. Married to good habits, by the way. Like, if you go, "Oh, this is going to reverse it. Reverse heart disease. They I thought they can't do that." Thetically, they can. Wink wink nudge nudge. If you catch what I'm saying, but that only works when you do the work. The work instills the worth in everything. Business, marriage, fitness, health, you name it. No work. There's no magic cream or pill or powder or sitting there and having a seance that's going to help you. You have to do the work. This just makes the work matter a lot more. 50% more or x more rather. Sign me up. So a pitilon this is what turns the clock backwards. It's like it takes your your watch and runs it back in time. Like you can fix pipes, muscle, like the vascular system muscle, the power plants, but what about So we've done all this, right? But what about the ticking clock that is aging you? The shortening of the telomeres, right? So telomeirs shorten every time a cell divides. And when they're too short, the cell goes, I'm done dividing and turns into something. Well, it either dies or turns cenisonin, which is a useless cell. Senic endothelial cells don't die quietly, by the way. They sit there spitting out, just churning out inflammatory cytoines like this cranky, bitter, mean old man just yelling at kids from like Monster House, right? Get off my lawn. Like that's what it is. That's you want to there that is your picture of a senison cell. That's what it is. Cytoines all the verbal venom that comes out of what was his name? Neville cracker. [\h__\h] I've seen that movie too many times with my kids. Right. So epitoolon activates tmerase which is the enzyme that lengthens the telomeres. Sticks an aglet on the end that keeps the endothelial cells young which keeps them elastic and functional. And it regulates melatonin the thing you take to help you to sleep which probably isn't working. It's just screwing you up your circadian rhythm. This restores your circadian rhythm. Epitoolon. Circadian rhythm misalignment. I guess more like circadian misalignment because it's not just a rhythm thing. There's more to it. It's not just bad sleep, you guys. It's not. It is. Follow me on this because that's what people Oh, my circadian rhythm's off. I have jet lag. Whatever it is. No, no. It is blood pressure dysregulation, insulin resistance, higher risk of heart attacks early in the morning. They're timed with growth hormone. There's so many factors to the human body. Like that's why I love talking about that stuff. If you look at human trials, pitilon reduced all cause mortality. I'll say that again. All cause mortality. That means everything, but especially from cardiovascular issues since we're talking about heart disease. Seems only fitting, right? And that's not hype. That is just results and outcome of applying something that does a whole bunch of great things for your body. Well, it makes your body do great things, right? Pitelon doesn't just slow the clock. It changes how the clock works. It changes how it beats and it turns the calendar back to 1985, right? Like that's how this works. Think about it. Your arteries don't fail because you turned 75. They fail because your vascular cells turned 75 and stopped functioning. Massive difference. Epitoolon keeps them moving at middle age. 40 45. Yes. Really? And then cartine. Man, I love me some cartine. This is like a metabolic weapon of mass destruction. This thing's so incredible. A GW50 1516. And before you go, what about the cancer caused by it? Never. Never. I'm not even going to entertain this anymore because you guys like, "What about cancer caused by this? What about cancer caused by that?" [\h__\h] No. No. You need to actually read the experiments. Just read them. Some of the stuff it's not even possible because it drives me crazy the way you guys cling to this stuff. Yet, you will go out and take handfuls of Advil and you eat all the shittiest food on earth and then chase it with an Alka-Seltzer and go, I don't know why I have kidney problems or liver problems. Because it said so right on the package insert, dumbass. Here's your sign. So, carterine. So, let's follow me. You can repair, regenerate, you can, I guess, restore, you can unwind the clock, you can smooth out the inside of your vascular structure, fix vascular tone, get rid of fibrodic tissue in the mioardium. But if you don't fix metabolism, all you're doing is rearranging a bunch of furniture in a burning house thinking that's going to put it out. Metabolic syndrome is it's the engine, I guess, is the best way to explain it, of of heart disease. Oh, high triglycerides. I'm a little hesitant to say that cuz I don't want you guys to misunderstand what I'm saying before you go, wait, I thought you said, listen, just follow this. You have to marry this all together. High triglycerides, low HDL, insulin resistance, visceral fat, all of that stuff put together. Chronic inflammation. That that is the slow motion explosion that's about to overtake you behind every heart problem. Every heart problem. So carterine is Oh, this thing's wild, man. It binds binds to PP AR delta and it flips genetic switches that turn you into this fat burning torching furnace. So HDL goes up, triglycerides go down. And if you look at the animal, because this is all research based, right? You look at the Yes, I realize what I just said about research, but just follow me along follow along with me here. In a lot of the animal models, it prevented atherosclerosis even on extremely screwed up diets. And I don't I'm not talking highfat cuz that's not the problem. It's actually more refined carbohydrates that screw it up. Remember insulin insulin is a fat storage hormone, right? So follow that. And I realize that has nothing to do with this, but it it does indirectly because you're going to take that and you're going to take the highly processed carbohydrates and you're going to turn them into fat as fast as possible and shuttle them into those atypuses and blow them all up like little angry balloons where they just start like they are biochemical terrorists that just dump crap and toxins into your system until they shrink till the fat's used as fuel. But there's a bouncer sitting in front of that that says, "I don't want to let it go. I'm going to burn muscle instead." That's why fat's hard to get rid of. That's why a lot of these things your system was designed very well and through a lot of error and poor judgment and a lot of very dumb dumb conduct you guys created you made a whole fleet of bouncers to stand in front of your atypus sites and guard that fat like it is fort [\h__\h] knocks. insulin is a fat storage hormone. So it's not the fat that's causing the problem. It's the shitty carbohydrates that are causing the problem. So don't be fooled by like highfat diets. They don't cause problems. But imagine this. You burn fat so efficiently in your system that you don't have any issues with atyposites with fat with you don't have any problems. Never mind the fact that carterine turns you into an endurance athlete if you take it at the right dosages and not fake it till you make it [\h__\h] endurance where you just quickly for the gram and then as soon as it turns off you just about collapse in your gym. Don't do that. You look like an idiot. I'm talking real mitochondrial biogenesis. more mitochondria, more ATP, less cardiac strain because if you create more energy, there's less load on your heart because it's running more efficiently. Your heart becomes a well, it becomes my 911 Turbo S. I just love referencing that car actually. It just becomes so efficient and so powerful. And pharmaceuticals, think about it. Pharmaceuticals like statins lower LDL LDL, but they don't touch insulin resistance whatsoever. Carterine helps that, which is why it's dangerous in the system and not yours pharmaceutical system because it works and it's cheap. It's so cheap. Holy crap, it's cheap. So, just just map these all together because I'm already 37 minutes in and I'm almost out of coffee. We started with BPC-157, little miracle worker. So, you're going to fix the endothelial cells. You got TB-500, which rebuilds the damaged pump, gets rid of all the scar tissue and the mioardium, the fibrosis. It never mind an anti-inflammatory and there's so many good things it does. M C is what cranks up the power output, makes the power plants, they go nuclear, not old school coal. And epitoolon reverses the clock and cardarine is what it's like dropping the nuke to make fat available. The easiest way to explain it, we're not managing symptoms when you do this, right? That's reversing it. It's like a a little biological reset button to make your body run the way it's supposed to. You know, when most people think about heart problems when they have one, why not just mitigate it? And I'll give you two options that I I think personally uh hypothetically if I was going to have somebody run through this and I didn't understand their circumstances or didn't know what was going on. Hypothetically, there's only two variations of this that I would do. So yeah, you could run with three, which would be the one that I would say if you don't have any issues that you know of. Remember though, you won't know. The first sign of a heart attack is death, right? Just you know that. And that's not a joke. That's the truth. That's the number one sign. It's pure diagnostic. Well, they died massive MI. So BPC-157 TB-500 M C non-negotiable from A to Z. And if you start going, "Well, I prefer this instead of that." Stop listening to my podcast or anything I post online because you just want to run your mouth to sound like you're intelligent. Stop it. Yes, it pisses me off. And I'm going to keep saying this cuz I can't stand these Insta experts that really do nothing. I'm trying to help you. I don't care about my ego. I want you I have a healthy ego. Believe me, it's solid because it's backed on [\h__\h] receipts, which is knowledge and actually helping people. So BPC-157, TB-500, Matzi. So that's your I'm cranking right now or survival mode if you have problems in which case don't do it. You need to you need to up the stack a little bit which means if you look at survival mode which is the BPC the TB and the MOS you're going to fix the pipes vascular system you're going to patch the muscle and you're going to restore the power to the engine right if you want reversal and you've got heart issues we're talking like longevity I want to make it to 100 years old and be three generations deep before I die like that kind of thing then you need to do five. It's just that there's there's no other way around it. Need to add in the the last two, right? You need to add in a pitilon and cartering. It's it's a non. You know what's funny is I had somebody go, "Wow, that's expensive for something." I don't remember what it was. Perry menopause maybe or the Hashimoto's perhaps. I'm not sure. One, both of them involve a lot of things. And I thought, compared to what? Like how much is a mortgage on your house? And if the if the follow-up is, well, yeah, but it's a house. Yeah, but you can't live in the house if you're dead. This thing, this meat popsicle on a bunch of little sticks called bones is what allows you to do all of the things that you spend all of that money and time on. Your number one priority should be this meat suit that you govern around and ambulate around this gravity controlled environment. And I think people should have a genuine near-death scare and everyone should be a server in a restaurant for at least a year. Those are two experiences I think everybody should have. And everybody on earth needs a couple of dodgeballs to the dome. But here's most people don't want to win. Most people don't even want this. Like you guys are going to hear this and go, "Oh god, but I don't want to do all this stuff. Why can't I?" You don't. You want easy. You want pills. You don't want solutions. You want to eat garbage and sit on your big giant pillowy ass on your couch or your ottoman denting the crap out of it and then blame your genetics. You're not genetically cursed, you guys. You're not. You're intellectually and behaviorally bankrupt. And doctors feed this nonsense because it's profitable. Yes, I realize I'm a doctor, but this is I mean the ones that don't care about you. Prescribe statins for life. It's profitable. Prescribe beta blockers for life. That's not a cure. That's a lifetime subscription to extending your life as long as possible to ring every dollar out of you. Which means you are just a little production system for dollars. You are the product. The system makes more money when you're sick than when you're well. You guys, you play along for crying out loud. You celebrate surviving your heart attack while ignoring that your arteries are still filled with freaking Velcro. You'll you'll cheer when the doctor gives you something to lower your cholesterol like Lipur while your mito which doesn't even help at all. Proven which your mitochondria are sitting in the background choking to death. You trust a system that that actually puts side effects include may cause death in 0.05 font under a bunch of like incredible legal ease or even worse on a commercial with a bunch of smiling parents and kids playing [\h__\h] frisbee in the park and then they list off the stuff. You guys should stop and just listen to the end. That's it. Just listen to the end. You guys and you guys will still line up for that stuff. Like come on, man. So here, let let me explain this one last time so you actually understand why I'm telling you this. Endothelium controls vascular tone, clotting, and inflammation. You break it, you have problems with the vascular system. Myocardium demands regeneration. It requires it to keep going to get stronger. Otherwise, you are just stacking losses until you go from being the Ferrari to the tricycle. Right? Scar tissue kills cardiac output. We already discovered that. I went through that at the beginning. Mitochondria fuel every single action in the human body. A to Z, including the one that's keeping you alive right now, which is contraction. Right? Without them, you're going to die. No increase in ATP production, and you are going to decrease your time here on this planet. Telmir erosion drives vascular aging and stiffness. So, timmerase lengthen, put the aglet on, and metabolic dysfunction is the rocket fuel for myioardial inffection, heart disease even, not just the the grand slam at the end. It's just for heart disease. Lose any one of those. You guys listen to me. You lose any one of those and the whole system is going to fall apart because you can't just put one in a slot and then go the other four are going to take care of themselves. And that's what you guys have been taught is that far pharmarmacology goes just take this one thing and and it doesn't solve the problem. It makes you believe the problem is solved and then you have to take a bunch of other things and you wonder why they're showing up and they go well it's because you're getting older. Not true. Not true at all. Sudicles hit the periphery. This you put these five things together and that is the the system. Solve the system. It's like going, "I have a computer virus." And you go, "I'm going to get a a new screen." Well, the virus is still in the computer, man. The screen doesn't do a damn thing. But again, most people, you just ignore this. Yes, it bothers me. You'll keep eating Pop-Tarts and freaking Danishes and drinking your stupid white mochas every day and you're you're praying to the Staten God to save you and believe, I just should take that. Don't I have hypertension so I have to worry about that because it's going to I reduced my salt though because that's what they told me because I have high blood pressure. First of all, ridiculous. Most of you guys aren't eating even close to enough salt. Throw way more in your system. And you'll talk about self-love while your arteries turn into little like galvanized pipes that have no flex and pretend that moderation is the answer when their moderation looks like drinking five Cokes instead of six. Society is inverted consequence. I said it yesterday. Being obese gets celebrated. Pointing it out gets canceled and yelled at you have a hate crime. Biology doesn't give a damn, man. And it doesn't care about your hashtags or your body positivity or any other stupidity that you justify for being a fat [\h__\h] It cares. It It cares about sheer stress on arterial walls, LDL particle numbers and your endothelial dysfunction. It doesn't care. It cardiac output, fibroic tissue in your moardium. It cares about that. That's biology. Your feelings don't rewrite physics. Your decisions do. And most of you guys are making decisions based on how you feel. Here's the bottom line cuz I want to go inside. Three are going to get you survival of these things. Five, reversal, hypothetically, even though I know damn well what I'm talking about. So, three is patching a leak and five is just taking the whole system and giving you a full rebuild from start to finish. Not with cheap crappy parts real, right? But none of this matters. None of this matters if you guys want easy. Easy, listen, easy kills and clogs arteries and burns out mitochondria and shortens telomeres and inflames vessels. Solutions are hard. Solutions are inconvenient. And solutions [\h__\h] work. That's how you have to look at this. The stack of five is not some fantasy. It is human biology and endocrinology doing its job. It's chemistry. It's physics, right? It's it's how the system is designed. It's it's also not really negotiable. If you have a heart issue, you need to just stop talking and start going, "How do I get it?" You already know. Next person that asks me how to get it, by the way, I'm going to get you on a plane, invite you here just so I can smack you in the mouth. Every single time I go, "Here, click this." But you guys go through my Instagram and go, "Where do I get it? Where do I get it?" There's a big [\h__\h] button, but you guys never push the button. You know, if you look at my automation and it says, "Thank you. We won't." It's a button. And I even say now because you [\h__\h] nipple nuts can't read. Click the button. You click the button. No, no, no, no, no, no. You send me a message. Where do I get it? You know what? Half the time I answer you guys, but you guys all need to smack them. I'm going to just I'm going to mail you a dodgeball. Actually, I'm going to mail it to your neighbor and say, "Hey, can you do me a favor? I'll pay him a hundred bucks. Just come the second you walk outside, just smoke you right in the head with it." Go. That's from the Spartan. You guys, Elite Biogenics, you're welcome. And if you don't want to, then don't. It's not hurting my feelings, Annie. I'm actually out here trying to save your [\h__\h] dumbass. The tragedy is that most people are never going to touch this stuff because they'd rather rent their life back through pharmacy than their own biology. You guys, most disease processes are a decision. They're not an inevitability. So, you can keep pretending that you're type 2 diabetes or your Alzheimer's or your yes, your Alzheimer's or your heart disease or your hypertension that's not really hypertension or all bad luck and bad genetics and your environment and grandma had it and grandpa had it and dad had it or you can just fix the damn machinery because the system is not going to do it for you. It's not. Pills aren't going to do it and some mystic herb that you think you got that's going to magically create all the things that you need is not going to do it. Period. What? Whoever you are that says that, ball up your hand. Punch yourself right in the eye because you're lying to yourself and you're lying to people if you're selling it. Denial is not going to do it either. But you know what will? Biology. Biology. It's always on my side, by the way. Why? If I didn't give a [\h__\h] I'd never come out here. But I go, "Here's your biology. Now just pay attention. Listen to it and actually go run like lean into what needs to be done and just build a machine that's just oh undeniable, man. Like I like that. If you saw my story four years ago, this was a train wreck. Like a mess. How the hell do you think I got here? By making all the right decisions and now I'm just transferring it to you guys. So you guys actually have all the same. You have access to the same stuff I do. What you don't have is my psychology to apply it 24/7 365 until you get the results. Not until you're bored or uncomfortable or don't want to do it or you're tired or you want to quit or it makes you sad or unhappy. Until you get to where you want to go and then you maintain it like a [\h__\h] That's what you do. Because that like this that's why this stack of five is not just some theory. It is the blue. This is the blueprint for full reversal. And and if you're you know what, cheering and going, "Yeah, I love this guy, man. Thank you for being so honest." Just remember this. If that's all you're going to do, none of that is going to fix your heart problem. Just so we're clear. Action fixes the problems in every stage of life. Just so you know. All right. Listen, I got to go. It's your move. Never miss.