All right, we got to knock this one out quick. I have about 35 minutes until I have my webinar. Cardiovascular disease. I'm just going to solve it from A to Z. And let me be very clear. If you're coming in here to just broadcast your cynicism and your skepticism, really, I need to say this because I had some dude in my comments. I've been a doctor for god decades. I don't understand the mindset right now. Maybe it's because actually I really don't know. I think it's because social media allows people to just spew out their opinions with no validation behind them. No fact, no life, no just emotions, right? But I had this guy my Instagram yesterday when I talked about cardiovascular disease. So, just to be very clear, when you guys go to my Instagram and you see something and it says, "Comment fire for the research." That research is everything you guys are asking for. It's not a funnel. It's not some salesunnel. Yeah, I put my link to Elite Biogenics on there. It's my stuff. But at the same time, I don't hide anything. I don't gatekeep it. Is actually when you go in and you put your name, your username for Instagram, your email, and your first I don't care. Make up a name if you're so weird about it. You can ask anybody. I've been doing this a long time. If I've ever spammed them with email, then zero. Never. I've never sent. And if you go, why do you need the email then? Because you bet your ass I'm building a list because I'm going to send you guys cool things. Could you imagine if and yes, I'm building a giant newsletter because I want to give you guys the answers, the actual answers before they eradicate all the solutions and poison you to death. But the arrogance is mind-blowing. But not mine. a lot of you guys, but and you guys get mad when I call you out. But this guy went in there and said, "Oh, yeah, enough about the statins. How do you solve it?" And everything inside me wanted to go, "Click the big button, dipshit." So, I'm being very transparent. This isn't complicated. I actually give you the answer. I don't gatekeep right down to how much, which is the question you guys all ask me. Where do I get it? What's the dosage? I tell you where to get it. Elite Biogenics. Go ahead and don't buy there. It doesn't matter. I know for a fact my labs and it's not to go I'm better than everybody else, but we are because I wouldn't give it to my wife or kids if it was going to do them any harm. I love my wife. If you haven't figured that out, I adore my wife and I adore my children. I'm not putting it in their body if it's going to cause harm. Can anybody else say the same thing? Probably not. Everything we do, no endotoxins. We use Janoshek for testing, which is the only company out there. Oh, you guys using these shill organizations writing fake COAs. There's nothing fake about this place. Look them up yourself. And they will back everything if they test it. Labs build everything, right? We I am so OCD about this stuff cuz I've been on the other side of this equation. And if you don't know my story, you've seen it. And if you don't, you should look it up. I've been in a hospital on life support while my wife was locked outside shortly before they took out my left lung for a tumor the size of a football. I don't screw around with health. When I give you answers, it's because I genuinely care about you guys. But if you can't figure out how to type a keyword and then push the button and then you get mad because that's what you have to do. The problem's not me, it's you. I'm giving the answers away for free. For free. I'm never I'm not even Listen, you want to join the black card and join my VIP group and hang out with me for a year and ask me all the questions and get on my one my live Q&A call that I do every Monday night, then you can wire me $9,997 and you can join and you get access to all the protocols and all the stuff that I talk about with right down to exactly how and when and what and if it's and those are generic. If you need real help, you just ask me. I'm in the VIP community every 24 hours answering questions and there's nobody in that community that doesn't love being there. I can say that with all confidence because I love my people in the black card. Oh my god, I love people there. And if I want you guys to have the answer, a lot of you guys are wanting easy. But what I think you want to be smart, you should go to my Instagram every day and actually go through the entire keyword. It's only two text messages, you guys. One is, "Hey, you're asking for the cardiovascular rehab reversal research, whatever it says. Click the button below." And I actually stopped putting awesome, fire, cool. I just started putting click the button cuz people couldn't figure it out. Big giant button. Couldn't figure out how to click the button. The problem isn't with my delivery. It's with the comprehension. Click the button. It sends another one. Here you go. Click the button one more time. I handhold you all the way. Click the button. It brings up a Google form. The Google form says, "Here is the research. This is for research use only. If you don't want to comply with that, then don't do it. Maybe you just don't want to comply. That's fine. I'm not asking for you to give me permission to invade your life and check your balance on your bank account. I'm going, "Hey, just understand. I'm giving you the stuff. It's your responsibility what you do with it." And then what's your name? What's your username? And what's your email? The end. You hit that. It gives you the link. Just click it. It's a Google form. It's free. It's free. There's guys out there selling this stuff. Mine's free. You want real help? Join the black card. You want to go to a place where you want to get it. And look, it's backed by someone like me that actually gives a crap. I come out here every day. Go to Elite Biogenics. Other than that, I don't know what to tell you. So, I'm going to run through cardiovascular disease. I'm going to solve the whole damn thing. I'm going to give you the answer. We're going to reverse the whole damn thing. And then you guys are going to have a kick-ass day just before Christmas cuz today is the 21st. We got a couple of days. And if you don't celebrate Christmas, we need to have a conversation cuz we're not going to get along. Otherwise, I freaking love Christmas, baby. All right, it's time to hit the skinny pedal. Let's go. By the way, hold on. It's funny. I did one of these, one of these just before. I always have this right here with me. I can't even say the word because they're like, "It's a drug." This is a nutrient. First of all, it's a supplement and it's proven, but they know how good it is. That's why it's being banned. By 2030, you will not see commercially available this to the public ever again. Watch seven countries. You guys should follow Brian Artis as well. Dr. Brian Artistis, smart man. A lot of good things to say. He's unwinding a lot of the lies just like me. Listen, you're talking about that you so cardiovascular disease, let's just solve the whole thing. Cardiovascular disease and type two diabetes and how they're married together. The same problem. Yeah. Nobody tells you that though. You guys have been lied to. It's not by malice perhaps, but by the medical industrial complex that is so invested in managing your decline that they've, excuse me, they've forgotten what actual healthcare looks like. Cardiology is not about health. It's about mitigating catastrophe. And that's a problem. I'm gonna end that bad right now. I'm gonna dissect the whole freaking thing. I'm gonna expose all the biological truth about what cardiovascular disease really is and why grandma and grandpa lived to be 97. You can get my comments and start complaining. Go, my grandparents died right away. That's not what I'm talking about. Mortality rate is going up, not down. And I'll give you the tools to rebuild your entire cardiovascular system from the molecular level up. This isn't some talk. This is because I'm a doctor that genuinely gives a [\h__\h] about you. Yeah, I'm gritty. I curse. I wear t-shirts. I wear fancy watches. And I drive a Porsche. Who cares? You know what? I have all the information because I want to give it to you. And that's all I'm doing. So, look at let's begin here because a lot of people don't even know. They just trust their doctor. And that white coat with the god complex is starting to screw people's lives up. Has been for a long time. C19 showed you that. If you say follow the science, oh, you're going to have a rough go on this podcast. So, what is cardiovascular disease? Let's start with that. Conventional medicine tells you it's plaque in your arteries, right? Plumbing problem, which is what I talked about yesterday. That's like calling a burning building an excess smoke situation. It doesn't make sense. It's a symptom. It's not the cause. Look at at the core. Cardiovascular disease is a failure of something called the endothelial system. A single layer of cells lining some 60,000 miles of blood vessels in you. The endothelium isn't just some wallpaper on the inside your vascular system, though. This is why it's so badass. It is the most sophisticated regulatory organ in your body. It controls vascular tone, coagulation, inflammation, immune function, which means hyper and hypotension as well. So when it fails, the entire system fails. 20 bugging me 2017 circulation research laid this out crystal clear proved it. Endothelial dysfunction is the this is listen to me is the earliest detectable event in atheroscllerotic disease preceding plaque formation by years. We've been looking at the wrong thing for decades and treating the wrong thing for a decade too late. And listen here, how does this affect me? It's a cascade of system biologically. It's a cascade of system failures. damaged endothelium becomes leaky and it allows lipids, mostly LDL particles, lowdensity lipoprotein particles, to infiltrate something called a subendothelial space. Here's a critical part that everybody misses. LDL is completely inert. Your doctor's not going to tell you that's completely inert. It's just cargo. It's nothing. The real problem is what happens next. Oxidized LDL, glycated LDL in the context, in the presence of high blood sugar triggers a massive inflammatory response. And now monocytes come flying in become macrophagages and try engulf the lipids turning them into this whole complex becomes a foam cell. That form is the fatty streak that we've heard before. It's the precursor to plaque if you don't know. This inflammatory process by the way in 2002 in nature detailed this again from cover to cover is what drives the disease. Your arteries they're not clogged. They're not clogged at all. They're being destroyed and beaten up and inflamed from the inside out. And now look at conventional treatments. Statins, right? The billion dollar band-aid that causes more problems. Listen, just so you know, out of the gate, statins, they've proven do nothing. And I'll show you the study. They do nothing. Nothing. Zero. They don't extend life. Nothing. Zero. Zero. Proven over and over again. Gets even better. Statins cause type 2 diabetes, inflammation, brain fog, dementia. Like I could do the CoQ10. They eliminate virtually CoQ10 which causes all kinds of problems and gives you myalgia which is what millions of people are complaining about. This is how they work. They work by inhibiting something called HMGCOA reductase which is the rate limiting enzyme in hippatic cortisol or cholesterol synthesis. Okay. So yeah they lower the LDLC on a lab report but does that fix the problem? 2010 I'll show you 10 meta analysis in the archives of internal medicine showed that for prevention statins do nothing to reduce all cause mortality they're treating a number not the pathology they don't address the oxidized LDL they don't fix the endothelial dysfunction in fact they cause mitochondrial dysfunction by depleting what I said CoQ10 co-enzyme Q10 which leads to all of that myalgia that millions and millions of people some of you guys listening to this are complaining of and they're giving you pain meds causing more of problem because the pain meds if their ensides are depleting the glutathione, the precious glutathione that you have that is the master antioxidant that keeps you alive. They're a perfect example of py victory. You win the cholesterol battle, but you lose the metabolic war. You guys look at this. Look at the dance. This is what I said between type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Here's the marriage. They're not separate conditions. They're different manifestations of the same metabolic holocaust inside of you. insulin resistance. insulin resistance in the endothelium. 2006 Journal of Clinical Investigation showed 100 was proved it impairs nitric oxide production. Nitric oxide just so you understand is your body's master vasodilator. Low or less nitric oxide means vasoc constriction, hypertension and shear stress on the vessel walls. Add in hypoglycemia, too much sugar, and it leads to the formation of something called advanced glycation end products, AES. These AES in watch 2001 Nature Review. They cross-link proteins and they make vessels that you're going to love this. They make the vessels stiff and dysfunctional causing worsening of the problem. And they bind, this gets even better. They bind to the receptor for AES called a rage receptor. No, I'm not kidding. Activating. What do you think? What's the root cause of all of this stuff? Inflammation. They activate NFCappa B, which is the master switch of pro-inflammatory genes. Diabetes does, it doesn't just increase your risk of heart disease. It accelerates the exact same pathological pathway. Listen listen, here's what's really happening. It's my three biological failures every single time. I am never wrong about this. And some of you guys go, that's a really arrogant thing to say. Not all diseases. Yes, every single disease follows these three failures. Every single time. 100%. I caught a post today. It made me so angry. I don't even know if I'm going to talk about it. Yeah, I will. They are preparing for Bruce Willis's death. I could have solved the problem. Could have solved the problem. You just got caught up in the medicine. That's what you guys did. Costing a man, his life, woman, her husband, a daughter, her father, cuz you're too busy doing the same stupid things to treat the disease and knowing it's not working. But you're managing the decline, prolonging the inevitable, but you're actually fueling it. If you just would have listened to me. Yeah, it bugs me. I could have [\h__\h] helped him. Okay, you guys are just too ignorant to see that. I don't understand. Three biological failures every time. And people are dying left and center going, "That can't be it. It can't be that simple." Yeah, it is that simple. Look at systemic inflammation failure one. It's not a sore throat. This is the silent chronic smoldering fire mediated by cytoines. TNF alpha, IL1, IL6, C-reactive protein is the marker. It's not the culprit. This inflammatory state 2012 European Heart Journal. It makes the endothelium sticky. Promotes the adhesion of monocytes. Kickstarts the engine for the entire aogenic process. They'll never tell you that though because that doesn't make them billions of dollars. That's only the first one. Look at the second one. insulin resistance. Yeah, this is this bothers me, man. The Bruce Willis thing really bugs me. I take it personally. I don't know him at all, but I know he's a man and he's got children and he has a wife and that's somebody's son. So, if you don't get it that I take this stuff that I I don't even know the guy who bugs me that much. You guys will never get it. Above all, do no harm is real for me. Some of you guys go out there and you watch my podcast and you go and copy it or spout it off. You use it on Instagram, but are you using it because you care? Are you using it because you want the money? I come out here cuz I give a [\h__\h] insulin resistance is a catastrophe. It is this signaling disaster. There's a pathway that's crucial for nitric oxide production. It gets blunted. Except on the flip side of this equation, there's another pathway, the map K pathway, which promotes growth proliferation and inflammation remains active. This imbalance causes a disaster, vasoc constriction and vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. So it constricts the arteries and the veins and everything else and it creates more cells. So it narrows the arteries. It's a metabolic civil war all the time inside you. And yet people go, "Oh, that can't be it. Maybe I should take something else." Look at failure three, ATP shortage. The engine of your cells is failing. Mitochondrial dysfunction specifically in the highly energetic endothelial cells in your vascular system. How many miles? 60,000 miles of tubing inside you. Reduces ATP production. So this impairs the endothelial nitric oxide synthes enzyme which requires energy to function properly. ATP which is a currency for life. 2008 circulation research showed mitochondrial reactive oxygen species free radicals from inefficient engines directly causes endothelial dysfunction. You are pretty much quite literally losing power to your system. Here's the problem I have right now. What about you guys all been taught cholesterol, right? Statins, cholesterol. What? Cholesterol. What a scapegoat. What a load of crap that is. The Framingham study, the very study used to establish the lipid hypothesis actually contains it has the data that disproves it as a soul. It disproves their theory. They just flipped it all around and tried to bury it except it got exposed. You'll get Dr. George man in a 1977 critique in the New England Journal of Medicine proved anybody over 50 there is an actual opposite relationship between total cholesterol and all cause mortality. Lower cholesterol, higher death rate by far. You want to know the numbers? 1992 Framingham study gets even better. Showed that for every 1% drop in cholesterol, 11% increase in total mortality. The body needs cholesterol. It's a foundation for every cell membrane, the precursor to all steroid hormones, the problem is not cholesterol. It's the transportation system and what happens to it in a state of inflammation and oxidative stress. It's not the system, it's what's going on because of everything else. The system failure doesn't stop at the heart. By the way, the kidneys are devastating collateral damage. They're this the ball of tiny little blood vessels. It's called the glomemeuli. It's little tuft of vessels. The same endothelial dysfunction. Hypertension and glycation that plague the coronary arteries destroy ravage the kidneys. It's called cardioenal syndrome. 2005 journal of the American College of Cardiology detailed precisely how endothelial damage in the kidneys leads to protein ura and a progressive decline in glomemeular filtration rate. GFR. You guys see this on your labs. The heart fails the kidneys and then the failing kidneys exacerbate the heart failure through fluid overload and uremic toxins. It's this vicious deadly feedback loop. It gets even better. Then there's something called the renan angotensin pathway where your heart is a secretary organ and it affects how kidneys work and kidneys affect how the heart works. This is where you get things like aphib cardiammyopathies. Like I could do this all day and yet people go we have to treat things separately. Your body is not a separate bunch of moving parts. It is one symbiotic machine. Look at the solutions. Not the managed decline of statins and stances, but real biological regeneration. Look at this. Alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism. That's what this thing causes. Are we clear on Do I have to spell it out? Cuz I'm not going to cuz I keep pinching my freaking videos. This is the core of the inflammatory reflex. The neural circuit that controls immunity. Stimulating this receptor with agonists like this thing suppresses the relief the release of TNF alpha and all the other inflammatory cytoines for macro. 2011 study in nature showed that pharmacological alpha 7 nicotenic acetylcholine receptor agonism inhibits inflammation. It's not blocking one cytoine you guys. It's calming the entire inflammatory storm at its command center and shutting it down so it doesn't cause the problems in your life. Look at the medications that cause cardiovascular disease. It's like a hall of shame. 2017 British Medical Journal meta analysis NSAIDES COX 2 inhibition disrupts the balance between vasoc constrictive thromboxane and vasoddilatory prosttocyc it increases thrombotic risk proven oh I could do this all day baby proton pump inhibitors you guys are taking this all day I have an upset tummy long-term use long-term use just so you know is anything more than 3 weeks long-term use is associated with hypomagnesmia the endothelial and endothelial dysfunction and 2015 circulation showed increases cardio iovascular mortality proven want to keep going look it anti-depressants most of them cause QT prolongation and orthostatic hypotension which means you change positions and you fall down and smash your face strains the cardiovascular system is the bigger problem cardiovascular disease you guys is a symptom it's a symptom of metabolic dysfunction chronic inflammation and mitochondrial failure treating the plaque is like mopping the floor while the sink has never been turned off and it doesn't have those little safety holes in it and it just pisses all over the floor you have to turn off the freaking tap the current medical model is managed decline I've been saying this over and over again. It's 3:45. All right, I still got time. It waits. Watch. It waits for the heart attack, the mocardial inffection, then reacts with stances and statins. You want to know here? Watch this. Stance. And before you guys freak out and go, I had a stent who'd saved my life. Listen to me. Listen to me. 2007 courage trial published New England Journal of Medicine showed that for stable angina, stances didn't reduce the risk of death or heart attack compared to therapy alone, physical therapy, medical therapy, treatment, active lifestyle. Yeah, but they're not telling you that, are they? Here's what stances are good for. Acute crisis, but they do nothing to stop the disease progression. How would they don't? You're propping up a failing system instead of fixing the root causes. Is this making sense? Cuz this really bothers me. Like this whole Bruce Willis thing is really pissing me off. Here, let me give you the full regen kit because I just want to get off and get ready to do this call, help all these people. But these are the these are the molecules that rebuild the system. Red or true tide. It's not just another GLP-1 agonist. I'm tired of you guys getting in my comments and going way better. Control my appetite. Listen, you fat bastard. How about you just get some willpower and understand that shoving everything in your pie hole is still your fault. God didn't make you fat. Your decisions made you fat. You think God went, "You know what? I hope that Johnny turns into a giant blimp, gives himself type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease, and dementia. I can't wait. That's his endgame [\h__\h] Yes, I'm aggravated because I care." You think parents that get on their kids' backs don't care? It's the parents that go, "I don't care what little Tommy does." Those are the idiot imbeciles. I'm the same way. I feel like your parent reatride. Stop getting in my comments and arguing about it. They're not even in the same league and you can't take it personally. I don't know how you even would if somebody goes, "This is actually way better." And if you go, "It didn't work for me." Then you either bought bunk or you had somebody treating you wrong or you don't know how to take it cuz you're too busy listening to people on Reddit. I'm a doctor that cares, you guys. That's all it is. I'm Am I asking you for money? Am I going please pay me and I'll give you the rest of the information? I give you everything. I even told you how to do it. Listen, RETA is a triple agonist. GIP, GLP-1, glucagon reverses insulin resistance 100%. Promotes weight loss, improves lipid profiles 98%. If you have fatty liver, reversed. Watch. By restoring metabolic flexibility, it removes the primary driver of endo driver of endothelial dysfunction. Phase 2 trials published in 2023 in the New England Journal of Medicine showed unprecedented metabolic improvements. Not just the 24.2 2% weight loss. I mean, everything. Why do you think they're desperately trying to strip it from the market in anywhere but where Eli Liy can hold their hands on it? Are you guys really that ignorant? You don't understand that they're trying to control it. So, now they can charge you $1,000 for a tiny little vial that maybe lasts you a week or two. They'll give you one milligram or they'll have you OD on it and they'll have you taking 8 milligrams a week going, "That's normal. You should. Are you high? What do I have to gain? Do I have stock in Eli Liy? I'll help you." No, it's rhetorical. Says 31. That's the next one. It's a mitochondrial targeted antioxidant. It crosses the mitochondrial membrane and then scavenges those reactive oxygen species right at the source of production protecting cardiolipid in the inter mitochondrial membrane. It's a key phospholipid for the ETC, the electron transport chain. 2020 Journal of American Heart Association, their own damn place. Proved S31 improves mitochondrial function and reduces oxidative stress in heart failure patients. It fixes the ATP shortage and solves the problem with the heart not doing its job. BPC-157 body protection compound, right? This promotes angioenesis, endothelial repair by increasing something called VEGF. It increases this and it also cranks out nitric oxide synthesis. Solves the enzyme problem. 2021 Frontiers and Pharmarmacology. Proved its healing effects on the vascular endothelium are untouchable by anything else. It's like a rebuild crew for all your damaged vascule. How many miles? 60,000. There's no drug that's going to do that. None. Not one. Zero. KPV tripeptide anti-inflammatory massively makes predinazone look like day camp inhibits NFCappa B activation which I was explaining is the root cause of this inflammatory problem. Shutting it down it it turns off the production of all of the pro-inflammatory cytoines. Biochemical pharmarmacology 2003 showed its anti-inflammatory action trumps everything else given and directly addresses what do you think? What's failure number one? Systemic inflammation. Boom. KPV shuts it off. Thyosin beta 4 in fact the better TB-500 because it's longer lasting and has more higher efficacy. This peptide is so mindblowing. It's a master regulator of actin the protein that forms the cellular cytokeleton. That's not its ace in the hole though. Promotes cell migration, wound healing, angioenesis, all of that stuff. But check this out. 2012 nature proved TB-500 repaired damaged myocardium. damaged myocardium, damaged heart vessels after a myocardial inffection where they said it's impossible. What do I say? People go, "It can't be repaired. You cannot resolve the fibrosis in the cardiovascular system, specifically the heart and TB5. Hold my beer. Watch me do it. That's how this works. I might be a gritty doctor, but I know my stuff." Thy alpha 1 key immune modulator boosts the function of TE-C cells and dendritic cells. that helps restore the immune balance and reduce the chronic inflammatory state that drives atherosclerosis. 2016 annals of the New York Academy of Sciences proved its potential in creating in treating and eliminating chronic inflammatory diseases. There's a whole bunch by the way. Rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, I could do this all day, baby. And then come back to the alpha 7 nicotenic acetylcholine receptor agonism. This is the conductor of this entire machine. So while all the other peptides are fixing the specific parts, this alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism resets the entire systemic inflammatory tone to zero. The synergy is not just additive. It's the same thing I always say. It's multiplicative. It is biological symphony. Please listen to me. I have given you a blueprint to solve your problem and it doesn't involve anything that's going to kill you. Watch. Reddit true tide shuts down the metabolic insult. It normalizes blood sugar and insulin. stops the production of glycated, LDL and AES, right? So, no stim, no tapping the rage receptor simultaneously, right? Oh, I really this thing, right? The alpha 7 and KPV, they're married. They do the same thing. Douse the inflammatory fire, they silence the NFCappa B and the cytoine production everywhere, not in one spot. So, with the inflammation and the metabolic chaos under control, SS31 can do its job and it can move in and repair the mitochondrial power plants, restoring ATP production. Now with the energy and a completely clean slate, the repair crew comes in and takes over. What do you think? BPC-157, TB-500. They migrate endothelial cells, promote angioenesis, rebuild the damaged vascular lining, remove and repair fibrosis and damage to the mioardium, supporting the immune balancing action of thyosin alpha 1. Boom. You guys, this isn't disease management. This is systems restoration. You're moving from this 20th century mechanic model of replace the broken part to a 21st century biological model of reset the OS and activate all your innate healing so your body can do its freaking job. The plaque, the stenosis, the hypertension, those are symptoms of deeper failures. They're not the problem. They are the result. Listen, we have the science, the knowledge, the pharmacological toolkit to address all of this stuff. You think they're trying to do this because they're concerned about your safety? They're trying to make it go away because they're concerned about you being a customer. It's not you guys. There's no you don't need a choice anymore between this pill or this pill. The choice is always the same. It's two things. Which side of the coin are you going to take? Managed decline, engineered regeneration. It's between treating numbers and restoring your biology, your sovereignty, your biological sovereignty between fearing a heart attack. Listen, if you guys are running around afraid of a heart attack, you guys should be lining. You guys should be going, "How do I get into the black card? How do I wire you the money?" Why? Because you get me for an entire year. You can throw it all at me, baby. Apply at unlocktheblackcard or sorry, apply at unlockthecard.com. That's how you get in. You want to get in the black card? Apply at unlockthecard.com. Send me a message that my team will send you the wire information. You wire it. You're in. If you make it in before tomorrow at 5, you actually get into the first Q&A. But you like, are you afraid of a heart attack? You want to build a heart that's functionally younger tomorrow than it is today? The choice is yours. The era of cardiovascular disease as some death sentence is over because you can reverse the problem. Hey, I hope you guys got something out of this. I got to go.