All right, it's Monday. You know what's wild is the number of people that wait five out of seven days for just two. I never understood it. As long as I've been alive, I've never understood it. People, they run nonstop just to get to two days at the end of the week and then on second day get stressed out about the next five. You guys do know that's programming, right? That's conditioning. That's not normal. Every day is the same. The second you actually grasp that and if you argue that every day isn't the same, therein lies your problem. Today is cerebral license. And cerebral license is pretty gnarly. It's been around a lot longer than people think. I've had people come up to me and ask me questions and send me messages and all the emails from you guys, etc. And you're like, "Hey, there's this new thing, cerebral ice, and it's been around a long time. It just hasn't been around here." And part of that's the problem. Listen, listen. This is something I think for a Monday I think a lot of people should just really understand. Like you guys are all sitting on this gold mine that is being systematically stripmined and you guys are thanking the thieves for the frigin privilege. The most valuable asset that that you're ever going to you're own, man. You guys listen to me. Like the most valuable asset you'll ever own is the three lb universe between your ears, right? housed inside your skull. And if you think, here we go. Yeah, but you can't do anything without that. And the entire medical industrial complex is betting on its failure because it makes them money. They're not in the business of curious. I don't know how many times I have to say it before you guys go, "Oh, maybe he's right." I am always right because I'm not going to open my mouth. And it's not an arrogant statement before somebody gets in my comments. It's a statement that I'm not going to open my mouth and claim expertise if I'm not an expert. That's the problem with social media is it's littered with people that have opinions that claim expertise, but they're not experts at all. Like I know people that are right now making YouTube videos and this isn't to single anybody out, but they're making YouTube videos going, "I just want to educate people about exactly what I'm doing because I want them to have the peptide education or whatever it is, but they have no business doing that." None. Because they have no expertise whatsoever other than the fact that they are a user. Listen, a user is not an expert. They're a user. So, let me explain this. Like, you guys have to understand the physiology behind this and why things that I tell you work so well so you can go out and make an educated decision so you don't buy from these muppets or you don't listen to them. And in fact, if you want to buy from them because they're your bros, like whatever, then you knock yourself out. But I'm going to tell you, 99% of the companies out there that are selling these these peptides, they frighten me. They're right in they're either in bed with the FDA or they have no business doing it because they have no idea what they're selling. They're just doing it for the money but claiming they're doing it to help people. But if they're doing it to help people, then they wouldn't attack anybody else. They would just be doing it, like I said, the entire healthcare industry should all be banding together to help people. Everybody having a sword fight, flexing their dicks and getting all whiny and complaining about everything, trying to attack other people. How about you just do the right thing and help humanity and help mankind? Because the real enemy is that medical industrial complex and it is betting on the failure of your brain. Like they're never going to give you a cure. I saw somebody already that we're working at light speed for the cure to cancer. You can't cure cancer. You can't. It is impossible. It is human biology is littered with cancer. You cannot cure it. You're supposed to have it. They have gotten you guys so confused and so indoctrinated that your cancer is this evil demon that shows up and they have to cure it. But that's not possible. You cure cancer and the problem is you eradicate mankind because you're going to end up turning something off that your physiology is designed to do. You want to prevent cancer, make your environment inhospitable to the pathology. Solve the three biological failures. Make sure they never occur. You can't get cancer. It's not possible. Listen, the medical world is in the business of customers. Agreed? I mean, it's not unknown, but people just subscribe to it all the time and just go, "Oh, it's the best I got." Just so you know, the most lucrative one is cognitive decline. It is the most lucrative repeat business model ever invented. I'm not here to talk about hope or raw motivation. I'm not talking about managing your decline. I'm always out here to dissect the lies with this biochemical biological physiological scalpel and then give you a like the nuclear option for your health and today it's for your neurology. This thing I've told you this thing frightens me. If this ever goes just I don't know put me in a box it's over because there's nothing left. So cerebrroly this stuff is wild. It is wild. I'm going to give you some research that your brains are going to implode. So listen, the cornerstone of the lie that the medical world explains, you have to know this, is that your brain's decay is a mystery, but it's not. And I'm trying to give you the information so you understand that it's not. It is a predictable engineering failure. Three catastrophic points of collapse every time. By the way, this isn't philosophy. This isn't some personal philosophy. Yes, I came up with all of this, but this is pathophysiology. It's just you. Look, I'm going to go through them and then I'm going to explain before you're like, "Oh, here we go again." Yeah, but you clearly don't know them. Systemic catastrophe number one, systemic inflammation. It's like this inflammatory inferno. I call it that all the time. You have these, and I'm just talking about your brain, by the way. I'm not even talking about the rest of your body. This is what's trippy. Like, you have resonant immune cells in your brain called micro ga, right? Their job is simple. Just to be the janitorial and security team for your brain. That's it. But when you bombard your brain, your body, your system with garbage food, chronic stress, crap, sleep, drugs, pills, lotions, potions, vices, all the stuff, you unleash this tsunami of inflammatory cytoines specifically. You should know these by now. Interlucan 6 and TNF alpha, tumor necrosis factor alpha. And these are the equivalent. Watch this is the equivalent. This is what they're doing. So maybe this will get this across your head. This is exactly what's happening. They're screaming to your brain, "Everybody grab a flamethrower." That's literally what it's doing. And it's yelling that to your micro ga. They shift from this very peaceful healing M2 phenotype to a very destructive inflammatory M1 phenotype. They stop cleaning up the cellular debris which the amaloid beta plaques the neuropibrillary towangles that I've talked about a million times and they instead start spraying inflammatory mediators gasoline and nitromemethane literally cooking your neurons from the inside out. 2017 there's a paper in Nature Review. You guys, you guys should probably look this up. That's so good. Nature reviews neurology. Henkah is the one that did it. Laid this out in devastating detail. Neuroinflammation is not a side effect, you guys. It's not. It is the primary driver of neurodeenerative pathology. It is the catalyst that turns molecular trash which is supposed to be scraped out with a gl by the glimpmphatic system. It turns this molecular trash into a lethal toxin that wrecks your brain. And that's just failure number one. How about failure two? the metabolic famine that's going on by our own design. By the way, your brain is this glucose vampire. Consumes, you already know this, and if you don't, I'll tell you for the first time, 20% of your body's energy by but it's only 2% of your body's weight. So, it's greedy. It's a hog. It's this hyper metabolic organ. But when you develop systemic insulin resistance from a diet high in refined carbohydrates, seed oils, garbage food, every possible chemistry you can stick in your system, your neurons are left starving, surrounded by all the food they can eat. They just can't do it. Glucose is in the blood, but the insulin signaling required to open the cellular gates is broken. So the mitochondria, the little ATP power plants inside every single neuron begin to fail and energy production just plummets. Without sufficient adenazine triphosphate ATP, which is the currency of human life, neurons can't maintain their electrochemical gradient. So now here's what happens. Synaptic vesicles can't be refilled. Axonal transport, the vital process of shuttling nutrients and transmitters along the neuron's length, grinds to a halt. The neuron doesn't just get sleepy, you guys. It begins to dismantle itself. This is prominent. This it's this listen this link is so robust. 2012 review in the journal of diabetes science and technology classified formally made this in 2012. And what are they saying right now? Just to be I have to be very transparent to you guys. What are they calling type three diabetes right now? What are they calling Alzheimer's? Type three diabetes, right? 2012 they did this. In fact, Delonte and Wes are the ones that discovered this. But yet they're going, "We just came up with this new thing 14 years ago. They formally classified Alzheimer's disease as type 3 diabetes. Your brain is starving to death in a sea of plenty." Except you're just hearing about it now. You guys, there there should be giant bells going off in your head, freaking out, going, "Wait a minute. I thought this was new 14 years ago." This is why I'm telling you that the answers to the problems that you have are moving at slower than a desert tortoise pace. And the issue is that you guys are going to be dead and buried by the time the solution to your problem comes along because they never want to give it to you. Had they called this type 3 diabetes a long time ago. And I'm not talking take metformin or shove a humalogue pump into yourself and start hitting that button and having it do all the things. I'm talking about solving the problem. Solving problem two, the insulin resistance. Solve that problem. There is zero chance of Alzheimer's, dementia, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, ALS. I could do this all freaking day. And I haven't even touched on problem three. Problem three is the energy blackout. The they're not brownouts. This is done. This is the terminal phase. This is the ATP problem. The combination of inflammatory damage and metabolic starvation leads to irreversible energy deficits. The sodium potassium pumps which consume a massive amount of adenazine triphosphate to maintain the neurons resting potential fail. So now the cell can no longer fire. The mechanisms for repairing the daily oxidative damage that's part of life are offline. They don't work. So the neuron critically injured and out of fuel initiates something called apoptosis which is programmed cell death. The lights go out permanently. Connectivity is gone. Memory is erased and function terminates. And the problem with that is that this triad of failure is never recognized by anybody because they treat symptoms not causes. But this is the playbook for how your memory, your mind, your life gets erased while you still wander around ambulating around this world with no idea who or what you are. You're just on a bunch of drugs, which means you are a very productive, you're a product. You're not even productive. You are a product. The current standard of care, by the way, is a freaking disgrace. It bugs me. It's like using this filled with water on a thermite fire. Okay, it's never going to work. They give you acetyl colon eststerase inhibitors that mildly elevate one fate one fading neurotransmitter while the three core pathologies just rage the hell on unchecked. It is a multi-billion dollar distraction designed to make you feel like something is being done while you slowly vanish. Please listen to me. It is the illusion of progress because they're doing work. But the work doesn't mean they're moving forward. They're on hamster wheel doing something to make you feel better. It's like an excuse when you give it. It only makes you feel better about quitting and it only sounds good to the people making them. Everybody else looks at you and goes, "You're an idiot. Please listen to me. I am a doctor that genuinely cares about you." God, I have been out here for almost a year straight now. I'm coming up on a year and I have just gotten progressively more intense and informative for you because I honestly feel you guys right here. You guys deserve the answers and people aren't willing to put it. If you really understood how much work it takes to make a single podcast like this and do it every day, to come out here every day and just barf out real information that actually is going to help you if you just took a second and started writing notes. It is an immense amount of work. I don't get paid for this. What do you think? Cuz YouTube pays me. I don't make a lot of money off of YouTube, you guys. I think you could probably find out it's probably legally available. Just look it up and look at my channel. It doesn't make nearly as much as you think. And when people go, "How come you're a millionaire then?" You're wrong. I'm not a millionaire. I'm a multi-millionaire and that has nothing to do with my YouTube channel. It has to do with the value I give and the people that I help and the fact that what I do matters because I genuinely care about mankind. I am here for one purpose. One, love it or hate it. It's to love you more than you love yourself right now. And to take care of you more than you're taking care of yourself right now, whether you get it or not. Listen, the real solution to cognitive issues doesn't come it doesn't from anything actually, unless it's lifesaving. I got a guy in my group, his name is Casey. He's an emergency doc. I actually really dig this dude, man. He's one of those guys that when you meet him, you're just like, "Yeah, I think I'm going to be friends with this guy forever." And he's just like that. He reminds me of the guy from, if you know the show Justified, right? If you don't, then you're missing. But he's also the sheriff in Mandalorian, is it? I think Mandalorian. And he's I don't remember his name off hand. Anyway, this guy reminds me of that guy. He's just a good dude. He's a really good dude and he gets it. He's a doctor and he gets it. But he is to be honest the only doc I've ever met that hasn't been so indoctrinated and driven through this dogma like valley of hypnosis of social conditioning that he actually goes yeah I need to I need to do something different to help more people of all do no harm but that's not that is not just a hypocratic oath you guys that's a philosophy for a lifetime and listen I'm not going to sit here and get all preachy on you I could There's none none of you guys are going to listen. But I really want you to understand like I have a purpose. My purpose is only one thing and that is to love you more than you love yourselves and take care of you more than you're taking care of yourselves and build my life so big. Believe me, I want to I want to build my life so big that I cover the entire planet. Everybody's like, "Yeah, that Dr. T, man. Dr. Trevor, he helped me. He gave me this. He gave me that answer. He solved this problem. He helped me with that. He directed me here. He directed me there. He came up with a solution that nobody else could. I have people in my group right now, hundreds, and they've all the same. They have one similarity and that is they've all been to doctors for 2, three, four, five, 10, 15, some 20 years and have gotten no results and have spent less than a week with me and have more results than they've had in a decade or two. And it's not because of me, it's because of how much I love them. And I go, you are trusting me with your life and your health. I don't know. I think that's our job. So there's my mission to build my life so big, so freaking huge that I can shove all of you guys into my life with me and bring you if you want and all your goals all the way up to the top. I'll just take you with me. That's my goal. That's it. It's all I got. But this these three failures, let me come back to this. Otherwise, you know me, right? I just go off on tangents sometimes. The solution is not going to come from something that they can patent. You have to understand the language and just talking about cognitive decline. Let's just how about we just do this Alzheimer's and dementia and MS and Parkinson's all the things that the issues that there's they're rampant everywhere. They're rampant and I have solved these problems. This is the issue where people go, I don't know about this. It's not reversible really. Then maybe we should talk because somebody lied to you. You know what the wild here's the wild thing. You come to me with frontal lobe dementia and you go, "Well, so the doctors told me that it can't be reversed and you can't do this and they give you the standard lecture of you cannot revive dead neurons and they are absolutely correct. But you can take the neurons that are running at 17% and make them run at 100% and all a sudden your brain frigin works. You remember who people are. You get your life back." No, I'm not kidding. There's so much I'll tell you the research in this. I'll make sure I give you a couple of studies to look up yourself, but you're never going to see these studies without someone like me because they bury them. the amount of research I do for you guys is astronomical. Just so you know, even my wife is, "Holy [\h__\h] you give these people a lot for free." I go, "Yeah, because they're not going to do it for themselves." I want you to have the answer. But when they tell you that it's not reversible, that is a bald-faced It's a bald-faced lie, man. You need to understand the language of the brain itself. So, if we're looking at cognitive decline, cerebral, cerebral is, man, this stuff is pretty wild. It's a peptide b. It's a peptide based neotropic. And before you start going, "Oh, I drank some of these at from 7-Eleven." No, there's no neuotropic out there. I don't care. Don't get offended if you own a neotrop neotropic company that's making billions of dollars. Congratulations on all your freaking success. However, it's not making you smarter. It's not solving the brain problem. You sure as hell are not reversing dementia or Alzheimer's with your neotropic drink. Just understand that. So, don't make claims like you do. But this is a real neotropic agent. low molecular weight fraction of a purified porcene brain portions. You know what that means? I said it that way on purpose, by the way. It's concentrated bioididentical cocktail of the very neurotrophic factors and peptides your brain uses to grow, repair, and protect itself from pigs. I knew you guys are going to be like, "Wait, what's the porcene thing?" Here's the here's who cares. It listen, this stuff is like miracle grow for your brain. But when I always use that analogy, it really is like, dude, it is wild. The reversal of things that I've seen with patients and clients are just they're astounding. Astounding. What is the worst thing that happens? Listen to me. Before I explain how well this stuff works, you buy from Elite Biogenics. Yes, my lab has made cerebral. No, it's not on the site yet, but if you give me a little bit, I promise you this, you will get the best quality cerebral from me. But you don't have to wait. It's okay. Not going to hurt my feelings. Go buy it from your buddy who owns a peptide company who says, "Bro, I get you guys, by the way. You guys send me these messages, bro. Hey, if you need a connection to get peptides, dude, I own multiple labs and warehouses. I got it. Thank you. But I'm not going to buy from you. I make my own. Leap Biogenics is my company. I don't know what else to tell you. And I'm trying to help. It's not Listen, it's for you guys. But if you buy from me, great. If you don't, I say it every time. If you join the black card, buckle up because I'm going to give you homework to do things to solve your problem so you never have to worry about it again. The black card is 9,997 bucks and it is that much well for another 16 days and then it's 25,000. And my webinar, it's going to go up even more in my webinar. You better get in quick. And that's not urgency and scarcity. It's just fact. But the point is that I really want to solve problems. So you get access to my Q&A call every Monday today 5:00 just east of Dallas. And you can ask me all the questions you want. I'll solve them right there. I've done it for months and months and I've never missed a beat. I'll go two hours straight spitting out answers that actually create solutions. And people are always like, "You really does?" Yeah, because I care. Cuz I make sure I have the answer for you cuz I want that. You deserve that. Has nothing to do with me. It has to do with your health. But you want to join? Great. You don't want to join? That's fine. Apply at unlockthecard.com. That's not to ask questions. That's to go, "How do I get the wire information to send you a wire?" I don't do PayPal wires. I had somebody send me try to do a PayPal wire. Get out of here, man. What? Just so you can get in and reverse it. Get the hell out of here. I do bank wires. That's it. Once it's cleared, my CFO, Jen, checks. It's cleared. Here's your welcome email. Not a second before. If it takes 3 days cuz your bank doesn't know what they're doing, that's not my problem. I'm still not letting you in. Even if it's out of your account, if I don't see it, money talks and [\h__\h] walks. Yes, I'm that hard ass about it cuz it's not fair to the people that have paid. And you get access to all the protocols and all the research. And you can actually ask me real questions in the messaging in the VIP community. in at 24 to 48 hours I answer. If you send me emails with your questions, by the way, and you're in your in my group, good chance I'm never going to get them or I'm not going to answer them because I have the group for a reason and it's behind the wall for a reason because it puts my liability to absolutely zero. So, there's a reason. Anyway, that's I have to say that because people are sending me emails. Hey, I sent you this email and it didn't seem to get it and I'm not going to if you send me an email and you're part of my black card. Send it in the black card. Learn how to send it through the chat. It's not complicated. Not complicated. But anyway, that's it. Yes, I'm a hard ass. Yes, I'm edgy. But I also expect a lot from the people that join because I love them that much. I want them to love themselves. But listen, the number of people I've seen with success stories in my group alone is everybody. So you want to join? Great. Apply at unlockthecard.com. You don't? That's okay. But listen, these neurotrphic factors, right, these neurotrphic factors are the most powerful thing you can ever put into your brain. And you're not going to hear a doctor talk to talk about them for the most part. You sure as hell, excuse me, are going to hear neurologists talk about these brain derived neurotrphic factor, BDNF, gal cell line derived neurotrophic factor, GDNF, nerve growth factor, NGF, siliary neurotrphic factor, CNTF. No, I guarantee you guys are like, my doctors never talked about this stuff. It's cuz they don't want to because this stuff's cheap as dirt. Even if you're like, vile is like 200 bucks and I need 50 of them or whatever. I don't I'm just making this up. So, what's the cost of dementia or Alzheimer's? Lifetime. Stop thinking with your wallet and start thinking with your time and your quality of life and what you can do right now. Just a thought. But this stuff is delivered in their natural active configurations when you take cerebral. It's not some drug that blocks a single receptor. This is a torrent of real and vital information. It's the missing firmware update for your corrupt, ridiculously trashed OS operating system. Listen, I'll give you the whole biochemical mechanism of action step by step if you really want it. Watch. And I'll talk about the three biological failures so you actually see how they work. Watch. So first presses that inferno that I talked about, right? The inflammatory inferno. Cerebral ly modulates micro gal activations. So the reason you have to understand what this means 909 think about how long ago that was. It's longer than you think. Journal of neural transmission showed 100% that cerebral treatment in Alzheimer's models suppressed pro-inflammatory cytoine expression. IL6 TNF alpha promoted a shift. Watch from what did I talk about the M1 M2, right? The phenotypes. So, it promoted a shift from the destructive M1 micro GAL phenotype back. It brought it back to where it's supposed to be, right? That's not where they're supposed to live. They're supposed to live at the other phenotype. Back to the protective fagocitic M2 phenotype. It doesn't just calm the inflammation. It puts security guards back to work cleaning up all the pathological trash, the amaloid and tow, the amaloid plaques and the tow tangles. It removes the primary driver that's causing the disease and that's just one thing. It ends the famine. Cerebralin enhances cerebral glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity. Study 2013 using a PET scans positron emission tomography. Right? Journal of neuroscience research showed that patients treated with cerebral ly showed stat I'm going to get to this in a psych. This is important. Statistically significant increase in glucose uptake in the hippocampus and cortical regions of the brain. So, it repairs the broken insulin signaling, flips the cellular switches back on, and delivers high octane fuel to the starving mitochondria, which you need because why? Because if you have the ATP, the adenazine triphosphate to create the repairs, take out the trash, solve the problems, and fire neurons the way they're supposed to, you don't have a problem anymore. You have a functioning biology. The power plants come back online. And if you understand what was the third failure, ATP shortage. So, now they got fuel. Do you see how now these connect? It rebuilds from the blackout. This is where it moves from protective to regenerative. The neurotrophic factors in cerebral ly bind to their high affinity tyroine kynise receptors trkb. These are for BDNF, RE, GDNF. This is triggers two primary intracellular cascades. And it doesn't matter what they are, but it's the master regulator of cell survival and inhibition of apoptosis and the mitogen activated protein kynise. I wasn't going to tell you, but I have to because it's just in me that much. extracellular signal related kynise the map K and ERK pathways which govern cell differentiation synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity here's what that means just so you understand because you're like okay great thanks doc it's a bunch of really big words this activation does three things at the very same time neurogenesis that's number one it stimulates the birth of new remember they said it's not reversible they can't do it and you can't raise the dead you don't need to you're making new ones stimulates the birth of new neurons from neuro stem cells in the subgranular zone of the hippocampus your brain's memory center 2010 study journal of Alzheimer's disease confirmed this 1% that's just one baby synaptogenesis it promotes the formation of new dendritic spines and synaptic connections literally rebuilding the neural network that stores memory and learning in angioenesis it stimulates the growth of we already know this from TB-500 and BPC57 stimulates the growth of new vessels via VEGF vascular endothelial growth factor ensures that the newly built structures get the blood supply that they need. So they work. 2018 meta analysis in Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience reviewed over a dozen randomized control trials, that's not people, that's actual studies with thousands of people, concluded that cerebral produces constant, significant, and clinically relevant improvements in global cognitive function, behavior, and activities of daily living. ADL, this isn't a marginal effect. This is a gamecher for life with people with this problem. And yet, you know what they're doing? Never using it. That makes me mad. Pisses me off. Listen, let's you want to go. Oh yeah, I'm lit now, baby. Watch out. This is where we bury the opposition. Look at Alzheimer's. I'm going to just drown these people. The plaques and tangles are the gravestones. They're the tombstone. Remember, that's what I call them. You just put that in your head. Tow tangles, right? And amaloid plaques, tombstone. It's not the cause of death. The tombstone that you see in a graveyard, that's not the cause of death. That's marking where they That's where they're put. That's where the body is. Cerebralin attacks the killers. Neuroinflammation and metabolic dysfunction. Massive. Listen, this is wild when I see stuff like this. A massive multi-enter doubleblind placeboc controlled trial published. Most people will never find it. Journal of Clinical Therapeutics in 2002. Do you know the year right now by the way? 2025. Yeah. 23 years ago, huh? Coming up on 26. This involved 278 patients. You might go big deal. Yeah, it's a huge deal. Cerebral group showed significantly superior improvement in cognitive performance, global clinical impression compared to the placebo group. The results, listen, the results were so compelling that the authors noted that the effects persisted for months after the treatment stopped. That is not symptom management, you guys. That is altering the trajectory of the disease. Look at vascular dementia caused by microinfforts and chronic cerebral hyper hypo profusion, right? That's a reduced blood flow angiogenic properties. What did I talk about? Right? Imagine just imagine hypothetically for your kangaroo. You marry this with BPC TB-500 and most of you guys go, "Isn't that the Wolverine stock that's just good for when my muscles are hurt?" You need to take the thousand foot view and actually start listening to old doctor. This Spartan doctor knows what the hell he's talking about cuz he gives a [\h__\h] about you. 2001 study in neurological research directly combat this by promoting new blood vessel growth. That's what cerebral does. It improves circulation and its neuroprotective effects. Shield penumbal tissue which is the area surrounding. It's not for an eclipse. It's the area surrounding the damage from apoptosis. So, not only does it heal and improve circulation, it protects the rest of the population of your brain so it doesn't go down the [\h__\h] like the rest of the system. Everybody should have this in their house. Look at MS, multiple sclerosis, autoimmune demyorg disorder, right? Cerebral license potent immunom modulator reaction 2005. They exposed this like crazy. Journal of neurological sciences. This helps suppress autoimmune attack. It its neurotrophic support specifically CNTF promotes the survival and remi remination remination what's MS again it's a demyination autoimmune demination disease it's not even a disease it's a disorder in fact it's not even that it's a result of the three biological failures but this promotes the survival and remination capacity of illegodendraites which are what does this job protects the wire and then just starts adding insulation to it you want to keep going how about Parkinson's disease it's the progressive loss of dopamineergic neurons in the substantia [\h__\h] what do they give you. Remember I told you about this L-dopa. Leodopa is easily the stupidest thing they could ever give you because it really does nothing. It's like they go and they don't it's like your brain needs food and instead of sending food they send you a recipe on how to make food and a shitty one at that. And then about 8 to 10 years later you get a whole bunch you get disanesia based on the treatment. So they create an entirely new these writhing terrible movements based on the treatment. So they created an entirely new disease and you guys are paying for this because you guys will what else am I going to do? I'm giving you the answer. Cerebralin is a GDNF delivery system. GDNF is the most potent known survival factor for these specific neurons in the substantionigra. The most potent 2015 randomized control trial in the journal of Parkinson's disease showed cerebral treatment led to significant improvements in motor function allowed for a reduction in leodopa to zero indicating disease modifying effect not just symptomatic masking. Did I Did you hear what I just said? Zero. Leave a Dopa to zero. So when I hear people go I like I have a friend of mine. Oh, they just diagnosed my uncle with Parkinson's disease. Put him on L-dopa. I don't know what else to do. I've given this answer. Still doesn't matter because people are you're so indoctrinated that you think that the FDA has your best interest. Has disease gone up or down, you guys? Has cancer gone up or down? Has mortality gone up or down? Please, I'm coming out here to give you the answers. Pay attention. This is the secret the establishment doesn't want you to know. is that cerebrain is regenerative and non-p patentable in its natural form. That's the problem. The entire pharmaceutical business industry, $15.6 billion a year Alzheimer's market alone. By the way, this is 2023 and view research proved that's how much it is. $15.6 billion. How much what could you do with $15.6 billion? Could you do some good with that? Or you just go out and buy a bunch of cars, a myopic idiot? Cuz me, oh, don't get me wrong, I'll buy a car, but I'm going to do a whole lot of good. I'm going to help a whole lot of people. This entire market is predicated on chronic symptomatic management. A patient who gets better is a revenue loss. patient who requires five, six, seven, $10,000 a month on monoconal antibbody infusion that slows decline by anywhere from 20 to 25% over 18 months is a recurring revenue stream. Rebrol represents always what I say an existential threat to their entire frigin model. It is a repair tool in an industry that profits from breakdowns. There's your inconvenient truth. And by the way, I told you I would tell you this. Yes. Yes. Yes. It can reverse damage. Yes. Proved 2011 study using MRI published in a journey of the journal of Alzheimer disease showed that Alzheimer's patients that are treated with cerebral ly had an increase in gray matter volume in the hippocampus and cortical regions compared to the continued atrophy seen in the placebo group. There's no reversal, right? Let me be unequal. They measured regrowth of brain tissue. They reversed cortical atrophy. This isn't science fiction. This isn't Black Mirror. In fact, the crappy part of our world is Black Mirror. If you guys ever watch it, just watch Black Mirror. You know, it's hard to get, by the way, right now, unless you go on Netflix. This is peer-reviewed, image-based evidence that degenerative process cannot just be stopped, but pushed the other direction. It is the single most threatening idea to the current medical paradigm. You think that they're going to sit by and let this happen? They're going to try and get in the way of this 24/7, 365. They're going to throw everything they got at it. You guys better game up. Now, listen before somebody, I need to be on this all the time. You don't run a full-scale reconstruction project 365 days a year. You use cerebral license strategically for your kangaroo. The standard protocol is cycles. Concentrated period of treatment followed by a period of integration. That's how it works. Typical cycle is anywhere from 4 to 6 weeks. Daily intramuscular. You can use it IV. Intramuscular is equally as effective followed by a break. That's about 4 to 12 weeks. This is cycling prevents the because people are going to ask. So I'm just going to answer down reggulation of the very neurotrofen receptors that you are trying to activate. It is pulse signal maximizing the anabolic response while allowing those newly formed neural circuits to stabilize and consolidate. So the system actually knows what it's doing and actually works. It's a tactical intervention, not some lifelong dependency, which is do you see where I'm going this? Cuz what's going to happen is if you have to be on this all the time, great. It solves the problem. You're still on something. The whole point is to get your system to work the way it's designed. So you don't need to be on anything for the rest of your life, which again is terrible for business and fantastic for your brain. Cerebral Ly is the undisputed record holding champion, but it has a world-class support team that you need to make this a synergistic unbelievable rehab isn't the right word. A stack that is greater than the sum of its parts. So, you need to look at your brain. So, if you're like, "How do I prevent cognitive decline? How do I reverse cognitive decline? How do I mitigate cogn do I know anybody with any cognitive decline?" You need to listen up. So, this is a neuro regen. I wasn't even going to talk about this, but I'm so lit right now. Now I know 40 minutes in CAX synthetic heptopeptide. So CAX synthetic analog adreninocorticotropic hormone act primary mechanism is the upregulation of you already know this if you don't here you go BDNF brain derived neurotrphic factor and NT4 which is neurotrphen 4. So it forces the expression of both right think of CAX as a megaphone for cerebral signals. Now do you see how this works? So cerebral ly come in and provides the raw materials the neurotrophic the neurotrophic factors themselves. Cmax turns up your brain's internal production volume. So 2015 study in the bulletin of experimental biology and medicine. Yeah, you guys just heard the word experimental and just lost your minds. What do you think you are? You're a giant experiment to everybody. They showed that CAC significantly increases BDNF levels in the hippocampus, enhances memory consolidation, forces regeneration when used in conjunction with cerebro. So together they create this powerful feed forward loop of neurotrophic support. And that's just one thing. I could do this all day, baby. How about alphagpc? This is a highly bioavailable form of choline. This is the essential precursor for neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is the key transmitter, the key neurotransmitter for learning, memory, focus, all the things that we need to do 24/7, 365 in our life. Cerebra builds the new roads and infrastructure. So neurons and synapses and alpha GPC gives the traffic the electrochemical signals that actually use those new pathways. So 2003, are you following how long these how long ago these studies were? By the way, this is why they're hard to find. 2003, clinical therapeutics confirmed its efficacy in improving cognition in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's. It's fuel for that newly built jet engine that they just installed in your gray matter. BPC57, it's the one that people think is, "Oh, it's just for injuries." No, this is a master regulator known for its systemic healing and anti-inflammatory properties, but it has so much value in brain repair. BPC-157 heals the gut lining and reduces the systemic endotoxic load from leaky gut. The lipopolysaccharides that dump into your bloodstream and start telling your immune system to go batshit crazy, which watch the endotoxin load is the major driver of inflammatory cytoines that harm the brain in the first place. So, here's what else it does. promotes angioenesis systemically. So it shuts down the systemic inflammation and improves overall vascular health. BPC57 creates an optimal clean room. Right? It's like this perfect space for cerebral to perform its very delicate, very precise neural surgery on your brain. 2020 review in the World Journal of Gastroenterology showed that its ability to modulate systemic inflammatory pathways hovers around 90% efficacy. Find me anything else that does that. This ain't a roades or an Alka-Seltzer. You guys look at GHK-Cu. Copper universal signal for tissue repair and remodeling. Yeah, it stings. So does Alzheimer's and dementia and losing loved ones. I love you, but shut up and take the discomfort when you inject. But it always hurts. Is there a way to mitigate that? No. There's a way to toughen up so you actually keep your brain working the way it is. You guys will smoke and drink and do really stupid things, but you won't do something that benefits yourself. This upregulates the expression of genes involved in antioxidant production, collagen synthesis, neuroproction in the brain. GHK-Cu is like neuronal armor. It supports the health of the extracellular matrix and it possesses its own cognitive enhancing and neuroprotective effects. Look at 2020. Biomolecules showed its ability to promote nerve outgrowth. So watch in this stack. GHK-Cu acts as the general contractor. So, it ensures that the structural integrity and health of the entire rebuilding project operates at 100%. Listen, I'm coming up on an hour here and I have other things to do, but this is a multiaceted assault on neurodeeneration that to me honestly is one of the most terrifying things in the world is to lose your ability to function. Cerebral and Cax drive neurogenesis and synaptogenesis. Alpha GPC is going to optimize the neurotransmission and BPC57 is going to shut down the systemic inflammation of GHK-Cu is going to support the overall tissue health. It addresses the problem from molecular to systemic levels. This is the issue. This is the most empowering and maybe I'll button it up here because this is quite frankly the most infuriating fact of all. The majority of cognitive decline is preventable. The idea [\h__\h] that makes me mad. The idea that Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or dementia are inevitable genetic destinies is a convenient myth for a system that profits from the damn helplessness. 2017, the Lancet Commission on Dementia Prevention, Intervention, and Care. identified, I've talked about this study before because it's that important, identified 12 modifiable risk factors that account for approximately 50% of dementia cases worldwide. These include, you ready for this? Because you want to stop and write these down. Stop your car. Do it. Whatever you're doing, drop it. Put it down. Get a piece of paper. Get a pencil and start freaking writing because my dad always said a short pencil is better than a long memory. You want to write this down. Midlife hypertens tension, vascular health, midlife obesity, insulin resistance, diabetes, insulin resistance, physical inactivity, reduced BDNF, poor circulation, depression, social isolation, all the crap that you're doing on here, chronic stress and cortisol, like I'm holding up my phone if you're wondering what that is. Smoking, alcohol consumption, vascular and direct neurotoxicity. This is a direct road map. These factors directly contribute to the three systemic catastrophes that I opened up this entire conversation with. Inflammation, metabolic failure, energy depletion. Follow-up report in the Lancet 2020 expand this list. The evidence is overwhelming. Lifestyle interventions that control these factors dramatically reduce the incidence of dementia. And yet, people will still not do it. They're like, I don't know. I just want to have a glass of wine every night. I'm really trying hard not to cuss, man. But then you're a freaking idiot. Get in my comments and get mad about that. Try and quote the Bible. really don't care. The number of drops of alcohol that you can have that aren't toxic is zero. These diseases, they're not mystical curses. They're the physiological consequence of bad decisions, poor in poor activity in your life, prolonged assault on the brain's fundamental operating requirements. This isn't something that like I love you guys. You guys need to listen because that's the problem is you're like, I'll do it later. But this is if you're struggling now, this started 25 years before this diabetes. You don't wake up with diabetes. You don't wake up with cardiovascular disease. You don't wake up with cancer. You don't wake up with any of that stuff. It started 20 years before you knew after more than people are going to all you guys out there, you buffoons going, "It's research chemicals though. I don't know about this. Where do I get it? Elite Biogenics. I know my stuff's safe." And I'm sure Oh, everybody says that. Yeah, but I don't use the knuckleheads that they're using for testing. I use a real testing facility that puts their name on it and guarantees that if it ain't what it says it is and you can test it yourself, they'll give you the money back. After more than 50 years of clinical use in over 50 countries with millions and millions of patient treatments, you guys, the safety profile of cerebral is exceptionally benign. Most commonly reported adverse events are mild transient like I'm talking things like agitation, injection site reactions, slight dizziness. There's no no none no long-term detrimental effects. 50 years is a long time. Just so you know, they approved a forids in 3 weeks. How about the C19 vaccine? How long did they wait to approve that? Nobody questioned that. I just need it right away because they created a panic and you guys just ate it up. But when something comes along and goes, "Hey, listen grandma or grandpa. All you doctors that are helping Bruce Willis, f you guys are stealing that man's life. You're stealing Emma's husband. You're stealing Demiy's best friend. You can you guys can go right to hell. You guys go right to hell. That's a good man. And you're letting him decline because what? You're going, "What about the long term? We don't have any studies." No, but we've got plenty of studies on the things that you guys give people for dementia and how they don't work. I can prove it every single day in front of anybody. Put Stephen Hawking in front of me if he was still here. I have a lot of respect for that before you say something dumb. But I'll state my case and claim my space on this because I know the three biological failures are the cause of every single disease honor. The theoretical fear of pron is why I'm going to say this because that's what it is. From its pig source, the porcene source has been rendered by the manufacturing process which includes like my lab. It's multiple steps of ultrailtration purification that eliminate pathogens and isolate only low molecular weight bioactive fractions. Like it's imposs it's mathematical impossibility. The theoretical risk has never manifested in practice ever. Not once. Not once. Contrast this. Just watch this. Exact. Contrast this with the serious side effects of standard Alzheimer's drugs which include nausea, vomiting, brady cardia, increased mortality rates, long-term disease, new disorders, new disease, the risk benefit analysis. Not even close. Not even close. Listen, here's the irrefutable conclusion to this cuz I want to go inside. You're not a passive victim of some genetics. your environment. Your brain is not a predetermined time bomb that you guys are being told. It is a dynamic plastic organ that responds to inputs. The input of the modern world, chronic inflammation, metabolic dysfunction, and energetic failure are inputs of decay. But the inputs of targeted regenerative biochemistry are inputs of growth and repair. None of this is experimental. They want you to think that 50 years, that's more than most things on the planet right now that you're sticking in your body. 50 years. It's not experimental. It's established and proven. The tools aren't hypothetical. This stuff is all proven, peer-reviewed, researchbased. Everybody, if you that's the route you want to go. And then here's what happens is people start arguing, "Yeah, but research can be slanted." But then why are you buying into the research of a organization that doesn't want you healthy? They want you profitable. Listen, the only thing that's been missing is the will to look past the profitable narrative of managed decline and actually wrap yourself around the inconvenient truth of potential reversal of cognitive decline. The multi-billion dollar cognitive decline industry is built on a foundation of your fear, your c your acquiescence and nothing else. Cerebral and that synergistic stack around it that I talked about represents a direct challenge to that entire foundation. I'll go toe-to-toe all day. Find me any molecular biologist. You can argue all you want. You can use all your big fancy words. I'll use simple science and [\h__\h] crayons and I'll show you because I care that much about the people. You care that much about your ego if that's you. I want people to not have dementia or Alzheimer's or MS or Parkinson's. It makes like it bugs me cuz it's preventable. This is the embodiment of a new paradigm, you guys. One where we don't accept degeneration as this given that is going to happen. Instead, you use the full power of human biochemistry and the knowledge of people who actually care like me and all the others like me to fight back and rebuild and reclaim the most precious thing that you possess, your mind. That is the most if you don't know yet, if you're like my wife, I adore my wife. God, Brandy is I love my wife so much that even talking about her sometimes and about how much I really adore my wife will bring me to tears. She's everything to me. But I can't give her all of me if my brain is rotten and destroyed, can I? Your mind is the most precious thing you've got. The data is laid out for you to play it out. Biology is clear as water. You have the power to change the trajectory of your neurological health. And it I just literally took the blueprint and I put it in your hands. I don't care where you get it, but I care that you do it. See, it's not. You guys wonder, I wonder if this could be done. It would be so awesome if I could help grandpa or grandma or aunt or uncle or husband or wife or whatever. That question doesn't exist anymore. Really, the question is, what the hell are you going to do about it? I just gave you the blueprint. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go.