Coffee always. Look, that's uh4 to 6 p.m. Coffee blacker than a witch's crotch. I don't know these people that drink coffee that looks like somebody stuffed a birthday cake in a cup. Amazing business model. Starbucks, right? Convincing people that coffee is seven bucks. Whatever it is, I don't know. My dad would have said if he was still alive, he'd be like, "You can make coffee at home for free. 10 cents or whatever it is. As long as it's black coffee. Probably can't even have black coffee anymore and say that because some knucklehead will get triggered and go that's racist. I don't know. I can't get my head around this stuff. I have a webinar every every Sunday. It's fun. I I actually really like it. I had a ton of people on it that I and just I'm very transparent. The purpose is yeah to sell access to my mentorship, but I think I pitch once maybe twice and it's soft. I'm like, "Hey, this is how much it is. This is what you get. If you want to join, great. If you don't, I'm still going to give you everything I got." And then I just solve problems and I give people kind of the secret to life and and how to make things work for you and answer some questions. I actually like it's the same reason why I come out here and I do this podcast. And I thought about this. I on Saturday I did AI have my Spartan live call on Saturday. It's part of the mentorship. And I talked about 100 days. And I've talked about this before, but if you had a 100 days, what would you do with it? Right? And it's just designed to put things into perspective. But look at your life and and before somebody gets all buttth hurt and triggered. Just follow me on this before you you guys are so volatile. You're just like this bundle of conditioned responses and emotions that reacts with these knee-jerk reflexes based on what somebody says that points out where you're screwing up that and where you could improve because you don't like the fact that you're being told that this isn't the way you should do it because you're not doing it correctly. You're not getting the results you want. And you get mad. That doesn't even make sense to me. You're being presented with an opportunity to solve your problem. Solve your life equation and you turn around and get mad and defend the very situation that you can't stand that you're so desperately trying to escape. I don't know. Make it make sense. Ask yourself, would you be an exceptional example for you if you had to like listen and and I realize it's it's kind of a weird question, but if you were an example for a doppelganger of you, you were an example for a person, would you be an exceptional example like in in repeating your activities right now over and over again? Are you getting what you want? I mean, not for your mom, not for your spouse, not for Instagram. I mean, for you. And this is where people get mad. And some of you guys are going to get triggered. I don't really care. Don't listen to my podcast. That's the beauty of this world. Some of you guys think you have to you have to accept everybody into your life. Block, delete. I don't need to accept anybody I don't want in my life. That's the beauty of being human and where I live. So, if you're like, you are tolerating people in your lives, you shouldn't. So, when somebody comes in, they start leaving negativity in any shape or form, kick them the hell out. Block them from Instagram. delete their comment. Never acknowledge them again. It's okay. You don't need them. They need you. Remember, they're in your comments. You're not in theirs. So, anybody that leaves negativity in my world, I just go, "Dude, you're in my comments. I don't even know who you are." So, think about that. But would you be an exceptional example for you to to to lead, to become successful, to have all the things you want? Like, is your body exceptional? And before somebody Sorry, I have this my mustache is tickling the hell out of my nose right now. My dad had a big beard. I don't know how he how he did it. This drive me nuts today. It's I think I trimmed it too short. Stabbing me in the nose. I know. Total tangent. Welcome to my world. It's like hurting cats inside my head. But would you be an exceptional example? But is your body exceptional? Yes, you should be fit. If you go, "Well, I'm body positive. Not everybody needs to have abs. Not everybody needs to be muscular." Stop it. Everybody wants to be. Nobody wants to be fat. I don't care who you are. It's just become tolerated. If they took out tin snips and cut off a digit for you being overweight, you would have people, you'd either have one group of people where they just missing all their fingers because they're like, "We don't care." And then you have the other side of the equation going, "That would happen once." And never do it again. And then one more part of that would go, "Not a chance. I will get fit. I want to keep them all." But it stop justifying what you hate. Nobody likes being overweight. Nobody likes being obese. Nobody likes being diabetic. Nobody likes it. So is your body exceptional. Is your bank account exceptional? And here's another one. Oh, not everybody wants to be rich. It's not all about money. It's about the freedom that money gives you. Do you want it? Then do something about it. You want the freedom to make the decision so you don't have to work for the boss you can't stand. Go to the job you don't like. Live in the home you can't stand, drive the car you don't like that you wish for better. Go on the vacation to sit up front instead of mugging everybody when you walk past first class. All of those things. The credit card that you don't have to worry about paying because you just know the money's there. You just bang paid it every time. The cash in your wallet. Whatever it is. Is your bank account exceptional? Is your marriage exceptional? Well, you know, I mean, we're we we like the way our marriage is. Really? When's the last time you had earthshattering sex where you guys are so connected, but you guys just go like animals and destroy the bed and the neighbors are like, "I don't know. Maybe we should call the cops because of all the noise." And if you go, "Well, that's not really how we have sex." Maybe you should. Just so you know, sex should be wet, messy, completely uninhibited, loud, wild, unfiltered. If it's not, you guys have trust issues. That means one of you isn't telling the other one what they want. You know, all that weird freaky stuff you want to do that's in your head that you keep trying to sneak off in the dark and look at on some computer, why don't you just sit down and tell your husband or wife and go, "Hey, listen. I'd like to do this." And if they feel comfortable with you, then they'll be like, "Let's [\h__\h] do it." And if they go, "You're weird there." Then maybe you're with the wrong person. And no, I'm not saying the relationship is all about sex. But you know what? Sex is an incredibly important part of your marriage. It's called being connected and intimate and loving. I I love the sex life I have with my wife and I adore I adore Brandy so much. I am so in love with my wife it hurts to think of a second without her. She is as I live and breathe everything and in in a good way. And if people go that's not very healthy. What if she leaves? The hell is wrong with you? That's how you think. That's why your life sucks. Our sex life is all over. This isn't about podcast about let me tell you all about my sex life. It is just completely unplugged. There are no inhibitions. It is anything you want babe. Stick it anywhere. Do anything. Climb anywhere. Jump anywhere. It doesn't matter. I don't care what she wants. I'm going to do it. She doesn't care what I want. She's going to do it. You know why? Because we love being with each other and we're just like, "Let's make it awesome." Same thing with our bank account. Same thing with our body. And go figure. The life we have is exactly the way it should be. And the life we have together as a couple, as a married couple, whether you want to say it or not is the envy of a ton of people. And before you get mad and go, I would never want that life. Yes, you would. Yes, you would. And the fact that you're saying that you wouldn't is embarrassing for you because you should look at people that are playing the game better than you. And instead of defending your position, go how do I do that? And then pay them. I'm not saying give me money. Pay them with time, money, and energy to get what they have and what they tell you to do. Shut up and listen. Like you guys think if you handed if you handed somebody everything that you're doing right now, right now, your schedule, your your habits, your diet, your level of effort, your discipline, your commitment, all of that, and they ran it for a 100 days straight. Would their life look better? That's what you should ask right now. If the answer is no, then why the hell are you doing it? Here, let me let me hammer this down a little more real for you. Imagine today's the start day. And you get 100 days, no more, no less. And at the end, you're judged. Not by God, not by society, not by your mom who still thinks you're special. You're judged by one thing. Did you upgrade your life or not? And before you go, well, it's kind of an upgrade. 1% better over 100 days. Faking embarrassing. Most of you won't even take that 100 day challenge seriously. You'll say, well, yeah, but that's hypothetical. I could just stop whenever I want. If it's not real, it doesn't really matter. Or even worse, if I only had a 100 days, I'm at a party. YOLO. Right? You only live once. Got to do it, man. Which again is why your life isn't where you want it to be. Do you realize how stupid that is? That's like saying, "If I only had one brain left, I'd pour bleach on it." I mean, here's the real question. What interruptions are you addicted to so you don't have to do the work to mitigate the problems in your life and create the life you want? What interruptions are you addicted to? Let me explain. So, you know, you sit down to work. You sit down. You have to do something. Whatever it is, build the business, make the sales call, call the customers, make the email, put make the social media, do the workout, have the conversation, the hard one, quit the job, start the job, go to court, not go to court, talk to your attorney, you know, train your dog, talk to your kids, fix the car, change the tire, whatever it is. All that something that you have to do that needs to be done that's important, something uncomfortable, something that requires your attention. Maybe, I don't know, writing, sales, I don't know, maybe building a business that you keep telling everybody you're building, which is a real problem with some of you guys. And the second that you feel any of that friction, your brain pulls this magic trick. And suddenly you remember every single urgent thing that you've been ignoring. Oh, dude, I stink. I need a shower. My room is messy. I have to clean it. Got to wash the car, man. I forgot. I to car's dirty. You got cleanliness is next to godliness. I got to keep my car clean. Oh, it's Sunday. I don't do work. You know, Jesus said, "Don't work on Sundays." Not what he said, by the way. All of that. Like, you guys come I saw one guy post that. You're not supposed to work on the Sabbath. The Sabbath was a Saturday, you know. Oh, I said I'd mail that letter. I'd write that email. I'd have that. I got to call my mom. Like, whatever it is, none of that matters. But you do it anyway. You do all the stuff that has nothing to do with the real work you sat down to do initially in the first place. And then you pat yourself on the back like you just ended world hunger. You solved every problem in the known universe. That's the scam. It's like It's like Robbins says, right? Tony Robbins, you major in minor things. You praise yourself for doing worthless tasks and then lie to yourself about their importance. And here's the punch in the face. You run that play on repeat. And then you get defensive. You outwardly fight anyone who questions you and you inwardly beat yourself up. You're living this multiple like this multiple personality lie. And you do it loudly like you're you're proud and defending mediocrity while privately hating everything in your life. Make it make sense. Back up to the original question. Would you be an exceptional example for you? The answer is no. Guarantee it. You're not. You're not. So listen, here's the deal. As I told my wife I was going to be inside in 20 minutes, so I got to make this short. Here's the deal. 100 days, no breaks, no skip days. No, I'm waiting for X or Y or Z. I have to wait for this. I have to wait for that payment. I have to wait for this guy to pay. I'm going to wait one more day. I'm going to start next week. I'm going to do No. 100 days. And you miss a day. You start over at day one. Even if you screw up on day 99, you're back to zero. Why? Because if you're willing to lie to yourself for convenience, you don't deserve the life that you claim to want. That you tell everybody how badly you wish were different. Just let that sit. Because most of you don't deserve the life that you say you want. You deserve exactly where you are and you know it. Cuz if you deserved a better life, you'd be doing what's required to get there. The separation between winners and everybody else is this. Winners never lie to themselves ever. Winners hate losing more than they love winning. Winners always feel like they aren't doing enough. They're always behind. Winners do what they say, no matter what. And winners zero out every account, their time account, their energy account, their money account, every single day. Zero it out. So ask yourself, can you honestly check all those boxes? Can you? No, you can't. I that doesn't matter. Save your [\h__\h] explanations on this podcast. No, you can't. You can't. Because listen, you weren't built for comfort. You You were built to conquer, to do things, to win. And yet, most of you guys defend your comfort as if it's the thing that's going to save your life. You It's going to put you on the map and give you everything you want. Comfort doesn't save you. It kills you very, very slowly and painfully. And you're left with this big giant safe filled with regret. If you don't conquer something in the world on repeat all the time, new things, you end up destroying yourself. I mean, from from the inside, right? From the inside out. And that's why people self-sabotage. That the drive to win never dies. It's inside you forever since the day you came out into this earth or came onto this earth. It just turns inward. That that drive to win. Well, that's the combat you don't want because when it does that, you become the villain in your own damn story. You call it anxiety or depression or burnout or whatever it is. No, you are just rotting and decaying because you refuse to play offense. You're too busy playing defense. My wife and I just had this conversation. We don't play defense. We're done. We did. In this one situation in our life, we were playing defense. We're done. Fully offensive. What's the worst thing that happens? We end up right back where we are. Okay? Because somewhere along the line, society ran this genius conj job on most of you guys that we we reprogrammed people to believe that discomfort equals danger. Just stick to that for a second. You didn't sleep. Well, boom. Danger. Too tired. very bad for you. Your thumb hurts, danger. Your period, absolute catastrophe. Danger. And some woman is going to hear this right now and go, "Here's another dude talking about how he knows what it's like to be a woman." No, but apparently you know what it's like to be a dude. I have no idea what it's like to be a woman. But you shut the hell up. You have no idea what it's like to be a man. So for all of the people that are about to say that, shut your mouth. Neither one of us know, but apparently we both claim to be experts on the other side of the equation. And I have no idea what it's like to be a woman or what it's like to deal with a period or how uncomfortable it is or what the cramps feel like or how bad it shuts you down or how many times you cry during the [\h__\h] day. I also don't care cuz that it's your your bosses mean, "Oh no, the coffee machine broke." I don't care. None. It doesn't matter. None of it gives you an excuse to be a [\h__\h] prick. None of it. Cuz there are people that have had real problems. Save your period pain before you get mad or your I didn't sleep or my coffee didn't taste good. problems to use as an excuse for why you trash everybody in your life. You see, now everything is this emergency that demands support and validation. We've built this culture where you're socially foggged for not validating everybody's fragile little excuses. Let me You don't need support. You need you need a set of balls. You want to sit down at the grown-up table and just act like it, but you don't. I mean, the mindset today is if I don't like how it feels, I shouldn't have to do it. I shouldn't have to. Then I don't like it. Hurts my feelings. I don't like how it feels. That's the new moral code. Feelings over facts. And you prefer all your preferences. And then when you demand that people accept where you are and you get upset like you you guys [\h__\h] you demand that people accept and support your own mediocrity that you can't stand and you get mad when they don't. And here's the truth. The only people that are ever going to support you are the ones living the exact same crappy average mediocrity that are going, you know, not everybody wants to be successful. Being average is okay, too, bro. No, it's not. And if the logic that you're about to fire back with is, well, if everybody's not average, then average doesn't exist. Congratulations. Well, then there can be no winners. Wrong. If everybody is striving for exceptional in their own life, then everybody becomes exceptional. It's not a gauge against the world, it's a gauge against themselves. Like, this is where it gets dangerous because you guys surround yourselves with people who make it worse. That's why most of you are stuck, which is Listen, there I have this amazing mentorship. Not just because it's mine, but because it is that badass. I have a no [\h__\h] policy. If you join and you just don't fit the group because you're just dick, you're not going to stay. But usually, I'm not even going to let you in the door because the bouncer at the door is me. But it is a group of people that all want you to be better and they want to be better and we all feed off each other and help each other. 144 live calls a year, Saturday, Sunday, Monday. And one of them is a Q&A where I actually answer real questions. I don't just hand you a Google doc and go, "Let's just talk about some fun stuff and put on our tinfoil hats. I actually help you guys." But you guys surround yourselves with people that make you feel good for where you are, even though you hate where you are. You're fat, they're fat. You're broke, they're broke. You're a victim. They're all victims. Boom. You've been recruited by the losing team. Losing train, just so you know, losing teams don't have triyouts. They'll take anybody. All you need is excuses, some medication, and wham, welcome aboard. You know what winning teams are? Totally different. They don't recruit because they don't need to. You have to try out. And trying out means that you do what you say every single damn second of the day. That's how you get on a winning team. And when you win, here's the issue. You expose everybody that's still in that cave. The one that you climbed out of that you couldn't stand that's surrounded by all the losers in the bottom. You ruin their whole narrative. Which is why they guilt you and go, "I remember who you used to be. I liked you a lot better when you were this guy." No. No. You liked it because it made you feel comfortable and justified where you were. That's why they say, "Well, you've changed." And they try and drag you back down. Crabs in a bucket. [\h__\h] them. They liked you better when you were one of them because your weakness made their weakness feel justified. Here's here's the challenge. I'll give you this. 100 days. 100 days. No budget. No budget. Spend it. All of it. No constraint. And if you go, well, easy for you to say, listen, if you blow it all, you end up right back where you are right now. You lost nothing. Somehow you have been convinced that if you try something and it doesn't work, you lost something. No, you didn't. You spend five grand, you just wind up back where you are. But you already know how to make five grand. So, just make it again. So, no 100 days, no budget, no constraints, no limits, no conditions, nothing. Just a 100 days of doing exactly what you said you were going to do to get to where you want to be. Most people won't survive the first week, the first evolution. Hell, most people won't survive the first time they screw up. The first version of themselves that they're forced to kill. You won't survive it because the second you start, you're going to meet resistance. And that resistance is it's just you fighting the version of yourself that has to die. Which is why people go, "It's too hard." No [\h__\h] Growth is supposed to feel like murder, just so you know, because you're killing the old you. Is that a metaphor? It's either you or that person. You're either going to upgrade or the person you used to be is going to upgrade. Oh, wait. They can't cuz they're stuck where they are, which is why you are. Question is this. Can you give a 100 days to change your Can you go to war with your own excuses and validations and all the people that are around you that are clapping? These are the people that are going to cheer you all the way down the road to hell. You walk like who you walk with. Because if you can actually commit to 100 days, if you can actually do it without lying, without skipping, without looking around to see if anybody noticed that you missed, you're going to evolve. And if you evolve, you expose every fake narrative that's kept you changed. That changes everything because now you've done it once, you can do it again. All you have to do is expose once. Once you do that, well, that version of you is going to keep clawing back at you every single day. You just have to keep putting him in a box and exposing it to the world going, "Right there, that's a lying sack of [\h__\h] I'm never going there again." Let me ask you again. Would you be an exceptional example for you? And if you're not, would would you would you be proud if your wife copied you, your husband copied you, if your kids copied you? If not, then the next 100 days is your shot. Not tomorrow. Tomorrow, just so you know, you have less time than you have today. Yesterday, you had more time than you have today. What are you doing? You're going to die. So, not tomorrow. Not when you feel ready. Not when you should. Not when you're like, "Ah, maybe I'll get started later on today." That's the problem is you just kick it down the line thinking you're deferring it like interest on real estate. Today, right now, 100 days, no excuses, no breaks, no lies, no validations, nothing. And if you fail, you start back at day one again and again and again and again until you stop lying to yourself long enough to freaking win. Because at the end of the day, there is only one truth. You were not built for comfort. You were built to win and conquer. That is how a human being is. Stop acting like a child, defending your excuses, thinking that is going to elevate you to any position in the life, in your life, anywhere you want to be in your life. If that's what you're defending, you are acting like a toddler. Stop surrounding yourself with these losers who clap for your mediocrity and stop pretending discomfort for the love of God is danger. Pick the war. Treat everything that is trying to get in your way, stop you, harm you, hurt you, kill you, take your things from you like that son of a [\h__\h] messenger in 300 standing in front of the hole. And you kick that [\h__\h] down the hold. You stomp him into that [\h__\h] hole. Stop pretending discomfort is danger. 100 days. 100 days. That's all you got to do. 100 days. Because if you do the 100 days, you're going to win. And And if you can't give 100 days to your own life, what the hell makes you think you deserve a better one? I got to go. Never miss.