You know, I've got to have the smallest amount of coffee here. It's an espresso shot. I should have It's one of those days where I just I want all the coffee. So, I I did a call today, a coach call, my Spartan Live coach call, and I brought something up and extremely wellreceived. And it made me realize though how we look at our lives. Most people want something cheap. They want it fast and they want an exception. All three. Never going to happen. You do that. Listen, congratulations. You've officially entered the fantasy land where dreams go to starve and you get a participation trophy and everybody goes, "Well, at least you're trying. You're doing your best." That's what happens. You can't do that. You have to pick two out of the three. But there's more to it than just this. Let me break it down so that little inner voice, that inner sabotur gets the message. You can pick two. The third one becomes exot. So cheap, fast or easy or exceptional. Pick two. But like I said, the third one, whatever one you do not choose is dead. So don't even think about it. It is not an option. You can fight it all the time. And what's happening is social media is selling a lot of lies. Mass media is selling lies. CNN, MSNBC, YouTube, Google, hell, even Chat GPT, I'm sure, is is selling this lie that you could have all three. You can drop, but what you're really doing is declaring war on physics. In fact, you're not even declaring war on physics. You're declaring war on physics, economics, basic adult responsibility. And the universe doesn't negotiate with delusion. It never has. has it never will. God doesn't care. It lets you learn the hard way. God will make sure you learn the lesson no matter how many times it shows up. It just gets harder every time. And it you're going to learn the hard way with your bank account, your wallet, right? Your time, and your self-respect or lack thereof. A lot of you guys, you think you're smart by trying to play the middle because you think it's safe. But look at your life. And if your life is a repeat of what it was a year ago, you're not playing it safe. You're playing it stupid. you're just cleverly delaying the moment when reality just punches you in the face and slaps that taste out of your instead of people coming out here and making these Steuart Smallley I'm good enough I'm smart enough and by golly people like me podcasts somebody needs to come out here me at this point and just tell you the truth and whether you like it or not does not change the fact that it's truth it's the truth it's as immutable as gravity you know the world has like physics has gravity. Life has this tribe. These three choices, the options are always cheap, fast, and easy and exceptional. You get two. That's the triangle. Doesn't matter if you're building your health, your fitness, business, body, marriage, brand, it doesn't matter. This applies to every aspect of life. And once you actually really understand this, you can find all the holes in your life and start going to work on them and blow everybody away with your success and everybody will still call you lucky. Because if you want it, watch. If you want it cheap and fast, okay, awesome. Get ready for garbage. That's what you're going to get. If you want it cheap and exceptional, enjoy the weight. It's going to take forever. Might be months, might be years, might be two decades. Hope you're still alive when it shows up. If you want it fast and exceptional, awesome. That's where you should be. It's going to cost you though a lot. See, and that third one, it doesn't just politely step out of the room. That third choice, it kicks you in the teeth, slams a door, and takes a piece of your furniture with it. That's how this works. And people hate this idea. I really don't know why. And people hate this because they always presume that they're the exception. and they think they can find some magical unicorn rainbow hack that gives them all three. You cannot. You can't. And every time you try, you lose. Either money, time, or the results. So, you're always carrying with you three prerequisites for success, right? Time, money, and energy. And you have to expend all of them. But the triangle doesn't care about your budget or your dreams or your feelings or your mom or what you went through or how hard the last year has been or the fact that your dad died or you just have some things you're trying to handle. It's cold and unforgiving and absolutely fair because you expect this to be an exception to you, but then it wouldn't be fair. This triangle applies to everybody in life. Listen, let me get something straight. This is why cheap is like cheap. Sometimes I think about it and I've been guilty of this and so is everybody else listening to this. People spend ungodly amounts of money on the stupidest things for no reason other than to get somebody look their look their direction and like them and gain their approval. But they don't spend money on the things that will give them approval from themselves. So they actually chase cheap for all the stupid things. That's why cheap is a cancer. It's not smart. Cheap isn't smart. It's not savvy. It's not responsible. It's not humble. You're not being thrifty or whatever it is or sensible. This is an infection and it eats up all the outcomes from the inside out because you start to buy into it. You buy a $99 course and you expect it to change your life. You get a three-day dopamine hit and a 9-month detour into all the disappointment that you already had that you were trying to run away from. You hire the cheapest trainer in town and think your body is going to look like an Olympian. No. Here's what's going to happen. You're going to end up in physical therapy with a shoulder that clicks every time you scratch your back or reach for your wallet. You hire a fi List, I could do this all day. You're gonna hire this Fiverr developer to build you a website that's got no experience, but they're the cheapest you can find. Awesome. Now, your checkout page isn't going to load, and your brand looks like it was designed by Microsoft Paint by someone who hates you. That's what happens with all this. Cheap is not the flex that you think it is. And yet, right now, cheap is sexy and trendy. It is like failure and losing and mediocrity are now the new winning to people. Except none of that is true. That is the hypnosis of social conditioning. Cheap is telling the world, I don't value the outcome enough to pay for it. The end. Just let that sit for a second because you know what happens when you go cheap? You pay at least twice. At least twice. Listen, you're going to buy the wrong thing and then it's going to break and it doesn't deliver. It's going to slow you down and then you pay again. Only now, now you're out of money, out of time, and out of options. So, you have to borrow it. You have to beg for it or you just have to suck it up and take twice as long anyway. That's not a strategy. That is financial massochism. You want your brand, your business, your body, your marriage, your relationship, your self-worth to be world class, then start by eliminating cheat from your decision-making vocabulary. That's the bottom line. And let me tell you why. And I I had to learn this the same way as everybody else. Except for some reason when someone comes on and says, "Let me explain what works and how it works and why it does work." And then look at my life as the walking, talking, living, breathing example of how well it works. It's met with here's another guy that's telling me that his life is so great and to buy his course. I haven't said anything about buying my course and I'm not telling you how great my life is. I'm saying I am an example of what works and then I give you this stuff for free. So, if you're going to be a [\h__\h] and go, "Here's another guy." That's refle that's a reflection of you and your problems with yourself and you hate the fact that I'm calling you out and you're looking for a way to fight back and justify why you are where you are and your life sucks. Let me tell you why I win. It's not because I'm smarter than you. It's not because I had better parents or more money or some once in a-lifetime opportunity. I had none of that. It's because I'm faster than you significantly. Because by the time you've had your second meeting, I've already launched, tested, failed, iterated, relaunched, and made five sales while you're collecting all these opinions, I'm collecting data. Why would that not make sense to you? You're asking for permission and having meetings with yourself and everybody else and doing your due diligence. I'm I'm getting results. Speed beats everything because it gives you something nobody else nobody else has and nothing else will give you. It gives you feet. It gives you data points. You want to get rich, get feedback faster. You want to build a better body, get failure faster. You want to fix your marriage, have that hard conversation now, not after three self-help books and a couple's retreat that ends in you guys getting divorced or the silent treatment for the next 6 months. Speed wins because speed is clarity of focus in motion. It is singular of focus and clarity of focus in motion. When you move fast, life has no choice but to reveal all the cards to you. And if you're exceptional and fast, you're unbeatable. You can't be touched because there's only one catch. It's not going to be cheap. That's it. That's it. If you're exceptional and fast, you are unbeatable. One catch. It just won't be cheap. Well, guess what? It's a price worth paying. My opinion, you go hard into the paint for three years. And not the manufactured. You don't understand. I've been working really hard. If you don't have the results, no, you haven't. or you haven't hired somebody to teach you how to do it or you haven't listened to the people that are succeeding because you're too busy going against their narrative because you don't like that it exposes where you keep quitting. Not being cheap. Oh, that's a price worth being it's worth paying. Speed saves your life, your time. Delay destroys it. Look at how this triangle plays out in real life. Triangle is cheap, fast and easy, or exceptional. That's it. So, look at business. I I'll give you a bunch of examples just so you can understand this because you should do an audit of your life. If you want to take something away from this podcast, then spend the rest of the weekend. It is Saturday today, Saturday, July 5th. Spend the rest of the weekend auditing your life and looking for all these hidden security risks that you're running in your own life. So, look at business. Cheap and fast equals cookie cutter copywriting, trash leads, broken systems, bot email lists. cheap and exceptional. That's going to be an agency that'll work with you when they're free in six months, right? Your pipeline dies in the meantime and you make no money. And if you want, now here, go to this one. Fast and exceptional. This is a third choice. You hire the killers. You drop 25 to 30k a month and they make you 250 to 300,000 back. Yeah, it hurt. So what? The return punches back harder. You do you understand this? you. The ROI is insane. If you are making two, three, four, 5x on whatever you're putting in, why are you not doing it? You guys are putting in nothing and wondering why you're not getting everything. I just explained why. You look at fitness, it's the same thing. Cheap and fast. There's your YouTube workouts and you get 10 minutes of sweat and zero upgrades of your physiology. Nothing. Cheap and exceptional. There's YouTube 2hour tutorials, Instagram workouts, and 3 years later, you're still fat. You're just more informed. If you want fast and exceptional, pay for the best coach, the best trainer, customized plan, and you do all of the work that they tell you to do. You don't skip workouts. You don't ignore what they say, and you don't hide from them when they're holding you accountable. The results are going to be in a 100 days. Not free, not even close to free, but you'd pay double if you knew how good you'd feel and how badass you. But you guys, you guys don't play, you guys don't play chess. You play checkers and you go, "How fast can I finish the game?" But the game you're the point isn't to finish the game. The point is to win the game. You can do this with a relationship cheap and fast. Yeah. Swipe swipe on your dating apps or your Tinder dates so you go home and have some great. You guys are going to be like, "Oh, meaningless meaningless sus is great." Are you kidding? I've been married for two decades. The sex is faking insanely it just gets better every time. My wife is so hot and so wild because over two decades you develop trust and honesty and you have problem telling each other what you like. But you go ahead with cheap and fast. Knock yourself out. Keep swiping on those dating apps for the dopamine hits and a bunch of empty vacuous conversations. You want cheap and exceptional. Okay. So you want soulmate level connection but won't invest in therapy, dates, mindset books, personal development, self-worth, or actual communication. Good luck. You want fast and exceptional? Okay, sit down. Tell the truth. Get honest with yourself. Get honest with the other person. Commit to growth and actually show up. It costs time. It costs money. It costs your ego. And it's worth every single month. Pick one. You could do this with wealth. Building is always my favorite because Instagram social media is loaded with quick fix get-richqu scams, which is cheap and fast scam. Cheap and exceptional index fund in 40 years. game. Great. No thanks. You'll be wealthy when your back goes out and you can't even get out of your car. You want fast and exceptional. You build a real business. You make real money with real leverage. And then you pay top tier minds to mentor you and give you the shortcut through the path or down the path. I did this. I spent the best money I've ever spent was on real mentors and real coaches, which is why I do it. It's exactly why I decided to start a mentorship and help people because I know what it's like to have no guidance and think every YouTube video is going to be the next thing. It doesn't work like that. You want to do $1 million in your brand in one year from scratch, you need to listen to every single thing I tell you to do. I know because I've done it. I'm walking around as an example proving it. And I go out and I go, "Here, let me show you how to do it." But you have to decide you're going to do it. If you're going to cut any corner, miss any steps, don't join. And this triangle, just so you know, applies to everywhere. Your health, your time, your peace, your freedom, your sleepless nights. It's all of it. Ignore it and life is going to happily gut check you again and again until you bleed. Singularity of focus. So let me go over this just so I have this straight because even just thinking about this I can feel the energy from people listening to this which is you're you need to stop thinking like this discounted version of yourself because you want most people want listen if you guys are going to just not listen to this then you lose you forfeit your right to complain about the mediocrity you live in. You want high performance at clearance pricing. You want loyalty without any commitment. So you only want it from the other side. And you want to win without any pain or suffering. So you want heaven without dying is what you're saying. Good luck. The Bible says otherwise. But hey, let's keep it 100. Excellence has never been on sale. Exceptional has never once been on sale. When you walk through the door of your own goals, life is going to ask you for payment in full right there on the spot. No payment plans, nothing. All in right now. No layaway, no group, no coupon, no, hey, I have to wait for my check to come in. Can I circle back in quarter three full price right now? And the faster you pay, the faster you win. And the excuses just tumble out of people's mouths when they you present them with the bill. I can tell you exactly how much it costs to be in my mentorship, my mastermind. Excuse, excuse, excuse, excuse, except your life, every time you open your eyes, it looks the same. And you keep thinking the next thing's going to show up. It hasn't yet. You have convinced yourself that tomorrow's going to be better, but you've done nothing different to make tomorrow better than decide to save a different video on Instagram or bookmark a YouTube video and go, "I'll watch it later. That one's going to make me rich." Money is speed. Speed is power. So, money equals power. Get that straight. Your job is to collapse time. The way you collapse time is you pay somebody to help you do it faster, better, with better results. Right? It's no secret. It's math. Fast execution times real feedback equals compounding clarity. That is math. This is archetypal truth. It's a fundamental structure of reality. You sacrifice today intelligently so that tomorrow is just stacked in your favor. Except what ends up happening is most people sacrifice today as idiots. and with excuses and tomorrow is going to be better because I hope it will. Hope is not a strategy. And then tomorrow everything's against you and you complain that the system hates you and you're not lucky. You're not lucky because you keep doing things to make it worse. So you have a choice. You can make your peace with a triangle and get comfortable with being uncomfortable and never pick cheap again. Or you can keep coming up with reasons why you deserve all three and that you're entitled because you've worked so hard. Your results say that you haven't. If you don't have what you want, if you can look, if you look at your life right now and you go, "My life is not the way I want it to be." Then you have work to do. Because here's why most people stay broke, fat, confused, stuck. It's because they make decisions like this. What's the cheapest way to get the best outcome without changing anything if possible in the least amount of time with no risk, low effort, guarantees, and no pain? That's loser bottom feeder garbage dump dregs of society loser. Do you want to stop living like 90% of the world? That's not a compliment. You want to you want to do that? Stop thinking like every damn one of them. Listen, here's how successful people make decisions. You understand? I wasn't born like this. I had to learn this as well. The difference between me and anyone who's not there yet is because I went, I don't like where I am and I hate where I am more than anything required to change it. So, let's go. So, here's how a successful I'll teach you how this is how a successful person I make decisions. What's the most effective way to get exceptional results fast? Even if it hurts, even if it costs more, even if it makes me uncomfortable and it makes me grow into someone who deserves it. That's the question. Even if it's uncomfortable, it makes me grow into somebody who deserves all of those results. That is what winner math looks like. The rest is just background noise. It's a bunch of dead dreams with a pseudo pulse. I think a lot of you guys think you're underpaid for how much you work, but you're not underpaid. You just haven't moved fast enough to earn leverage on yourself, on your own life. You are playing the long game when the short game was the launch pad. You value cheap while saying you want freedom. That doesn't work. The math doesn't math. So, let me ask because if you ask these questions and you spend some time actually going into your own life and auditing how your life looks and what you want it to be, you're going to find so many holes and you're going to get to work or you're just going to run and hide to distractions. Those the only two options you have. So, let me ask, if your freedom cost $100,000 this year, could you buy it? If it did, if your dream body cost 20 grand in coaching, food, blood work, labs, would you invest? If your relationship demanded, listen to me. This is the one people have a hard time with. And remember, this is all stuff that I get from coaching clients where I go, this is a common thread, so I'm going to pull on this one. If your relationship demanded total absolute honesty, brutal communication, and some tough as hell sessions, would you still stay or would you look for some discount impent version of your dream? Because the longer you chase discounts, I'll tell you right now, the more expensive the lesson gets. And that's not a cliche. It's fact. And if you look at your life and you look in the mirror and you ask yourself, am I who I want to be, living where I want with all of the freedoms that I want and I feel that I deserve, am I doing the work to get there? All of these things. If you're none of that, you're still learning lessons just to get started. Every day I learn lessons and every day I take the lesson and I apply it to the to the following day and go, "All right, I learned the lesson. How do I apply it?" Not, "I learned the lesson. How do I hide from it?" So listen, here's the real choice. You can pay now or you can pay forever. It's that simple. But I promise you, make no mistake, you are going to pay. You can deny it all you want. You can hide behind all the things you want to take and drink and smoke and do and watch and rub out or all the things you do. But I promise you, you will pay. You will either bleed your blank your bank account now or you bleed your confidence, your energy, your time, and your potential for the next 20, 30, 40 years. So how about this? Burn this. Just what have you got to lose, man? What have you got to lose listening to this and applying it to your life? Either you just burn this into your nervous system. Just test it. What have you got to lose? Do it until Monday. Never pick cheap again because it's the quiet killer of everything you really want and you know it. Always pick exceptional because anything less is is just a waste of your time. Always move fast because speed buys it buys you the most expensive thing in the world. It buys you freedom. Listen, the triangle never lies. Only people do and they usually lie to themselves. So, pick the right to and then pay like everything in your life and your entire future and that whole dream and vision that you wish you had that you still think you're entitled to depends on it. Because it does. If you can do that, success. There's your guarantee. There's your certainty. There's your guarantee. Make the right two choices. Fast and exceptional. Be willing to pay whatever the price. I got to go. Never miss.