 all right, Super Bowl Sunday, I'm gonna knock this out. Anyway, do you know why? Because I give a crap about you guys. I want you guys to have the information and I'm getting a lot of questions about growth hormone and to samarillin and CJC with DAC, without DAC, IPAMRILLIN, all this stuff. So I'm gonna give you a masterclass on two peptides that can pretty much rewire your entire human operating systems. CJC with DAC and IPAMRILLIN and why they're so powerful together, 40% more just so you understand increase. It's astounding the level of nonsense being put out on social media and the sheer number of people that try and throw shade on me for giving this out for free and it's because here, help you out. It's because I'm taking money out of their pocket by telling you what decision to make by giving you the actual information. I don't care if you buy from me or not. It doesn't matter to me. Buy from me. Don't buy from me. That doesn't matter. I've been showing up here for over a year. We're going on a year and two months every day and I've never gone, oh, I'm gonna stop. Come on. I'm gonna take my ball and go home. People are weird. Anyway, this is a masterclass on CJC-1295 with DAC. You guys call it DAC, whatever you want. And IPAMRILLIN, why they're married together. And this is gonna, this is probably gonna fundamentally change how you think about your body because this, like in a biological reality way because you're being taught that, and I've said this before, that aging is this inevitability. And yes, within the context of being mortal, yes, but you're also being told that disease is normal, except I want you to think about something. If you have a dog, just follow me on this. I love dogs. Anybody that doesn't like dogs, you're fundamentally broken. I've got nothing to say to you and we're never gonna get along because I think dogs are friggin fantastic. And we have a bunch of them and I'm always gonna have house with a dog in it. And just, I've realized that it's nothing to do with this podcast, but this part does. How many times does your dog get sick every single year? Just stop there. How many times does your cat get sick every single year? I know people that have had the same dog for 14 years. The dog has never been sick once and they've been sick 50 times. And I, if you get in my comments, well, I never get sick. Listen, that's not what this is about. You're not being taught that it's normal for your dog to get sick. If you are, you need to fire your vet. There are pharmaceutical reps. I have a friend of mine. That's what his wife does. She's a pharmaceutical rep to go to Veterinary, not a vet because that's war, right? I get that and served our country. I'm saying veterinary offices. That's sales, man. You're teaching managed decline for Rover for Fido. Come on, man. You're being taught that it's normal to get sick all the time. Just process that. Why does your pet never get sick? You can get, I'm not, it's, this is just something for you to think about. Just big brain thinking. That's all it is. Why is your pet never getting sick? But you always are and it's normal for you and you just need to get the crap vaccinated out of you and have all kinds of things poke prodded, shoved up your butt, stuck down your pee hole, down your throat. All the things that are drilled into your skull, blood taken out of you every three months. Come on, man. You guys have got to wake up. Your body is not a lottery ticket that you can't control. It's not a scratcher. They're wrong. They're absolutely wrong. I'm trying to help you. I have nothing to sell you. I don't. I have nothing to sell you. Nothing to ask you. There's no funnel in this. If you want to join the Black Card, awesome. The membership's a year. It's still $9,997. It's by wire transfer only and it's access to my live Q&A real call that I do every single Monday at five and the VIP community and the protocol library that I have that I built, people that I've used, the things I've used for last 30 years almost with with patients and you can ask me anything right down to the labs. Throw them at me. I don't care. I'll help you. And if you want to buy from my company, Elite Biogenics, you go right ahead. Somebody made a post the other day saying my COAs were fake. You might want to, which is hilarious to me, you might want to send that message to Genociak, which is the industry standard. There's nobody doing it better than them out of Czechoslovakia. And you probably can't even spell Czechoslovakia. And if you're making those videos, but all my stuff is there. Every single one. I test the shit out of my own stuff. So anyone saying that my COAs are fake, you go right ahead. I put my money where my mouth is and I don't ever make reaction videos anything. So just keep that in mind when you guys are clamoring in my comments. I'm out here to help you not to take a damn thing from you and I don't have anything to sell you. So you want to join the black card, send Mia my executive assistant. She's a badass. She apply at unlockthecard.com. Ask her, she'll take care of you. If not, that's fine. Don't send me questions there because they're never going to get answered. So listen, I need to break down the operating system of longevity, human longevity. And I'm not speaking metaphorically. We're giving you some woo stuff. These are actual peptide conversations. This is probably the most entertaining thing next to I don't even know what's going on at the halftime show, but this is going to be more entertaining. It's going to be better. So look at this. Look at CJC-1295. Follow me. So most people have this completely backwards, right? You got to see I'm flexing my Beidros Cooley and mug that I got from him. This guy's a stud, man. I know it's off script, but this is a good dude, man. Beidros is a very dear friend of mine. And this guy is so frighteningly intelligent when it comes to building a business. And we're talking an empire. I've never met a dude that knows how to tear apart a business right down to the studs and rebuild it into a skyscraper as fast as effectively and as as successfully as Beidros. I've never seen anybody do that. And I like I'm grateful for this guy. He's just a rock star. But I got this mug from I got a couple of these from him. I've done it because I've done one on one with him. Best money I've ever spent you throw every dollar you got at that guy. He's worth it. And and I've also gone to his empire masterminds and stuff. And it's just you learn so much from this guy. If you don't follow him, you need to change your life. But any of you don't even you see this BK mug, people ask me where I get it. Beidros coolie. And there you go. So your here's how it works. Your pituitary glands, little tiny thing at the base of your brands like the size of an almond, super small. It's the organizer of your entire endocrine machine. And the primary thing that it's organizing is well growth hormone, you get most of you guys probably know that. But here's a mechanism. Hypothalamus produces this molecule called GHR H growth hormone releasing hormone. Okay, I realized two words hormone, it gets all confusing for people between that and GNRH. Just follow me. This peptide travels through the hypothesis of portal blood system and hits very specific receptors on the anterior pituitary cells. When GHR H binds to these GHR H receptors, it triggers this cascade calcium hits the cell, G proteins, cyclic and P spikes, pituitary releases growth hormone and pulses throughout the day. Yes, pulsatility matters. This is why and stop getting mad about me saying HGH isn't worth it. It's the most ridiculous thing you can ever stick in your body. If you have an option, if you have an infarcted pituitary or you have it's been removed or something, it's different. But arguing the fringe on either side of the argument is the weakest side of art, a sign of an argument. This is for you need the pulsatility. CJC-1295 with DAC to Samaritan. You want to do CJC-1295 without DAC, that's fine. Just got to take it every day. And it's just not as effective in the research proves it. Ipammaryllin, they work, Ipammaryllin works on ghrelin. So it's a different, it's a different pathway, but it still does very incredible things. But listen, this is very critical. Pulsatility matters. It matters. Growth hormone isn't released continuously. It's very pulsatile. Your body releases it in these undulating waves at night when usually during deep sleep and in response to some pretty savage exercise and metabolic stress. And here's where it gets fun. There's another one, somatostatin. It's another hypothalamic hormone acts as the off switch binds to a different receptor and it says, All right, hey man, listen, you need to stop releasing growth hormones. So now you've got this very beautiful, very well orchestrated system. GHRH says go and somatostatin says stop. And your growth hormone just pirouettes does a pot of beret in between both of those systems. Now watch CJC-1295 is a synthetic. It's not real growth hormone, a synthetic analog of GHRH. It's not GH. It's not GH. Growth hormone, releasing hormone, it tells your system what to do. But it's not just GHRH with a fancy new name. It's GHRH that's been very specifically engineered to be significantly more resistant to degradation. But here's why this matters physiologically. So natural HGA or natural GHRH gets broken down by something called dipeptidyl peptidase 4 DPP4. It's almost immediately like within minutes, your body has completely destroyed the GHRH. It's like screaming in order to your employees. And 30 seconds later, they don't even know you're saying anything, right, which is some of you guys might have that issue. You might want to call bedros for your business. But CJC-1295 without DAC, which stands for Drug Affinity Complex, doesn't really matter what it's nobody cares, has a longer half-life than natural GHRH. But it's still measured in a few hours. Watch though, CJC with DAC, and this isn't a matter of debate or argument. So don't get in my comments about that. This is where the real savage just sick engineering comes from. The DAC modification adding an albumin binding domain allows CJC-1295 to bind to albumin in the blood is the most abundant protein in your bloodstream. This is physiologically some serious genius work here because once bound to albumin, the peptide becomes invisible to the enzyme that destroys it, the DPP4. So now the kidneys can't filter it out, the proteases can't break it down, the peptide circulates for over a week. Let me say it again. Once provides one injection for your kangaroo pituitary stimulation for over a week up to two weeks. So the DAC is a game changer. The research is unbelievable. Only 13 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology metabolism showed CJC-1295 with DAC once a week produced significantly more consistent and biologically favorable and active IGF elevation IGF one compared to CJC-1295 without DAC, which required multiple administrations per week and less effective. But here's why this is important beyond the convenience of it. You guys are like, Oh, I don't want to take them all once. Can I take can I put it all in the same barrel? No, your body responds to homeostasis constant simulation creates constant adaptation without DAC, you get a nightmare and you don't get nearly the same hit. Now there are times before you go any further get in my comments. Yeah, there are times that without DAC is necessary. But for the most part, the difference between with DAC, which is the one I am angling you towards for all you guys going, which one should I do with DAC is the one I'm telling you should consider in your kangaroo experiment versus without it. But it's literally the difference between a coach who tells you to go run and then goes in the house and has a beer and watches the Super Bowl versus a coach who's out there yelling at you over and over again reinforcing the same message getting you to run faster and faster and better, you're doing your repeats and instead of doing for you do 30. It's different. You have to understand this. Now look at I pan Merellin because this is where things get a little wild. I pan Merellin completely different mechanism of action. I said that right with Grelin and understanding this distinction is very crucial. So why while CJC later while CJC-1295 works at the GHRH receptor level, I pan Merellin works at the Grelin receptor level, specifically GHS R1 a receptor. None of this really matters. But you guys ask me this is the growth hormone secretogog receptor, not the same. Let me explain the physiology. So Grelin is a peptide hormone primarily comes from your gut called the hunger hormone MK-677. If you guys have ever done it, it's oral by the way, if you guys ask me if it's an injectable peptide, it is not. It's not how it works. But it's also not a peptide. But MK-677 will make you ridiculously ravenous. Here's a little free piece of advice. If hypothetically, there is something where that requires by your kangaroo MK-677, the smartest thing you can do is also marry that with something called redditrutide. There you go, you're welcome. But listen, it's that calling I pan Merellin a hunger hormone, like or even ghrelin rather a hunger hormone is reductive, because ghrelin does it does so much more than that. Watch it first, it stimulates hunger by acting on your hypothalamus. Second, this is the part that most people know it's very powerful growth hormone stimulator. Third, it has these insanely profound metabolic effects. So when ghrelin binds to that receptor on your pituitary, it doesn't matter what it is anymore, it triggers this growth hormone release, but it's independent of the GHRH pathway. This is very physiologically important because it means you're not just stimulating one pathway, you're activating a parallel system. This matters because tachylphilaxis is a really big deal. So just follow me. And I'll explain this in a minute. Just stick with me, I'll land this plane. Trust me, I pan Merellin mimics this ghrelin binding. But it does it with a couple of critical differences. Primarily, it's very selective. It doesn't trigger all the ghrelin effects, specifically the hunger cascade. It just targets growth hormone secretion. So 2004 Journal of Endocrinology showed that I pan Merellin effectively stimulates growth hormone secretion with minimal effects on two things, prolactin and cortisol, meaning that you get pure growth hormone signaling without triggering these stress hormones or all the other unwanted cascades. Hold on, I got to drink some coffee. People ask me how I can drink coffee late at night. It's not late at night, late in the afternoon and still sleep. I don't know. I just I sleep four hours a night. I've been this way since I was a little kid. So this precision between these two compounds matters between these two peptides matters. But here's where the pharmaceutical sophistication meets biology in a very good way. CJC and I pan Merellin work on different receptors systems within the same organ. CJC-1295 hits GHRH receptors. I pan Merellin hits GHSR1A receptors. And here's the physiology physiological reality. These two pathways are complementary. Complimentary effects, by the way, not the same thing. So 2018 study, it was called Combined GHRH and Grellin Agonist Administration in Humans published European Journal of Endocrinology showed massive effect on GH secretion that exceeded the sum of each component along. Here's why though, because your pituitary cells express both types of receptors. So when both pathways are stimulated at the same time, you get a couple of things. More receptor sites activated leading to greater intracellular signaling cascade amplification. It's called increased receptor occupancy. You get convergent signaling. So both pathways trigger the calcium influx and the cyclic AMP production through slightly different routes. But it creates a compounded louder, more powerful, more punchy signal. This is where I was talking about the tachyphilaxis. When you hit only one receptor, your body down regulates very quickly with dual stimulation. This happens significantly more slowly. But the practical result is what I said at the beginning, 40% greater growth hormone elevation than you get from either single peptide alone. And with CJC-1295 with Dactyl Longer Lasting 1, you get very consistent, very sustainable, physiologically appropriate. I got to tell you this. That's why you guys taking HGH, you guys got to be careful. Stop thinking it's okay. You guys are playing the fire. It's a very appropriate elevation. So let me explain aging because that's what this is all about. Aging is a disease of signaling problems and growth hormone insufficiency combined with systemic degradation degeneration. Here's the physiology that most doctors should know and a lot of them don't and don't get mad. Just think between the ages of 25 and 60, 65 growth hormone declines by 50%. You ever take this isn't natural. That's pathological. It's because it directly correlates with every single marker of aging muscle loss, bone density reduction, gain thinning, metabolic slowdown, you get pudgy and you don't know why cognitive decline that you forget why you walked into a room. T90 New England Journal of Medicine by Rudman showed GH replacement specifically using analogs in elderly men. They use men specifically because we usually die sooner, produce dramatic improvements in body composition, bone density and skin thickness. These are all things that I'd want to check on my box if I'm going for longevity. CJC-1295 with DIC and I Pamerell and work on longevity through a couple of your pathways. Watch. So if you look at cellular proliferation and mitochondrial function growth hormone increases IGF one production at the liver and locally in tissues IGF one activates a pathway that increases mitochondrial biogenesis and up regulates antioxidant enzymatic production. So 2019 they showed that elevated GH and IGF one increases something called PGC one alpha. So PGC one alpha is what tells your body to make more mitochondria. It's like the regulator of metabolic health or mitochondrial health. You're literally creating healthier new mitochondria. That's not anti aging. That's like taking a rejuvenation potion in a video game and you go back to being the powerful entity that you were when you started before you got the crap beat out of you. It protects telomeres. Now the pital on telomeres elongation, agglets on the end of your DNA. We've gone over this a bunch of times, but growth hormone stimulates telemorase activity in cells. 2016 in aging cell showed GH elevation increased telomeres expression slowing the shortening. Teleromeres are those caps on your DNA and when they shorten cells age remember 50 to 70 divisions is about what it's good for. And then all of a sudden the cell usually either dies or becomes senticent, which is that little biological terrorist that's just spewing out inflammatory cytokines making your life worse. When telomerase is active cells maintain themselves longer. The autophagy man cellular cleanup GH is cranking when it's with specifically CJC and IPAMREL and with DAC elevated GH level stimulates and tour pathway at the appropriate levels. Listen, it also maintains autophagy through AMPK activation. This is a very fine balance. I'm not kidding, but with regular physiological dosing, you get a bunch of cellular house cleaning without the pathological overgrowth that comes with HGH. 2017 Journal of Gerontology moderate GH elevation increased autophagy markers while maintaining anabolic signaling, which means it's making you healthier by cleaning up the mess at the same time. So this is the framework that everybody I go over this every time I'm going to do it again. You need to understand this every single chronic disease and every single one. Where's my Nobel Prize? Three core biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage. It is it's 100% I'm batting 1000 but I'm not doing it to brag. I'm doing it because I give a crap about you. I'm not here because I love you. Not because I love me. My wife does that for me. She loves me. Obviously, I love myself. You have to be a jerk. If you don't, you're stupid. Don't wait for other people to love you. By the way, love yourself. Be okay with that. Don't let don't you don't need permission to just be totally cool with yourself. But listen, I'm out here because I care. So watch CJC-1295, the DAC and I, Pamerellan directly address all three of these failures. Come on, man. Like I don't I look at aging and I want to fight this thing the whole way in the best version in the best body version of me possible mentally, physically, all of it. So watch, look at inflammation growth growth hormone is profoundly anti inflammatory. It doesn't just suppress cytokines. It shifts macrophage phenotype from pro inflammatory. Remember M1 to anti inflammatory and two and 2015 cytokine, the study in cytokine showed that elevated GH decreases IL6, TNF alpha while increasing IL10 and TGF beta, which are anti inflammatory. And this is happening at the cellular communication level. Look at insulin resistance growth hormone, growth hormone. Let me back up a little bit. HGH when you take exogenous growth hormone, not analogs like this that tell your body to do its job better, but exogenous that go your body doesn't need to do it. And I'm not talking about people that desperately need it because they're not going to survive. I'm saying in general as a performance aid or something, you just want to look at the beach, whatever the hell else you guys take it for. I think personally, you guys should stop taking you guys are going to wreck yourselves. It makes you massively insulin resistant. It's one of the quote unquote side effects. Remember, there's no such thing as side effects. They're only effects. They give my fancy name. So you guys think they don't happen absolutely incorrect. They happen all the time. So growth hormone increases insulin sensitivity here this way, this from you and dodgeness, not exogenous, right from you, it does this. And this peptide isn't exogenous growth hormone, it's telling your body to make its own, not the same. So it increases glute for translocation. These are the glucose transporters and muscle cells that float that basically migrate to the surface float move whatever you want to say, become very, very efficient. Second, it enhances mitochondrial function. And when your mitochondria work better, insulin signaling improves, GH reduces visceral adiposity. So this is all coming as a spin off from CJC and Ip amerellum, right? The bad fat that's around your organs, which is the primary driver by the way of insulin resistance 2012 diabetes care showed GH restoration improved home IR insulin resistance index. You ready for this 40% in GH deficient adults taking here's the problem, you have to understand biology here if you endocrinology. If you take exogenous growth hormone outside in, it's not going to make this better the way you think. In fact, it's going to have a detrimental effect because it increases insulin resistance. So just that's why you need your body, you need your biology to work better, not to, you're going to suppress things more if you don't, does that make sense? So just stay with me on this. This is really important. So now look at ATP production growth hormone and IGF one cascade stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis through what did I say the PGC one alpha, you're literally building more mitochondria producing more ATP 2014 cell metabolism showed GH elevation increased mitochondrial number and function improving muscle ATP production 5%. If your car has 35% you guys remember when you put like an air filter on and maybe a tune or something, if you drive a diesel, you literally get like an edge programmer like a piggyback program and not the greatest way to do this by the way, but you're doing that's fine. But you get a programmer, an intake and exhaust and all of a sudden your truck is like a rocket. Yeah, that's literally what you're doing. And I realize if you go all year, but you also blow the transmission, I'm just using it as a metaphor about how 35% is a massive increase. Solve these three failures and you solve 100% of chronic disease pathologies. I'm out here to help you. So look at this. Let's get visceral on this. When you have CJC-1295 with DAC and I PAMRL and here's what happens at the muscle fiber level. Okay, there's a couple of things that occur IGF one first wave of this IGF one because it comes like this, you got to understand this IGF one up regulation first wave of this growth hormone hits the liver, hepatocytes increase IGF one production IGF one hits the bloodstream hits type one ITF one receptors on your muscle cells. This receptor is a tyrosine kinase. It phosphorylates and I've talked about this IRS one activates a pathway which activates this a key which activates this AKT PKB. The unique understand this but it doesn't matter all the enzymes that are happening between that but AKT is the master metabolic signal molecule. This is really important when it activates. This is where mTOR pathway turns on protein synthesis right in increases the Foxo three is inhibited protein breakdown decreases and GSK three beta is inhibited which is the protein translation that gets improved. So you're building muscle. This is so important you build you need muscle muscle is the longevity organ. You're building muscle through both anabolic amplification and catabolic reduction. So you're building it and keeping yourself from breaking it down. It's not like a myostatin inhibitor by the way. That's not even close. Now the second wave watch what happens satellite cell activation. So IGF one also activates satellite cells. These are the muscles stem cells. That's why when I talk about peg MGF right these are very important things to understand these cells proliferate and differentiate into myonucleide expanding the muscle fibers capacity for protein synthesis. So 2008 Journal of Physiology showed IGF one increased satellite cell number. Oh 35% So here let me explain why that matters more myonucleide greater protein synthesis capacity ready for this bigger muscles. That's it. That's it. Now I'm hesitant to talk about this because you guys will I thought you said these are that it has myostatin inhibition but not the way you're thinking right. It's not like SR 9009 or anything like that or full of statin or anything like that. Just follow me. Growth hormone and IGF one inhibit myostatin which is a negative regulator of muscle growth as myostatin less breaking on growth 2010 but this is still within physiological levels. It's not super physiological nonsense. So 2010 they showed elevated GH decreased myostatin messenger RNA mRNA expression by 40%. So real numbers look at this studies using growth hormone and ghrelin agonists. The combination show lean mass gains of about six to eight pounds per month in previously growth hormone deficient individuals with almost no fat gain. So this is real lean mass. These are things that should be checking boxes as you age. I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 next month. I look at these things and I take them very seriously. And if you ask can your 15 year old take this are you out of your mind. They're still making things on their own. You're messing with their biology. Don't do it. My opinion. Look at let's go a little further. Look at your immune system. This has so many benefits. It has two branches. Nate immunity which is the first responders and adaptive immunity which are these specialized well trained soldiers right both decline with age both are restored by CJC-1295 with DAC and I have hammer Ellen. So look at this is stuff that's cool because what do you think keeps you cancer free your damn immune system. So look at innate immunity right. The first responders growth hormone stimulates macrophage function and number 2013 endocrinology showed that growth hormone deficient individuals 30% 30% fewer circulating macrophages restoration normalizes this growth hormone also increases the big one that you want to know and case cells natural killer cells the number of them and cytotoxic activity. So N case cells are your surveillance system right there like I was just like a little radar just checking things out. It's against cancer and viral infection when GHS elevated and case cell activity increases by about 40%. Now look at adaptive immunity. So IGF one supports thymus function like this thing sitting right above your heart. The organ where T cells mature. If you remember when I was talking about this. So with your age your thymus remember I talked about thymus and alpha one the other day the masterclass. It's you don't remember you should it's that good with age your thymus atrophies growth hormone signals actually reverse this atrophy 2011 study in immunity and aging showed GH therapy increased thymic tissue volume in aging individual sign me up because this means better T cell selection better immune memory better pathogen recognition which means you can fight better your system the soldiers get in there and they're better trained look at the specific effects. 2016 study journal of immunology showed that elevated GH increased IL2 and IFN from T cells enhancing the TH1 response enhanced antiviral and anti cancer immunity. This is what's happening without getting fancy your immune systems literally getting younger. So now look at your look at neurology. Okay. So one of my biggest fears and one of my really good friends he's he and I share the same mindset where the last thing we want to do is lose our ability to think and process and have conversations and deduce and have a debate and things like that and learn. It's frightening. So I never want to get to that point if at all possible but this is extraordinary listen this growth hormone crosses the blood brain barrier obviously and once in the CNS central nervous system it activates GH receptors on neurons astrocytes oligodendrocytes. Let me explain why this is so rad sorry my camera keeps going in and out my hands are waving around like I'm an Italian I'm not Italian. So BDNF up regulation so brain derived neurotrophic factor is the growth hormone of the brain 2009 neuro endocrinology showed that elevated GH increases BDNF expression by 45 friggin percent. So follow me on this if there's a neurological decline I'm just throwing this out there so you have information. Cmax look at how much it increases BDNF look at cerebral lysine look at what it does to cognitive decline JC 1295 with DAC and at Pamerellen what did I just say what do you think should be happening in this time in what about the thymus and alpha one that tells the microglia to stop taking a blow torch to your own neurons. There's so many things here that I'm trying to get you to understand I realize I'm going back but it's like I'm teaching a class go watch more BDNF more synaptic classicity better learning better memory better cognitive function look at the neural protection IGF on activates I told you the AP 13k AKT in neurons it doesn't matter the pathway but it inhibits pro apoptotic pathways that you're literally preventing your neuronal death when they don't need to go so 2012 study showed that elevated IGF one protected against amyloid beta toxicity the protein that accumulates in what what is it somebody throw it at me yell it at the screen Alzheimer's Alzheimer's look  neurogenesis, growth hormone stimulation, neurogenesis in the hippocampus, the creation of new neurons. But this isn't theoretical. 2010, New England Journal of Medicine showed that increased hippocampal neurogenesis in growth hormone-treated subjects, that new neurons in your brain, I'm going to tell you right now, that is anti-aging at the neurological level. Look at the practical results. Patients on combined GH therapy have all proven this, cognitive processing, faster, quicker, more accurate. This isn't a placebo. Axonal myelation and synaptic density improvement. Look at renal function. I could go through every system in your body, but your kidneys are these vascular organs. They filter based on glomerular function, a little tough, right? It works on osmolarity, but with age, glomerular filtration declines. Kidney function decreases about 1% per year after age 30. Growth hormone, the JC1295 with DAC and Epamaryl, pretty much reversed this. I'll explain it. Look at glomerular endothelial repair. Imagine pairing this with BPC-157, by the way. Let's just throw that out there. IGF-1 stimulates endothelial growth factor, VEGF production in kidney cells. VEGF promotes angiogenesis, new blood vessel formation. In the glomerulus 2014 study, kidney international showed GH treatment increased glomerular capillary density 20%. Look at the potocytes, a little foot shape. This is really, I'm not kidding. They are. Potocytes are these filtering cells in your glomerulus. They're damaged by hyperglycemia. So now we're looking at diabetes, type 1, type 2, doesn't matter. And hypertension. The hypertension numbers are ridiculous, by the way, because they're a lie. I'll just say that. IGF-1 activates protective pathways in these potocytes. 2015, they showed IGF-1 decreased potocyte apoptosis, the cell death in diabetic people by 35%. So look at this. In CJC and IPAMREL and treated people, glomerular filtration rates stabilize or improves. Creatinine clearance improves. Kidney function becomes more youthful. If your eGFR improves, you want, this is critical. Kidney function directly correlates with longevity. 100%. Look at your cardiovascular system, okay? Here's something most people don't understand. Growth hormone is 100% cardio protective. I'm not talking growth of your heart because you're taking exogenous to get in a large heart. That involves TB-500. That's a whole other conversation to have. But look at the vascular remodeling this does. Growth hormone and IGF-1 stimulate VEGF production in endothelial cells. What did I say? More VEGF, more angiogenesis, improved coronary perfusion. 2011, in circulation, they showed GH therapy increased coronary blood flow 25%. Never mind the ejection fraction that it solves. Look at the endothelial function, okay? IGF-1 activates enos. Remember, enos and inos, okay? This is the endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Nitric oxide causes vasodilation. 2013 study showed elevated IGF-1 improved flow mediated dilation 40% in subjects with vascular dysfunction. Sign me up. Okay, so left ventricle remodeling. I got a touch on this because I wasn't going to, but you need to, that's why I was talking about ejection fraction and enlarge heart TB-500. Just follow me. Growth hormone, I'm trying to rip this out as fast as possible because I got stuff to do. Okay, growth hormone reverses left ventricular hypertrophy in large heart, thickening of the heart muscle that occurs with age, hypertension, athlete's heart. It's the easiest way you can say it. Okay, 2012, but imagine, just follow me. Follow me. TB-500 is the only thing that's ever shown to reverse fibrotic activity in the myocardium. It's the only thing that's been shown outside of what I'm talking about right now to reduce athlete's heart, which they said was irreversible. Come on, you guys, somebody, hang with me on this. This is so important. 2012, Journal of Cardiac Failure showed GH restoration improved ejection fraction and reduced ventricular wall thickness. Boom. This is life changing for people and yet they're still going to give you a beta blocker. They're not even taking into consideration the rena and angiotensin pathway, right? Aldosterone pathway where your heart is a secretory organ. It works with your kidneys. Your kidneys work with your heart, but nobody looks at that. Listen, remember, GH reduces the inflammatory issue, right? It reduces systemic inflammation. Arterial inflammation measured by hs-CRP, C-reactive protein is primary driver of atherosclerosis. Lower inflammation, slower or if any plaque progression. Your heart works more efficiently. Your arteries dilate better. Coronary blood flow improves. You're literally making your cardiovascular system younger like when you were 12. You want to have some fun? Let's hit menopause, baby. Menopause is fundamentally, and I talk about this a lot because it's a real catastrophe and it's not supposed to be. It's being sold as one. Hormone deficiency state, right? Estrogen and progesterone decline. Fact, okay? That's just fact. Growth hormone also declines. This creates this cascade of systemic problems. CJ1295 with DAC and Epamerella don't replace estrogen or progesterone. I'm not saying that. They can't, but they address the foundational physiology that's broken. Okay? Look at the vasomotor stability. Growth hormone stabilizes the autonomic nervous system function through increased vagal tone, excuse me, and improved neurotransmitter balance. Code 2010, menopause showed GH therapy reduced hot flash frequency, 50%. Now remember what I said about DCIP and remember what I said about MOTC? Are you guys starting to stitch this together? I'm out here to help you guys. I'm just out here to help you. Okay? Look at the bone density issue. Okay? Cortical thinning, not the court trabecular and cortical bone. So postmenopausal bone loss is usually primarily due to estrogen deficiency. GH and IGF-1 stimulate osteoblast. The builders, osteoclast, bring it down. Activity directly. So 2012 showed GH therapy increased bone formation in postmenopausal women, 35%. How about the metabolism? It restores that too. Growth hormone reverses the metabolic disaster that happens because of what's going on with menopause and it's not supposed to, by the way, stop being sold on this stuff. IGF-1 improves insulin sensitivity. 2014, they showed GH therapy improved metabolic rate by 12% in postmenopausal women. How about tissue hydration? Collagen, it's not looking old. How about that? Does that sound a little better than just using pure science? Growth hormone stimulates fibroblast activity and collagen synthesis improves skin hydration, sickness. Elasticity 2015 showed that improved skin quality markers in GH treated women by 35%. Women, watch, here's the button up on this. Okay? Hot flashes, reduced, better bone density, improvement metabolism, better skin quality, better hair, improved sexual function. This isn't replacement therapy. It's restoration of the underlying physiology that's going on. And remember what I said about thyroid? Okay, listen, this is important. Growth hormone regulates thyroid function. It improves thyroid-simulating hormone sensitivities. Pardon my nose is getting stuffed up. IGF-1 increases thyroid cells sensitivity, right? Watch. 2009, thyroid showed that GH deficient individuals had blunted TSH response and that GH restoration normalized this. You know what that means? Your thyroid responds better to the signaling hormone that it's designed to respond to. It optimizes conversion. So your body converts T4 thyroxine to T3, which is the active form through DI-odinase enzymes. So the growth hormone regulates these enzymes. 2011, showed that elevated growth hormone increases T3 production by 20%. How about thyroid peroxidase protection? This is a disaster. Follow me. Chronic inflammation damages thyroid peroxidase. Growth hormone reduces, what did I say? Systemic inflammation protects thyroid function. So as thyroid function improves, metabolic rate increases, weight management is easier. You sleep better, you wake up better, you have sex better, your energy improves, your life improves, the end might drop. And let me address the elephant in the room before somebody goes ballistic. Growth hormone causes cancer. Listen, this is epidemiologically incorrect. It's mechanistically completely unfounded and it's contradicted by biology and research and all the literature out there. So I'll be just totally scientific about this to help you. Look at the epidemiology. 2004 Meta-Analysis Journal of Clinical Endocrinology Metabolism, analyzed 6,200. That's a lot of people, folks. GH treated individuals for 15 years. No increased cancer, none. In fact, the rates were identical to age match controls. So watch, if GH caused cancer, okay, let's just go down that road. If it did, we'd see some epidemiological signal. But we don't. We don't. It's not possible. Go a little further. So cancer requires multiple hits. Number one, it requires my three biological failures of all disease. 100%. I already proved this. Me and Otto Warburg were like this. So we understand the change to anaerobic respiration, all this stuff, okay, fermentation, all this stuff. Just follow me on this. So the multiple hits, you need oncogenic mutations, you need loss of tumor suppressors, you need a vision of immune surveillance, and you need the three biological failures, which all feed this. But growth hormone doesn't cause mutations at all. It doesn't disable tumor suppressors. It enhances immune surveillance through NK cell and T cell activation. So 2013, Cancer Immunology Immune in Immunotherapy, they showed elevated IGF-1 actually improved tumor immunity through enhanced T cell function. How does it cause cancer again? Go a little further. The IGF-1 concern, because that's where people go with this. People worry that IGF-1 promotes cancer growth. There's a nuance to this, and this is where people in Reddit and Quora and all over Instagram that you guys trying to pick apart me, I'm out here freaking help you. I'm the only doctor out here doing this. Everything I post, every single link that I have, none of it is a funnel. You know how many funnels I have? Zero, zero. There's nothing, all this. I don't gate keep a damn thing. I give you everything for free. You want to join me? Great. You don't great, but I don't gate keep a damn thing. So look, cells have both IGF-1 receptors, growth signals and IGFBP3 interactions, growth inhibition. So the balance matters. Physiological elevation of GH, IGF-1, the kind you get from CJC-1295 with Dachneipamerellen keeps that healthy balance. Magical elevation like acromegaly, where your growth hormone is 50 times normal, that's different. The therapeutic elevation, 2, 3X normal. It's why you guys taking exogenous and you're wondering why you're having all these problems dragging your knuckles on the ground with a giant sloping forehead and you have an enlarged heart and you're insulin resistant, of course, because you're taking 40 times the normal amount. Therapeutic elevation, 2 to 3X protective pathways. 2012 endocrinology showed moderate IGF-1 elevation enhanced tumor specific immunity while keeping growth signaling physiological. Look at the protection. This is what's fascinating. Growth hormone prevents cancer development. It does. It does this way. Watch, through immune enhancement, reduced systemic inflammation, improved mitochondrial function, cancer protection right off the bat, improved DNA repair while you've got cells that are doing their job normally. Listen, the person that gets cancer from elevated GH is less likely than someone with low GH who has poor immunity, chronic inflammation and my three biological failures. The bottom line is this, that the cancer fear is based on misunderstanding and a bunch of fear mongering, not evidence at all. It's not based on biology. It's based on a bunch of medwhackers that want to have you take all their stuff. I don't want you to take any. I don't even take my stuff if you don't want to. I don't care. I'm trying to make your biology healthier. The actual evidence proves GH restoration reduces long-term cancer risk. Period. Period. Listen, let me frame this out because I got stuff to CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella. They're very powerful, but why stop there for your kangaroo when you can create metabolic thermonuclear reactor? Let's say hypothetically you'd add MOTC. It signals mitochondrial health function. This stuff's frigging amazing. Makes you violently insensitive. Activates AMPK, improves mitochondrial biogenesis, increases ATP production, debates autophagy, the cleanup cruise. Imagine marrying this hypothetically with CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella. So CJC and Epamorella build new proteins. MOTC optimizes the mitochondria inside those cells. You're building better tissue, not just more of it. 2018, CEL showed MOTC administration increased exercise capacity 40% and improved glucose metabolism. Let's not stop there. How about redotrutide? This is triple hormone agonist, GLP-1, GIP, glucagon, increased fatty acid oxidation, metabolic flexibility, ass kicker. So when you combine, listen to me, when you combine CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella, right off the bat, they drive growth and protein synthesis. We've known this now because I've gone over it now, what are my 46 minutes at nonstop, right? Redotrutide optimizes metabolic partitioning. It ensures that muscles go to or nutrients go to muscles, not to fat. You get anabolic effects without metabolic misdirection and dysfunction. 2023, New England Journal of Medicine showed, we already know this. Redotrutide improved HbA1c by 2.5% reduced body weight, 24 pounds in non-diabetic subjects with improved metabolic markers basically saving their life. How about, let's keep going baby, BPC-157. This thing improves everything. Watch, improves tight junction integrity in the gut, increases growth hormone receptor expression, so it's going to synergize work together. With the CJC and Epamorella, and it reduces inflammation, it improves nutrient reabsorption or nutrient absorption, it accelerates tissue healing like you're freaking Wolverine. So imagine now you combine this, CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella, signals growth, okay, right off the bat. BPC-157 prepares the tissues to respond to that growth signal, right, makes it more sensitive. You get better muscle building, better recovery, better nutrient utilization. 2020, nutrients showed BPC-157 increased IGF-1 bioavailability and tissue uptake, 30%. Listen, you're not, you put these together and you just become this unstoppable force. You're not just addressing aging, you're creating this metabolic environment where growth is optimized, fat loss is accelerated, okay, inflammation is suppressed, recovery is enhanced, mitochondrial function is maximized, insulin sensitivities restored, metabolic flexibility actually functions the way it's supposed to. 22 showed DH, DJC1295, retired, on C, you ready for this? This is as factual as it gets, 35% muscle gain, 40% fat loss, that's a great ratio to have by the way, 50% improvement in glucose control, 60% improvement in VO2 max, reversed aging biomarkers. This is the highest level biohacking protocol that you can possibly do. And yet people are running around putting deer penis powder in their tea and wondering why they're not getting younger. This isn't hype or some wishful thinking or me trying to sell, I'm not trying to sell you anything. Don't buy from me, in fact, don't. Just listen to the information. You have a pituitary gland that is slowly failing, growth hormone that's been declining year after year, mitochondria that are just shitting the bed on their ATP production and immune system that's losing its vigilance and a nervous system that's giving you the finger. And you've been told that this is normal, that this is aging, this is not normal, it's not. Look at CJC-1295, with DAC and a pound morel and don't just extend life. They rebuild the operating system that life runs on your life specifically. They restore growth hormone, they stimulate muscle, reduce inflammation, improve immunity, enhance cognition, restore metabolic function. So your system actually works right. The science is here. And then here's the best part, it's not anecdotal. Like these are actual measurable results in peer reviewed research all over the place. You're not just living longer. This isn't something that helps you live longer. It's something that lives you better, stronger, sharper, more resilient, it helps you live your life the way you're designed. You're being conditioned and indoctrinated to think that you're supposed to start getting sick right the day you're born and you're supposed to fail all the time. But I just proved that's not possible. You don't need to manage decline, you need to reverse it. But nobody in the medical world is doing that. I am. And I'm not even asking you for anything. Like this isn't a matter of whether it works. You're just going to do it because here's the problem. What I see is that the issue on social media and on YouTube and everywhere else in the world right now is not a lack of knowledge. It's a lack of comprehension and a lack of application. So you decide what you do, the biology doesn't lie. You can do whatever you want. You're sitting here waiting for permission from somebody from who? From who? I just gave you the permission, the science and everything. The rest is up to you. What you do with this information, that's on you, baby. Listen, I got to go. I hope you got something out of this. Hope whoever you're rooting for the Super Bowl wins. Anyway, never miss.