already, man. You guys want to learn some stuff about some of the fake diseases out there that men are being labeled with the solving the problem, how that makes you the villain, right? So, I'm going to go over some low testosterone myths and how to fix it all. Like, I mean, right down to the wire. I don't care what is wrong with your testosterone. I'm going to show you how to fix it. And by the way, none of this is medical advice or uh meant to cure, diagnose, treat, prescribe. It's all hypothetical and just for entertainment. If you know, you know. So irritating that nonsense. You ever notice other people telling you just to be yourself? Like I saw this one dude. I There's lots of you dudes out there that come out and you go, "Well, you just be yourself. Be authentic. That's not authentic. You should be authentic." Yeah, but the people that say that are the same people that have completely let themselves go. You ever notice that? It's always some soft, saggy, neutered version of a man giving another man advice. Like, you don't need testosterone. You just need to get more in touch with your emotions and create a safe space. But it's dangerous cuz don't you can abuse that with your power over people. What? Okay, you first, sweetheart. You do it, princess. Let me know how that works when your wife's got a boyfriend with pecs and calves who can run a sub 22minute 5K and you can't get the mail. Are you kidding me? The average male testosterone level today is half half of what it was in 1980. I realize some of you guys don't even know what 1980 is, but I'm 52. In four decades, just to do some quick math, men have gone from people with like warriors and savages. Like, look at my hands. That's just normal. I don't care if you got soft hands, but that's just normal. My son has a goal. I showed my hands, by the way, for all you guys listening on Spotify or iTunes or whatever. They're covered in calluses and they sound like sandpaper when I wash my hands. And if you go, "Well, that's just gross. I don't like that." I'm not for you. That's okay. I'm still a man. My son's goal is to have calluses like that. I'm just He's doing pull-ups and using a barbell. But in four decades, we've gone from men that are strong and gritty and rigid and savage with calluses to insecure glucose sponges who spend half their day crying at Pixar movies. And you think that's evolution? I'll tell you what it is. orchestration. Let that just let that sink in for a second because weak, confused, soft men are easier to manage, compliant, buy more pills, and they ask no questions. And if they do, the questions are idiotic. And they don't rebel. Most importantly, ever. Ever. They're going to rebel against people like me. Make that make sense. I'll tell you this. There's a war coming. You want guys like me, not sponges walking around. I mean, here's the joke. Modern medicine doesn't treat causes ever. Ever. It names symptoms and then it sells you 30-day blocks of prescriptions with 90 days of side effects. Again, make that make sense. Tired? Well, it's got to be chronic fatigue. Chronic fatigue. Fibromyalgia. You guys need to learn some physiology, some neuromimmunology, even. That would be even better. Chronic fatigue? Nah, man. Are you kidding me? It's called low testosterone and mitochondrial dysfunction. It's not a personality trait from your mom. If you're sad for no reason, you don't have sad and it's not lifelong to season affective depression. No, you don't. You spend all your day inside with nothing, no windows, nothing in front of a screen. You could be a mushroom. That's how little sunlight you get. You could just be a [\h__\h] mushroom sitting in your own funk with clothes you probably haven't changed for 10 days. You do not have lifelong depression because you're sad for no reason. That's inflammation hitting the gle cells and shortcircuiting all the dopamine. brain architecture. And the solution is not journaling with your inner child in the dark with a lava lamp in the corner or some salt rock with a bulb shoved up its pie hole. It's a it's fixing your damn hormones. I mean, look at biology. Just let's talk just for a second. Real biology, not this sugarcoated bro science instab bro. I don't know anything, but I like to tell everybody I'm just a [\h__\h] version that people regurgitate like they're sponsored by some by by Reddit or Kora to just talk about [\h__\h] Listen, what you've never been told ever, most of you guys, is that your hormones aren't just little mood potions. These are biological command signals that tell your body what to do, when to do it, how hard to do it, and whether to give a damn about doing it at all. That's it. You know what the king of that entire pile is? is the king of the hormones of all of them. Testosterone, for some reason, it's been demonized. Are you out of your mind? All the dudes listening to this, your testosterone should be skyhigh. Almost to the point where they're like, you have I so much testosterone, you could go outside and mow the lawns of every [\h__\h] neighborhood with a push mower and no engine just because you have the balls to do it. Like, low testosterone isn't losing your abs. That's the idiocy of all this. That's the side effect of it. Low T basically means this. Your body has declared this organism is not valuable. Begin dying slowly begin decaying. That's what low tea does. And no, I'm not kidding. That is is you want to know hormones endocrinology in a nutshell. That right there about testosterone. Your hypothalamus stops releasing G&RH like your brain gave up on even sending the signal to keep your balls in business. That's one. LH and FSH, luteinizing hormone and follical stimulating hormone tank. So, your testicles stop producing a testosterone or sperm. And if you go, I'm not going to have any more babies. You still need the testosterone there, Nancy. IGF flatlines. Your body goes, all right, here's what happens. Why am I going to repair a damn thing? We're not trying to live long. I just want to live long enough to pay taxes and maybe keep this prescription going a little longer. That's how this works. And your serotonin dips, your dopamine flat lines, and your cortisol spikes, and now you're anxious, joyless, and you can't get it up ever. And so, your serotonin tanks. Listen, you spend your whole life feeling trashed and you can't even get wood. You should be. If you go, "Well, I'm 45. I shouldn't. I'm 52. Hard as a rock because why? Number one, my wife is sexy as hell." Number two is I actually have testosterone and my hormones are working perfectly fine. And never mind thyroid conversion. Your thyroid conversion stalls out so bad and suddenly your metabolism starts moving like that. Uh what's that crap that come maple syrup come in can in Canada? They punch holes and it comes out slow garbage. Listen, your testosterone, I'm tired of this. You guys coming out with your little You know what? I'm going to give you this wild stack. We're going to fix your nutrition. We're going to get together in my magic little protocol. I'm going to You're going to come into my office and I'm going to I'm going to do some weird chakra points, give you a workout, get your mindset right, maybe give you some some silver symbols to bang to get I don't know what kind of nonsense you guys are doing. This isn't a mindset issue. It's and it's not because you're too busy. It's not because you need to get your head space right. It's a systemic downregulation. Your body is going into maintenance mode. It's becoming this big giant walking, talking abandoned building. You want the easiest explanation? That's it. Now listen, they don't want you optimal. They don't want you functional. They meaning everybody else that wants you sick. They want you quiet and broke and chemically manageable, which makes you part of the subscription model of healthcare. You can't lead a revolution when you are crying into a bowl of [\h__\h] Cheerios with your estrogen running through your veins and you're a dude. I mean, just get real about it. You're not depressed because your third grade teacher didn't give you a hug. That's not how this works, you know? Or that you have anxiety because your wife left some passive aggressive post-it note on the fridge and now you're upset. By the way, if you're writing on your fridge already, I'm sorry. You're gay. You're a dude and you're writing notes on your fridge. Are you nuts? That's the problem. She's like, "Well, that doesn't make me gay. Means I love my wife." You know what I do? I'll wake up and kiss my wife and I will sit her up and hug her like the world is about to end. Make sure she knows. I'll flip her around and french the other part of her. But I'll tell you this, I will make damn sure my wife knows it's not going to be written on a fridge. I'll help her. I'll do anything she needs. I will I don't care. I'll break myself for my wife because she is my best friend. But putting a little note, Hi, sweetie. I hope you have a great day. What is wrong with you? be a man. That's the problem. That's why you're anxious and depressed and you can't function because your cortisol has been spiking nonstop and you're depressed because your dopamine system has the responsiveness of a 1934 car that's been sitting in a farmer's field for the last 30 years. This you don't have emotional trauma, you guys. You can tell it really aggravates me because of all the bro science coming out there. And I just saw another one today. Let me tell you about my glow stack. It's great. It's the best thing that I ever do. I see a lot of talk about peptides and let me start getting on this and let me tell you too why because I'm seeing they're getting attention and I'm not. That's what I saw. Not a dude who stands by his principles and acts like a man. Listen, if you believe what you do has value, you don't pivot because everybody else is doing something else. In fact, that makes you a s. You don't have emotional trauma when you're feeling all these things and your hormones are all over the place. It's neuroendocrine sab sabotage. It's destroying your life. Which is why this pisses me off because people are so indoctrinated to go, "No, that's not it. Where's my sound bowl? Where's my 432 Herz vibrations? Yes, 432 Hz, by the way, is right." Or 40. No, that's bad. It gets even worse. But that's a whole other conversation. But what I'm saying is that's not the problem because here's what happens biologically when all of this tanks, right? I'll just let me run through the hierarchy and if I miss anything, I don't know. Too bad cuz there's a lot of data running through my head. So your testosterone drops. So now less dopamine, less serotonin, and more crying over Instagram cats and puppies and things that make you upset for no reason. Your dopamineergic tone collapses, which means dopamine doesn't run right. So you stop chasing pretty much anything because nothing feels worth it. So all that motivation that you think you don't have, it's because your system isn't working right. Your thyroid is suppressed. So metabolic rate falls well through the floor. And now you're tired after being tired. And your leptin is up, ghrein is up, and insulin is shot. So you eat, feel guilty, crash, repeat over and over and over and over again. And some idiotic doctor says, "Hm, sounds like clinical depression. Maybe we should get you on some SSRIs, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors." The problem is not serotonin. You need to stop flooding your amydala with cortisol and start rescuing your neurochemistry because here's here's the brutal truth. It's not a mental illness. It's not it's mental malnutrition. You're starving for the chemicals that made you feel like a human. Like you you want to see the irony in all of this? We've got men who won't touch testosterone because it sounds unnatural. I'll just wait. Let that sink in. Let it sink in. Just let it land. I'm not going to do that. Shortcut phony. That's not authentic. And they brag about stopping and they look like a 12-year-old girl. But they're here's the problem, though. But they're going to swallow a weekly cocktail of Advil and Prozac and Pyloac and Seialis like it's this uh multivitamin happy hour almost every day. Let me break this down just so you guys understand. You'll take Advil and risk destroying your gut lining, all the endothelial cells and your kidneys. My dad died from taking Tylenol and stage liver disease at 67. You'll take statins, crush your cholesterol so low that you can't even make sex hormones. And you're going to destroy the most fatty thing in your body, which is your brain. Got it? And then you're going to take SSRIs and obliterate your ability to feel highs and lows. And you're going to be flattened like this pancake of apathy. Oh, let's keep going. This is fun for me. And then you're going to take ant acids to suppress stomach acid so hard that your B12, magnesium, and zinc tank. They don't exist in your body. Got it. But you mentioned testosterone and suddenly you are a drug abuser, a cheater, and a shortcut guy. You mentioned SARMMS or peptides and now you're looking for more shortcuts and that's not authentic. Shortcuts. Shortcuts. Listen, bro. It's not a shortcut if it's the only way out of the biochemical ditch that you dug with your bad habits and the terrible bro science advice or some guy in a white coat that with a god complex. This isn't performance enhancement. It is disease reversal with tools that don't come with a 47page side effect list. That's why I'm out here. Modern medicine does not want you dead. Dead people don't pay. They want you alive, but just sick enough to keep you coming back. I mean, can you guys can you guys even talk about TRT? like like adults, not scared little boys with insta opinions. God, you bro science idiots piss me off because you have the IQ of my [\h__\h] dog. The stuff I see being posted right now is so incredibly wrong and yet everybody's a physiology expert and a human biology expert. Go live with me if you think you're an expert. Come on, I don't have fear cuz I know my stuff inside and out. I've been doing this for three decades almost. I know this stuff really well. TRT isn't steroids. It's not cheating. It's not going to turn you into some rage monster with acne and veins like a topical map of Utah. TRT is simply bringing your hormone levels back to where they're supposed to be before the plastics and the pesticides and the 16 microwaved soy meals that you eat every day and the emasculation of modern life strangled by your or with your that strangled your endocrine system. I don't get it. And here's the here's the really crazy part. If you listen to someone that goes, "Okay, bro, just get on TRT." Here's the here's the the takeaway on this. TRT is just one lever. And if you don't fix the other ones, oh, what other ones, doc? Okay. insulin sensitivity, inflammation, uh, dopamineergic tone, right? Thyroid health, mitochondrial output, you are just putting new oil in an engine that's already shot. And most TRT clinics, and when I say most, I've yet to see one, and I've done phone calls. as somebody who wants to be part of their clinic. I will [\h__\h] with you all day if you're hurting people and I will make sure that your business closes. I've been on the receiving end of terrible medical advice and actions. It almost killed me. Not a chance. If you're doing that to anybody, I'm going to hunt you. I don't care who you are. Doctor, surgeon, surgeon [\h__\h] general. I don't care who it is. Insta bro, insta guru. I don't care if you have a billion followers or nobody knows who you are. I'm going to hunt you down because I almost died because of stupid advice from somebody that just did it because they went take this chemistry, give it to that person. No regard for my health, my family, or my life. Do you know why people call me? You know why CEOs call me or athletes or celebrities or Tom next door calls me for help? Because they go, "That guy gives a [\h__\h] about me." So, if you are thinking for a second that you're going to give somebody advice for profit, you better make sure that that advice is going to help them and not help your bank account first. I don't care if it helps your bank account. I care that it helps them first. And if you spit bro science, I'm coming for you. Maybe not now. One day you're going to look up and go, "Shit, it's a Spartan." You bet. TRT is just, and most TRT clinics, they just hand you a prescription and give you a little wink. There you go. Your life's going to be great now. Really? Tell me you know nothing about physiology without actually saying it by doing that. So, no mention of estrogen management or DHT metabolism or nutrient repletion, right? Or cortisol regulation or mitochondrial function or SHBG binding hormone or or architecture. No sleep architectural issues. Um, no thyroid synergy or hell, even injection timing. Got it. Here's your prescription. See you later. I'll see you in a month. Can you auto bill your credit card? That's like slapping a turbo on a Prius and wondering why it still sucks. You guys have got to pay attention to your health. It is your responsibility, not anybody else's. You're outsourcing it to people that don't give a [\h__\h] about you. TRT is foundational. But without support, it's like upgrading your phone's camera while the battery dies at 10%. Tool ain't the problem. The idiot swinging it is. And that's going to trigger some of you guys. But it's not the the issue isn't the tool. The issue is the person that's swinging the tool. So here, listen. I I'll even help you. I will go right down this rabbit hole for you and help you out. When your hormonal engine is out and your brain's got water damage, I'm talking hydrophily. I'm just saying your brain has it's a figure of speech. Your metabolism is running on memories and nostalgia and optimism. You don't walk more and get your 10,000 steps in and cut back sugar. You have to rebuild the system from inside out. And you can't do it with just testosterone. You have to do it with compounds that actually communicate in the language that your body understands. Biochemical instructions. Drugs don't do it. Just so we're clear. Read any physiology textbook and you will understand that. Just listen. And here's real life. No [\h__\h] Like biological rescue. This is it. I'll I'll go real world. Here's Excuse me. And you do what you want with it. I know what I'm saying is right. So all the bros and all the insta gurus and all the IFBB pros who think they're so [\h__\h] smart, your job right now is to go, "Thank you." And either choose to use it or not. But either way, like I said in my podcast yesterday, I come out here every day to help you guys. Whether you use it or not is irrelevant. Whether it triggers your triggers your little feelings or anything like that or not. I still come here and give you my time, energy, and knowledge for free because I give a [\h__\h] Because I actually care. Because seeing somebody suffer and they do they're doing it because they got the wrong information from some idiot with an affiliate code and a shaker cup or some doctor that gets to go home at 5 and doesn't care about you. I come out here because I actually care. So your your only thing that should come out of your mouth outside of questions for help is thank you, RAD-140. This is like like a muscular smart bomb because it tells your muscle cells to do something. It says, "Hey, listen. Remember that whole Greek god look that we used to have when we were 18, 19 years old? Yeah, let's go ahead and run that back because that's how badass I felt when I or that's what I looked like and I want to do that again." It selectively activates androgen receptors in skeletal muscle and your brain. No estrogen spillover, no liver toxicity, and no hair loss. I mean, I get it doesn't matter for me, but I like being bald. It builds lean mass while keeping your head clear and it keeps your joints functioning. It keeps them intact. Increases something called BDNF. Doesn't matter what it is. Brain derived neurotrophic factor. Meaning your brain gets sharper while your delts get bigger. It's not steroids, by the way. It's bioengineering. All of this is bio-engineering. The only people that go bros on gear when they see somebody that's fit are the idiots that aren't doing the work. Just to be clear, anybody that's on TRT that's jacked and fit is and you're not is doing a hundred times more work than you are. And any excuse that comes out of your mouth after that is invalid because you have access to the same tools. You're just lazy. Um, osterine. So MK-2866. This is this is like the foundation. I I wouldn't do anything without this. It's um it's like the SARM version of extra duct duct tape and a whole bunch of discipline in a bottle. preserves lean muscle while you're in a cal caloric def deficit. So if you know any of any gear, right? Things like echopoise caloric deficit still works. You need to take other things with it, by the way. Don't be like, "Oh, I'm just going to take that." Don't do it. Don't do it. I'll just leave it at that. I could get into the physiology and endocrinology behind that. Don't do it. Bad things will happen. Preserves lean muscle, supports joints in a massive way, and it actually encourages collagen synthesis, and it doesn't shut you down. It doesn't aromatize, which means it doesn't make you grow a parit for anybody that's like, "What does that mean?" There you go. It tells your muscles, "Hey, listen. I know we're in a little bit of a struggle. Kind of a crisis right now." But we want to keep all the good stuff. So, we're going to keep all the muscle. That's what it does. FEMA. But it actually shows up. I'm sure somebody's going to pop when I probably have to edit that out. What did you say? Listen, you know I'm right, so stop it. Uh, kiss pepin 10. I don't know if I've ever talked about this one, but while everybody is jacking around with Clomid and HCG, Hispan hits the actual start button, the hypothalamus. That's where the real problem lies. And I've talked about this with reatrite as well because it stimulates G&RH, which then starts the entire testosterone cascade. Remember, we want to work from the the root out, not suppress symptomatology and cover it up with something real shiny and hope it gets better. doesn't burn out receptors like HCG and there's no estrogen rebound or mood swing roller coaster like Clomid and you're not just patching the leak. You're stabilizing everything because you can fix all the plumbing you want. Knock yourself out. Still got to turn the damn water back on, right? So great, you fixed everything and then you don't do anything so it works. Not going to help you. A KPV. So if you look at chronic inflammation, it's one of the I call it the silent killer because it is. KPV is the seal team that comes in and fixes all that and mitigates all of that inflammation. It downregulates pro-inflammatory cytoines. I was I guess I can list them off like TNF alpha, C-reactive protein, IL6. There's a bunch, but uh it repairs gut lining, so endothelial cells, heals your intestinal barrier, so interas so things can go back and forth. Reboots the immune system so your brain doesn't feel like it's under attack 24/7, 365. All of these things are very important because if this isn't working, neither is everything else. Like most guys think they're depressed, but you know what? They are inflamed and neurochemically constipated. KPV doesn't just help. It unfucks this the the inflammation at the cellular level. And then cardarine. Man, cardarine is rad. This is like exercise in a bottle. Without you guys misunderstanding what I just said, you're like, "Oh, all I have to do is take that and I get endurance. Is that why you can run all the time?" No, I don't take carterine for no other reason other than I just don't take it. It's because everybody calls it cardio in a bottle, but it is the best way to explain it is not that. It is genetic lipolysis on demand. Like just pow right away. Activates PP delta to upgrade the fatty acid metabolism. I've talked about this before. And increases V2 max. Find me anything else that does that other than really obscure training. Cranks up endurance and glucose disposal agent. lowers tri triglycerides and boosts the one uh the one thing you want HDL, right? So, what that means basically is you burn fat without your pancreas crying and begging for a little assistance. That's the the easiest way to explain this. I'm trying to make this endocrinology easy to to understand. It's not Sorry, I got When you have a beard, you just get hair in your nose. It's the way it works. This is where I get people crying. I'm sure somebody's going to get in my comments. That's cheating. No, genius. It's fixing your system and opt I hate that word. I'm not going to use it. And mitigating all your problems without empetamines and a whole bunch of ulcers and m I almost wasn't going to talk about this, but it's pretty rad. This this peptide is encoded into your mitochondrial DNA. Just think about that for one second. Process what I just said. Your mitochondria literally made this peptide to tell the rest of the cell, we're either adapting to survive or we're dying incredibly slowly. That's why it's there. It activates um AMPK, which improves insulin sensitivity. It enhances mitochondrial biogenesis. More engines, more power. Easiest way to explain it. Shuts down all the inflammatory signaling and it promotes ATP production like you were 19 and have never tasted disappointment in your life. ATP is the currency. Energy is the currency of the human body. Uh ATP is adenazine triphosphate. It's not a performance-enhancement enhancement by the way C. It is restoring the performance that you originally had. So if you're sitting on a beach crying about your life or how your wife left or your dog ran away or you had to struggle through some adversity and you're going, I'm going to fix everything by not drinking coffee, taking testosterone and anything that's unnatural and I'm going to allow myself to turn into a skinny little girl and I'm a dude and you think you're winning. What the [\h__\h] is wrong with you? That is the most ignorant thing you can ever do. Especially you have if you have children, your job is to become a beast, a physical and psychological beast. And if your ecosystem is not allowing you to do that with all the [\h__\h] that's in the world that we breathe, drink, rub on, that's sprayed on, that's bombing us, and nuking us in our sleep, all the things that are going on. You guys need to think about the environment you're in before you start trashtalking somebody for doing everything possible to have a stronger, more powerful system. And and this is one that I think everybody should be on. If you're overweight, if you're inflamed, if you're metabolically fried, which is a lot of us reatr and and this isn't this isn't a peptide. This is biological operating system reset disguised as a weekly belly shot and not the kind that you'd see on you know whatever it is coyote ugly. I'll talk about it again. GLP-1 GIP glucagon agonist combo. So it increases insulin sensitivity in the liver and the stomach. It burns visceral fat with glucagon indu induced thermo uh thermogenesis. Right? So the glucagon is saying, "Hey, burn all this fat and get it away from the organs." A thermogenesis that's real. It doesn't make you hot because you took a pill and it happens to have niacin in it. Clears the pancreas of all the toxic debris. So your pancreas actually can do its job. Never mind the insulin. How about the digestive enzymes that come out of that? Pancreatic enzymes. And it fixes a thyroid conversion, the T4 to T3. And it does that by lowering all the inflammatory blockers like what I said before, the TNF alpha and the IL6. So you're not just treating symptoms anymore with this entire thing. and you're rewiring your entire metabolic power grid. It's not cheating. It bugs me when people say that because if it's if it's you guys, listen, when you guys sit there go, "That's cheating. I knew it, bro. That's cheating." Because somebody is fit and healthy and they take peptides and TRT and whatever else they're doing that's actually helping the system just because you're so indoctrinated and emotionally insecure that you can't sit there and go, "Well, I I could do that, too, and it would help me." So instead, you take all ant acids and anti-depressants and Advil and Tylenol and sleep aids and wake aids and amphetamines and all the crap that you take and you go, "That's not cheating." You should probably be eating. Cheating is pretending to eat kale and thinking that it fixes hormonal collapse. That's some of you guys. That's what cheating would be. This is science doing what all that kale wishes it could do. That's the way you should look at this cuz that's how ridiculous some of you guys sound. I mean, here's a here's a crazy thought. Maybe maybe you're not undisiplined. You ever think of that? Maybe your body body's internal communication system is just completely offline. Maybe it has nothing to do with your discipline. All these instab bros running around go, you got to have discipline and focus. And I'm the guy. I'm the coach that's going to get you there. I'm the coach that's going to get your discipline back. We're going to go through this non-stop every day. Get your mindset right. It's going to fix all your problems. But what if you're not undisiplined? What if your system is just [\h__\h] What if you're not lazy? What if you're so biologically jammed that nothing works? So now you can't burn fat. Well, that's your AMPK pathway that's failing to activate. I could pick this apart all day. You crave sugar all day. Anybody like that? That's ghrein punching you in the face while leptin takes a [\h__\h] nap. You know, I I used to not drop f bombs on this. I just don't care anymore because I'm so aggravated that people take this and they these pseudocience bros that come out and start talking. Shut your mouth. If you can't actually help somebody and you just want to sound intelligent, shut your mouth cuz you sound like an imbecile. If you're tired after 8 hours of sleep and you need a nap after your nap, your mitochondria are producing ATP like they worked for a union. That's how bad your system, those little furnaces not working. Never mind the whole NNT and the NAD Plus. Like, if you can't focus, dopamine, they're parked in that parking lot at Disneyland that you have to take a bus to. This isn't just about willpower, you guys. That's the issue. This has nothing to do with it. It's about fixing the system. Like, it's it's a broken control tower that's sending all of the wrong signals across your entire physiology every hour of every day. You don't need more motivation or discipline or drive or to set your clock a little earlier or have a longer morning routine. You need a neurological like reset. You need bandwidth. You need some hormonal clarity and metabolic integrity. You need your system to work the way it's designed to work because until then, you're going to keep trying to build all these skyscrapers with a bunch of rubber tools. I I don't know how else to put this because a lot of times people just hear this goes in one ear and out the other. They go, "Yeah, where do I?" And or the question is this, where do I get it? Lead biogenics. No, it's not a plug for the company. Yes, I am the CEO, but it is not a plug for the company. I just know what's there. So, somebody goes, "That's really hard. Where do I get it? I can't find it. Where's a reputable source? I've been coming out here for 11 years helping people because I actually care. I don't know what to tell you." This virtue signaling versus real health. Like, you ever notice that like this? Well, you're welcome, by the way. There's your stack. I And you know what? If it comes to me before the end of this podcast, I'll give you a short version of that, too. But you ever notice it's the people with the worst labs and the worst health that have the strongest opinions on natural health? My favorite thing I've ever heard that's inauthentic. You took a shortcut, bro. Because they drop testosterone because they stop drinking coffee. Coffee. >> It does infinitely more good than bad. These guys that come and judge. And if you're one of them, you guys are one [\h__\h] kale chip away from a diabetic coma talking trash about TRT while standing in line at CVS with a bag full of big pharma's greatest hits. Virtue signaling has replaced all the labs and real health that you will ever see. And it's not just wrong. It is killing people. Let me be clear. Taking testosterone is not cheating. Using peptides is not cheating. Restoring mitochondrial health is not cheating. I I don't know how else to drill this down in such a screwed up psychological ecosystem we're on. You know what is cheating? Waking up every day pretending your life doesn't suck because you'd rather stay sick than admit that you were wrong. There's no moral badge for suffering unnecessarily. I don't know if you guys have figured that out yet. If you ignore optimization of your system because your uncle said just eat better, then congratulations. You're sacrificing health for approval from people who aren't even healthy. Like, if suffering made you righteous, then hospitals would be churches. Get that through your head. Let let me spell this out. We don't optimize so we can flex for strangers on Instagram. We optimize and fix our system because our families, our businesses, our legacy, our life depend on us being at full capacity. You don't get to lead your kids with no testosterone. You don't get to build generational wealth with no drive. And you don't get to handle any stress when your cortisol hijacks your brain and shuts down your prefrontal cortex like it's got a power outage. Optimization is not aesthetics. It's not vanity. It's functional. Functional dominance. It's the difference between living and decaying politely so you don't offend anybody on social media. It's the difference between being a man and being a passenger in a meat suit. And if that makes you uncomfortable, I don't know. Maybe it's because you spent too long tolerating your own decline. And that's the only thing I got. I can't figure out anything else cuz it would drive me insane if I was like that. When I came out of the hospital in that stupid wheelchair and all the prescriptions they handed me and a little machine that I had to use to keep me alive so I had oxygen, I went, "Are you nuts? I am not staying like this." And they said, "You don't have a choice." And I said, "Fucking watch me because I care." I looked at my wife and kids and I went, "I can't stay like this. They're counting on me because when I sat there broke, losing all my money, dealing with some jackass contractor who's a multi-millionaire trying to railroad us, who ripped us off for well over a million. It's almost 2 million bucks. This con man, Lucian Tujac Jr., look him up. You don't have to take my word for it. Look him up. This guy is the devil in all kinds of ways. I would never do business with this guy if I were if I were you. any CEO, if he ever gives you a deal of the century, I would tell him to go pound sand, but do your due diligence. But the point is, I looked at all of that and I went, I'm not staying here. 48 years old, you should stay there, bro. You can't climb out of that hole. Watch me. Like, we used to want to be great. We did. And now we want to be just fine. I just want to be okay. No wonder nothing works anymore. I mean, you're not broken, man. You guys aren't. You're not broken or weak or doomed or all this stuff that people are telling you on social media. You're dismissing the biological operating system that made you feel like a man and function like a man. Look, watch. Listen. Testosterone crashed. Fixable. Metabolism slowed down. Also fixable. A motivation gone. What do you think? Fixable. Your focus totally torched. Fixable. How about losing your edge? You think that's fixable? Yes. Here's the part you don't want to hear, though. You're not staying stuck because you can't change. You're stuck because you've convinced yourself that you're virtuous for not trying. And that's the most dangerous lie of all to yourself. Because the second that you admit it's fixable, you run out of all your excuses. You have two options. Keep managing symptoms, stay sick, blame aging, and wait for your next prescription, or pull all the levers, use all the tools, get cranking on your system, and become the [\h__\h] animal you were built to be. It's not cheating. It's choosing a life at full throttle with a clear mind and a strong body and a bulletproof spirit connected to God. So, what's it going to be? Another year of decline, or the year that you look at nature and punch it the [\h__\h] back in the mouth and rebuild the man? because I would rather be jacked and judged than sick and socially accepted. I just I can't. Your move, man. Your move. Just part of me doesn't even want to put together that short stack for you guys. I sound like I'm talking about IHOP just because I just want to go in the house sex with my wife. Do you want simplicity here? I'll help you out cuz all of you guys that's a lot of things to take. I don't know if I could take that. Maybe I should talk to my doctor first. Is there a cream? What is wrong? You guys used to be men. You'd pound a nail through your thumb by accident building something in your backyard and go [\h__\h] Take pliers and pull it out, wrap it in duct tape, and go back to work. Where are all of you? Here, I'll help you. You want a stack that doesn't require a PhD and a bunch of calendars and 12 needles a week? I'll help you. How about this? Right? Because if you can count to four, you ready? 1 2 3 4 and inject without crying, I'll give you a setup that'll rebuild your body and your metabolism and your recovery and your hormones with surgical precision. It's four tools. Total transformation is all teeth, baby. So, if you start arguing in the comments, if I go and I talk about this, go ahead. I will get off my [\h__\h] feed. What you should say is thank you because I didn't take the time to learn anything about physiology, thank you for doing that, taking the time and giving me your 30 plus 40 years of knowledge. This is your foundation. Ready? RAD-140. There you go. That's the architect of all your all your anabolic system. RAD, it's like it's like brick by brick by brick. So, growth command center, the compound, it basically tells your DNA, "Hey, listen. Time to look like you give a damn." That's what it needs to do. Time to look like you give a damn again, bro. It binds to androgen receptors. I said this before, in the muscle and bone with just surgical selectivity. There's no estrogen conversion, no liver toxicity, no shutdown if you dose like an adult. You dose like an idiot. Welcome to PCT when you're done. Increases lean mass and strength and bone density. And it stimulates uh BDNF, right? Brain der neurotrophic factor. So your brain gets tight and sharp while your physique gets bigger and stronger. Sign me up, baby. Because testosterone is king is what I what I said at the beginning. Then RAD-140. That's the son of a [\h__\h] that swings a sword while the king's still in bed. That's the night waiting guarding everything in your life. It's not about looking good. It's about feeling like a man that's got a mission and a purpose and actually can function again. Second one, cardine for sure. That'll strip fat off of you. Like no. Again, it's not exercise in a bottle or a capsule or whatever. This is genetic intervention. It flips on a switch in your DNA called PP AR delta, which tells your mitochondria, hey lazy ass, burn fat. Now, so it it simply I'm trying to keep it simple, shreds visceral fat by increasing fatty acid oxidation, right? Enhances glucose uptake so your blood sugar finally chills and doesn't go all over the place. And it changes boosts. Yeah, it does. It boosts your endurance and your stamina. So you feel like I don't know, force gum with a whole mouth full of ketones. I don't know what to say. You just keep going. You're like gogggins, right? Just keep going. but no stem feeling and no weird adrenal taxation. It just works. It's like a clean fast burn and you stop sounding like you're gasping for breath when you're walking down the street to get the mail. It's it's a fuel efficiency is the easiest way to explain it. But at the mitochondrial level, TB-500 would be the next one. And this is stuff that I'm thinking of right now as I'm going through it. And if somebody goes, "Well, yeah, but I think this would be better." Cool. You're wrong. I'm right. The end. Why? Because I actually care. You're doing it because you read something. You're I think I should argue with you. Shut up. TB-500 is the most effective repair crew you can stick in your body. It goes fix what hurts. That's it. And it knows where to go. And it knows where to send everything else. You don't need a new routine. You need joints that don't sound like popcorn bubble pack when you move around. EB500 is that cellular repair system sent in with one single mission. Fix everything. So, if you remember me talking about actin, it was it upregulates actin binding proteins and it allows much faster tissue regeneration. Like, we're talking 5 days instead of 5 months. So, when somebody goes, "Yeah, I used I used a Wolverine stack TB and BPC and GHQU and it was oral and it my shoulder got better in like 6 months." Congratulations. That was a placebo and your body was doing just what it was doing with the tools it had. It didn't have enough. It would have been five 5 days to a week if it was real. You're welcome. Cranks up angioenesis, which increases vessel formation, right? So, oxygen, nutrients, all that stuff can finally get to the damaged area so they're not choked off or dead or collapsed. It reduces local inflammation and fixes tendons, ligaments, muscle, connective tissue, all of it. All of it. Even athletes heart. Come on, my cardiac tissue. It fixes it. Why aren't you signing up all day for this stuff? This isn't just post injury recovery. This is structural resilience. And it's like putting rebar made out of adamantium into your biology. So, now you can train harder and recover faster and stop skipping leg day because your knees knees feel like they're filled with broken glass. Red a true tide. I know I talk about this one a lot because I've never seen a longevity peptide as effective as this. This is a systemwide reset that I I'm starting to think very few people can do without, including myself. It's just um it's incredible. Doesn't help you lose weight. The fat loss is a bonus. It rebuilds the metabolic control system that controls fat, glucose, appetite, and inflammation all at once. And I've gone over this so many times, but you guys need to hear me because that triple agonist, it speaks fluent hormonal dialect 24/7, 365 in three languages. GLP-1, GIP and glucagon. And it does its job very very well. Improves insulin sensitivity at the muscle and the liver. I said this before. Shuts down visceral fat accumulation through remember glucagon driven thermogenesis. Um highly well like well branded you know neutraop thermogenesis that you got from the old school hydroxy cut without the goods in it. Right? Versus metabolic dysfunction because it clears all the fatty deposits from the pancreas and the liver. So now the system can work properly. This is why I'm trying to explain this not from a do this and it just makes this wonderful thing happen. It's do this because here's why. And then it lowers remember IL6 TNF alpha. It basically fixes the thyroid conversion from T4 to T3. That's the easiest way to explain it's not a weight loss peptide. And if somebody calls it a drug, take your hand, look at your fist, put all your fingers together in your fist, punch yourself right in the face. It's not a drug. Peptides aren't drugs. When people go, "How do I get a prescription for this?" They're not drugs. [\h__\h] for the last time. True Tide is a fat loss, glucose control, thyroid repair, liver detox. What else? Appetite regulation protocol wrapped up in one clean weekly injection. And it works like your body wishes it could. That's how this works. Here, I'll make it real fast because I actually want to go inside and eat. RAD-140. So, to rebuild lean muscle, strength, bone density, and neuroplasticity. a carterine burns all that stored fat, fixes your stamina, balances out the glucose and tells your mitochondria to behave like they're actually they have a mission like you're 25. TB-500 repairs everything and it shuts down inflammation at the source and then red tide resets the entire metabolic system. So appetite, thyroid, insulin, glucose, fat loss, liver function, all of it. That's it. Four tools. I could add a bunch more and I'm sure you guys don't add this. Why don't you add this? Stop asking me. [\h__\h] Just do it. because whatever you're doing right now doesn't work. So again, what I give you because it actually works because this doc actually gives a [\h__\h] about you says do this. Well, I think maybe you should use this instead of this. I said some idiot that said you should really use that pomearellin instead of MK-677 who had no concept of how growth hormone and IGF-1 actually work. So when I explained it weird, no comment after that. Yeah, don't tell me what I know. Not because I'm egotistical, but because I actually know what I'm talking about. Because I'm not going to come out here and tell you to do something that I wouldn't do to myself or my family. Most of you [\h__\h] would though. Four tools, four levers, complete physiological restoration. That's how simple it is. You don't need 17 vials and 12 supplements and some chakra alignment and some dude with his magic, you know, pony show about how he's like, "We hit four different levers and that's what like four different branches of your health." I'm not talking these four levers. Your mindset, your nutrition, your spirituality, and then you know, maybe we check some labs. Are you nuts? Just fix the problem. You need the right inputs in the right order to remind your biology. It wasn't born to be average. Yeah, I I'm Believe me cuz sometimes I just want to pop off on these because I think I don't know. When I was a kid and I did something that was disrespectful, I got smacked in the mouth and I got they let me know somehow. Most people are so entitled now. They're like, "Well, let me tell you about my opinion about this even though I know nothing about it, but my bro science degree says I do." I don't care what degree you have, by the way. I care what knowledge you really have. BB does not mean you are an expert. It means you can be shredded and well symmet and you have good symmetry. Great. It's got a ton of discipline and it is a ton of work. It doesn't mean you understand physiology. We live in a society where a man will spend 20 bucks on a cocktail, $600 on shoes, thousand bucks on a gaming console like a PS5 or an Xbox. that fixing the biochemical engine that controls every part of his health suddenly too expensive or too extreme. You've been sold comfort and what you need clarity, things that actually work, little consistency, maybe some results. Here's the deal. Listen, you want your muscle back and your motivation, your fire, whatever purpose, your edge, all the stuff that you guys clamor about on social media that you think is going to change just by magically whispering it to the universe. You don't need 50 things. You don't need some guy in his magic horse protocol. You need the right four things and then you need the balls to actually do them. It doesn't have to be four. You can go through this whole thing, but I just gave you the easiest way to do this. Anyway, I got to go, man. I've been out here for almost an hour. Never miss.