You know, it's wild to me when I whenever the TV's on in the background and I see these advertisements marketing. You know, most marketing is just [\h__\h] You know, that it is let me tell you how bad everything else is while telling you everything beneficial about my product or service, but not being transparent about how damaging my product or service actually is as well. Like there's no transparency. They talk about marketing transparency. It doesn't exist. This isn't about marketing. This is just an observation, but the idea that I mean, my dad always said, "Tell the truth. There's less to remember, right?" And most people are so busy lying to themselves in order to protect their ego that they never actually even see the truth. They're so busy defending things that they know for a fact are causing them harm, physical, psychological, financial harm, but they're so caught up in a not being wrong, even if it's not their damn cause. Like people will defend a drug knowing that the drug is killing people until the it's the hundth monkey syndrome. If you know, you know. The hundth monkey. Once it reached that threshold, all the monkeys on the island started washing their sweet potatoes, right? But at 99, people were still looking at the like the monkeys were all in these islands. I'll tell you the stories real quick. And they introduced sweet potatoes into all these separate islands, right? And they introduced sweet potatoes into the population. And they were covered in sand and grit and dirt. And the monkeys were trying to figure out how to eat these. This is true. And a couple of monkeys went over to the water to the creeks and stuff and they started washing off these sweet potatoes and started eating them. And the rest of the monkeys would look at them and go, "You guys, you could just, you know, the vibe was maybe this is a really screwed up. Maybe it's some woke thing that these new monkeys are doing. We don't want to do that. We'd rather just stare at them and not eat them and go hungry." And there's a threshold and this is the threshold for everything. And you can you can actually apply this to life in general and you'll see. But when it got to the when when more and more monkeys started adapting this sweet potato washing technique in the water once it hit 100 when 100 of it doesn't matter how many there were when it hit 100 monkeys and I'm sure somebody's going to get in my comments and just make some correction or whatever. maybe just save it and understand the lesson behind it because you're again you would be that example of your ego is so fragile that you can't stand being wrong and you're one of those people that like well in fact it was actually this like shut up and understand it when it got to when it crossed the threshold when the 100th monkey washed that sweet potato all of the rest of the monkeys started going oh I guess it's okay to do and they all instantly the ones that were against it instantly supported it but it happened on all the islands everywhere it didn't just happen on this one So, it wasn't an isolated incident. And why I'm saying that is because that's what you guys do with your health and your finances and your wealth and and your your drugs and social media and all the [\h__\h] that you guys defend. You guys will defend it to the death until the 100th monkey flips the script and goes completely to the other side. Like a full 180. You go from one side of the equation to the other and now all of a sudden you're on the other side of the equation attacking what you were once defending because now you go, "Well, I have more facts." It's not more facts. It's that enough of the masses started to go against something or started to go a certain direction. And because you've been taught like a dis, you've caught it like a disease that in order to go along, you have to get along. But you do that. But you guys are so ignorant. A lot of you, you do that. And it I don't care if you take it as an insult. It's not a [\h__\h] compliment. You guys are so ignorant about healthcare that you guys will actually defend most of the doctors. But you know what I have to say to most of the doctors? Screw you. And that is coming from a doctor. I don't care. The most disgusting thing that has ever been created is the the profitability model of manage decline and you guys fighting to defend it thinking it's valuable and there's any any benefit to it whatsoever. Your grandma and grandpa, your grandparents knew more about healthcare than the doctors today. I don't care how many big words you can string together, Mr. Doctor. I got the same vocabulary inside of my brain, but I understand them. You just memorize them and go, "Look at me. I'm so smart." Dude, I'll debate you any day of the week, and I'll burn your eyes out because I can't stand people that brag about how smart they are, and they aren't smart at all. They're a bunch of myopic idiots that are defending their dogmatic beliefs and ideologies that are causing people harm. And so the reason I say that is because instead of defending the drug that you're taking, defending the surgeries you think you have to have or defending the chemotherapeutic drugs or that big pharma has your back or your doctor actually gives a [\h__\h] about you or that wellness clinic that you keep subscribing to to that doctor or whoever's there running it is keeping you healthy and alive and that you come on, man. You are built with the most exquisite intelligence inside of you that is designed to keep you alive and strong and powerful. You are built like a juggernaut. All you do is undo it by following stupidity. And so I come out here and I give you the answers and it's still wild to me. I get a myriad of answers or comments. But some of you guys, you get so upset when I give you the truth. But yet all you that just proves you're a toddler. You are a toddler dressed up playing adult. Because if you don't like what I say, just move on. Welcome to being an adult. So, if you have anything to say other than like, man, this guy's changing my life. This guy's giving me information now. I can make an educated decision. I didn't know that. None of what you have to say has any value. None. You can contest it. You can try and and flip the script on me and go, "What about you? You're coming out here. It's my channel, [\h__\h] I don't choose to listen to this. I'm the creator." So, I think if you looked at your health, I'm going to talk about Crohn's and irritable bowel and ulcerative colitis. I'm going to solve the whole [\h__\h] thing. All of it. This is a doctor that actually gives a [\h__\h] I'm not asking you for money. I'm not telling you, "Oh, you should you should join my program. You should buy from Elite." I don't care. I say it on every podcast. I don't care. You want to buy from Elite? Absolutely. Knock yourself out. I will make sure that everything runs as smoothly as possible. Quit being a little girl. If [\h__\h] doesn't go your way right out of the gate or something's backordered, you freak out. I'm going to leave you one star because you guys were out of stock. Oh, [\h__\h] How did you surv how do you survive in your house when you run out of eggs? Do you give your spouse one star? Do you give the grocery store one? Like what is with you guys? You guys just like to complain. But the other flip the other side of that is that why don't you just for a second understand why I'm coming out here and if you don't like it, don't listen. Cuz the only dumb one here is you. If you listen to the entire thing and go, I hate that. I can't stand this guy. Why are you listening, dumbass? The problem is you, not me. It just makes you look more stupid. The reason I'm telling you that is maybe you should apply that to the rest of your life. You guys are listening to people and fighting to defend them. You guys wake up in the morning on the standing on the the fence line of your property ready to be offended and never even on your own on somebody else's behalf. What are you five? If you get triggered by anything, the problem is with you, not what was said because you're an adult. If you were a child and you don't have emotional maturity, that's a whole different conversation. But if you go, "Well, some of us don't have emotional maturity and you're 35. You're a toddler. You shouldn't even be allowed to use the toaster when your parents aren't home cuz you aren't qualified to manage your own life because you have no emotional control. I can't imagine the nightmare it is living in your house. When something goes wrong, you probably just lose your [\h__\h] for what are you, six? It doesn't make any sense to me. I'm an adult. I've had so many catastrophes happen to me. I just don't care anymore. I just brush it off and keep going." Does it suck? Believe me. Lose a lung. Wake up losing a lung. wake up losing everything. Wake up and have some [\h__\h] contractor rip you off for millions of dollars watching your wife cry at the table because her dream house was scooped out from a guy that ripped us off and and who'd never fixed a [\h__\h] thing yet made all kinds of promises and on paper and then went to court and lied about it. Big surprise, right? It's like financial bullies. I'm not saying it to complain. I'm saying it but you can't sit there and complain when you're like, "My boss didn't give me a raise and I deserve one. You said some words that really make me feel a little unhappy." Do you have pigtails? Are you a little kid? You going trick-or-treating tonight, but you're 40? Maybe you're one of those hobo bags going to a Halloween party, dressing like a like you wish you could dress every day. Your boobs hanging out, piece of dental floss up your ass and going, "This is a Halloween costume." Yeah, you know who sees that in my house? I see that on my wife. And I'm not going out with my balls hanging out. You imagine if dudes did that? You just balls hanging out on either side. You wear a thong backwards. You just walk around. I mean, that we could There's a place I don't know you've heard of it. It's probably You probably have. It's called California. Yeah, that's it. There you go. You're welcome. Anyway, I I got to get back on this. So, Crohn's, ulcerative colitis, and irritable bowel. All of those things, I'm just going to solve them all. By the way, this isn't meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, triage, advise. This is only hypothetical, educational, and entertaining. And it doesn't mean a damn thing. It is just me coming out here spouting off. Enjoy my channel. Don't enjoy my channel. Look at me. Don't look at me. Watch me. Don't watch me. But if you're going to come here and complain, I ain't for you, son. I ain't for you. But how about this? How about we play a game? I did this the other day. It's like here. How did I get here? Well, let's play another one. It's called what's the real product? It's fun. I like these things because they make me happy. What's the real product? So, you have a patient. Let's say you're a doctor. Okay? You have a patient. I've had these patients, but I don't treat them this way like some of you scumbag doctors do, but that's a whole other conversation because if you're a doctor and you're coming at me, by the way, it's because I'm a threat to you. Buckle up. I'm about to get real rowdy against you. I plan on putting you out of business. I'll be very honest about it. I plan on burning every doctor to the ground that has ever taken advantage of somebody and tried to hurt somebody ever. I don't care who you are. Above all, do no harm. If you haven't done that, if you've done anything and given somebody a drug and you've hurt them, [\h__\h] you. I'm coming for you. You are Goliath and I am David and it's not going to work out well for you. Just leave it at that. So, let's say you have a patient. Okay, you have this patient. Patient Sarah. Let's go. Sarah. Sarah's her name. So, sorry if your name's Sarah. Don't freak out. It's not meant to be your likeness or anything like that. Sarah is 28 years old. She's bleeding and cramping and she's got diarrhea all anally, erectally, right? She's like 15, 16, 20 times a day. She can't work. She can't socialize. Her life is a bathroom. Okay. She goes to a gastroenterenterologist. And after a scope up her booole that probably costs more than her car, they give her a label, ulcerative colitis, IBD, irritable bowel disease. And then they pull out their little pad or it's digital now. And they write a prescription, a biologic, an immunosuppressant, and it costs eight grand a month. And if you go, "Oh, it doesn't cost that much. Check your health insurance and then come back to me. I'll wait." You know, I've been a doctor for a really long time. I've seen heck farms. I've done this stuff forever. So, she takes the biologic the imunosuppressant. Sarah gets a little better. The bleeding stops, the cramping settles down a little bit. For a while, she's all right. And then it came back worse. I mean, we're talking comes into her life with a vengeance. So, you know what they do? All your doctors increase the dose and add another drug. And the drug is always the same. This hierarchy is the same. Some of you guys are hearing this going, "Holy [\h__\h] this is what they've done." Yeah, they add a steroid and now she's on this seessaw. Predinazone makes her face moon shaped. She got a big old pie on her on her neck and gives her osteoporosis. The biologic increases her risk of it. Fatal infections. You want me to say that again? Fatal. Fatal as in you're going to die. And not by natural causes. You're doing it at the whim of the pharmaceutical company, the doctor that gave you this, but they got malpractice insurance. You're good. Fatal infections and lymphoma. That's what the biologic does. Don't trust me. Look it up if you have to. Now, you know what she is? Here's what Sarah is. She is a high value lifelong customer. Her disease, quote unquote, has been managed. Do you want to know what the real product is in this entire circumstance? This entire ugly scenario that most of you guys go, "No, that doesn't happen. Let me help you out. It happens about 95% of the time." Here's what the product, it's not health. The product is Sarah. She is the product. Sarah is the asset. Her chronic illness is the business model. And you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to spend the rest of my life bankrupting the [\h__\h] out of that model. Yep. I'm a doctor that cusses. Welcome to the [\h__\h] show. You know, it's funny. I said it again. I've said it before. I'll say it again. Dr. Me's teacher. It doesn't say I don't swear. You don't think Jesus sweared or swore? Swear. Yeah. Apparently, I can't. I talk real good, too. You don't think Jesus swore? I'll bet you anything he swore. Like kicked over tables and beat the [\h__\h] out of Pharisees. Don't you think for a second that guy stayed calm all the time? You're lucky he didn't rage out and wipe out me. So, I'm gonna talk about the gut. Like, don't even start with me about God. God's a gangster. Period. It's awesome. I'm gonna talk about the gut. And I'm like, listen, not you guys in your cute little probiotic magic yogurt that you see on a commercial or some influencer pedaling with a affiliate code. I'm talking the the war zone that's inside you. Crohn's, ulcerative colitis, IBD. Those are labels for something just shy of hell for people that have them. It's a nightmare. And modern medicine looks at this and sees three distinct phases and diseases to be managed with pharmaceuticals. Okay, I look at it and you know what I see? One core problem with three slightly different expressions being exploited with pharmaceuticals. They ain't the same, son. Let me be very very precise. I'll lay them out so you actually get what I'm talking about. Crohn's disease like Crohn's. Let me explain them so you guys understand cuz I bet some of you guys have even been misdiagnosed. Crohn's disease. This is a full thickness transmural inflammation. It can attack anywhere. Just so you know, from your mouth to your anus. So don't think it's just in like your dadum. It's like a rogue military campaign that never respects a border at all. The pathophysiology, just so you know, involves massive like multiple powers of 10 massive overexpression of pro-inflammatory cytoines. You know, I talk about these all the time. Primarily one TNF alpha. You'll see the drugs talk. Except that's not the source of the problem. But it leads to granuloma formation, fistulas and strictures and causes all kinds of issues. That's just Crohn's. How about ulcerative colitis? It's a little more of a targeted siege on your system. Continuous inflammation, but only the mucosal and submucosal layers of the colon and the rectum. So lower part, right? The body's own immune system is hammering away at the inner wall causing ulcerations and bleeding and a very frantic and panicky and very painful urgency to go to the bathroom. And the key player in this one, not TNF alpha, it's interlucan signaling that's gone completely haywire. But I'm going to explain how these are all very similar, pretty much the same damn thing. IBD, irritable bowel disease. This is um an intelligence problem. the gut brain access, not your we're talking intelligence connection failure, right? The gut brain access is demolished. Chaotic is the easiest way to explain it. There's no, you can't scope and see inflammation on IBD. You can't. But the sensory neurons in the gut are hyper sensitive. So normal gas and movement feels like shards of broken glass and knives carving through the system. It's a functional disorder. So, the hardware is okay, but the software is screaming error messages to everything inside you. And how does the medical world treat all this? I hope you they treat the smoke and they call it arson [\h__\h] prevention. Make that make sense. So, listen, for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's, the arsenal is a pharmacological nightmare. They give you something called aminoates. Five ASAs like misalamine, topical anti-inflammatories for mild ulcerative colitis. That's like it's like me taking this coffee cup and going to try and put my house. It's on fire trying to put it out. Never going to happen. Useless for anything major. Completely useless. And then they give you corticosteroids. Always predinos. Same thing. It's the nuclear option. Non-specifically suppresses the entire immune system. Shuts down inflammation by taking the entire immune system hostage. And here, let me help you what the effects are because there's I was going to say side effects, but I can't even get that out of my mouth without just wanting to puke because there's no such thing as a side effect. There are only effects. They give them side effects. You give it a name as a side effect because then you look at it differently. It's a perception thing. The effects are there. Iatrogenic Cushing syndrome, moonface, buffalo hump, profound muscle wasting, osteoporosis, hypoglycemia. Listen, this is not okay. These are all the things that occur when you take predinazone. You trade gut inflammation for systemic metabolic [\h__\h] catastrophe. Yes, it makes me angry. They give you immune modulators. Chemotherapy, just so you know what they are. Chemotherapy adjacent drugs that poison rapidly dividing cells, including bring in the hit, your immune cells. The side effect, I'll just say it so you guys can differentiate. The side effect profile is like watching Freddy Krueger on repeat. Pancreatitis, severe bone marrow suppression. But what is that? Here's why you need to understand physiology. Bone marrow suppression leads to lifethreatening infections and it drastically increases your risk of lymphoma and skin cancer. So you're just follow me. What what are you doing? Never mind the biologics like um effixab and adelmimab. These are heavy hitters. Like these are big guns that come in monoconal antibodies that target and inhibit TNF alpha. They talk about this on a commercial. They inhibit TNF. Sorry, I got all out of focus there. TNF on the screen. TNF alpha, which is a key inflammatory cytoine. But you need to go back a little bit and look at NFCappa B hitting TNF alpha doesn't matter because it's not the source. That's a result of not a source of they induce. Sure, they can induce all kinds of remission remission. That's a funny notice how they label it just like cancer. But what's the cost? What's the cost? What's the cost of an anti-TNF alpha like infleximab? Just what's the cost? You're systematically disabling a fundamental immune pathway. The blackbox warnings are the stuff of nightmares for this severe infections. TB, fungal, bacterial, hepatitis B, reactivation, heart failure, demyelinating diseases like multiple sclerosis, MS, and again, all these risks of the same freaking things, lymphoma, and a bunch of other cancers. And people go sign me up. Boy, you don't understand how bad it is to be bleeding rectally and having to take a crap all the time. You know what? I don't I don't You're right. I don't. And for someone that goes, "Oh, I totally get it." No, they don't. But what I do know is being alive is good. Being dead is not good until your time. What I do know is that treating the source, not the result, matters more. But nobody ever talks to you guys about that. They've turned patients, this is what the system's done. It's turned patients into imunocmpromised hostages forever tethered to some infusion center just praying for that the next infection isn't the one that kills them. This isn't treatment. This is a profitable, managed decline. It's always the same thing. Yes, it makes me angry. Go ahead and snip this out and stitch it. Do what other dumb things you want to do. I mean, and and for irritable bowel syndrome, it's even more pathetic. Antispasmotics, laxatives, anti-depressants to numb the nervous system. It's like whack-a-ole with no intention of ever ini finding the mole. And here's the catastrophic lie they've sold us. They've sold us that that these are diseases of too much inflammation. That's what they've sold us. That's what they say, right? So follow me because I can't even process this. They've sold us this idea that the disease is too much inflammation and the solution is to shut down your immune system. How does that even make sense? This is a diagnostic failure of epic proportions. And you guys eat this stuff just all day scooping it up going, "Yeah, they're right. They care. Give me another drug." Inflammation is not the cause. It's a symptom. It's a fire alarm. Modern medical approach is to smash the alarm with a sledgehammer and call the fire department a success. But the house is still You smash the fire alarm, call the fire department, they don't show up, the house burns to the ground. How is that a success? I don't know. This stuff really bothers me because I don't go down rabbit holes. I unpack the science and physiology behind this. The question you should be asking is where's the real fire, the real cause of all this? It is a just, you know, it is a total breakdown of the intestinal barrier and immune tolerance driven by a trifecta of metabolic dysfunction. So much shit's going wrong in your system. And yet people go, "That can't be it." Okay, let me take some coffee cuz we're going to go off. Leaky gut. Leaky gut. And people hear leaky gut. And they go, "Oh yeah, yeah, I took this supplement." I had one guy, I forget what he said, "You can take, I forget what it was, but he's like, "You could take this for 30 days. It'll make your leaky gut go away." It was an amino acid. And I was like, "Come on, Matt. You just understand physiology about his. You don't. You just don't. It hurts because the bro science, you guys. Everybody wants to be an expert because it makes them feel important. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you think I'm an expert. I stay in my line. I tell you what's going on. I go, "Here's a solution. If you do it, do it. If you don't, that's up to you. But you have to choose. I'm not going to make you do anything. Be sick. Take a bunch of drugs. Keep running to your doctor. Get 13 ft of garden hose shoved up your ass with a camera on the end of it. Knock yourself out. Knock yourself out. Do what you got to do. I'm not this guy that's gonna come out demanding that you do something waving some flag going you have to follow me. I don't care. Then don't. I'm giving you the information. You know what's interesting is I've had thousands of people go I wish my teachers would have been like you in college. Maybe you guys would be smarter. I'm talking the people that pretend they're in healthcare. Not everybody. I'm talking those people. Yeah. I have it out for a lot of the doctors cuz you guys are you guys are just bad [\h__\h] people, man. Indoctrinated bad people fighting to support a system that's been broken for 50 years. Leaky gut, man. Leaky gut is ground. It's patient zero, ground zero, whatever you want to say. The intestinal epithelium is a single layer of cells held together by something called tight junction proteins like zulin for example, right? This barrier is supposed to be like the bouncer. It lets nutrients in and keeps undigested food particles, bacteria and toxins, the luminal antigenic load, all of that out. Remember the whole lipopolyaccharide leaking into the bloodstream, immune system and causing cytoine storms. All of this stuff it's supposed those tight junctions, those tight junction proteins keep all that out. All three conditions, all three that barrier is compromised. Zulin signaling is upregulated and the gates are wide open like Mordor open. Everything's marching in to take over. That's just the first part. Leaky gut. Second is the immune system is freaking the hell out because your systemic immune system is exposed to this tidal wave of material it was never supposed to see like lipopolysaccharides LPS from gram negative bacteria leaks into the portal circulation. This is called metabolic endotoxinia. So the L just so you know LPS I'm not going to say lipopolyaccharides over and over again. LPS binds to toll-like receptor 4 TLR on immune cells and it triggers this nuclear factor kappa B NFCappa B mediated that's why I said you have to get to the source this mediated explosion of pro-inflammatory cytoines TNF alpha IL1 beta IL6 this is the inflammation that they're so desperately trying to suppress with drugs it's a reaction it's not the primary event it doesn't even make sense if you just go down anyone with entrylevel physiology can see this any gastroenterologist ologist knows this for sure. Any proctologologist, any firstear med student should know this. And yet they don't. They go, "Whoa, I I need to get humumera. That'll help." How lazy are you guys? Don't treat the disease. Take care of the patient. They're not the same. How about the metabolic system itself? It's trashed. It's the part that these guys completely ignore. This entire disaster is fueled by mitochondrial dysfunction and cellular energy bankruptcy. Exactly what I talk about all the all the time. It's an ATP problem. you have insulin resistance. So hyperinsulinemia is profoundly inflammatory. insulin resistance at the level of the intestinal epithelial cells impairs their ability to utilize glucose for energy, ATP production. So now you've weakened the barrier. It promotes systemic inflammation. It causes havoc in the entire system. Excuse me. Look at the systemic inflammation all on its own. The cytoine storm TNF alpha IL6 induces insulin resistance in muscle and fat tissue. Inflammation causes insulin resistance which causes more inflammation. It's a self-propagating cycle. Low ATP. I talk about this all the time. Remember what I say. I always talk about same three things. insulin resistance, inflammatory problems, energy problems. It is the same three issues. Giving them a new name doesn't change what the problem is. It's like going here's a drug. Changing the label on a bottle of Tylenol doesn't change what's in the bottle. The reason they come up with so many different things because they if you have one slight variant, you think everybody expresses a disease the same way. Okay, the answer is no. Answer is no. So, I think the problem is with the perceived description or the perception created by the descriptions. Well, it makes money though. You think the Merc manual has 3,000 plus pages now and 1895 it only had 110? You think there's that many new diseases and all of you guys are about to jump in my comments and go, "Well, the technology is better. We can detect things better." No. You're getting fancier with your naming so you can create more drugs and have more labels because labels make you feel like you have an a condition that cannot be treated. So you're special. You're not special. You're ignorant of your own physiology. Yes, it bothers me. I told you that already. Intestinal, listen to me. The ATP problem, the intestinal epithelial cells have a massive energy demand to maintain those tight junctions. And there's a constant turnover because they're sloughing off and rebuilding and sloughing off and rebuilding. And when the mitochondrial function is impaired, which is usually due to oxidative stress from inflammation and a [\h__\h] poor diet, ATP production tanks. Remember, ATP is a currency that's doing this right now. You're listening to it, ATP. You're watching it, ATP. You're driving, ATP. Moving your hands, ATP. Getting in the comments, typing your little hateful comment, ATP. All of these things, ATP. It is the foundation of every single [\h__\h] thing you do. The cells can't maintain the barrier. The lights go out, the gates break down, everything pours into the system. You're screwed. The gut doesn't have problems because it lacks humra. It has a problem because it's cellular power plants are offline. The walls are broken and it's under constant attack from the very contents it's supposed to [\h__\h] contain. You know, I try not to curse sometimes because sometimes, oh, I listen to this my kids, but at the same time, that's how irritated this makes me. Society has been conditioned to think, what medicine am I missing instead of what part of my biology is broken and how do I fix it? The answer isn't in a syringe. It's not in and I'm not talking, listen before you go, what about peptides? They're in a syringe. They're not drugs. They literally tell your body to do what it's supposed to do. Holy [\h__\h] The entire health care system would be radically altered if all people used for the most part outside of critical emergencies were peptides and secrets and things like it just sarmms and stoms. The world would be the health would be astronomical. But the people there would there would be no money in it. That's right. Cuz you keep people healthy. I just I don't know where to go with that. It drives me insane. You don't you need a paradigm shift. This world needs an enema. You don't suppress things and think they're going to get better. You rebuild the system and reverse the problem. So here, listen. I'm I don't even want to do this because you guys ask me all kinds of questions, but I'll help you out anyway because you guys should just This is where I tell you to join the black card and it's that's my quote unquote pitch. No, it's because I put you behind a wall that keeps you safe and keeps me safe. That's why. But how about this? I'll help you out. Change your diet. Hypothetically, I already said this part. Change your diet. Mediterranean and carnivore hybrid. It's not anecdotal by the way. This is strategy. Remove the primary drivers. Just take the bad things out of intestinal permeability, pitates, soluble fibers from grains and legumes, lactose, casein, A1, casein A1 from conventional dairy, industrial seed oils, and that are high in pro-inflammatory linoleic acid. Nourish the most nourish your system. I just want to go into the details and I it just drives me nuts. Nourish your system with the most bioavailable, nutrientdense, low toxic foods possible. Ruminant meat, wild caught fish, eggs, cooked, low oxolate vegetables like zucchinis and asparagus. Although I had somebody go, it's called asparagus. Shut up. It's an asparagus. But when you do that, you stop the beatdown. It doesn't solve the problem. It's a start. What? You got to start somewhere. I'm a big fan of 186 fasting for so many reasons. I don't care if you do it or not. You can argue against it. I'm not doing this to argue. I'm saying I'm giving you a solution. You decide whether or not you do the solution. It's not calorie restriction. It's like metabolic therapy. It's like sitting on a therapist's couch 186. That's how this works for your digestive system. The fa the fasted state tanks insulin levels but intentionally. So it because it's going to reduce the inflammatory signaling upregulates autophagy which is the cellular housekeeping process that cleans and gets rid of the damaged proteins and organels within the gut cells. It gives your gut a rest from the constant work of parastoaltic contractions and secretions and enzymes and hydrochloric acid and all like the work of digestion. It allows energy to be diverted to repair the system itself. Never mind the fact that it stimulates the migration of intestinal stem cells to repair the epithelial winding. All of these things are good. Go for a walk every day for one mile. You know my routine. Go for a onem walk, 16 to 17 minute pace. This is a signaling event, not for exercise. It's it improves insulin sensitivity systemically. Enhances blood flow to the gut. Delivers oxygen and nutrients to where they need to go for repair. Modulates the stress response. HBA access in case you're wondering. Lowers cortisol, which is another gut disruptor. You don't need a bottle of supplements and some naturopath to say, "If you take these magic supplements, it's going to make you so much better. But I get them. They're very holistic. I got them from a mountain." Nobody cares. What you need is somebody that actually is going to help you. I could do I've solved Let me back up. I've given the solution for leaky gut to thousands of people and had them walk away with a great digestive system. And I'm not even a gut specialist person, which I think is just weird. I don't think there's such a person. I think you're either a doctor. Just to be clear, a specialist is somebody who knows more and more about less and less. Let that sink in. This foundation alone, just changing this alone dramatically reduce your symptoms. Just those things alone, just what I told you, just do that. But I want to give you everything I can because that's my job. Even though sometimes I really don't cuz all you guys do is complain. But when it comes to the gut and if you say oral, I just want to smash you in the face with something heavy like just ball it up and beat you to death. BPC-157. You This is It cannot be oral. Period. It can't. It is undisputed. It has never been beaten for gut repair ever. Nothing has ever beaten BPC-157. Undisputed champ of gut repair by far. It is a master regulator. It accelerates the healing of intestinal mucosa by promoting angioenesis which is the new blood vessel formation, the expression of ve stuff that you need right to work. Upregulates the synthesis of collagen and all the other structural proteins you need. Glycosaminoglycans like it. It does the things that you need. And you guys keep going, can I take it in a pill cuz I don't like needles. Do you like ulcerative colitis? Do you like irritable bowel disease? Do you like any of that stuff? Do you like Crohn's? I don't know. To me, I would be willing to try whatever it takes to make it go away and solve the problem, not get out of the pain, solve it so it never comes back. This like BPC protects cells from oxidative stress and reestablishes normal tight junctions and so they function properly. It directly repairs leaky gut. It's non-negotiable. You could probably just stop there and you would radically alter your world for 90% of you, but I don't want to do that. KPV, it's the fragment of alpha MSH. The power is in its incredibly profound anti-inflammatory effect specifically in the gut. And I've used this for carpal tunnel, by the way, and it worked like a champ. Look at this. This was like I had all kinds of issues with my gut or with my wrist, and it just was trashed. And handstand push-ups, hitting the bag, it doesn't matter. It's perfect. They would have given me some PT from physical therapist would have 8 to 12 weeks and take some time do this little squeeze the ball thing and all this. You guys have no idea how well equipped you are to heal your system when you're given the right opportunity and the right tools to do it. I'm just telling you. So I come out here just take the tools and do it. I just do what you got to do with it. But I'm trying to give you an answer so you don't have to be out of commission for years or weeks. You can be out of commission for days. KPB modulates the NFCappa B pathway. It reduces the production of TNF alpha, IL1 beta, IL6, the inflammatory cytoine. But here's the cool part. Unlike amunosuppressants, it only acts locally. It calms the fire without destroying or even disarming the entire immune system. It doesn't work on the immune system at all. Copper GHK-Cu. This is tissue remodeling at its finest. It upregulates the expression of genes that are directly involved in tissue repair. Goes back to glycosaminoglycans and collagen synthesis, antioxidant synthesis, anti-inflammatory. This helps normalize the dysfunctional extracellular matrix and the gut lining. It solves a lot of problems. And yet, how many of these come with married to side effects? I'll wait. I'll wait. Go ahead. Get in the comments. Tell me all the quote unquote side effects of this. You can't. There's not a single side effect. So, save it. It's rhetorical question. Tessensine. So, you can get rid of what I called the other day as psychological friction. It was the best example or best way I could describe tessensine. The gut brain access is this two-way street. So by suppressing the appetite and improving mood, serotonin, noradrenaline, dopamine, the reuptake inhibition, right? It makes the dietary changes that I gave you just before this almost effortless and breaks you out of that stress eating cycle that fuels the gut inflammation. Doesn't do that. I want you guys to think of what you're taking and why you're taking what the purpose is because most of you guys take something in an effort to make the pain go away. pain. I realize that. I realize that I don't I'm not in the pain, but I realize that that is a very loud speaker and to turn it down is the only thing that that that's the only mission you have. But if you have to keep taking something that causes you to die or struggle outside of that, you're just actually making it worse instead of going, "How about I turn it down, turn it off, solve the problem, go on with my life so I never have to take it again, and I have a long, healthy, powerful life." Just a thought. Matsi it's a metabolic homeostasis improves insulin sensitivity which we already established is the problem enhances glucose utilization reduces the oxidative stress that's destroying your symptom it addresses the core metabolic dysfunctions that are driving the pathology like I actually debated on talking about redatruide but Monty is a better all-around fit for this kind of thing at true tide would be a great addition but you don't need it so don't run out and get it you MSC is a great it's a great part of this because it works on the ATP production as well 20 to 30% upregulation. So CJC1 1295 and I pamearell and always good to have because it promotes the systemic repair and it speeds it up. So this growth hormone secret combo restores the youthful pulsatile GH release. So growth hormone and IGF-1 which are critical for the maintenance and repair of all the tissues in your body including the gut lining. What do you think this is doing? It stimulates the proliferation of intestinal stem cells which causes the repair. And now you give some remember and now BPC enhances their affinity the cells in the gut to this growth hormone and IGF-1. See how this is working? I want you guys to understand this so you know why you're taking something instead of I don't know I take this it goes away except it hands you a bill for a whole bunch of new problems. ND+ I talked about this yesterday in my podcast. You are this is so cool. Injectable. You cannot subq only. You cannot take this orally. You can't sprinkle a little powder under your tongue and NMN is only a slightly less effective version or a slightly less ridiculous precursor because you're counting on your body to convert it to NAD+ to get into to the whole electron NADH KB cycle. I went over this yesterday. I don't need to today, but you're replacing the very specific it's a fundamental currency of energy energy and repair. NAD+ fuels the certuins one 3 which help repair DNA their proteins, right? that modulate the inflammatory problem, enhance mitochondrial function. You're refilling the tank for the cellular engines that that power the gut itself and allow it to repair itself. SS-31, this stuff, if I had to choose between MOSI and SS31, I would still take Matsy because they're not the same. But SS31, this stuff's like armor for your mitochondria because it protects the delicate inner lining of the mitochondrial membrane that or the delicate inner mitochondrial membrane from all the oxidative damage. I talked about this before, cardio lipids. This ensures that the little nuclear reactors, those little energy factories in the gut epithelial cells are still producing ATP at the level needed to maintain the barrier and power the recovery. Because if you don't have the energy to do it, it doesn't matter what you have. Please understand that you guys take things and you go, "Well, I don't have the energy to do it." It doesn't matter what I give you. If the energy isn't there to execute, it can't happen. It's like starting an IV on a dead person. Will not matter. They're gone. That's how ridiculous it is. This the protocol that I just laid out is very specific and it's based purely on your biology. Nothing else. Nothing else. And if you go, well then it's not applicable. That's the only thing that's applicable. Listen, you got to seal the barrier so you don't leak toxins into your bloodstream and throw gasoline on the already blazing inferno in your cardiovascular system and your immune system is going bonkers on it. So BPC57 KPB, you got to shut down that inflammatory problem which is the KPB in the gut. It's got to be local. You're not injecting directly into the gut, but it's going to only it only has an affinity for cells like that. I talked about it when I went over KPB. It only goes to the places where the problems are. Rebuild the tissue GHK-Cu growth hormone secrets the CJC and a pomearellin restore the cellular energy that is lacking severely guaranteed MS NAD plus SS31 and remove the psychological barriers the friction that's making you have this emotional eating problem whether you like it or not the stress eating because you're freaking out at this part I understand you know why you do that by the way you do that because in your DNA your brain goes oh I have food I'm going to be safe and it hits your stomach and you're like okay I'm safe I'm safe you it's deep primal lizard brain stuff. Tessa Fency, by the way, is what I'm talking about. You're not smashing the fire alarm with the sledgehammer and then calling the fire department saying you don't need to show up while the house burns down, which is what I explained before. You're putting out the fire. You're rebuilding this entire system, the house, with much better materials, making it a more robust house that it can withstand a category 5, and you're installing a much better security system with people all around the outside that refuse to let anybody that doesn't belong in. The drugs never did that. They never could because the business model that the drugs have is they they count on the fire burning forever. So the choice is yours. You can do whatever you want. I've come out here enough times to go, I've earned my street credit. I don't need to sit here and chase you down and go, trust me, I know, bro. I know what I'm talking about. I just come out here to give you the answers and then I go on with my life and you decide what you want to do. You want to join the black card? Awesome. You want to buy from Elite? Awesome. If you don't, happy trails, man. Knock yourself out. But you can be a patient, a customer, or an asset on a pharmaceutical balance sheet, right? That's what you can be. That's what you are, right? patient, customer, some kind of check mark on a balance sheet where you make some money. You are living in a state of managed decline. You can do that. Or you can be the architect of your own damn [\h__\h] biology. And you can fire your doctors that are lying to you. Get one that treats you right. You can cancel your subscriptions to the infusion center cuz that's how this works if you haven't figured this out. And you can actually take a hold of your own health and fix the damn problem and go on with your life instead of worrying about where the next bathroom is. Your gut is not a disease. It is an ecosystem. You can choose to be the guy who nurtures and brings it back to health. Or you can be that arsonist that waits for someone else to show up with a cheaper fire hose. The power is never ever in the pharmaceutical industry. Never. It is always in your hands. You have to make the decision to go, I'm willing to learn enough to solve the [\h__\h] problem. And I'm out here just giving you the knowledge. Do what you want with it. But I'm out here trying to help you guys. So if there's anything other than a thank you out of your mouth, I don't know what to say, man. Your parents didn't smack you enough, I think, cuz you have no respect. This is for you, not for me. Anyway, I hope that helps somebody. Hope somebody gets out of this pit that they're stuck in of ulcerative colitis and irritable bowel and Crohn's. I hope this helps you. I really do. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.