So, it's like a wad. You're starting it like that. All right. Candy Hulen, Trevor from Smash Works. We're going to do a little shoulder mobility. Um, she's already doing some stuff. It's funny because we were just talking and she's got uh some scapula. So, I'm going to turn Katie around for a second. And if you guys know Katie Hogan, she lifts like huge weights. So these things need to fire really well. But I'm going to have you protract your scapula. So what's happening is with Katie is she's got a scapula that sticks a little bit to the rib cage. So we're going to go through how to unglue that and then go through some really cool shoulder mobility. Then we're going to let her get back to work cuz we got a busy athlete here. So she's going to go through some uh we're going to do some crossover symmetry first. So go ahead and grab the band. So you can you can do this with a band. You can do this with these bands. You can do this against the rig. Right now, she's using her advanced feel. Watch what she's doing. I'm going to get behind Katie just here. So, you can see she's pulling down. So, she's going to be hitting that terry's that lat, and she's going to retracting the scapula. So, if you look in here, a lot of muscle development, so it's easy to see what's going on. She's holding that scapula stable. Brett just got annihilated on a workout, so he's holding the camera for me. Little shaky and uh it's a little shaky. So, you can see what's going on here. She's keeping in place so she can keep this active while she's pulling us back and forth, firing up that terries and that um that lat. So it's the same kind of motion we do when we do um a snatch, right? We do that sweep before we get into the snatch, right? Same thing with a clean. We're sweeping that bar into us. So it's super important that the scapula is working really well. Katie told me that she has her right shoulder gets a little bit of internal rotation, right? So I'm going to go through a sub scap smash with her. She didn't know that, but I'm going to do that with her. And she's like, "Oh my god." Next thing she's going to do is we're going to do the up and overs. Are you going to do peel away? Okay. So, we're going to do peel away. So, what she's doing is she's going to come out, but keeps the scapula retracted and basically trying to pinch my fingers between uh her scapula and then she's going to flare out the scapula. So, this is a lot of control of what's going on in the scapula. Then, she's going to come back and then she's going to let the arm come all the way back. So, what's happening is go ahead. You can do as many of these as you want. So, what she's doing is she's making her scapula work back and forth. And if you remember what I said to you guys before, the scapula is the shoulder and the shoulder is the scapula. Arm's getting sore from holding the camera. So, Brett right now is dancing back and forth because he's done about 3 million squat planes and burpees, but since the scapula and the shoulder are one and the same, you got a lot of shoulder pumps that aren't really the shoulder, but it's because of scapula rhythm. So they call it scapula hummeral rhythm because the humorous is respon. So what she's doing is she's really activating that and she can even bring them forward and alternate back and forth. So if you watch what she's doing, she's not twisting at the torso at all. What she's doing is she's just having that scapula protract and retract independently of one another. So that's a lot of motor control. But with what we do with muscle-ups, snatches, you know, even even a simple burpee, when we're screwing our arms into the ground, we need to have that control to be able to do all these motions to keep the shoulders stable. So now when we come down to uh what else are we doing? We doing anything else? We do sometimes out here, but we can do this. No, no, that's Yeah, she's all excited. I use a lighter band though on this one. We're going to do basically Can you do a YTW with us? Can you show them what a YTW is with us? So, right. So, if you notice, her thumbs are pointed basically up and out. Now, she's doing the T and then the W is going to be external rotation. So, this is a band variation versus using fractionals. This is actually a lot harder to do than fractionals because she's upright. When we use the fractionals or the small weights, we go on an incline bench, and we were just talking about that. So, when we're on an incline, it's more just using the incline and it's allowing a little bit less resistance, but the band is a constant resistance. So, if you look at her, thumbs are out. She's coming all the way up. She's coming all the way across from the T. Then she's coming into that W. This is a great way to improve your stability in an overhead position. So awful, right? It's just diabolical. She's like, "This is terrible. I'm warm." Yeah. I can't do any presses now. But when you're up in that snatch position, active shoulders, right? Yeah. Feels like So, you got to understand when you're in that position, you need to have active shoulders. Why? One of the best coaches around us, so she's going to tell you, you got to protect the shoulders, right? Absolutely. Right. Because this against resistance, whichever direction, right? This is basically the shock absorber for everything from a a muscle up to a pull-up to a jerk to everything. It's going to absorb all that force. You know, because you just did a bunch of stuff. Um, she wants to get smashed out. We're going to smash it out. So, I'm going to grab a lacrosse ball. Here's what you're going to do. So, you're going to lay on your back. She said it's her right shoulder. So, the subscapularis, the only way to get into the subscapularis is right in through here. Now, we're going to block the pain face cuz we don't want millions of people to see. See this? That That's the face we want to see. I'm going to do it for her and then I'm going to show you a way to do it. You're going to take the thumb and you're going to dig in here. She's going to externally rotate that arm and lock it up. Brett knows exactly what I'm doing because I do this to him at my office. And then we're just going to bring it. You want to keep the arm as close to the ear as possible. And if you can feel there's a resistance spot there, right? So gnarly. So all you're going to do is you're going to oscillate around. This is where having a buddy is super awesome. So if Brett can get in and see where my thumb is. He's got a smile on his face because he's like, "It's so good to see somebody else going through that." And then you come back. What you're going to find is, look at that. We've got a lot further. Yeah. You can go more. Totally. And then we're going to come back up one more time. And then we'll come out. Look at that. Totally. Bottomed out, right? I mean, how much range of motion did we just increase? Totally. In the span of what, 30 seconds? Yeah. Don't look. No. Right. And then look at this one. We're bottomed out right here. So, what that means is we're going to do this side, too. And then check this out. She's going to put her hands overhead and actually lock out and lock. Yeah, that's right. In the right plane. That's right. You won't lock out in front of you. So, you're going to lock out the arm, externally rotate. Same thing. I'm in here with my thumb. Stay really close to the ear. And we hit that same stopping spot right there. So, I think because Katie's really, really muscular. And no joke, she moves a lot of weight. Come up here. The muscles fire. Yeah, the muscles fire and they hold those shoulders rounded forward. So, some homework I would give her are all that shoulder mobility right off the bat. Look at that. Bottomed out already. Is I would have her get in the rig and get into almost a snatch position up really high like you're balancing two bowls of water in your hand. Head up real tall. Take a step forward and just let that really open up the chest. And then the other thing is a bar or no no bar. Just get in between the rig and shoot it all the way in. Just open up that chest cavity a lot. And the other thing I would do is I would take um I can show you if you want to come here. Follow me. You want to do this real quick? So you're going to take a bar. There's a ball. She's going to lay with her back over this. back. Yep. Put your head on this side. No, just like this. And what's really crazy is she's going to tell me, "Oh, yeah. I feel that a lot." Gnarly, right? So, the thing is with using a ball instead of using people use foam rollers a lot of times for this and then they have that rollers down. Yeah. You're way too low. So, now you have someone like Katie, she's really tall. This gives her a much bigger fulcrum and a ball is a much softer contact than a faux roller. But what you can see is it's really opening everything up. So in here, lat terries, even that subcap is being wound out. What she can really do is she can almost act like she's trying to internally rotate and punch out. And you feel that difference. Now she can twist it the other way as well. Try and now torque in instead. And see how it feels. So awful, right? Big difference. So she can change. If you look, she's changing her shoulder position in and out. So, play around with it. Don't be afraid to freestyle it. Hey, listen. Trev Katie Hogan, Smash Works. See you guys tomorrow.