Hey guys, it's Tra Smash Works. You know the routine. Good morning. Good morning. Today we're going to be talking a little bit more about mechanics than mobility. We'll get to the mobility in uh in a little while. Um we're talking about the squat. I've had a lot of people talk to me about the squat. Trev, can you fix this? Trev, can you fix that? Why is my toe going out? Why is my low back hurting? Um, how come I have some rotation? There's a lot of factors to the squat. I even had somebody come in and tell me their elbows are blowing up when they're doing a squat. So, I'm going to address a couple of factors when it comes to doing a squat and doing it properly. And, uh, we're going to call this a squat series. So, this is part number one, and we're going to do this all week. So, we're going to do probably two or three videos based on, uh, what to mobilize, how to mobilize it, um, how to get into the best squat position for you. Remember, the squat is a pretty personal preference, but there are some fundamentals that you got to stick to. So, uh, so I'll go over everything and and try and break it down to the most simple part, uh, that we can kind of boil it down to its essence as it were. So, I have a bar set up 135 on the bar just so there's some weight on my spine, a little bit of an axial load because doing it with a bar. And that's okay. If you guys are practicing this, I want you to practice with a weight that's manageable. So, if it's the bar, it's the bar. If it's uh, you know, someone that's squatting, you know, 465 for reps, then, you know what, 315 might be a nice light weight for you guys. Uh, definitely not me, but that's something you guys want to consider. So, just use a weight that puts a good axial load on your body. Because what I noticed is when we're doing a squat, if there's no load, you squat differently than when there's a load. And I've seen a lot of people where they squat and I watch their pelvis slide back and forth on the way down and then back and forth on the way up or there's a rotation on the way down and a rotation on the way up. That's not always there uh when there's no weight. They come into my office or they come here to Diablo and I kind of see what's going on and I assess the squat and I look um you know, toes out, toes in, knees, VGUS knees. So, just to give you an idea, that VGUS knees, when those knees come in like this, you get those little baby fawn legs. And the toes out are the ones that tend to give you that uh that fault when when you're dropping into the squat, you tend to drop in and you lead with your butt below the hips back, contract the quads, and then pivot at that at that lumbar spine, and you let your low back do all the work. Uh both are really, really trashing on your joints, and they hurt you a lot. So, there's some great mobility to get that moving. But the first things first, let's look for all the things that we're doing in our squat. and uh maybe you guys this is a great way to test uh where you are in your squat and and what you need to fix and then we'll go over the mobility, but that's next video. So, I'm going to hook you and make you watch the next one. So, the first things first is I'm going to grab the squat or grab the bar and I'm going to show you a couple of different variations on uh what the improper form is and what it's supposed to look like and then uh and then we'll go from there. All right. So, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to get under the bar and I'm going to show you what happens when we uh we have a break in the wrist. So, I have people coming and talking about their elbows blowing out, their wrists hurting. That means you're supporting all this weight on the arms. Man, that is way too much weight uh to support on the wrist and the arms. That's supposed to be a load across your back. So, what you want to do is have it go across the meaty portion of the back. Um right where the traps and the deltoids and the rhomboids and everything come together where it makes that big meaty spot right in the center of the back. That's where the bar should be. And I realize there's a high bar and a low bar portion of a squat. Um those are all totally uh personal preference. Probably find somewhere in the middle that works for you. But when you're on a when you're on a low bar, you're gonna um definitely do a lot more um you're going to do definitely a lot more quads. And when you're on a high bar, you're gonna because it's going to force you to lean forward a little or sorry, um when you're on a low bar, you're going to do a lot more of the posterior chain. When you're in a high bar, you're going to hit your quads. Low bar, you're it's going to make you pivot forward a little more. Okay? High bar is going to make you come up right a little bit more. So, it's going to hit different spots on the leg. So, if we're low bar, just to give you an idea, I'm just going to stand in here. I'm not going to take the weight off. Low bar is going to be like this. High bar is going to be like this. So low bar is really far. Now, if you notice, my wrists are breaking. That's not how I want you to squat. I'm just showing you where the bar is going to sit. So, there's that meaty portion in the center of the back. If I'm here, it's usually right above the spine of the scapula. So, the scapula is a bone. It has a spine that runs across the top of it. Basically, the big thick bump on the top. When you see somebody from the back and you got these big giant traps, that's about where you want that bar to sit. So, when you're going to climb under the bar, I want you to look at my hands. So, we're going to be like this. This is a bad wrist position because I'm supporting a lot of the weight of this bar on my wrist. I want to come out to wherever I'm comfortable. If you notice now, my wrists are straight. And now, I can drop into the bottom of that squat. So, this is just a normal squat. I'm torquing the knees out. I'm dropping into the bottom. Head upright. Up I go. So, that's normal. What I'm going to see is people do this. Now, the wrists are broken, but I'm going to go one step further. I'm going to break at the low back. So, they drop the bar down a little bit lower and they squat and they lean way forward and then they leave with their butt and then they stand up like this. That puts an incredible amount of strain. Like I can feel that with 135. That puts an incredible amount of strain on the low back. That's number one. And then the other one is I'm going to tow out. So, if I'm towing out like this, how about we do this? Make it easier. So, I'm towing out like this. So, I realize you can't see my feet, but I'm towing out. So, I'm squatting like a duck. So, watch my knees. They're going to come in like this on a squat. I'm going to pitch forward. Now, my hands are in a bad position. My knees are in a bad position. My torso can't maintain that weight. So, what I want to do is grab out, go about shoulder width. So now I'm nice and straight with my arms and now I'm torquing into the ground. And if you watch my knees track out and I sink into the bottom, head upright looking at a target about 6 ft in front of me and then stand up again. That's normal. Okay. So I'm going to dump this weight. So what's going on is my arms are straight. I'm creating a nice straight line between the wrist and the forearm. And all that's doing is keeping the bar against my back. it's not supporting any of the weight. So, a lot of times the problem is is there's thoracic spine extension issues. So, that thoracic spine is really rounded like this. So, the hands have to compensate to try and recover some of that motion. Remember, wherever it's try tight, your body's going to find a way to feed slack into that motor to get you into that position because our bodies are smart. So, the problem is is that you're going to drop into that squat and your body's going to look for a place to feed that slack into the engine at your expense. So, we want you squatting till you're about 125. After that, you're on your own. So, first things first, nice straight forearm. So, all that the the key to that and the trick to that is it's super easy. If you're on the bar and you're like this, just widen out your hands until you get to the position where your wrist is straight. If you notice, all I did was bring my hands out. If you got to squat all the way at the collars, that's totally fine. If you're the size of Jesse Berdick, you're going to squat out here because you're built like, you know, a 747 and you're squatting 1,000 lb. So, that being said, when you're a smaller guy, like you look at me, I'm 5'10", about 190 or 190, 185 lbs. I'm not that big. So, when I'm squatting, I'm a little bit of a narrower grip. That's going to allow those elbows to drop down and make a nice straight line. Now, if those elbows come up like this, we're having an internal rotation problem. We're also having a lat problem. when we're having a tight chest. So, all that stuff comes into play and it causes us to do this in our squat. So, we rest our hands on the bar like this with those high elbows putting all kinds of crazy strain and torque on that um anterior delt putting it on the subscap which does that internal rotation. All those muscles get beat up on a movement that's designed to do a lot more work on the uh on the lower body, glutes, quads, posterior chain, hamstrings, calves, and all that. I realize a squat is a global movement. It causes everything to work. Remember, torso is tight, low back is tight, glutes are squeezed, um scapula is dropped down, head is that what we call Trevor's L rule. So, you keep this that 90° angle right here. So, you're looking at a target about 6 ft in front of you when you squat. So, first fault that we're going to that I was talking about is those wrists break. That's number one. Okay. Second fault is you're standing up when you do a squat. When you stand up, you lead with the butt. So, you're pushing your hips back and then you're pivoting at the hips. So, you're basically making your low back do all the work. So, all those guy, all you guys out there that are getting that low back pain when you're squatting and saying squatting is bad for your back. No, it's not. Squatting is actually really good for your low back. Trust me, I see all the X-rays. You say squatting is bad for your back. Bring me your X-rays. I want to see them. Um because it's going to force you to be in a very uh correct position, a very supported position. Our bodies are designed to squat. Trust me. If you're 75 years old and there's groceries on the ground and Ricky will tell you this, 75 years old and I got to pick up groceries. How am I going to do it? I'm going to deadlift and squat. Those are natural movements. So, that being said, that's important to understand. This is a movement you're designed to do. What we're not designed to do is leg extensions, bicep curls, tricep press downs. Not saying they're bad movements for all you guys that do them. I'm just saying that those are kind of an accessory movement. They're uh one joint nonfunctional. There's not a a thing in nature that's going to cause you to do the, you know, a leg extension unless you're kicking something. Even then, there's some hick, some hip, there's some leg, there's some glute, there's there's a lot more involved. So, the squat's a natural movement. So, it's going to cause global growth. It's going to cause global strength. It's like the deadlift. They're very fundamental movements. So, you want to have these down right. So, first of all, we got those wrists breaking. Just widen your hands out on the bar. When you widen your hands out on the bar, nice and straight, let those elbows drop. when they're not remember anterior shoulder pec um lat terries um subscap because that subscap does internal rotation. Now we have the second one is where we come up with the butt and we blow our hips back and we pivot at that lumbar spine causing a lot of problems with that lumbar spine. So that's generally a tendency because the feet are towed out. So when the feet are towed out like this, so you're squatting like a duck, the knees are going to collapse in because your body's trying to find slack and it's trying to feed the ability to get down into the hole um into the system. See the purpose of have and that means your hips are really tight. So if your hips are tight, high hip, glute me, TFL, um even the hip flexors when they're really tight, they can't allow the torso to pass through the hips into the bottom of the squat. Because when you're in the bottom of the squat here, I'll grab this and I'll show you. All right, I realize I'm dancing the camera all over the place, but when you're in the bottom of the squat, so you can see my feet right now. This is a normal squatting position about 5° off center. When you drop down into the Notice how my knees torque out, so I'm spreading the floor apart. My knees torque out and I sit in the bottom of this squat. My torso passes through the hips. Okay. So, that's what I was talking about. There needs to be room there. If you don't have any room and you're squatting like this because your hips are so tight and the high hips are tight and the hamstrings are tight, so they're not allowing you to do that and you're squatting like this. Well, you can't generate any torque to hold that position. But, you are creating room in the hips, but the knees are going to take abuse. Look what's happening. My knees are going to collapse. Now, I'm in this position. I see a lot of people that go, "Hey, look, Trev, I'm sitting in the bottom of the squat. It's totally fine." Man, that hurts. Just do it. Holy moly. But that being said, you're allowing the torso again to pass through the hips, but you're doing it in a really compromised position. So now we have the high hip that's tight. We have the uh the hip flexor that's tight. So I'll give you two quick stretches for that right now. I know I wasn't going to tell you any mobility for this one. I was just going to show you the faults, but we'll give you some mobility. So high hip, super easy. Take your foot, take it out like this. I'm going to plant it down. My other foot's my trailing leg is straight out back. I'm going to take one hand, put it on the knee, the other hand on the foot, and I'm just going to plant this down, glue it to the floor like it's been stapled there forever. And then I'm just going to lean forward, and I'm going to hunt around until I find a spot right there. Like when I find a spot that's really stuck and really ugly, 2 minutes, kind of hang out there. You're going to do the same thing with the other side. That's going to hit that high hip. It's going to kind of get on that um IT band and all the uh the way it interdigitates with that vasis lateralis. So that muscle on the outside of your leg, that's number one. There's a modified um couch stretch. So instead of reefing on the leg and bringing it up against the against the wall and hitting that rectus forous more than that soaz, I want you to take your leg. Notice how I'm 90° right here. 90° right here. You're going to go get up nice and tight. You're going to suck your belly button into your spine. Bring your rib cage down. Squeeze your glutes. So squeeze your butt as hard as you can. Squeeze your butt, not someone else's butt. And then you're going to turn about 10° off center. And you're just going to hang out here how long? 2 minutes. That's right. 2 minutes. So we hang out here for 2 minutes. That's going to hit that pocket right in here. You're going to notice a big difference versus when you have that leg cranked up. I'm a big fan of the couch stretch, just not for this right here. That's going to allow the hip flexor to move a little bit. Okay. And then now we have uh we have the hamstring, that posterior chain. We're going to get to that tomorrow. So we've got that, the uh the pec, we've got the anterior shoulder, and we've got that subcap. We're going to work on all that stuff, too. And then thoracic extension as well. All right, I'm Travis Smashworks. That's part of the squat series number one. See you guys tomorrow.