Perfect. All right. Hey, I'm Trev from Smashworks. Pete Lemon. We got the name right. Y. All right. Uh 2015 games athlete. This guy is badass. He came into my office. Uh we're going to go over some calf mobility. This is why we have him. Came into my office. a good friend of mine, known him for a lot of years, and he decided to flip a,000lb tire two weeks before the games and and uh blew out his right calf. And when I say blew out, purple, torn, probably grade two. Um took a long time for them to get on MRI. We won't even get into that story, but um a lot of issues. And the first thing they told him, and I was talking to KStar about this too, is the same answer that most MDs give and that is what they say, rest for six weeks. Rest for six weeks. So don't move. They said, "Don't move the calf." After 6 weeks, then you can start easing into some mobility and easing into some stuff you can do. Now, it's been about 6 weeks. Yes. Okay. He came in to see me, I think about a day or two afterwards. Next thing, right? The next day. So, he came to see me the next day. I said, "No, no, no. That's not right." I took a look. His calf was about twice the size. Looked like a big Vienna sausage. And uh and I'm not kidding. Super purple, you know, lots of lots of edema. I put voodoo band on him. I voodoo flossed his calf. And then I voodoo flossed the Achilles and the bottom of the foot. took him through full ranges of motion. Just about peeled him off the table when I did it. Um, but I'll tell you this, he is doing what now? Pretty much everything. Everything. Snatching. He came through my office the other day about a week ago, a week and a half ago, and he says, "I'm going to go try some snatches." This was 4 weeks after they told him not to move. So, I'm going to show you guys how to take care of a fully blown out calf. Not just a calf strain. You can use this for a calf strain. You can use this for a pull. But, uh, also, if there's any edema, you got some torn up tissue in there, move. That's the biggest thing you can do. So, I'm going to show you how to do it. So, we're going to boot a band this calf and I'm going to show you how to do it. Right. So, first thing we're going to do is I'm going to have you sit with your leg, your right leg on this side so I can see it. You got There we go. So, we're going to take voodoo band. We start high, work our way down. Now, the first time I did this to Pete, he honestly asked me a really good qu. And I've known Pete a long time. I trust Pete. Pete trusts me. He asked me, "Are you sure? because it hurt that bad when I started wrapping it up. Literally cried. But I'll tell you one thing, he's a testament for doing homework and stuff I tell you to do because he I came into the gym later that day and he was doing everything I told him to do. So what I'm doing is I'm wrapping up the calf just below the knee. So I'm letting some of the calf up top, but we want to get this thing wrapped up really tight about 50% tension on the band. I'm not doing the usual 70 because I want to have a little bit of mobility and I'm leaving a little bit of a tail on the um on the voodoo band because we're going to trap that Achilles in the next set of mobility that we're doing after this. So, I just tuck it in. Nice little loop so it's easy to undo because trust me, when you want to get out of this thing, you want to get out of this thing. This is the stealth version of doing this. I did this for him, but I'm going to have him do this. So, he's going to get his leg up on the box. So now all he's going to do is I'm going to have him lean forward, put a lot of range of motion in that calf. So what it's doing is it's stretching out and stripping out these fibers, taking out everything, uh shoving out all that edema, and then he's going to come back out. He's going to do this in every possible plane that he can. So he's going to come across on the inside, he's going to come across on the outside. Now, you're going to do this for Trev's golden rule. 2 minutes. All right. So he's going to mash around in here. that's going to shove out all that um intracellular fluid, the the fluid that's between the cells that happens a lot of times when there's an injury. It's going to help get all that blood flow in there and it's going to shove those fibers into the right places they're supposed to be going and it's going to let that fascia slide past itself because it gets all gummed up when you get um when you get an injury, you get all these adhesions, then you get scar tissue. Scar tissue lays down like spaghetti. So, you want to have it lay down in these nice uniform fibers instead of like somebody just dropped a plate of spaghetti in your calf or wherever the injury is. Um, so that's what he's doing with this. So we're going to do this for 2 minutes. Then we're going to take him out of this. So easy way to take it off. Just give this a little yank. So that's number one. What's crazy is I'm looking at his calf right now. I used to do this. He had like these stairs on here from edema. Now it's just typical tiger stretch from when we do this. Next one is you going to sit here. Now we're going to do start at the bottom of the foot and we're going to work our way up instead. So, we're going to wrap midfoot. This is old school for Pete because we've done this about a hundred times. Same thing. About 50% tension. And I'm just relaxed when you do this, right? Yeah. Totally relaxed. That's right. So, Pete brings up a good point. You want to be relaxed when I'm doing this because if you're all flexed out when this is happening, you're contracting the muscle tissue. You're not letting that band get in there and do its job. And now the golden rule about a Buddha band, I did a video on this, is that it only works with movement. So I don't want you to put this on and then just hang out and watch TV. I want you to put this on and then do exactly what Pete's doing, which is uh taking it through ranges of motion. So on this one here, I'm lighter on the top and I'm putting more tension on the back because I'm going to trap that Achilles and let it restore a lot of the sliding motion that it's supposed to have. Pete used to do crutch races in at Diablo because Pete's wired like me. He doesn't like to stand still. I got pretty good at those. He did, too. I think he was beating everybody. I came in I think about a week or so later. Now he's going to get up here and do the same thing. Good. Now he's going to lean forward there. So that's going to really trap this. But the cool thing is 26 bones in the human foot. It's also going to take these bones right here, nvicular, um, talis, um, the calccanous in the back, and allow them to start moving in the spot they're supposed to, cuz it's like a puzzle piece. They all fit together a certain way. So, this is going to shove them into the right position without doing any damage to the joint. Um, I came into the gym, I was saying about a week later. And I remember him, KK, and I think one other person. We're doing a muscle up workout cuz Pete says, "Well, I can't use my calves, so I may as well do upper body." So, he's ripping out bar muscle ups like his life depended on it. And that's the difference between games athlete and normal athlete. They go anyway. All right. So, go ahead and have a seat. So, we're going to do that again for two minutes. And I kid you not, like I've seen I should have taken a picture and I should have done this video probably about five and a half weeks ago so you could have seen the calf and then I should have done a post video. You would have seen the difference. Now we're going to do two more things. These are really fast. I had do these on a kettle bell. I'm going to have him do these on a foam roller. I'm going to grab the uh the camera so you can see what I'm doing here. He's going to lay on his back. Foam roller is right here. He's going to put his calf on the foam roller. So, I'm going to go like that. Good. So, if you see what I he's doing right here is he's crossing his foot. So, he's using the weight of his leg to kind of go back and forth on there. He's just going to grind away on there. Again, 2 minutes. What you're doing is you're getting that tissue to move the way it's supposed to. You're restoring those sliding surfaces. You're promoting a ton of healing because you're getting blood flow to that area. So, I kid you not, when they say don't move, don't listen. Move. Right. I still got one more day and I can move. One more day. So you hear that? He's got one more day and then he's allowed to do all this stuff. So good thing we did that. So we're going to do this for 2 minutes and then he's going to flip over and he's going to do another one. He's going to hit that tibialis anterior. So now what he's hitting is just so you have an idea. There you go. So he's going to do the same thing. Good. Grind away on there. So just so you have an idea of what he's hitting, he's hitting this right down here on the outside of the tibia. So, here's your tibia, right? Inside is that meaty portion of the calf. The outside is this tibialis anterior. It's going to um lift up the foot. It does what's called dorsif flexion, but it's going to get all gummed up, too. So, if there's an injury to the calf, there's also going to be some um enttrapment and some tissue kind of all gummed up and gooey spots in here because they're going to have an argument agonist and an antagonist. So, what this is going to do is it's going to allow that foot to do what it's supposed to do. Dorsif flex and plantar effects and then invert and invert the way it's supposed to. And then he's going to do this for about 2 minutes as well. All right. So, this is how you mobilize that calf after an injury. This is how you mobilize that calf anyway. But I kid you not, torn calf, strained calf, do this stuff. It works. It moves. Pete Lemon, Trevor from Smashworks. I'll see you guys tomorrow.