Man, I I'm going to knock this out as fast as I can. It's almost 2 o'clock and I'm really really hungry. So, means I'm going to drink coffee. So, I've been getting a lot of God, the internet pariting is unbelievable. I'm getting a lot of messages about MK-677, which is a growth hormone secret. It's not a SARM. It's not a serum. It's not a peptide. For everybody that's sitting there going, "Oh, it's a ser." No, it's not. It's also not a serum and it's also not a peptide. And I've seen repeatedly people call them one of those three. It's none of those. But the link between MK-677 and cancer, no. Zero. And I'll explain. I'll prove it. I'll explain it. I'll show you exactly why it is the most ridiculous thing in the world and what most people are doing. And I'll just give you all the answers. And by the way, this is pure entertainment and hypothetical and just for education. And it's not meant to treat, diagnose, prescribe, advise, anything like that. If you know, you know, because if I don't say that, people get really upset, even though it is the damn truth. So, I thought about it when I was talking to Brandy. I said, "People are so ignorant about what they don't know and what they think they know and then run out online right away. They'll read one headline and then proclaim themselves an expert and run out and start. me and I saw this dude today even just probably 30 seconds ago coming across talking about how like as if he has any knowledge about cholesterol and it bugs me because going out and telling people that you have knowledge based on something that's fine but then make sure you can back it up and you can go more than one layer deep. I've said it I'll go toe-to-toe with anybody about what I know because I know what I know but things I don't know I don't even go out and talk about them. I don't go, "Well, I think it might be this." And let me tell you how much of an expert I am because if you go one layer deep, I know nothing. So, why am I even going to talk about it? And I think that's a problem. So, I see this dude, he just came across my my feed with a beard baseball hat talking about cholesterol. Back when I was a kid, it was fine. You're It's a big lie. As if as if it's some revelation. You guys have to stop listening to people that want your attention claiming to be experts who really have no idea. Listen, I don't give a crap if you have a degree. I don't care if you have 100 degrees. I don't care if you have no degrees. I really don't. I care. I care that you have the knowledge. I think the weight put on a degree is ridiculous. I know plenty of stupid people that have PhDs and doctorates, and I know people that have none of that that are so incredibly intuitive and intelligent. A degree means you you paid for a piece of paper. And that's coming from a guy with a bunch of degrees. But listen about this MK-677. Let let me get this straight. You're terrified of a This is why it is mind-blowing to me. You're terrified of a growth hormone secret because somebody on I I don't know, Instagram or Facebook, whatever group you're in, copy and pasted a rat study cuz that's what it is from 1999. But you'll take Tylenol like they're like their Tic Tacs and you'll smash benadryil labeled Zquil every night to help you sleep. And you'll trust things like Zantac for your heartburn like it was blessed by the Pope despite all three being linked directly to cancer. I mean directly like class action lawsuits directly. Make it make sense, man. Make it make sense. You can't. We are so conditioned to fear the unknown that we ignore what is actively killing us. And MK-677, it's not the villain. Just so we're clear, it's not. It's not. It is misunderstood by people that have no concept of human physiology or human biology because the people don't read. They read headlines. So I'm going to make something very clear. The MK-677 causes cancer narrative number one is an outlier and it's number two is it's built on misinterpretation, fear, and some lazy ass logic. So, I mean, you should be more scared of what's already in your bathroom drawer or cabinet or wherever you have your meds and a hell of a lot more confident in your ability to think critically by listening to some of the things that I tell you because MK, like I said, it's not a steroid. It's not a sarm. It's not a drug in the traditional sense. Growth hormone secret. And here's what that means in plain English because sometimes I think people get lost in translation and then presume their expertise even though they really have no idea what they're saying. Your body already produces growth hormone. That hormone gets made in a place called your pituitary gland when your hypothalamus tells it to. The hypothalamus uses something called ghrein which is some of you guys know it the hunger hormone to trigger that signal. Now MK-677 acts as a ghrein receptor agonist, right? It taps on the door. So it binds to something called the GHS R1A receptor in your hypothalamus. It doesn't matter what it is. I just figured I'd tell you. But it binds to this receptor in your hypothalamus and says, "We need some more GH production over here. We need time to crank it up. Get the FRA factory running a little better." That triggers what's called a GH pulse. And these are natural. Your GH pulses naturally all the time. And when it pulses, you make IGF-1, right? insulin like growth factor, which God, this is I could go down this rabbit hole and try not to get too deep into physiology because I don't want to lose anybody. I just want you guys to understand what I'm talking about. So, IGF-1 promotes muscle growth, bone density, deep sleep, tissue healing, cellular repair, fat loss on a massive scale. So, let me ask you just just follow me on this one. If a compound helps you produce more of what it's already designed to make in response to its own signaling cascade, by the way, the own the own its own messenger system. And it does it within the the natural physiological confines, the ranges that your body can accommodate. You're not redlining anything. How is that scary? It's not. But here's where it gets all twisted up because I think even do you guys even know where this MK-677 causes cancer nonsense started? It's always the same two things. Rodent studies and IGF-1 fear-mongering. That's it. There's and some yo-yo on Kora or Reddit who thinks they're an expert because they tell everybody they are, but they have no facts behind their their information. So, I'm going to handle both. The rodent studies, I'll go right down this. Yes, there are a few rodent studies out there with mice. But here's where it gets fun. The mice were implanted. They they had implanted tumors. They were given tumors. Implanted with cancer cells and then given GH or IGF-1, and then the tumors grew faster. Wow. That's that's shocking as hell. So, let me get this straight. You injected literal cancer into a mouse, then gave it the biological equivalent of anabolic fertilizer, and it grew. That's not evidence that MK-677 causes cancer if you understand any of what I just said. That's evidence that growth hormone can accelerate existing tumor growth in a cancer injected mouse. So now translate that into real life. This really it bugs me because of the hypnosis of social conditioning and the indoctrination going on because of social media and the Insta Bros and Insta Fitness guys and all these people that come out and think they're experts and they're just not. If I see one more shredded dude coming out giving Insta facts with no concept of what they're really saying, claiming to be an expert, I don't know. You guys should send them to me. Send me the dumbest posts that you see where these Insta bros are claiming facts and I will burn them to the ground because I just can't stand it. They're just pedaling garbage. Even if they sell a good product, they don't even know what they're selling. They think they do. But translate that this whole cancer thing into real life. If you don't, this is how it look. This is the remember tumor implanted into a mouse given nitromemethane gasoline to make the tumor grow and it grew. Big surprise. Of course, it's going to grow. So, here's what it means. If you don't already have hormone sensitive, that's even even that hormone sensitive tumor. IGF-1 doesn't create cancer. It promotes cellular growth. That's not the same. But that's what it does. Just like insulin, just like testosterone, just like these things called calories that you're ingesting all the time, it's all the same. Growth does not equal mutation. mutation plus immune dysfunction plus chronic inflammation. That equals cancer. Big difference. And I'm a guy that's been through cancer four times. I'm missing a lung because of a tumor. Don't talk to me about cancer. I know what I'm talking about. And I come out here to help you. Yeah. Is it? If you look at IGF-1, it's Is it involved in cell proliferation? Of course. But you know what else? That's what it's designed for. Do you know what else spikes IGF-1? strength training, high protein meals, REM sleep, intermittent fasting and refeed phases, all that stuff that you guys do, recovery from an illness. So, are you making Reddit posts and research and banning all that, too? Because you should. That's how ridiculous this is. People say elevated IGF-1 is linked to cancer. Yep. So, is breathing air and being tall and being short and being male and holding a coffee cup. I could do this all day. You know what else? IGF-1 is correlated with longer lifespan, improved cognition, faster recovery, lower mortality rates in older populations. But hey, don't read past the headline when you can stay [\h__\h] scared all day of something that could possibly change your life for the better. I mean, walk through the effects. Just do it. I'll break it down with big scary medical words and then explain it all so you guys actually understand what the hell I'm talking about. Endocrinology. Let's just go down. I dude, this is fun for me. So, let's go down this list. So if we endocrinology increases the pulsatile nature of growth hormone secretion, right? Comes in pulses. It doesn't it's not this constant growth hormone flood. This is important because otherwise the problem is now you're constantly being bombarded. This now you get things like insulin sensitivity. You get water retention. There's all kinds of bad effects. Ask any bodybuilder that's taking copious amounts of growth hormone. Whether you do or you don't, I'm not judging you before you freak out. I'm just saying the pulsing nature of growth hormone secretion matters. That's how your body is designed. It's designed to work on cycles. So endocrinology, right? Um MK-677 elevates IGF-1 which supports protein synthesis. Sounds bad. Inhibits cell death in neurons. Apoptosis, right? Stimulates satellite cells in muscle for repair of damaged muscle. And it doesn't shut down natural production like what I just said at the beginning of this exogenous growth introduction would. Exogenous means an outside source. This is endogenous growth hormone. Your body just makes it on its own and it cannot surpass its own capacity. It just does its own production better because of fuzzy signaling and staticky signals that you've had because of all the things that you've done in your life. MK-677 is fantastic just to be very clear. Look at the neurology of it. Grein receptors are they're heavily expressed is the best way to explain it in something called hippocampus. This is your brain's memory center without getting into the neurology about this. So MK-677, they've shown this to enhance cognitive recovery poststroke and support what's called neurogenesis. Again, sounds bad, huh? Never mind the sleeping aspect that it has. Increases slowwave sleep. That's the phase where memory consolidation and cellular repair all takes place. This is the sleep that you need that you do not get from ambient. Remember what I said about ambient if you go back a couple of podcasts where I said ambient knocks you out, but it also knocks out the REM sleep, that deep delta sleep that you're supposed to have. You don't get it. Which is why you wake up a zombie and don't know where you are half the time. Never mind all the other things that can happen to you. If you look at human biology just as a whole, improves skin elasticity and dermal thickness because it stimulates collagen. It enhances bone mineral density. Marry that to weightbearing exercise. That's critical for an aging population. Why wouldn't you want to do that? Increases basil metabolic rate because you retain more lean muscle and you oxidize more fat. These all sound pretty good to me. I I don't know about this whole cancer thing, but hey, let's keep going. There is zero evidence of mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, or genotoxicity at all in any of the long-term control studies. Any of them. Where's the fire? Where's the I could do this all day. You want to be scared of something? How about look at the FDA approved over-the-c counter drugs in your kitchen or your bathroom right now. Never mind the neurology, the endocrinology, the human biology, any of that. Never mind any of that. Just look at the stuff that I'm talking about. You could tell this irritates me because I want people to be healthy because I've been unhealthy. It sucks. I've gone through hell. It was brutal. It was taxing on my family, on my life, and it probably shortened my lifespan because of it. I want people to be as healthy as possible so they live as long as possible at the highest quality of life as possible. And some of you nipple nuts are fighting against it because you go, "I read this thing in Reddit." How about you listen to the doctor that's out here going, "I give a [\h__\h] about you and I'm doing it for free. I got nothing to gain from this. Go ahead, buy from my site. Buy from another site if you want to. You just know that I'm going to give you the right information. But look at the stuff in your in your medicine cabinet. If you're old enough, you know what that that is. Wherever you keep your drugs in your house. Look at um renidine Zantac. This is marketed as harmless. Harmless. It was pulled globally pulled because they found that it contains something called NDMA, which is a class one human carcinogen. We could stop right there. bladder, stomach, liver cancers. Massive class action lawsuits though. How many of you guys had that in your house? What about Tylenol? Acetaminophen. Tylenol depletes glutathione. Glutathione is the master antioxidant of the human body. Increases oxidative stress, causes cellular damage, and rapidly increases DNA mutation rates. And study after study after study after study have proven links to renal cell carcinoma and about a dozen other cancers and long-term users. Never mind the fact that it killed my dad at 67 and stage liver disease. Let's keep going. This is fun because you guys take benadryil. It's under the off label use called Zquil Dipenhydramine. Oh, I only take a child's dose though, just 12.5 instead of the full 25. Really? It blocks histamine. You know what that does? It interferes with something called immune surveillance. If you remember the what I talked about, I think it was yesterday, the nicotine tea cell cytotoxic killer tea cells, right? Need nicotine to get those to operate properly. But your immune system doesn't just operate as self or other. It also operates as a surveillance system where it goes, I see that I need to make more warriors. I need to be the Navy Seal to come in and kill whatever that is if I see it again and I need to get better at killing it. So if I see it again, I kill it faster. That's the immune surveillance that's going on. The issue with benadryil is they've shown cancer increase because you have impaired TE-C cell response and deregulated inflammation. If you understand inflammation in the human body is catastrophic. It's not just bad when they go, "Oh, you just take an Advil." Yeah, but the problem is you're not addressing the source of the inflammation. So, now you're shutting down your immune system, accelerating and letting the inflammation go unchecked, but you sleep better. Let's keep going. How about um things like PPIs, proton pump inhibitors, your stomach, omerazol, things like that, the stomach acid issues, right? So, let me get this straight. They stop your stomach from producing because the proton pump is what creates hydrochloric acid in your stomach. It stops your stomach from producing acid which immediately allows nitrosamine producing bacteria to go nuts. Gastric cancer, intestinal metiplasia, all because of gut dispiosis. No other reason. It's not from smoking or drinking alcohol. It is from this shutting down the acid in your stomach. You're supposed to have 1.5 to 3.5 pH in your stomach. Which is also why you guys in your oral peptides should all be throat tapped. It's not possible for your body to assimilate a single variant of an oral peptide because by its very nature, your gut is designed to destroy protein and leave just fragments. It's like bone broth that you created. But all this stuff that I just talked about is all FDA rubber stamped and nobody freaks out. Nobody freaks out. But MK-677, the compound that improves sleep, increases growth hormone, enhances cognition, repairs, I didn't even talk about this. Metabolism after surgical intervention, it boosts metabolism. It preserves muscle, and it speeds healing. And this is the scary one. The one that does all this good stuff. This is the scary one. We have a hypocrisy problem, not a safety problem. Here's the real reason people demonize MK67. At least, I think it's because it works. It's because it works. And if something works, it forces you to change. And if something works and it forces you to change, it forces you to remove your excuses and it invalidates all of your comfort and your [\h__\h] and that makes people angry like you if you're listening to this and this pisses you off. So what happens is you attack it because you're a coward. Honestly, I don't like you're a [\h__\h] coward. It like MK-677 is used in catabolic wasting studies postsurgery. These are people that wouldn't have stood a chance that if you when I came out of surgery, the doctor flat out looked me in the eye and said, "If you weren't in the shape you were in, you wouldn't have made it." Do you understand how profound that is? Never mind the fact that they're using MK-677 for dementia, Alzheimer's, brain lesions. They're using it for bone regeneration, burn recovery, muscle atrophy prevention in old people and the elderly. I say old people and some of you like, "You freak out. You're disrespecting. You're shaming old people. You guys are weird. I don't even know what to say. You guys are weird." Listen, I'll tell you this. If MK if MK-677 were a pharmaceutical made by Fizer, you'd see it on a Super Bowl commercial followed by 15 seconds of may cause spontaneous combustion. But we're that's the world we're living in. Not because it's a research compound, so it can't be because people don't understand the difference between a hormone, a secret, and a steroid. They get scared and then they start posting garbage and screwing it up for everybody thinking they know, but they don't know. One mouse study does not mean MK-677 causes cancer. One IGF-1 spike doesn't mean you're growing tumors. And all the Reddit posts and these ass clowns that come out in the comments and write paragraphs based on something that they asked chat GPT or they Googled and now they claim to be experts because they got a couple of letters after their name. That doesn't mean anything. Bring it. Bring it, [\h__\h] I'll go toe-to-toe with every one of you guys that are sitting out there bringing false garbage to people thinking that you are right. You cannot rewrite the laws of endocrinology. Let me know. I'll wait. I'll go live with you anytime. Listen, I'll give it to you straight. Is MK really is MK-677 risk-free? No. Of course not. Of course not. That's ridiculous. I would never say could it theor could it theoretically accelerate growth in somebody with a hormone sensitive tumor? Absolutely. Abs 100%. But so could test testosterone or estrogen. So could being alive. Can MK-677 wreck your life? Like Tylenol, PPIs, Zantac? Not even close. Not even Where's the studies? Not even close. The side effects of MK-677, maybe uh temporary water retention, maybe appetite spikes. That's why people hypothetically, if you're doing a study, take it at night. Maybe maybe rare outliers will have some insulin sensitivity issues, but those are people that already have metabolic issues. You can monitor IGF-1 and you can run fasting insulin. You can cycle usage. You can use metformin. You can use bourberine, right? You can use ALA to control insulin sensitivity. There's a million things you can do. You can be smart or you can be scared. Just take your pick. And here's the here's the data says MK-677 has more to offer than 90% of the meds in your house in the world to be honest. But the real question is this. Are you going to trust fear? Are you going to trust the facts? You going to keep trusting all the bro science out there? Are you going to trust somebody that actually gives a [\h__\h] That is Follow the money. My My wife always says it. Follow the money. See where it goes. Where's the money go? If you talk to me, where's it go? Oh, what? A company that's trying to help you? Yeah. Oh, gee. Or or a podcast that what? Some company like Spotify is going to send me a check? YouTube is going to monetize because there's ads on this video. Who cares? Pharmaceutical business is a trillion dollar. It's a trillion dollar scam. You got you got you got choices. The way I look at it is you have two. The mob that screams cancer without knowing even what a ghrein receptor is or where it is. This is fun for me. Where is it? Where is it? Just tell me where it is. That's all I want to know. I'll wait. Or the science that shows enhanced high quality sleep, cognition improvement, tissue repair, GH secretion, increased metabolic health, destruction of metabolic disease. MK-677 does not cause cancer. You know what? Fear causes Ignorance. And ignorance causes stupid decisions. And stupid decisions is what they want. Because sick people make money. Healthy people don't make money. Healthy people hang out and make money together. Sick people hide in the house and take pills and get Uber Eats delivered to their house every day and complain that they're fat while they're watching Netflix all day. You want to be strong and sharp and powerful and resilient and functional in a world that's built to break you? Then you need to stop being afraid of what works and start questioning all the [\h__\h] that doesn't. The odds are the the real poison is probably already in your bloodstream. you just went to CVS and paid for it. That would scare the crap out of me. And if people get into the comments, I'm sure some of you guys, like I love, every time I check this, I say to my wife, I go, "Look at this. Look at some [\h__\h] gave me a thumbs down for nothing. You could have just kept on going, which is it's always going to make me laugh because it screams the problems with you, not with me. You don't like it, just don't watch it. You can change the channel, but your ignorance keeps you from doing that. So, you feel you have to have an opinion because that rage gives you purpose, but you really have no purpose or no value. You should have [\h__\h] been eaten if that's you. Like, I have no sympathy. And people go, "That's a terrible thing to say." No, it's the truth. Here's the deal. If you apply what I tell you and you look at your own life and pay attention to everything that you have in your world that you are ingesting and breathing and drinking and doing and who you are listening to and what that source of information will gain, what that narrator will gain from your compliance, I'm going to tell you, you're going to you're going to question a lot more things in your life. I'm a 52-year-old doctor coming out here that's been through hell, had a lung pulled out, rebuilt my whole life in four years, and I come out here to help you guys every day. Every day for free because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] Yeah, make it make sense that you would ever go, "I don't like this guy. He hurt my feelings." Maybe a Gen Z, huh? I got to go. Never miss.