What is up, Smash Ninjas? Hey guys, guess what? It's shoulder day today in an awesome way, but I'm kind of screwing around with some uh some shoulder stuff trying to get into those sticky, gristly little bits. I'm going to set this down. And uh I got like a funky neck vein here. What the heck? Anyway, did a gnarly workout and I won't tell you about it. Maybe I'll post it. It was pretty intense though. Beat me to death. So, bouncing a lacrosse ball because we're going to be using this. But a lot of times what happens is, like I said, we want to get that overhead position. We want to be able to bring our shoulders, our arm up and behind us, up and over like this. All that's normal stuff. The problem is when people go, this is all I've got and they're behind their back is about here. They can't even get to maybe I have to jump right there. So, all they can get to is their hip. Don't you like that? That's funny, huh? So, if you can just get to your hip and you can't get your arm behind you, you're missing a lot of that internal rotation. Or what happens is you start dumping your shoulder forward trying to bring your arm behind you. So, if you look, my shoulder stays back and then I bring my hand up like this. The problem is people do this and they try and lean forward. That goes back to yesterday when I was talking to that thoracic mobility. That thoracic spine's super sticky and grimy. So, now we're going to free up some sticky bits on the shoulder. We're going to spec like specifically hit that's a that's a funny word to say in a in a sentence like that. Specifically, we're going to hit the uh the lat and the subscap and then grind out that pec. And then we're going to reset the shoulder to pull it into that posterior position sitting in the back of the joint where it's pretty much the most stable ever. And we're going to wind up that joint capsule to make sure it works the way it's intended. Cuz a lot of us have this shoulder that sits anterior in the joint. So, our overhead position becomes really, really grimy and it beats the heck out of that labreum. And then you turn 45 and the problem is they go, "Oh, shoulder replacements? Yeah, totally normal. We're going to replace your shoulder with a titanium ball." Now, this isn't titanium. It's a lacrosse ball. But you think a titanium ball stuck into a joint is good for the joint? Joint replacements aren't normal unless there's some huge massive catastrophic trauma. Not normal. Never normal. So, I'm going to show you to unglue that shoulder in a really funky way. So, we're going to hit part of that serratus as well. So, I'm going to dump this down here. This is super super fun, by the way. Sorry about the uh Parkinson's video again today. Hey, it was a hard workout. It's how it works. So, you're going to loop in. I'm going to put this here. You guys tell me if it falls. Okay, this falls. You tell me. You're going to loop it into the the crux of the arm. So, this is basically the anti cube, right? Antiubital fossa. bunch of anatomy terms we don't really need to know. Now, there's two stretches. There's the reverse sleeper where we pull the arm forward. Don't do that. Really bad for the joint capsule, especially if you're a pitcher. Jacks up your shoulder. That's something I wouldn't have you doing. And then there's another one where we're going to pull the arm back behind us like the bully up behind us, but we don't want to do that either. So, you're going to reach behind you. You're going to grab your arm and keep it pinned against the uh against the back, against the low back. And then you're going to let this pull into extension. So you want to bring that arm this way, not behind you. That's the cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr critical part. And you're going to feel that all along the lat. You're going to feel that sub g cap just getting separated like you ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch chucked everything in a crockot. And now you're just peeling it all apart with a really big fork. So that just sounds gross, doesn't it? It's super gross. So, all you're going to do is you're going to grab the arm behind you. Let the band drag you into extension and take a knee and let it pull it up like Oh god. And then I'm going to have you turn away. And I can feel this. And you're going to let it drag that arm up behind you. So I have the arm behind me. Okay? You see my hand right here? I'm pulling it against my body and I'm letting it drag my arm into extension, not behind my back. And I'm just going to turn away a little bit. Oh, how long do we hang out here? If you can see my fingers. Two minutes. Oh, that's abysmal. I'm going to use this band to get up. Now, that would have been really crappy if that band would have broke, huh? Just eat it. I'd probably do like a little roll, ninja roll, combat roll. My friend Alicandra Pachelli, super badass athlete, by the way, who incidentally hooked me up with a ton of sick swag the other day. She's awesome. She's just a good person. Um, she was running one day. I got to tell this story really quick and she'll watch this video and she'll probably be like, "Oh my god." She came into my office one day and she was doing a trail run. She has a little light on her head. It was dusk and she's running along. She's like, "I don't need to turn on the light." Boom. She trips, does like a full-on combat roll. Gets up and goes, turns it on. Oops. And then starts running again. She came in all scuffed up and beat up. You know what's crazy? She kept on running. That's awesome. So, we're going to peel away this pec. The way we're going to do it, we're going to take this lacrosse ball. Let's get a little closer. I don't have to be that far. Look. Got to watch those J hooks. They jump around. You're going to trap the pec in the rig. And then you're going to take your hand, and all you're going to do is you're going to sweep all the way up and down. So, I've trapped this in here, and I'm just going to grind away. You really want to get gnarly. Get into a lunge. Push yourself past it. You can see my head's on the other side, right? Like, woohoo. Got the lacrosse ball in the pec. Big sweep and do this until you feel that tissue. Say, "All right, I submit." And tap out. That's number two. Number three is we just want to reset the joint. This is the important part. So, I got a 35 here because I'm not going to use a 53 or 70 today. You know what? Don't feel like it. You're going to lay on your back. You're going to take the uh Oh, let's let's move this a little bit so you can actually see what my shoulder's doing. We don't even have the floor. There we go. Yeah, that's it. See, 35. That's a long time ago for me. You're going to take this. All you're going to do is you're going to press it out. You're going to arm bar yourself. And then you're going to make sure this is completely externally rotated. And then you're just going to let that sink your shoulder into the ground and just hang out here 2 3 minutes. It sounds like a really long time, but what it's doing is it's shoving the humorus, the head of the humorris into the posterior portion of that glenoid fausa, into the posterior portion of that joint where it's the most stable. Winding it up winds up the fibers of the joint capsule and it makes it more stable. This is like a big giant reset button for your shoulder. So, wind it up. External rotation arm bar yourself. Hang out here. Let the shoulder bottom out into the floor. Just hang out for 2, three minutes, baby. And when you're done, just dump it. Don't try and press it. You don't need that. Then you're going to call me with a shoulder injury and I'm going have to fix that, too. I don't mind fixing it, but hey, why bother? Somebody made a tweet, by the way, to be as bald and shredded as Smash Works. His name was Jack. It was funny. So, I'm going to tweet back. That was awesome. I loved it. Hey, Trev. Smash Works, go have an awesome day. Be awesome. Everything's awesome. Hey, I'll talk to you guys later.