One of you guys asked me a question yesterday or the day before about DMSO and I actually started thinking about it. I've been using DMSO it's got to be a decade at least a decade and this stuff man it it'll make you stink but this stuff's like magic in a little tub just this clear gel and no not some roll on or anything like that. It it got me thinking like I thought, you know, no, I used to talk to clients and patients about this stuff all the time, but I had I haven't had anybody ask me about DMSO for a really long time. So, I thought, you know what? I need to do a an episode and explain exactly what this is. Because here's the problem. It's the stuff that the stuff that actually works. I mean, you ever notice that it never gets any press? It never makes it across some influencers's page. It never shows up in the news. It never shows up wherever. It just doesn't. It gets buried. They're going to shove a pill down your throat that costs 600 bucks a month or more and it comes with a list of side effects that's longer than my freaking driveway and it doesn't fix anything. And anybody knows that. Like I had some guy in my post yesterday. Dude, if you're listening to this, you need a dodgeball right in the face because you know, let me This is what he said. Well, let me remind you though that Red True Tide hasn't finished clinical trials yet and therefore it's not approved and not safe. kind of wanted to punch him in the mouth, but my response was three words may cause death. That is in that is on every single package insert of every medication pharmaceutical creation that you can buy at Safeway or 7Eleven or anywhere else like this. Oh, but those are deemed safe. Get out of here. Listen, you guys got to look at who you trust. Man, by the way, before this gets misconstrued by whoever, this isn't advice or triage or prescribing or advising or treating or diagnosing, and this is all just hypothetical and entertaining and educational, all this stuff. There you go. But all these pills, man, they these lotions and potions and nonsense, they just they manage your misery because your misery makes people billions. Then you look at this cheap, simple little compound that's sitting on the sidelines that you can get at a feed store. Let me say it again. A feed store. Proven to work, studied to death. DMSO has been studied like crazy and it is buried in the footnotes of medical journals. And the the only place you can get it, I think, a feed store. I really think so. I've never seen it anywhere. You I mean, you buy it online, but you just go to any any feed store, it'll be sitting right there. It's been around forever. DMSO is it's amazing. A dimethyl sulfoxide is what it is. This is like a it's like it's like the ultimate medicine and it's been buried. I'm sure somebody's going to get in and run their mouth about something in my comments. Save you the the headache. Save your breath and save your save your words and letters and your typing and your blisters on your fingers. I'm not listening. If it isn't positive or if it isn't thank you. I'm not listening. If you want to ask me questions, join my mastermind because I answer so many questions a day for free, you know what? Join my mastermind. How about you support all the work that I put in to make sure you guys have all the information? Cuz I've had people get mad at me when like you guys I've had people buy products from someone else who won't give them the answers because they don't know the answers because it's some idiotic influencer who has no concept of what to do. They just get their affiliate code and their shaker cup and away they go. And then they ask me how to use the product and I say, "Call the person you bought it from." And they get mad. If that's you, you get pissed off. Are you high? Dude, if you were standing in front of me, I'd knock your teeth in. You You think I owe you? That's what's funny to me. This is the world we live in. It is a clown show. Like, I just just imagine all the half the people you meet in I I can't even They're just They're dumber than you. And I I just I can't I You can't make this up. But that's the audacity people have is to get mad at you for not giving them the answer for free for a product that they bought from someone else when you go go ask them and the other people won't give them the answer. What? And then when you say go ahead pay me for the solution, which is absolutely absolutely valid. I give out so much stuff for free. Like 99% of my stuff is free. But if you're going to pepper me with questions and you get mad that I don't give it to you for free, I'm going to quadruple my fee and I'm still going to say no. I mean, I have three programs. Three, that's it. I have the cure program. I only have two variations of it. And I decide which one you go or which one you join for a reason. One is 25 days. One is 100 days. And if anyone goes, well, what if there's something that's only 50 days? Let me explain what the cure program is. It is designed to solve every freaking problem you've got health-wise and otherwise. Period. So you don't need me when I'm done because otherwise I am no better than the pharmaceutical world or all the other idiots that are wearing white coats with an incredible god complex. I don't want you to need me. I want you to go live your damn life so you have the solution. That's what I'm supposed to do. 25 days, $25,000. 100 days, $100,000. I'm very transparent about this. But if you have something that's not going to take 25 days, it'll take longer to solve. I'm going to tell you $100,000 in 100 days. The end. So if you come and you go, I want the cheaper one. I'm not going to help you because it's not about price. It's about solving the problem. And then I have my one-on-one. And my one-on-one coaching with me is $100,000. None of this is complicated. And it is everywhere. And if you want to join my mastermind, now it's five grand. So it used to be 1,500 bucks. I don't do that anymore because I realize that I keep attracting the people that want something for nothing and never do anything about it. So, I'm going to keep pricing my way out of the place where people aren't going to do the work. And and if you understand that, you know exactly what I'm saying. If you don't, I'm probably not for you. And that's okay. I'm not going to lose sleep over it. Believe me, I'm going to keep helping people who actually want their who actually want a solution, who actually want help. Like I listen, even this DMSO, I'm going to tell you why this little tiny tub of it doesn't stink itself, but it makes you stink. It is the most powerful, underused, underappreciated thing and overstudied molecule I think in human biology to be honest. And once you see it, you just can't unsee it. Like you're going to look at it everywhere. You're going to see DMSO everywhere. And it didn't come out of some some billiondoll lab. And it's not wrapped in a patent from some billion-dollar company. It came from tree pulp. Literally making paper. Yes. Making paper. We grind up trees and we process them into pulp. bleach the life out of them and then print junk mail and crap that you get sent that you never read and the leftover chemical, this goo turned out to be more useful to the human body, just to be clear, than probably 90% of the crap in your medicine cabinet, medicine chest, whatever you guys call it now. I'm 52, that's what we call them. Think about that. Just listen to me, man. We're drowning in these ads. I see them all the time on Amazon Prime Video and anything else that's honestly on in the background, even on social media. These ads for breakthrough drugs that are just repackaged versions of yesterday's drugs with a different delivery system and a different coating. But the thing that could fix half the pain in the world is sitting in a jug at Tractor Supply for I don't know 20 bucks. Oh, I can't use that. It's untested though. It's dangerous. You a lot of you guys would take a drug that makes you smell like peppermint even though it's going to kill you because you smell good and avoid the one that's going to demolish anything that's wrong with you and turn you into a juggernaut because it makes you smell like metallic garlic. You're insane. I'll stink up everywhere for the next hundred years as long as I'm kicking ass and taking names. Sign me up. I've been plenty stinky with that stuff. Makes your breath smell, makes your skin smell. Who cares? Listen, here here's the why it makes why this stuff is so amazing. It is a solvent. But if you don't understand chemistry, that really doesn't mean anything, I guess. But it's not just any any solvent. This thing is a freak of nature. If you understand chemistry, listen, follow me. It's polar and aprodic. Here's what that means. It means that it can dissolve almost anything. sugars, salts, fats, doesn't matter what it is. And it's like the Leatherman tool. You guys know those Leathermans, right? They're like a like a pliers and a knife and a screwdriver. It's kind of like it it's just people wear them on their belt, if you know what they are. It's like a Leatherman tool of molecules. This stuff does everything. And it doesn't just dissolve things. It carries things. So when you put it in there, it brings it to straight through your skin, right into your bloodstream, past any barriers that normally stop every compound cold. Skin doesn't care. Blood brain barrier doesn't care. DMSO just punches through. And if somebody goes, "Oh, that's a really bad thing." No, no, no, no, no. That's a good thing. Just don't put stupid things in it. But this is why pharmarmacology loves and hates this thing because on one hand, it's the ultimate drug delivery vehicle, right? And on the other hand, it terrifies all the regulators because if you can put a molecule on your skin and it goes systemic in minutes, you can't control it, you can't meter it, you can't patent it, you sure as hell can't gateep it like all of these pharmaceutical companies are doing. And in the land of medicine, if it can't be monetized, it gets demonized. Tell me I'm wrong. They will sell you opioids. Listen to me. They will sell you op anything else. Actually, opioids aren't the problem. It's the marketing that's the problem. They they destroy lives. SSRIs that make you a zombie and Tylenol that will shred your liver courtesy. Look at my dad. He died. Tylenol. Endstage liver disease. 67 years old. But they'll clutch their pearls over a compound that gives you garlic breath. Garlic breath. That's the best they had to kill DMSO's reputation. Garlic breath. Well, it makes you smell funny. So does dying of liver failure. You don't see commercials about that. I don't know. I haven't seen any. Maybe you have. I haven't. But here here's what this is where it gets kind of cool. DMSO. This is what it does inside the body. First of all, it's one of the most powerful free radical scavengers ever discovered on the planet. If you know oxidative stress, that's that slow rusting process that ages you, inflames you, and basically makes your joints feel like they've been run through a sandpaper machine through a a sander with like 80 grit, just filled with broken glass and gravel. Yeah, DMSO neutralizes all of that. Doesn't mask it, doesn't hide, it doesn't cover it, doesn't shut down the paint cycle. It neutralizes it. Sign me up right now. It's also an anti-inflammatory. Oh, I'm going to go through all this stuff, but it's an anti-inflammatory at the cellular level. I keep checking my watch cuz I have my webinar today, by the way. That's why I'm hustling. Believe me, I'm flying. If you think I move fast, buckle up. It's It's an anti-inflammatory. But like I said, cellular level. I'm not talking about Tylenol style, shut up the pain signal, uncoupling the electron transport chain if you take too much kind of anti-inflammatory. I mean fixing the problem at the root, cleaning up all the garbage and restoring normal signaling and letting the tissue actually repair itself. It's also a neural protectant brain because it crosses the bloodb brain barrier. It has been studied for traumatic brain injury, for stroke, for spinal cord injury, even degenerative diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, like studied like crazy. And go figure, it's been affected. Lowers intraraanial pressure, restores blood flow, protects neurons. Do you know how rare it is to have a compound that does any of that, let alone all of it? And just to be clear, the list of anything that does even one of those things successfully, before you guys get in my comments again, shut up. I don't want to hear it. The list is shorter than my daughter's attention span when she was a toddler. It is tiny. And endocrinology. Listen, chronic inflammation screws up hormones across the board. We just know that it it is the disease of diseases, right? It causes all kinds of problems. Your thyroid signaling. It torches testosterone. Uh it disrupts insulin sensitivity. DMSO just dials down all of that inflammatory chaos. All of it. Which indirectly then restores what? Endocrine function. So here's what that means. Less brain fog, better metabolism, steadier mood, more cognitive function, stronger sex hormones. Not bad for a wood pulp paper mill byproduct. Listen, you know what's going to blow your mind is how many things this has been tested against and it's worked. I mean, they want to hide this because it works so well and then they just try and get you to think being stinky is a bad thing. Hell, I'll stink it up all day if it's keeps me safe and healthy. This is the Just listen to this list and I could do this for about an hour. It's so long. arthritis, pain relief and mobility. Tendon injuries ridiculously faster to repair. Shingles pain, how about that? Reduce neuralgia, that terrible itching, burning that you get from shingles. Burns, heals skin faster, reduces scarring. Like, this is insane. Interest cyitis. That's literally like one of the only FDA approved uses is instilling DMSO directly into the bladder to calm all the inflammation, which by the way proves that the molecule works because even the regulators couldn't bury every single use. Think about why I'm telling you this. And nobody wants to give you this information because they complicate it with all these convoluted weird studies and they're like, "Let me tell you about the peer reviewed research." Most of that stuff is store-bought. How about neuropathic pain? DMSA. Here's DMSO. Here's how's it works on the DMSA. Here's how it works. DMSO calms overactive sodium channels in neurons. It's a bunch of fancy words. Basically means it stops your nerves from acting like a broken fire alarm and just crank it non-stop. Chronic wounds, things that just don't heal, heal faster. Eye injuries, listen to this. Eye injuries, better recovery. Spinal cord injuries, less permanent damage, skin ulcers, scaraderma, scar tissue. It just keeps going and going. And it's like that freaking bunny, right? Like it just keeps going. We literally have a molecule, please, you guys got to hear me on this, that heals wounds, repairs tissue, kills pain, protects the brain, reduces scarring, and drags other compounds through the body like a freaking delivery truck. And we don't talk about it unless your name is Seab Biscuit, and you're running the Kentucky [\h__\h] B derby. Well, then sure, DMSO's all over the shelf for you. But for humans, nope. Go pay a hundred grand for injections that don't work half as well, even a quarter as well when you could spend 20 bucks. Oh, I'm sure it's somebody's listening this gonna lose their freaking mind. Again, I'll say it again and again and again. I come out here because I want you to have the answers so you can make it and then just make an informed decision. No, I don't sell it before you ask. Again, I'm still out here helping you. Look at Look at this. Even cuz people are going to ask, "How do I use this?" Here's the here's the beauty about DMSO. It ain't picky, son. You could rub it on your skin. penetrates muscle pain, joint pain, tendon issues. Go straight to the just rub it on. It's not magic. It's not some snake oil like it's this magic oil. It actually does what it's supposed to do. The downside is you're going to smell like garlic regardless whether you rub it on or not. Remember what I said, systemic. I'll give you advice. Keep everything like get out of the shower. Don't cover yourself in what other gay hand cream or body lotion or spray or weird [\h__\h] you guys put on yourselves. Keep all that off of you. Get out of a shower without using some goofy soap. Rinse or towel off. put it on then. Don't put anything on because it will take whatever is on your hand, whatever's on your skin, and fire it right into your bloodstream. My wife makes her own hand cream. It's got shea butter and cocoa butter and stuff. It's all real. And I remember this. I And I felt like crap. I had a little bit on me, and I needed DMSO and I rubbed it all over my elbow. And about 8 minutes later, I felt like hammered dog [\h__\h] like bad. And I felt bad for about an hour. So, and there's nothing wrong with shea butter or cocoa butter, but it matters when it drags all those molecules into your bloodstream. That's how effective this stuff is. So, just be mindful. I couldn't imagine doing it with something chemical, something some kind of something from my car. It's some pharmaceutical or some cleaner. So, you guys, clean skin matters. I mean, clean skin, right? That's that's that's how this the metabolate dimethyl sulfide, right? That's what that's what that is. That's what makes you smell like garlic. By the way, just so you know, cuz you're going to stink. I would wear the hat like a badge and I'd be like, "Yeah, that's right, baby. I stink because I'm healthy." Smell like you actually care about being healthy and healing instead of smelling like a waiting room at CVS, a bunch of oxygenarians trying to get their 12 prescriptions every week. You can drink it diluted, of course. It's just I've done it, but you want to dilute it. It absorbs systemically, hits the bloodstream. It works everywhere. Used for gut inflammation, bladder issues, systemic pain. You can inject it, IV. I mean, if you're hardcore, it's not going to hurt you. There is no way you can take this that's going to cause you any problems. How about that? IV administration has been tested for stroke, brain injury, systemic inflammation, and don't expect, by the way, your ER to hand it over ever. But the research is everywhere. Everywhere. Bladder. I told you the bladder installations FDA already approved. Eye drops studied. Eye drops studied and effective. Cornea, jeez, this stuff makes me crazy because people don't they don't get it. They go get goofy things and they stick them in their body and wonder why it doesn't work. skin creams, gels, patches, done. All done, proven, ready to go. And here's where it gets even crazier. You combine DMSO with another drug and it carries that drug deeper, faster, stronger. So, antibiotics, anti-inflammatories, steroids, enhances. Don't think what I just But you guys just went, "Oh, really? I can go take my test." Don't do that. But it enhances penetration and bioavailability. It's like It's like turning a Honda Civic into a Bugatti with one chemical. That's it. And here's why you guys don't know about it. If you're like, "If it's so great, how come I don't know about it?" because the system buried it. The story is old, man. Like, we're talking back to the 60s. Hundreds of hundreds hundreds of studies. They're everywhere and massive results. And then they pulled it from the spotlight and side effects like skin irritation and garlic breath were blown way out of proportion. You'll see them everywhere. So, I'm just warning you right now. Not deadly, not dangerous, not contagious, not contaminating, don't hurt you, just inconvenient. But that was enough to scare regulators and and give pharmaceutical companies a a convenient excuse to just lock it up. Cool. And then you get get drugs with what's called a blackbox warning, which means there are lethal side effects. They get pushed. This is like candy at Halloween just giving it away. They give you free samples. Oh, you want to try this? Here's a free sample. How is that not like a pusher with a terrible You guys need to start marrying this stuff together and actually looking at your life and taking it seriously. It's because these things are patentable, right? They they they're profitable. You can market all this stuff. DMSO, you can make a gallon of it for panties. It's always garbage. Like, it's it's the refu that they throw away from a paper mill. Nobody gets rich. And in medicine, if nobody gets rich, nobody cares. They'll tell you it's not safe because it smells bad. And then they'll hand you chemotherapy, of which I've gone through the chop series of chemotherapy. It almost [\h__\h] killed me. And that makes your hair fall out, your immune system collapse, kills everything, your organs are going to get trashed. Most people die of organ failure, not the cancer itself. And safety, safety, DMSO, safety, my ass. This isn't science. It is it is capitalism wearing a lab coat. That's the easiest way to explain this. Listen, DMSO isn't magic. It's not a miracle. It's not going to turn you into Superman or make you all kinds of like it's not going to you're not going to be a juggernaut, but it is one of the most effective, versatile, underutilized compounds in the entire pharmacopia of human biology. It fixes pain at the source. It protects nerves and heals tissue and carries other drugs and lowers inflammation. It scavenages free radicals, those little negative things that do bad things, bad damage to your body. And it restores balance to systems that modern medicine loves to break apart and then treat separately for a fee. Here's what it's a proof that solutions exist outside the shiny advertisements that you guys are seeing, the billion-dollar approvals. It's proof that the best medicine doesn't always come from a new lab, you guys. It sometimes comes from what we've ignored and forgotten or has been intentionally buried. And here's the part that should hit you right in the face. The reason you don't have DMSO in your standard treatment plan isn't because it doesn't work. It's because it works too well. It's too cheap, too effective, and too available, and it breaks the business model of current healthcare. So, here's the deal. Start questioning the narrative. This is my challenge. Start if they bury Listen, if they're going to bury this molecule that can fix arthritis and nerve pain and burns and scars and brain injuries all because it has no profit margin, what else do you think they've buried? How many solutions are out there gathering dust because they didn't fit the profit mark, the business plan? DMSO is the cockroach of molecules. Survives everything, you know, survi survives everything, adapts everywhere. It's impossible to kill and it's still ignored. Listen, and when the cockroach is smarter than the people running the system, maybe it's time to start asking better questions. I don't know, just a thought. So, listen. The next time somebody tells you that there's nothing that can be done, remember there is a bottle of goo born from tree pulp and a paper mill that could outperform half the crap that they're selling you. And it's not some conspiracy or tinfoil hat. It is biology and chemistry. That's your reality. That's your reality. If that doesn't make you rethink all of the things that you've been told about medicine, and that's coming from a doctor, then nothing will. Then nothing will. I don't know. It's your move. I got to go do this webinar. Hope you got something out of this. Never miss