Man, it's almost 7 o'clock already on a Sunday. It's like the last uh I'm going to drink some water for the you guys listening. I haven't even drank enough of this today. And it's water, right? Like unless you have a filter upon filters. And nope, not Roro, reverse osmosis. That's right out of the early 2000s. I mean, a filter that cleans your water, takes it all. Like, water is it's not what you drink or what you cook in. It's what you shower in. And most people don't think about this. Isn't about water. I just want you to think, put this in your head because I want you The biggest scam in North America, I think, that anybody ever sold you was that you're clean. You're clean. You know, because we have flush toilets and you wash your hands with soap that smells like, you know, Irish Spring, like whatever it is, fake lavender. You microwave your chicken and your food until it's all squeaky and bubbly and it's doing all these things and somehow you're parasite free. That's adorable. You're not. Yeah, I bet that got your attention, huh? Listen, even the CDC, the government agency that underplays everything until it's basically a coloring book, has a page admitting that parasites are here and they're common and they don't give a damn about your white picket fence or your Costco membership or your Volvo or whatever it is that you're driving. They don't care about your social media or how you use non- Tefloncoated non-stick pants. Parasites aren't just a developing country problem. They are here in North America in your water, in your pets, in your soil, in your sushi. Hell, some of them are waiting politely around your salad that you got out of a bag somewhere between the kale and that 8 lbs of ranch dressing that you put on it. Listen to me. I'm not kidding. This is a big deal because a lot of the disease processes that you guys are treating aren't disease processes. They're due to the metabolism and the nutrient depletion occurring because of the parasites. So, here I'll kill the illusion. This is I'll just drop the nuke right now. You're not parasite free. You're not. You're parasite ignorant. Yeah, that sucks, huh? Parasites are Yeah, it freaks you out. And you don't have to sit there and put you guys in your tape around your butthole and things that you do. Parasites are these biological hackers. They don't march in waving flags or giving an announcement or giving you the sniffles. They slide in and they grab a spare bedroom in your intestines or your skin, even your brain, and they set up shop like a bunch of squatters that are freeloading in your body, like the freeloading roommate that you can't get rid of when you were in college. And here's the wild part. They're good at disguises, man. That weird fatigue, this is so important. I mean, I'm 52, but that weird fatigue that you chalk up to, I'm just in my 30s, parasite. No. And before you go, well, that's not always what it is, bro. No. But do you know which just because you smell good? That means that you don't have parasites, because you use nine products in your hair, because you put on makeup, because you have a big set of fake boobs, because you're covered in muscle. I don't know. You look for reasons that say you shouldn't have them. They don't distinguish. Like, I'm I'm fit. I'm lean. I'm athletic. I'm as strong as I can possibly be at 52. And I do a parasite cleanse every 60 to 90 days because of what I eat and drink and breathe and touch and all the things that are everywhere. And it's not this hyper paranoid, cynical, everything's out to get me. I'm skeptical about everything around. No, that's not what I mean because I know what is around. I want to live my life in paranoid delusion. I just take care of the machines so I work properly. But like I said, that fatigue when you go, I'm just 35. I'm just getting tired, getting old. Parasite, brain fog that you talk about being too much on your phone or your iPad or in front of the television, not moving enough. Parasite, that skin rash, the one that you've been treating with the creams that smell probably like mothballs. your grandma's closet, right? Napolene parasite. See, these things, they hijack your biology and they steal all your nutrients. So, it's like there's they do so much more than that. But it's like I go out to one of the cars and I just keep trying to start it over and over and over again, but the tank is dry. There's nothing there. It's just dust. Eventually, the starter burns out. The battery dies because there was nothing there because it was trying to move and it couldn't. It was trying to start and it couldn't. Right? And then never mind the fact that they dump waste into your system and inflamed tissues that were supposed to be calm and relaxed and neutral and productive and then your nervous system goes banan. It just goes haywire trying to figure out why you feel like garbage, but the systems check out, right? The little checks and balances that your body has right now that is always running you that to keep you in homeostasis a balance. It's the not the word I'm want to use cuz that word is ridiculous you guys and you're like you need balance. No, you don't. But in this case, yeah, homeostasis for your body, yeah, you do. But it's the docs come and they look at your blood and they go, you're fine. That's like it's like having, you know, we all have Wi-Fi, right? It's like having a hacker inside your Wi-Fi and you don't notice until everything is buffering for 10 seconds, 20 seconds, 50 seconds. All of the sudden it just takes forever to load. And by then, ah, that hacker's all stolen everything you've got online. It's gotten access to your whole house. you have to look at things a little more in depth to understand what's going on with yourself because it's not always peptides and sarms and supplements or anything like that. Sometimes you have to just look at the machine itself and go what needs to get out not what needs to get in. Right? So let me just explain some symptoms so you can look and don't get all paranoid and run around go holy [\h__\h] Dr. Trevor says that's what it is. No but there's a lot of this that 90% of the time that's the problem. you mitigate the cause, then the symptoms go away. Because here's where here's where parasites, they pull off their greatest trick. They don't show up with this little name tag that says, "Hey, I'm a tapeworm." They hide behind these vague everyday problems that you blame on stress and bad sleep and your boss and the environment in your neighbor's Wi-Fi and the 5G tower that's over there and the fact that you're just getting older and your grandma had it and your dad's been tired like this, too. and you didn't realize how much emotional baggage you're taking of carrying because of your childhood trauma. And no, I'm not saying by the way before you freak out on the 5G tower comment that they're good for you. No, they're not. But that's a different podcast. So fatigue, there's a good one because it's because you got a biological squatter that's eating all your nutrients before you get them. And all that brain fog you've got, of course, because parasites are dumping neurotoxins into your bloodstream. And your brain has to swim through that chum, that soup just to try and think and fire neurons the way it's designed. Never. Skin rashes. Look at the eczema, psoriasis, rosacea. A lot of that inflammation is immune response to parasitic waste. And I I mean, we could get into digestive chaos of bloating, gas, constipation, diarrhea. Pick your poison. Pick your poison. They are all surefire signs that your gut is housing more than last night's burrito from date night. Even unexplained weight gain or weight loss. And I'm not talking caciaio where you just dump in weight and you have a weird mass in you. I mean just unexplained. Parasites either steal all your calories or force your body into survival storage mode. You're not big boned, by the way, cuz I've seen I don't know, I would guess 100,000 x-rays. It's probably more. I've never seen big bones on an X-ray. So, you're not big boned. You are biochemically being robbed. And even mood swings, depression, anxiety, parasites mess with your serotonin and your dopamine, which most of which is made up in your gut. It's made in your gut. So, when your gut is hij, that's why, you see how this is connected. When your gut is hijacked, so is your mood. Joint pain. All those joint pains you get like a lot of infections, that's why your joints hurt. You get a spleen infection, whether it is a cold or a bacter like a flu or bacteria. But if you get a like a worm, a parasite or anything like it is the most common one which also affects the pancreas because it's adjacent to it. So you have all these issues that work with each other that cause the problem because your your spleen is a giant lymph node that is connected to everything in your body. That's why your joints hurt when you get sick. So you put all this stuff together, a lot of times it's not arthritis you what a dumb catch-all phrase, right? It's systemic inflammation from parasitic debris chaos that's just circulating in your bloodstream. It's like when I talked about the lipopolyaccharides from leaky gut where the fragments from the bacteria get into the bloodstream and act like a little biochemical terrorist and your your system, your immune system, you just create these cytoine storms and they go defcon one and next thing you know you have all these issues because your gut isn't working right. These this operates along the same lines. Even allergies. Look at allergies. Seasonal sniffles that show up just out of nowhere. You've never had them before. Your immune system is in full defense mode because it's fighting invaders that your doctor never tested you for. Bxism, right? Grinding your teeth at night. Nope. It's not just stress. That is a nervous Really? Yeah. Open your eyes on this one. That is a nervous system side effect of parasites releasing toxins while you sleep. So, you grind your teeth down to a nice nub. It's called Bxism. And you don't need a mouth guard. You need quite possibly to clean your system. You need a clean house, right? You need a divorce of all the stuff that's taking up shop in your house. And here's the problem. The sleep issues, the insomnia, waking up at 3 in the morning or 2:30 in the morning, like your body's got a meeting with the devil. That is when often times parasites are the most active. They're just throwing a rave in your intestines while you're supposed to be replenishing in that delta sleep and fixing everything and processing long-term memories. You understand how sneaky these things are, right? Parasites don't just make you sick. That's what people look for. Oh, I can't because I'm not just sick. That's not how it works. They become your lifestyle. They weave themselves into your daily norm until you don't even remember what healthy looks and feels like. And because the symptoms are so vague, right? Brain fog, skin, digestion, food, arthritic issues, bone pain, weakness, muscle aches and pains, right? Myalgas that you just can't explain, fatigue. Doctors throw a bunch of band-aids at you. anti-depressants and proton pump inhibitors and creams and steroids and none of which solve the actual parasitic issue. And I'm a doctor, so I'd be trashing myself if you said I'm trashing doctors. But just most of the problems aren't pharmaceutical, per se. This is the biological equivalent of hearing scratching in your walls and buying noiseancelling headphones instead of calling the the exterminator. And yet that's what I see a lot of people doing because you go online and you go, "Well, I'm going to take this test online to see if I have parasites." And if it says you don't, then you don't. Are you kidding me? I saw it. I really did. I saw it pop up. Take a test to see if you have a parasite. It's online. How's that even going to work? And here's where it gets a little dark. Parasites don't just cause discomfort. Come up and right. They I like laring cuz I think I don't LAR. I just think it's funny. I just think it's hilarious. They cosplay, right? This they cause play as diseases. Look at a good example would be rosacea, red cheeks, little bumps. Dermatologists, oh, if someone's listening, it's a dermatologist, you are going to get pissed. They hand you creams, but in many cases that that's the demodex might to be honest. Yeah, it's exactly what it is actually. It's these tiny little these parasites chewing on your skin oils like it's happy hour. You're Homer Simpson. You're at you're at Moe's. And if you leave them alone, here's the problem with that. Listen, this is where it gets a little dark. you leave them alone, that inflammation can trigger immune system chaos. And you know what that stepping stone is? SL, systemic lupus arythmitosis. Now that's a monster. And before you go with a dis disease of a a thousand faces, now it's got one. And it starts as a parasitic infection or some kind of infection. And once it's there, it's not going anywhere. That's a squatter that stays. And it can, this is where it gets ugly, man. It convinces your immune system to nuke your own tissues. And when when it does that, modern medicine, they come in and they try, they load the shotgun. I mean, I know people with this and I wish I would have met them earlier because they give you methatate. That is a chemotherapeutic drug. They give you steroids and immunosuppressants, nuclear weapons that are dropped on your biology. And what happens? Yeah, the inflammation drops. But now your liver is trashed and screaming, your immune system is castrated. And you're dependent on pharmacy forever. Forever. All because the original parasitic problem never got handled. And think about all the I mean I could do this all night. There's a ton of these. I'm just giving you There are millions of people that are on methtrixate because their doctors never thought maybe we should see if a parasite is squatting inside this host. It's like fumigating the neighborhood because one rat got into your garage. You know, it's like nuking for mosquitoes. I could do this all day. Swing this door the other way just so you understand this. The internet, this is why I have to come out here and do this because otherwise nobody else is going to do it because everybody is a charlatan. The internet is full of these parasite cleanse gurus. I see these guys all over the place drinking their own piss and rubbing leaves on their forehead. And I don't even know what they're coming up with. These are the kind of people who look like they iron their hemp shirts with essential oils. They'll sell you a 3-day glass bowl, glass rod cleanse where you eat some magic leaf and drink some unicorn water and then wait for all the parasites to come marching out of your colon and your butthole like it's a parade. And people buy it because hope tastes good when you sprinkle it with a bunch of pixie dust. But here's the biological reality, you guys. Parasites aren't scared of your dandelion root tea. And they don't surrender because you saged your bathroom, even if it was smoking. They survive because they know your physiology better than you do. And they anchor and then they insist and then they not insist and then they reproduce and they alter your microbiome to protect their real estate. So they are taking your system and weaponizing it against you. Like if you think some rainbow Care Bear cleanse is kicking them out. I don't know. You deserve the refund that you're never going to get cuz you bought it and you're that ignorant. And then you look on the other side and you've got mainstream medicine. Their favorite tool. You already know. It's a jackhammer. It's a wrecking ball. Antibiotics for everything. It's unbelievable. I just take a second and look at your life and go what the amount of times you have been prescribed. I'm not saying took them prescribed antibiotics. It's astronomical what it You got a fever antibiotic, cough antibiotic, rash antibiotic. It's like Oprah handing out freaking sedans. You get a moxicillin. Everybody gets amoxicylin. Like that's how it works. Except here's the problem. Antibiotics kill bacteria, not parasites. Works against the cell wall in the bacteria. That's how antibiotics work. So when you carpet bomb your gut flora, you actually help the parasites by wiping out the microbial neighborhood watch system that you've got going on. Now the parasites have less competition and a whole lot of buffet. And when that fails, medicine escalates. Steroids to shut down the inflammation. Chemo drugs like methtresate to silence your immune system. It is biological Russian roulette to see which when you get the bullet. That is pest control with a blindfold. How's that going to work? You can see why this stuff pisses me off. Listen, parasites aren't diseases. They're they're symbiotic relationships. It's host and parasite and you and your squatter basically. And like like every toxic relationship, the parasite doesn't want to leave. Loves the free rent, loves the buffet, loves the hookup, loves the friends with benefits. It loves the fact that you are too distracted to notice that it is wrecking and torching your entire house and draining your bank account. But here's the trick. Your body isn't stupid, you guys. It's not Your biology is constantly sending you signals. A lot of you guys just don't pay attention or you're trying to bury the signals. It's like, "My brakes are squeaking. Turn up the radio." That doesn't help. things like inflammation or fatigue or weird cravings, even mood swings. They aren't random. You want to have some real fun? Write them down. See when they happen, they'll blow your mind. You're going to go, "Holy [\h__\h] there's a pattern here." I spend my life in pattern recognition. That's why I'm a great doctor. That's why I'm an exceptional doctor. That's why I'm an exceptional consultant and coach, too, because I spend my life analyzing patterns. But that is your nervous system. Listen to me, you guys. That is your nervous system trying to file divorce papers while the parasite just keeps changing the locks on you and calling the sheriff to take you away. The game is will you recognize the signs, kick them the hell to the curb? Are you going to keep patching over the damage until the foundation has just disintegrated? It's your call if you want. Like listen to me. You look at some of the heavyweights, the big players, the things that actually disrupt parasites on a biological level. Ivormectin. Oh, I know it's taboo. I shouldn't say that even though some weird I don't know who approved it but now it's got graphine oxide in it. If it doesn't have it has if it has more than one ingredient Ivormectin and nothing else. If it has anything else don't take it. I mean the internet made this one a meme Ivormectin right during C19. But here's the truth. Ivormectin binds to glutamate gated chloride channels in parasites in parasites. So it paralyzes them until they let go and die. Humans don't have those channels, which is why it's safe for us, but lethal for them. It's not horse-paced dervet. I'm not supposed to say that either. It is precise lethal sniper neurobiology. And follow me here. And you can buy this stuff on Amazon, your local feed store. I'm not recommending. This is all educational, hypothetical. I'm not telling you how to do anything. Wink wink nudge nudge if you know. And then fenbendazol, a panicure C, big fat blue tube. Looks like a syringe. Veterinary drug. Yep. Biologically you have a physiology you have cells it blocks this is why it's cool that it's an anti-helic usually but it blocks microtubial formation in parasites. Okay so first parasites bound up by ivormectin microtubial formation blocked in parasites by fenbendazol. You seeing a pattern here you guys? Tubules are the scaffolding that let cells divide. No scaffolding, no reproduction, no reproduction, no colony. You're not building anything. It's like repossessing the construction equipment at a parasitic job site. You get it all back. You didn't pay the bill. In fact, you did. Doesn't matter. We're going to nuke you all. And then here's my favorite one. I don't know if you can see it here. Right there. There's There's a patch. I don't know if you can see that. That's That is a nicotine patch. I wear nicotine all the time. Yeah. Oh, I know. The nicotine the villain of every PSA. The devil in Marlboro Red. Right. Come on. And I'm not smoking or vaping. It is nicotine. By the way, nobody has ever been addicted to nicotine. Nobody. All you smokers going, "You don't understand how hard it was. It was impossible to quit." You were not addicted to nicotine. You were addicted to pyroines. There are 15 of in every single thing you shoved in your lip or smoked or vaped or stuck up your rectum. I don't know what you guys do with your stuff. This is just a rugby patch. R U GB Y. That's it. It's the only one. Do not buy nicarette patches or whatever they have. I don't know which brand there are. You buy rugby. Why? because it has nothing else in it but nicotine. But they've done so so many studies on nicotine before you guys go off the deep frigin end. And they've proven they gave people nicotine, high doses of nicotine. And then they stopped and they didn't notice. Do you understand how addictions work? Because like nucleusumbent addictions fits a salot. None of this. It doesn't happen neurologically. It is. It doesn't even class. It doesn't even qualify as an addictive substance. It qualifies as a supplement. Here I'll go even further just this because it's fun. Have you ever eaten eaten an eggplant? Most of you will probably say yes. I think they're disgusting. My parents used to make this thing called musaka. It was eggplant and it just I think it was had eggplant in it and they made eggplant parmesan. This is a big purple fruit that looks like grimace from McDonald's. It is a disgusting It's not a fruit. I think it's a fruit. I have no idea. Vegetable. I really don't care what it is. I'm just having fun with you. But it is a giant purple shiny garbage. That's what eggplant is except it's loaded with nicotine. So is cauliflower. So are red tomatoes. And so are white potatoes. I'm sure somebody would be like, "Why potatoes? Isn't that racist?" You guys in here [\h__\h] standing on a fence waiting to be offended on somebody else's behalf. That's where I'm at with this. You guys are all nicotine eaters and you've never been Nobody's addicted to a potato. Nobody's addicted to an eggplant. You have nicotinic receptors in you. They work. They actually crank up cytotoxic tea cells, killer tea cells that work on you. There's so many things. They work in your brain. There's so many things that nicotine does that keeps you healthy and makes you just a juggernaut. But just think so stripped of cigarettes and corporate poison nicotine is one hell of a molecule. It binds I it I'll even go down the rabbit hole. It binds to nicotenic acetylcholine receptors. So not just with the immune system, sharpens focus, increases dopamine release, and and here's the best part. It creates the most inhospitable environment for almost all parasites that rely onergic signaling. Tons of them, just so you know. I I don't want to get into them because honestly I just don't want to. I don't have the time. So while society is demonizing nicotine patches, parasites, or quietly realizing they stumbled into a biochemical minefield, if there is any nicotine in your system, we can go down this rabbit hole and put on tinfoil hats if you want to talk about how many people got C19 and how many of them that were smokers didn't. Just saying. Hyroines are addict. They've proven that. 15 of them. There you go. 599 chemicals in your cigarette. Well, 699 are added. One is nicotine, you know. Oh, but but Spartan, but Dr. Trevor, this is North America. We're clean. We don't have parasites. Maybe the CDC is wrong. They're wrong a lot. Right here, I'll shatter that little porcelain doll of yours that you're hanging on to. Pets, worm vectors. You think your dog licking your face is cute? That is parasitic foreplay and gross. They lick their own [\h__\h] Water. Gerardia, cryptosparidium, amiebas. The CDC literally lists them all as common in US water supplies, food, sushi, undercooked pork, never mind tchinosis. Baged salad is one of the worst ones. When I took my microbio in college, holy [\h__\h] bag salad was loaded with garbage. Bag salad. Yeah, all Trojan horses for you. Soil walked barefoot in the wrong patch of dirt. Congratulations. Hookworm just RSVPd to your bloodstream, baby. The idea that you're safe here is just a bunch of marketing. Parasites don't check your passport and your driver's license or see where you're allowed to go and where you're from. They don't care. They look at you and they go, "That's a host. I want it." Let me circle back to nicotine because it is it deserves a massive redemption arc. This is the most killer stuff. I will never stop taking nicotine. Pathetically. I hate how I have to say this is world. Where's the [\h__\h] freedom? You don't have it if you think you do. Go to the bank and give them cash. Giant red flag. Go to the bank and ask for cash. giant red flag. It's your money. Where's the freedom? Don't try and come up with reasons. It's [\h__\h] Why do you need prescriptions for one thing and not another? We didn't have a massive opium or a opioid problem when you could buy it at the barber shop, did we? No. This is why I'm telling you, you guys, you're not as they are. But just so you know, nicotine seven seven countries of which the United States and Canada, Australia, New Zealand, they are all countries that signed this treaty or signed this agreement 2 days after C19 after the lockdown. 2 days to by 2030 eliminate and ban commercially available nicotine. But they're going it's because of health cancer. First thing I would do, I already said hypothetically, first thing I would do if I found someone with cancer is slap a 30 milligram nicotine patch on them every freaking day. Never mind anything else I would do, but that's another conversation. And I've dealt with plenty of clients. I've done consulting and taken care of plenty of clients. Cancer, Hashimoto's, Alzheimer's, dementia. I really love to get a hold of Bruce Willis, man. Help him out. I really would bugs me, man. I mean, just on a tangent, he can't even speak. You know what they're going to do? Just write him off, huh? Moonlighting, Cybil Shepard, right? Bruce Willis. You guys just look at these people as actors and actresses or Holly Weird and all that stuff. But I grew up watching Bruce Willis to see that happen. I don't know if he's a good guy or bad guy cuz I don't know him at all. But I do know this. When someone is in a position where all of the sudden the lights get turned out on their life. Personally, I like watching his movies. Die Hard, if you don't like Die Hard, you're a communist. I'll just leave it at that. Die Hard is freaking amazing. Die Hard. Yippi Cay [\h__\h] I'd love to. frontal lobe dementia, I think, is what it is. I I don't know. I'm just going off by I mean, for all I know, it's weird injections they're giving him every Tuesday. Like, I have no idea what's going on with him. I'm not there. I'm not friends with him. I don't know him. I would love to I would love to get in touch with that guy and go I'm just going to sit here. I I don't even care if he pays me really. I I don't I just want that guy to get better because something inside me goes, "That's all wrong. There's no way. There's no way." Or they Demi Moore and Bruce Willis Friends Forever and everything else. I don't know. I I just I would struggle to watch somebody that I care about just be written off and tossed to the side with the best quote unquote doctors in the world going, "We're going to give you all this medication and lock you in a home or whatever they're going to end up doing. Sorry, it bothers me." If you guys don't understand by now why I really come out here, you're never going to get it. I'm not coming out here for me. I am doing a brain dump on you guys every single day as much as I can despite the fact that all my automations in the last two days have worked worth a [\h__\h] on social media. just message me and say, "Hey man, I want the study on Slooh PP332. I want the study on MC C." But make sure it's a real message and I'll make sure you get it. I have them all on my phone, so you're fine. I have dozens and dozens of these things that I've written. Hundreds. Yeah. I don't think you understand the level of work that goes into what I do to make sure you guys have the information to make an informed decision. So, you guys have a great life and you guys live long, healthy, strong, powerful lives and you are a juggernaut until the end, until God just goes, "Okay, you're done." And it was you were like dragging a train down the tracks and all of a sudden God goes, "Okay, now's your time." And you're 95 and you're doing it with your teeth. So, I don't I see stuff like that. And I know this has nothing to do with this podcast, but I really believe I could I could help Bruce Willis. I really do. I believe that if I just had the chance and I just hang I just I I don't care if he would ever remember me. I really don't. I just love to see that guy just get up and go, "Man, I feel great. have a great conversation with whoever he talks to and go, I don't know what just happened, but everything's working. But stuff like that, that's why I come out here with you guys. I don't know any of you guys, to be honest. And quite frankly, I think a lot of you guys, if I ever met you face to face, I'd want to smash you in the face with a dodgeball because you're so ignorant and you argue about the stupidest things because your ego is so fragile. But I don't come out here to pummel your ego. There's a ton of you guys that know more about things than I than I will ever know. But when it comes to human biology and physiology and and your system, right down to deep deep neurology, I understand this. Like I'm exceptional at this because I nerd out on this and I want to know so I can give you everything. So you just make the right decisions cuz nobody else is trying to help you. It's all bro sense, trust me bro idiots or bro science rather. Trust me bro idiots that walk around telling you how smart they are. Well, I'll tell you how intelligent I am. I'll also just prove it and give you the information so you have it. Which is why like sometimes I look at my engagement on YouTube here. I guess if you're watching this on YouTube, I just shake my head. I go, "Look, 700 views. This should be 7 million views." I wonder why though. Post throttled, right? Oh, it's not entertaining. I got no, you know, women on trampolines with her big boobs jump bouncing around. The man show if you know. If you don't, then I got nothing. But just listen to me. If I give you information to help you, doesn't work unless you use it, man. And if you're worried about being addicted to nicotine, I don't know. I got nothing for you then. I'm not I sometimes forget. doesn't change my life, Emmy. I just know that it's going to help me radically. So, just let me explain it. Okay, so your because I could do this about all kinds of things, but your brain runs on acetylcholine. That's the neurotransmitter, follow me on this, of focus and learning and memory. Nicotine plugs into that system like jet fuel. That's why smokers, it's funny, they look relaxed but focused. You might say, "A, here we go." It's true. I'm not talking about aging your skin or yellowing up your blinds in your house because you chain smoke. You just monkey [\h__\h] cigarette after cigarette, you know, you just got to be six-packs a day or whatever and you're like an old Vegas grandma, you know, pulling that one armed bandit while smoking that cigarette. You just got a ashtray. It looks like a Homer's bucket. I'm not talking about I'm talking about just focused and intensely relaxed. It's because nicotine is hitting their nicotinic receptors like this beautiful. It's like like David Foster, right? Musician/conductor. The guy's amazing. If you don't know, it doesn't really matter. But here's the overlooked part. Parasites hate that environment. They don't thrive when your choneric signaling is running at peak. Add in nicotine's effects on metabolism. Listen, just this this is so easy. Like I should just carry it in my store with my company, right? But increased fat oxidation, better glucose control, appetite suppression. Suddenly you realize nicotine is not the devil. It's a tool. It's a supplement. Misused in cigarettes. Yeah, but it's the pyroines that are screwing it up. I don't think inhaling a very small controlled burn cigarette is good for you at the best of times because I don't know anybody that's taken a towel over their head, put it over a bonfire and cotton ball in their mouth and taking a bunch of breaths for seven or eight minutes. Nobody's going to do that. But think about it. Biologically, it's one of the most fascinating powerful performance molecules that humans have access to. I would stock up in. And it makes parasites miserable, which makes me smile a lot. Listen, here's here's the takeaway. And you know, and in fact, I wasn't even going to do this because I'm going to get a million messages about, well, what do I do? How do I do it? So, I'm not supposed to say any of this. Why? Because we're in such a free country. I can't tell you guys how to be healthy because heaven forbid it might kill you. Nobody's ever been killed by dervet horse paste. Just so you know. Just like peptides. Never happened. Peptides have also never caused cancer. Neither as a sarm or a serum or a secret. to put all that to bed and I can show you all the studies and actually pull them apart so you actually make read them and go, "Wow, that actually makes no sense whatsoever. No cancer." Nope. They aren't cancer causers. Dervet horsepaste comes in a tube. I'll be as vague and detailed at the same time. Yes, I realize that's an oxymoron. Dervet horsepaste. Panicure C. Fenendazol. Dervet is Ivormectin. Panicure C is fenazol. Nicotine rugby. Hypothetically, if I was going to talk about anything that might work great in a experiment with kangaroos and mice and, you know, badgers and armadillos here in Texas, I don't know, whatever animal you're going to hypothetically make a pre-clinical research trial on. Your pinky, the nail, the fingernail on your pinky, that's the size of the ribbon, the gel that comes out of the Fenbendol, the Panicure C, and the Dervette horse base, the Ivormectin. The Ivormectin tastes like apple flavored Vaseline. Get over it. You'll be fine. Every night, squeeze out a ribbon the size of your pinky nail. If you ask me for micrograms or milligrams, shut up. I'm just giving you the easiest way to do because none of you guys are going to remember anyway. You take that every day, every night before you go to bed until the tube is gone. The first two days of doing that hypothetically, panicure C, fenbendazol, day one and day two, same size dosage. Wait 10 days, take it again for another two days. The fenazol, not the ivormectin. You just take that all the way through. Why? Because the worm's eggs hatch about 8 to 10 days later. And then you got to wipe out those little guys, too. And the nicotine, slap that three and a half milligrams. You just cut one of those patches in half. And there's nothing in it. It's not like a like a pain patch or anything or that people are trying to mainline some weird drug by cutting it open. It's just a clear patch. You could see it on my side. Cut it in half. 3.5 milligrams. If you want to take seven, take seven. I take seven just because it's easier. Just too lazy to cut it up. Cut it in half. I know that's how that's how lazy I sound, right? 7 milligs. Slap it somewhere clean. If you get weird dreams, we're talking Pink Floyd style dreams, which it can happen rarely, but at night, it doesn't do anything bad to you. Just take it off before you go to bed. Slap it on when you wake up in the morning. Every 60 to 90 days. I'd leave that nicotine patch on every single day. But that's the nicotine. The Ivormectin and the Fenendazol takes 12 to 14 days to run through that entire thing. Every 60 to 90 days. You might be blown away at what you see or what you don't feel anymore because you're running, right? So here you have to ask yourself, are you living in denial? Are you right? This is you have parasites. It's not maybe or possibly or I don't know, man. I'm pretty clean. I wash all my stuff and I get organic stuff at the farmers market and you know what? I clean my butthole with a kitchen sponge every day. Like I don't know. Whatever it is you guys do, you do have parasites. Welcome to human biology. The question I was about to ask was, are you living in denial, blaming aging or stress or your environment or this one thing that happened when you were a kid when you stepped on a nail and apparently you were about to get, you know, you were getting infected by Claustrdium Tatana, even though that's not how it works cuz rusty nails don't make you sick. Nails covered in dirt that's been in the ground. Those have the potential to make you sick. But if you're going to blame all that stuff, the aging and the stress and the weird things that for symptoms that are literally tiny little freeloaders siphoning your life force like a freaking vampire, or whether or not you're going to confront the uncomfortable truth. You got weird [\h__\h] living in your body. Because here's the brutal reality. Medicine will mislabel your parasitic problem as autoimmune. Pseudocience will sell you rainbow dust. And the parasites, they're just counting on you to stay stupid. I just gave you all the information, just so you know. Doubt it? That's fine. But when's the last time you actually went down the science to see what antibiotics really do? I'm not against antibiotics. You need them sometimes to save your life, but you don't need them when you got the sniffles. If you understand biology, if you actually get some knowledge in your head instead of falling for some slick slogan, you realize that parasites aren't a mystery. They are tenants. And you know what tenants can be? Evicted, baby. North America ain't clean. You're not exempt. CDC already told you that. Yes, I realize they make a lot of [\h__\h] statements, but the question is, do you want to keep pretending or do you want to actually take responsibility for your own damn biology, whether it's an injury, whether it's getting rid of pmenopause or Hashimoto's or putting on more muscle, which you should instead of going, I'm doing it naturally and authentically, and you're 40 and you're just on this amazingly sharp decline no matter what, but you're doing it authentically and you are starting to look like a long-distance marathon runner. Not saying running marathons bad. Saying when you run a hundred miles outside of David Gogggins who just is always jacked. Most people don't look like that when they run marathons. They're all gaunt and skinny. I mean, these people learn how to run with their jaw relaxed so they don't expend extra calories. It's a talent. It's badass. It's just not for me. But the day you stop blaming all of your problems, your fog and your fatigue and your rash and your weird skin lesions and you know your itchy forehead and those weird dreams that all of a sudden something leaks out of your ear and your abdominal bloating all on getting older and start realizing it's probably a parasite problem. That's the day that you stop being a victim to your own physiology and the day you start actually playing offense and you go, "All right, you want to dance? Let's dance." And here's the cool part. Parasites don't survive long against offense at all. Anyway, I got to go. Hope that helps. Never miss.