All right, listen. We're going to hammer this out real quick. Why? Because it is 10 after 5. I want to go hang out with my beautiful, sexy wife. Man, two [clears throat] decades. More than two decades I've been married to this gorgeous. That sound that you just heard is me drinking a little bit of Coke Zero. Why? Cuz it's damn delicious. That's why. So, listen. Fountain of Youth. Everybody wants to live longer, but not longer hooked up to machines. You want to live longer, stronger, more powerful, built like a juggernaut, do all the things that you can right now. I mean, most of I'm 52. If I would have known at 20, and hindsight's always 2020, right? If I would have known at 20, 25 years old what I know now, holy [\h__\h] would I have done things radically differently. However, in the same breath, I also have to say I would not have ended up here. Who knows where I would have ended up further further behind, right? You never know. So, it it doesn't matter. But these people, like, go, well, you all those things brought you to where you are. Yeah, I might have been further ahead though, [\h__\h] Anyway, just I listen, I want you guys to understand this. Men, women, it doesn't matter. Imagine waking up feeling like you did when you were 25 and and just before you start arguing going, "I was fat. I felt like terrible. I feel better now." You guys argue in my comments for nonsense. Just imagine you felt freaking amazing. 21 years old. Your skin that's not all you don't look like a melted candle. You got energy that just pours through your veins. It's like liquid fire that you've got. Your mind is so sharp. It's like just the lasers. Like it's so sh you just perfect recall. You don't have to worry about it. You're always on. Everything's on edge. You don't have to think and go, "Wow, what was that thing I was thinking of again? Where are my keys? What car did I take today? Where are my shoes?" All that nonsense. But here's the kicker. What if I told you, listen, this this is important. You guys are like, "Oh, here we go." You have the fountain of youth inside you. And this isn't some hype or sitting there breathing some vapor out. This is at Pitilon. I'll tell you all about exactly why this is so badass and why everybody should be taking this stuff. There's this biological ticking time bomb inside your cells. It's called tel. They're called telomeirs. Just follow me on this. And every breath, every heartbeat, every cell division, they get shorter, pushing you inevitably towards the grave. Now, flip the script. Just flip the script for a second. What if a simple peptide could crank that the other direction? Dial back a time is the most important thing you've got. And everybody goes, "Money, great. But you know what I can do with more time? I can make more money. You know what I can't do with more money? Buy more time." So, you one of those is rapidly dwindling and cannot, you cannot add more to the account. You can't. Your time is your time. So, I get very pissed off when I see these Insta Bros, these idiot, you idiot doctors. Oh, you doctors piss me off. I I just hope you guys get eye cancer because it just bothers me so much cuz you guys go out and you create these wellness clinics, these longevity clinics. You I'm going to get this movement that I'm going to do a TED talk on protein and be like, "This is my life and everybody is so strong because of what I'm telling them to do." Wrong. Wrong. People are strong because their physiology is designed to be strong. All you're doing is selling a product built around it. Listen, I don't give a [\h__\h] if you buy from Elite Biogenics. I don't care if you join my black card. I don't care if you join my unbreakable. I don't care. I care that you have the information to make an educated decision and go live the life that you were supposed to live that you can be strong enough. You can take a hit. You have the physiology. You have the biology. You have the neurochemistry that is allows you to get through your life at peak capacity. You don't need a bunch. You don't need rveratrol or alphalapoic acid or circumin or all the other or NR or all the other [\h__\h] that is none of it works. None of it works. I don't care if you get in my comments and go, "Carum, worked for me, man. It was the best anti-inflammatory ever." No, it wasn't. What you did was you had a absolute placebo effect in the worst way because you got excited about the routine, not the results. That's what you were being rewarded for, the routine. And you you know what? When you unpack it, you'll see. And if you don't, then that's fine. If you Well, a placebo is still real. No, it's not. No, it's not in this little box that I'm talking about. No, it's not. Not at all. But you deserve this healthy life and you don't be you don't you don't need to be bombarded by people with fancy labels and you stupid doctors in your wellness clinics and your longevity clinics wearing your scrubs and your selfie. Dude, I've been a doctor for decades. I am wearing a black shirt, Chucks, black jeans. I'm wearing a Rolex and some leather straps on my wrist. I got a beard and a bald head. I'm not trying to impress anybody. I am just me. You know what I'm really good at? Me. You know what my dad always said? Tell the truth. There's less to remember. I am [\h__\h] exceptional at being me. You know what? I suck at doing anything that isn't me. And I promise you this, I know what I'm talking about. I'm exceptional at human biology and physiology and biochemistry and all this stuff because I give a [\h__\h] about you because I want you to be healthy. So, I just come out here and I just draw bomb after bomb after bomb so you guys have the information. But you need to actually take it and use it instead of falling for the [\h__\h] and going, "I have managed decline, but I spent $10,000 a month on some wellness clinic, some longevity clinic by some neurosurgeon idiot or some endo, you know, some, I don't know, nephrologist that decided I couldn't make it, so I decided to open up a wellness clinic instead because the money's better." Like, what whatever nonsense you guys are selling, you have a shot right now to have the best life ever and extend it into epic numbers at full capacity. I'm not talking hooked up to a machine that's keeping you alive. I've been connected to an oxygen machine keeping me alive. It sucked. That was not living. I did everything I could to get away from that thing as fast as possible. And if you know my story, you've seen it. I mean, missing a lung is not a fun life when that's all you focus on. But you know what I did? I built the most gangster badass savage life ever. Nobody can keep up with me. Not like this. And I'm missing a balloon on this side. I don't care what somebody says. I'm going to just keep delivering cuz you guys deserve it. Like I said, buy from. By the way, when you guys go, you know, I I went to Elite and I ordered some of their stuff, but they you guys are complaining to me as if I'm a third person. I own the company. It's mine. The black card. What is it? 144 live calls a year, of which 52 are a Q&A call every Monday at 5. I live just east of Dallas. There's your time zone. Central time, Chicago, if you have to look it up. All of that stuff. There you go. You're welcome. You can ask me questions. You get a VIP community. You get all of the protocols that I've got. It costs you six grand. There's going to come a point very soon, and I just haven't decided when yet because people keep asking me for it, that it's going to be 25 grand to join just to sign up and two grand a month just to maintain your membership. And I will punt your ass out if you don't maintain it. Why? Because my information is that good. I actually give a [\h__\h] And you get a private community where you can actually ask me questions in the community. Not unbreakable. Unbreakable. You get me once a week. That's it. And then you get the archive. All this stuff. It's all I got. You want me one-on-one? Totally different conversation. Also significantly more expensive. you want it. The link is somewhere at the end of this. You can join. You don't have to join. There you go. There's my sales pitch. I don't care. This is all about your life. Like what what if you could just pull pull back the script on when on on how telmirs shorten and how your cells divide and how your longevity is being hijacked. You can extend the lifespan of cells and organs and you like that's what a pitilon does. It reshapes your human biology. You can turn aging from a curse into a hack. Like it's not eternal youth. It's not forever. I didn't give you some divining rod to find out where the fountain of youth is and then you just magically live forever. You're not a vampire. That's not how this works. The beauty of life is that you die. Which means you better max it out. So just understand whatever you're thinking of doing tomorrow. Why? You have time today. You're going to do it tomorrow when it's harder. It takes longer. It takes more money. And your chance of success is reduced. But you're going to go all in then, right? Stupid. Stupid. You spend money on the dumbest things on earth. I've seen people make payments on a Rolex like this. Right. this Submariner. It's like 2530 grand. I've seen people make payments on a watch cuz they desperately have to have the watch. Why? I like the watch. That's why I have the watch. I've been a watch guy since I was a little kid. Watches and cars. That's it. And one incredibly hot woman. My wife. There you go. But who are you trying to impress, man? You better impress yourself. Look in the mirror and go, "You know what? I don't like look looking like a bag of water or a melted candle or whatever it is. You just look like a crinkled old disaster when you don't have to. When you can function, I don't know what to tell you. It frustrates me because you guys look for things you spend your time and money on that don't help you at all and then you get mad because you don't have the life you want, but you did it to yourself. Look at a pitilon. Look at it. This is a synthesized tetropeptide. It's a chain of just four little amino acids engineered to mimic a natural compound that's produced by your own pineal gland in your brain. This gland is nestled deep. It's behind your forehead. It's way back here. Cranks out melatonin. It's the hormone that regulates your sleep wake cycles. But in the grand biochemistry of our body, this takes melatonin. This epitoolon takes melatonin production a step further. Just one step further. It's not about sleep. It's about optimizing the entire endocrine system, the band, the orchestra that governs all of your aging. Think of it as nature's blueprint distilled into a lab created little conversation that tells your cells, "Hey man, listen, hold on to your youth just a little bit longer. If you could add an extra 10 years of badassery to your life, why wouldn't you? Why wouldn't you? Because once inside you, just, you know, here I'll explain how it works. It pitilon doesn't just sit there. It hijacks biological pathways to rewrite the rules of human decay, human biology. It activates timmerase, which is an enzyme that caps off the ends of your chromosomes. Those frayed telomeirs that shorten with every replication, the DNA replication cycle, right? You can have this conversation later. Does cells multiply or divide? Take your pick. But without timmeri without t to t to t to t to t to t to t to t to t to t tome cells divide a finite number of times before hitting this wall. It's this wall called senisonence. This is the point where they turn off reproduction and just start spewing inflammatory signals that accelerate organ failure. I call them little biochemical terrorists. I've said this for months. Epitoolon reignites timmerase. Lengthens telmir shields in immune cells, brain tissue, even reproductive organs. Yeah, it for all you guys that just asked, does it make it work again? Yeah. Yeah, it does. It makes it work again. You don't have to take handfuls of sealis and hope that tonight's the night it works. But it's more than that. It's this master regulator of melatonin. It amplifies its, this is so important, amplifies its antioxidative powers to scrub all those free radicals from your neurons, mitigating the oxidative stress that neurology links to neurodeenerative diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, dementia, all the things that are going on right now that people are going there's no escape. It's a death sentence. It's [\h__\h] I bang out protocols that solve these problems all day long and they're real and they work. Which is always weird when someone's like, I'm going to try this drug from Glacoline or from Fizer, but I'm not going to do this protocol from a doctor that is healthier and more robust than that doctor that's telling me what to do. You guys have been so indoctrinated to do the stupidest things, yet I keep coming out with stuff that actually works. And I'm the only one, just to be clear. You know why? Because nobody knows this this well except me. And if you go, "Well, that's pretty arrogant." Arrogant means I don't know what I'm talking about and I'm acting like I do. I'm egotistical. I damn well know I'm exceptional at this. And I damn well know I'm the best at this. And I damn well know I give a [\h__\h] about most of you more than you give a [\h__\h] about you, which is why I come out here. Listen, epitoolon modulates the hypothalamic pituitary axis, the HPI axis that controls everything. It's like the control center in your your brain's lyic system and it dictates hormone release from pituitary gland. And just follow me on this. This fine-tunes cortisol, which is the stress hormone that floods your bloodstream during fight, flight, or freeze. The whole right, you freak out, you jump out of a plane, you're excited, all this stuff matters, keeping it from chronically, it keeps it from chronically elevating and eroding bone density, impairing glucose metabolism, basically screwing up your system. In pharmacocinetics, look at it this way. When epitolon enters your system, always subq, by the way, if you're going to ask me how, subq, should I say it again? Subq. You get plasma peak in a couple of hours. binds to receptors that signal cellular longevity pathways like the ones that involve certuins. the longevity genes that DNA repairing enzymes have a conversation with a little chattery with. It's gives your mitochondria the energy factories in every cell those things that little nuclear reactors that I talk about with MC CS31 the ETC that's housed in the mitochondria which is the methylene blue right goes bypasses goes from complex one to cytochrome C the end so it bypasses the traffic jammpk pathway gets flipped on that's what mod C does right SS31 helps with cardiolippin that so you don't have all these free radicals kick off and the membrane the inner mitochondrial membrane gets all trashed like all this stuff matters you put this together But I'm talking like the longevity genes that that are working in your system to do what needs to be done. But this this gives these little mitochond this is so important because energy is the is the currency that your whole body uses to communicate and do everything that you're doing just like me moving my hand right now. It gives all of this stuff a turbo boost. So you get better ATP production, which means less fatigue, more vitality, less repair, and a biochemistry that is primed for resilience against metabolic syndromes, which are killing everybody right now because they're listening to the bumpkin doctors with longevity clinics that don't know what the [\h__\h] they're talking about selling white label supplements or drugs that have no business being in a human body. So here, how about the million-dollar question? How does a pitelon create longevity, doc? Okay, picture this. Aging isn't random. It's not. It is this cascade triggered by telmir attrition. oxidative damage and epigenetic drift. Epitoolon intervenes at the tillamir level extends replicative capacity, hemopoatic stem cells, the bone marrow warriors that you have that replenish your blood and your immune system, gives the army the soldiers it needs to fight, right? So you can actually have something that works. So this delays immunosessence where your defense is weakened with age, right? elite which leaves you vulnerable to infections to invaders, pathogens, parasites, all the things that come in and wreck your system. It upregulates antioxidant defenses like super oxide dismutates which I talked about the other day. Neutralizes the ROS's reactive oxygen species that otherwise cross-link proteins and and lipids and cell membranes. It hastens aosclerosis or cognitive decline. It trashes the system. It fills your vessels with Velcro. But here, listen. I could just go I could go on through this all day long, but the real longevity hack lies in the influence that it has in the endocrine system. It stabilizes melatonin rhythms. So, it syncs the circadian clock in tissues throughout your entire body from your liver to your brain. Prevents the desynchronization that pharmarmacology warns accelerates age related disease. The simple words keeps you young because it keeps your system fighting to stay young. You look at studies in pharmacocinetics show that it accumulates in tissues without toxicity. It repairs DNA via enhanced through enhanced repair enzymes. It effectively shrinks the biological clock by years, 10 to 20%. You look at animals 20 to 40% longer. Reverses graying fur. Yeah, all of you women just went nuts. Wait, I can reverse my gray hair? I don't know for a fact, but it's been shown to do it tons of times. The graying fur restores fertility, bolsters survival against neoplasms, tumors that neurology ties to chronic inflammation spurred by very short telomeirs. You see why this stuff is really important. You have to run this system in a way that is designed to make you stronger and more powerful, not to make you weaker, but feel good in the moment. So, here's the catch. With great power comes great responsibility, right? Spider-Man 101. You can't just bang a pit on endlessly and go, "Ah, it's a fountain of youth. I'm going to do this forever." You have to cycle it because human biology isn't a perpetuity machine. constant stimulation is 100% guaranteed to give you down regulation of something like this. So you can argue with me, but when receptors tune out the signal, it renders the peptide ineffective. This is like like pumping raw testosterone indefinitely, desensitizes pathways, crashes hormone production, and invites a whole host of terrible effects like hypercortisolism or autoimmune flare-ups. Epitoolon which is bound to mel epitolon which is bound to melatonin receptors risks exhausting the pineal glands reserve if it's left unchecked and unchallenged. So now you have a problem of dependence or metabolic backlash. Right? Cycle for balance. So you mimic the body's natural eb and flow which allows the receptors to reset amplify sensitivity the next time you do it. So hypothetically for a kangaroo experiment and if by the way this isn't meant to treat, diagnose, triage, advise and this is purely hypothetical, educational and entertaining. None of this is real. 10 milligs a day for 20 days hypothetically. Wait 4 months and do it again. Run that endlessly on repeat. It gently reboots timmerase activity without overwhelming pharmac without overwhelming pharmacocinetics. Let the body restore hormonal baselines in between doing this. Don't disregard what I'm telling you. I'm telling you this because I care, not because I want you to do less. This onoff rhythm, which is grounded in chronology, like a seasonal reset, prevents all the adaptation but maximizes the benefit, the gains. Hydration, drink a lot of water, get electrolytes in the bioavailability hinges on fluid balance. So the problem is you get these metabolites that pile up in inactive forms. It screws up the whole thing. So just stay hydrated, get electrolytes in, work out, do all the things. You won't notice anything different. Just going to live a lot longer in a better way. But here's where you level up alone. Listen, follow me. Here's where you level up alone. A pillon is awesome. You pair it with synergistic allies. Boy, you turn this into something transcendent. That's how badass hypothetically three GHK-Cu BPC-157 actually four NMN mod C. You need that energy. Why not? You're mixing a pitilon. Crank up the ATP production. have the energy to do the repairs and to solve the mystery that's going on in your body. Yeah. Because they plug the longevity equations holes. They amplify the pitilons telmir magic into this full body repair system that allows you to become something for a lot longer. So I mean I listen I explained copper but copper it's the recycler of wound healing that human biology worships for its role of collagen synthesis and angioenesis but that's not what it's there for. It builds tissues and and sprouts new blood vessels. And since it pitilon slows aging at the cellular clock, GH GH GHK-Cu patches the wear from that slowing process. BPC-157 modulates inflammatory cytoines, prevents telomeir erosion from chronic stress. Modi with thempk pathway, cranks up biogenesis and the amount of ATP that are being cycled out. You could even throw methylene blue so it goes from complex one to cytochrome C. keeps the electron transport chain working the way it should upregulates ATP production by what 20 to 40%. NMN nicotenomide monucleotide this the NAD+ precursor which is like a spark for a specific protein activation in your body. Listen epitoolon lengthens life by stalling cell divisions end. NMN floods the system with NAD+ fuels DNA repair enzymes that fix the telmir damage epitoolon telescopes out. This is why this matters. So you mix all this together without getting into a lot of stuff because honestly it's 20 minutes and I just want to go hang out with my wife. I would look at that. These aren't fringe hacks. This is the edge of genuine evolution that has just been distilled into a very easy 20 minute 25minute podcast. A pitilon isn't magic. It's not. It's taking control of the biology that we've ignored and allowed other people to take control of. Remember I said your job is to be the CEO of your own biology. You just cycle and add these things in together and you're not aging, you're evolving. You're doing things in a way that allows you to function at 75 that the same way you did when you were 35. Or if you're 45, it allows you to function the way you did when you were 25. And most people are going to ignore this. You're going to listen to this podcast and go, I don't know. I'm going to go back to my weird mushroom powder and my trainer that has me on all the wrong things because they have abs. Well, I have abs except I have a bunch of degrees after my name and a million plus patients that I've worked with and helped. So, I don't know what to tell you. You can keep waiting for the next social media blast to come out and go, "This is going to be awesome. This is the next thing." Or you can just do it. Figure and and solve your problems right now. Like imagine a world where 90 feels like 50. Really, just stop and think about that. Where diseases retreat before science's onslaught. That's not fiction. It's here. It's now. That's what this is. I don't know if anybody really explains a pitiline, but I mean, I hope I you got something out of this because remember what I said. This is the stuff that I give you so you can make an informed decision. You decide where you want to get, what you want to do, and how you want to solve this problem. or even if you do. Anyway, hope you got something out of this. It's Friday night. I'm going to go hang out with that sexy, beautiful woman of mine. See you tomorrow.