 so, d-sip. This is a, for lack of a better explanation, a masterclass on d-sip. It's funny because I was about to do this entire episode with my generator keeping this little studio alive, so I could do it, which I've done before. Texas is wild, man. The grid here is a train wreck. The build quality of houses here is a disaster. I'll give you everything I got on d-sip and listen, I come out here because I want you to be healthy. I don't give a crap if you buy from me. I don't care if you join the black card or not. None of that matters to me. I come out here because our job as healthcare professionals, like, my job as a doctor is to help you. It's not to get online and make reaction videos to something somebody said in their podcast because it hurt my feelings or it goes against what I say. It's supposed, I'm supposed to come out here and give you all the information so you know what you're doing so you can actually have a great life, which is the only reason I come out here. So it's always weird to me when people get in my comments and start bitching and whining or you guys strip clips from me and you make reaction videos to it and then I realized follow the money and I look because you guys are all selling garbage and bunk and you're defending your blends and your nasal sprays and your orals and none of it's true. You know what? And these want to be medical students getting in my comments bitching and whining instead of going, you know what? You're a glorified pharmaceutical rep. There is nobody coming out of medical school right now. None. None. That is an actual doctor. None. You guys are, you're coming out of a trade school to be a pharmaceutical rep. Don't get mad. Be better because my job is to help as many people as possible, not drug as many people as possible. I would prefer you're not on anything. So the point is I come out here so you have the information. What you do with it is up to you. That's my rent, but deceptive, masterclass. And listen, this is, they've been, you guys have been told so many wonderful, articulated lies about peptides, about medication, about health care. And I'm going to unwind all of this. And here's this while about deceptive. It just kills me. This isn't even a new lie. It's A-50 year old lie that they're telling. It's just for sleep. No, it's not. That's the last thing that is, that's a side effect of deceptive. That's like saying red or true tide is for weight loss. No, it's not. Red or true tide is arguably the most effective peptide I've that's ever been introduced outside of BPC-157. It is probably the most effective peptide that's ever been introduced to the world ever, which is why they're fighting so hard to hide it from you or charge you astronomically large amounts of money. Like this was the Soviet discovery, right? Deceptive, that got labeled as a sleep peptide and then got buried in Western medicine because they didn't want you to have it. Because when you understand what deceptive really does, listen, you understand that the entire medical industry, all medical doctors, the entire pharmaceutical industry is built on managing disease rather than preventing it. And you guys are falling for it. How about you just go, this is my body and I'm damn well going to take care of it. I'm not handing it over to me to anybody, which is the, you know, that's why I created the black card. You guys even know that I made the black card because I wanted people to have a place to go where they can get real answers. You bet your asset has a fee. You bet your assets going to cost you a ton of money, but I also solve all of your problems. So if you're going to spend 25 grand to join by wire transfer only, by the way, you get direct access to me. I've proven myself time and time again, I don't need to keep doing it. I'm exceptional at what I do because I care that much about you that I will bleed. I'll stay awake at night trying to figure out your problem and I'll do it, which I have done. I've stayed awake 1 32 o'clock, 2 30 in the morning looking over labs and listening to people's symptoms and putting things together and actually figuring out the biology. So I know what's going on. And then I've solved their fucking problem because that's my job. I, you could come into my group. There's hundreds of people that don't have problems anymore because they actually had somebody listen and pay attention and solve it. Not go here, take this drug because this is the drug I'm supposed to tell you to take for your symptoms. So if you want to join, you've, Mia is my personal executive assistant. She is the bomb and she is going to take care of you. Apply at unlock the card.com and she'll get you all set up. And if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, my company, great. If you don't, okay. Again, I'll still be here helping you. That's what it looks like when you give a shit about people, not stomping your feet, pouting, making reaction videos and getting in people's comments complaining and whining and sending it off to your buddy who owns a peptide company who sells out of the back of his gym. Listen, DeSep, yes, I'm in one of those moods again. DeSep is a non-apeptide, non-amino acid. That's all you need to know. But here's where most people stop. They read sleep peptide and then the brain goes, just falls asleep. And they think it's melatonin with a master's degree. But you couldn't be more wrong. Listen, here's where biology gets interesting with DeSep. It's a neuromodulator. 1974, Russian researchers Bauenberg, 1974 discovered this, isolated it from rabbit brains of all things during sleep. They called it a sleep inducing peptide because that's what they measured. It's not what it is. That's what they measured. But that's the same reason we call hemoglobin, oxygen, even though it's so much more than that. DeSep, listen, just to hear me out, okay, because this is the kind of brain I have. This is how it works. DeSep is a peptide hormone that acts on tons of receptor systems all at the same time. It's not this single-track molecule. It's this entire conductor of events in your system. And the event is every system in your body that determines whether you are going to die very young or you are going to live very old and wrinkly. That's literally what DeSep works on. It crosses the blood brain barrier, binds to specific receptors in your hypothalamus, your pituitary throughout your entire CNS and PNS, central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. But here, listen carefully, it doesn't just make you sleepy. It doesn't just make you sleepy, you guys. It does something so much more sophisticated than that. DeSep modulates metabolic rate. It modulates thermogenesis. It modulates cardiovascular function, neuroendocrine signaling. Again, Schoenenberg, 1984, 10 years later, proved all this. It's like giving your mitochondria their superintendent back. That's how effective this stuff is, and yet people will argue about this. The research is black and white. People think sleep peptides do one thing. Sleep. People think DeSep does one thing. Sleep. Wrong. Just so you know, sleep. And I said this before, sleep is a symptom. It's a symptom of what DeSep is actually doing. It's like the flag that you stuck in the sand. The real work happens when you are out cold. Listen, here's the physiology. When DeSep levels are optimal, your body enters what's called parasympathetic dominant state, which means that your vagus nerve, 10th cranial nerve that controls like 75% of your parasympathetic nervous system, lights up like New Year's Eve, Times Square, goes bananas. And then what happens? Your heart rate variability improves. Your insulin sensitivity climbs. Your growth hormone secretion increases. Your inflammatory markers nose dive. Your testosterone production stabilizes. Your cortisol pattern optimizes and normalizes the way it's supposed to. And that's just in the beginning of when you take this. But here's what separates DeSep from these sleep supplements on the market. Listen, it doesn't just suppress wakefulness. It actively promotes anabolic state. It's like the difference between turning off your alarm clock and building an actual reason to sleep. So if you look at Ehlers 1986, you show that DeSep, excuse me, priest growth hormone secretion by 60%, 60%, not through suppressing somatostatin, not through forcing your pituitary, through direct neuroendocrine modulation. Just think about what that means. When you sleep, you're not just resting. You're building, repairing. You're literally getting younger at the cellular level. That is not sleep optimization in my books. That is friggin longevity. That is standing on the skinny pedal of longevity. Let me break down the most beautiful, most elegant piece of this biochemistry that exists with this molecule. DeSep works, like I said, multiple mechanisms. So look at neuroendocrine signaling. It binds to receptors in your super chiasmic nucleus, which is like the master clock of your entire body. But this isn't about melatonin. Melatonin is the announcement that it's dark, right? DeSep is the program that makes your body reorganize itself for recovery, which is required. So when DeSep hits those SCN receptors, super chiasmic nucleus, it starts this thing called circadian phase adjustment. Your body's internal clock doesn't just shift to sleep mode. It shifts to regen mode, regeneration, right? So Kajiyama 2001 showed, this is one of my favorite studies, that DeSep directly influences hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis function by reducing abnormal cortisol secretion patterns. That means it doesn't suppress cortisol. That would be bad, by the way. It stabilizes, harmonizes it. So your morning cortisol spike happens. Your evening decline happens. But instead of the dysregulation that is created by this chaotic social media-governed world that we live in, right? Cortisol fires up at midnight and you're exhausted by noon. Your body actually remembers how to rhythm. Look at mitochondrial function, because this is where it gets really wild. Your mitochondria, we already know this, power plants of your cell. Every cell in your body needs a denizing triphosphate to function. ATP is literally the stored energy currency of every single thing in your body. The three phosphate bonds holding nothing but potential, baby. That's how it works. So when you're tired, stressed, inflamed, old, you're, listen, I'm 52. I can say it. I'm old. Your mitochondria, they're essentially broken. They're not producing ATP efficiently. It's like asking my diesel truck, my 2500 out there, to just run on vapor fumes. The DeSep directly enhances mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, which is the process of where your mitochondria convert nutrients into usable energy. How? It's a masterclass. How? It increases expression of something called PGC1-alpha. This is the regulating control system of mitochondrial biogenesis and function. Think of it as you, you're hiring a bunch more workers and you're also making sure that those workers are very well trained. It enhances expression of uncoupling protein 2, which regulates the efficiency of ATP production while reducing ROS reactive oxygen species. Those, these are the free radicals that age you. Streltsova in 1995 proved this. It upregulates succinate dehydrogenase and cytochrome C oxidase. These are the enzymes that actually make the ETC, the electron transport chain, do its freaking job. So here's practical terms. DeSep makes your mitochondria produce more energy with less waste. That is without any fancy explanation, metabolic use. Pretty much the opposite of aging, in my opinion. Look at the neuro, look at the neuroimmune modulation. DeSep induces or DeSep directly influences thymic function. So your thymus is here. And let me get to this. You need to understand this because your thymus goes garbage very quickly. And T, excuse me, T cell production. The thymus is your immune, it's your immune command center produces T cells, which are the kill squad of your entire immune system. They find viral infections and degenerative proteins and cancer cells. Here's the tragedy of aging. Your thymus shrinks atrophies like a sum bitch. So by age 60, most people's thymus is functionally gone and replaced by this other thing called fat. So a DeSep does is single is signals your thymus to stay active. It's like putting your immune system back on alert, but it's not very crude. It's very precise. It doesn't hyper activate your immune system because that creates an auto immunity issue. Instead, it creates immune confidence. It makes it smarter and more vigilant. So the ability to respond to threats while maintaining tolerance, which is required. Look at the antioxidant cascade activation. This is important because antioxidants keep you alive. So when DeSep binds to its receptors, it activates what's called the NRF2 pathway, nuclear factor, or throid two related factor two. This is your antioxidant response element. Yes, you need to know this. NRF2 is like the leader of your cellular repair crew. When it gets turned on, it tells your cells to will produce more superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione as transferases, all of this stuff. These are your endogenous internally created oxidants, not the ones that you eat, not the ones that you inject, the ones that your cells manufacture in response to a threat, which you are getting hit with all the time. DeSep doesn't just activate this once. It creates this state where your cells are, they're expecting, right? They're expecting to need these defenses and they pre manufacture them. So my buddy Tom DeBlas, right? He's an incredibly skilled fighter. He's a good dude. I love this guy. He's a really good dude. And he is very well trained in Jiu Jitsu. He's exceptional. He's the guy that actually gave Tom Hardy his brown belt. He's the guy that trains Tom Hardy, which is pretty cool. But he's expecting to need his defenses. Do you guys get that? Right? Say Gracie, expecting to need your defenses. I take Jiu Jitsu. I've rolled, right? It's expecting to need your defenses. By the way, I think everybody should take Jiu Jitsu. The end. Just the end. It's just one of the, it's a skill transfer for life period. That's why I love that my son's in it 12, almost 13 years now. He is 16 years old. He is such a dangerous kid. It's frightening. I love it. I wouldn't have it any other way. I'm so proud of my son and my daughter. I just love my kids. I know this is a tangent, but I adore my kids. My daughter works very hard. She's 19 and she's very intelligent. And she's knocked out beautiful like her mother. And she is just jacked and committed. And she's got filled with piss and vinegar sometimes, which I wouldn't have any other way. And my son is this lethal little fighter that will hug you first, but he'll put you to sleep real quick if you don't respect him. Like it's just a good. I'm proud of how we raised our kids and my wife. And I love Brandy. She is, she is awesome. My wife is. She is the ultimate head of one of my companies. So without her, the company wouldn't run. She is exceptional at running, but she ran a ton of 24 hour fitness, like a whole division of 24 hour fitness. She knows what she's doing pro athlete, like just a monster. And 21 years. Best brand, right? So listen to get back to DCIP because I could talk about my family all day. I like to talk about things that I like, right? So this is my house. I'm just going to talk about things I like. I'll talk about God. I'll talk about my family. I'll talk about Jiu Jitsu. I'll talk about biology and biochemistry all day long because it's fun for me. So listen, here's why, here's why DCIP is so effective because, and by the way, effectiveness, it doesn't mean does it work. Real effectiveness means does it work for everything? Here's what's insane. You guys, DCIP does, it does what, because it solves the three fundamental biological failures that underlie every single human disease. Where's my Nobel Prize? I'm going to keep saying it and I'm going to keep demanding it because I deserve it. But the problem is my solution, see, my solution is to save mankind. My solution isn't to generate wealth. See, did you get that? Like my solution doesn't generate billions and trillions of dollars for a pharmaceutical industry. It generates the longevity of mankind. They don't like that so much now. It's weird. Listen, look at, so I'll just go through them. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage. So look at inflammation and I have to be clear because people get on me about this and I need just shut up. Inflammation isn't your enemy. I'm not saying that it's necessary. Your immune system is saying we need to fix something right now. But chronic systemic inflammation, that's your immune system standing in your house screaming and refusing to leave no matter how many times you ask it. Every degenerative disease starts here. Cardiovascular disease, watch, I'll prove it. Cardiovascular disease, atherosclerotic plaques are inflammatory. Neurodegeneration, amyloid plaques, Tautangles, inflammatory. Cancer, the tumor micro environment is 100% inflammatory. Metabolic disease, your insulin resistance begins with inflammation in your adipose tissue. Deciproduce is systemic inflammation through so many different ways. Look, I'll even go through it. The TH2 shift. So your immune system has two poles. TH1, pro-inflammatory, cellular immunity, and TH2, anti-inflammatory, humoral immunity. Let me explain all these things. So stress, porcelain, endotoxemia drives you into TH1 dominance. Pro-inflammatory, cellular immunity. So your immune system is constantly in. It's got the radar on, right? It's just looking for something to attack. It's in attack mode. DCIP creates TH2 polarization, right? So my stroning explained this very well in 1989. It doesn't suppress the TH1. You don't want to do that. It just tips the balance towards tolerance and anti-inflammatory signaling, which is how you're supposed to run. Look at the IL-10 production. This is the second variation of this. DCIP simulates interleukin-10 production. IL-10 is the, it's like a chill-out cytokine. It's when it's what tells your immune system that the threat is gone. You're okay. You're safe. And normally your body produces IL-10 as a break on inflammation. But in chronic disease, somebody cut the brakes. This should be a magnum PI episode, right? Like it just, they snip the brakes. You go cleaning off the cliff in Honolulu. DCIP rebuilds the brake system and connects up the lines. Okay? Look at the NFKappa B suppression. So NFKappa B is the ultimate inflammatory transcription factor. When it's activated, your cells, they just churn out pro-inflammatory cytokines, TNF, alpha, IL-6, IL. DCIP doesn't block NFKappa B brutally because that would suppress, listen, that would suppress very necessary immunity. Instead, it modulates it through a ton of different directions. It includes inhibitor Kappa B regulation, which keeps NFKappa B sequestered and slightly inactive when it shouldn't be firing. It does this very effectively because it's not doing it in a way that suppresses function. It's doing it in a way that modulates function. They're not the same. But here's the result. The inflammation drops, blood vessel function improves. Your immune system becomes a very precise attack system the way it's designed. Instead of this panicked reactive, what we've labeled autoimmune system, a dysfunction system, which is not true. I just really don't believe there's anything, there's any such thing as an autoimmune disorder. I believe there is a response to a terrible ecosystem inside your physiology. And I've proven it with my three biological failures. Give me an autoimmune disease and I will tear it apart and I will show you. And I'll prove it. Now solve it. How about that? I've already solved lupus. What else you got? Fibromyalgia. I did that. Psoriasis, eczema. I could do this all day because once you understand biology, you can solve the problems. Look at insulin resistance. It's the metabolic corruption that starts almost every single chronic disease because here's the physiology. insulin is a signaling hormone. It tells your cells you need to take up glucose because you need it. When your cells stop listening, that's why I said they're deaf, right? They become insulin resistant. Glucose piles up in your bloodstream near pancreas, flips out and it pumps out even more insulin, which makes your cells even more insulin resistant, which leads to type 2 diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease, massive cognitive decline, but they're not going to treat that. If you have type 2 diabetes, you are going to get Alzheimer's. It's that simple and I will stand by that conviction. That's why it's called type 3 diabetes, mass. But stop thinking that type 2 diabetes is something to sneeze at. 100% user created. You did that to yourself, which means you can unwind it. Yes, it is reversible. ECEP fixes the insulin resistance at the root. It does it like this. It's mitochondrial improvements. Mitochondrial improvement gives improved insulin signaling out. Let me explain. So insulin resistance starts with mitochondrial dysfunction. When your mitochondria can't produce adenosine triphosphate efficiently, they instead produce something else. Reactive oxygen species. Now, the reactive oxygen species damage the insulin signaling cascade at the receptor level. Decipin enhances mitochondrial function. Better mitochondria, less reactive oxygen species, preserved insulin signaling. I think the problem with most diseases is they're looking for complex answers because people want complex answers because it gives them something to fail at. Look at the adipokine modulation. Your fat cells are endocrine organs, whether you like it or not. They secrete hormones, Ponectin, resistant, TNF alpha, leptin. When you're inflamed, weird, failure one, your fat cells produce more inflammatory adipokines and less adiponectin, which is the protective adipokine. Decip shifts this. More adiponectin, less inflammatory adipokines. So adiponectin directly enhances insulin sensitivity in muscle and liver. Kajiyama showed that 2001. Same study I used earlier. Look at the direct glucose uptake enhancement that this provides. Decip enhances glute 4 translocation where the glucose transporters, this is what it does, Joll, explain it, relax. It they migrate to the cell membrane and allow glucose uptake. This happens in skeletal muscle during decip enhanced sleep state. So more glucose uptake. Remember, this is the sink. Your muscles are the sink that you can flush glucose down. It's the biggest one you've got. But more glucose uptake, lower blood glucose, preserved pancreatic function, and the ultimate answer is reversed insulin resistance. This stuff, I could do this all day. Look at the ATP shortage. This is the foundation of the entire damn thing. You have 37 trillion cells in your body and each one needs ATP every single one. Your mitochondria produce about your body weight of ATP in every single day. When mitochondria fail, energy fails. When energy fails, you're ready. Here's the ultimate disgusting answer to that. When your energy fails, everything fails. Decip directly enhances ATP production. Look at complex 1, 2, 3, and 4 up regulation. I'll show you. The electron transport chain has four protein complexes, technically five, but they pump protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane, creating a gradient. ATP synthase, the turbine at the end, complex five essentially, uses that gradient to phosphorylate, screw a phosphate onto ADP, and turn it into ATP. E-SIP increases expression and function of all four complexes. Look at substrate availability. It increases glucose uptake by glute 4 translocation and enhances lipolysis, fat mobilization. But it does this all while you're sleeping, which is why I said when you're sleeping, you're regenerating. You're not just resting. This means that your mitochondria have this constant fuel, carbohydrates, and fats. Nutritional redundancy, by the way, creates what's called energy resilience. Look at uncoupling protein optimization. Here's the balance. You want ATP production, but you also want heat, which is thermogenesis. These are opposing forces. You get maximal ATP production and optimal thermogenesis. Here's the problem. Most of the time, it's a very energy wasteful system, but this is you do it without wasting any energy. Look at the neurology behind de-SIP, because this will change how you look at this forever. De-SIP doesn't just improve general health. It solves neurological problems that modern medicine considers. This pisses me off. Consider it progressive. I got to sit like this because it's in my back. You can see I'm dancing around here in my podcast. I'm having a little, I don't know, hanging out here dancing in my own little personal club. You should see this place. It looks awesome in here. But it solves. This is the progressive and inevitable issues that modern medicine says, but that's not true. I'll show you why and how this is solved, and I'll even explain it using basic physiology. Look, the blood-brain barrier. De-SIP crosses the blood-brain barrier. This is huge because most peptides don't. Your blood-brain barrier is very selective because your brain is this sacred piece of gray matter. It doesn't let trash through. If it does, you've got big problems. De-SIP crosses because it's a non-peptide with very specific amino acid sequences that make it blood-brain barrier permeable. It doesn't matter what it is. I could get into de-amino acids. I guess it doesn't really make a difference. Once it's there, here's where de-SIP goes to work. It restores cortical rhythm. This is so huge. Your brain works on rhythms. I don't care. You guys, we are in this hyper always. I'm not going to say hustle culture because I love hustle, but this, I will take everything I can. If you've seen play date where the heat, you know, what's her name goes, Ivy's got speed, right? That's the world. We're living on speed, and that's not okay because you lose cortical rhythm like that and you wind up trashing your system. Doctors should help people do this. This is why I'm here because I love you. I absolutely freaking love you. So these aren't poetic, these rhythms. They're electrical. So your cortical system generates oscillations at these different frequencies. Delta waves, theta waves, alpha waves, all this stuff. Gamma waves. Yes, gamma waves. You guys are going to be the whole, relax. No. But when you age, when you're stressed, when you have neurodegeneration, all of you guys with, we're talking MS, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, dementia, all this stuff. These rhythms break. So your EEG becomes what's called this rhythmic. It's chaotic. It's like the leader of the band. But Steve Tyler from Aerosmith is up there singing and also he decides to check out and you have Luciano Pavarotti trying to sing as Steve Tyler and the band is like, what the fuck is going on? Both incredible singers in my opinion, by the way. So just before you guys start judging me, I think Pavarotti and Steve Tyler are both incredible. But D-STEP resorts the leader of the band, right? Two mechanisms. Gamma-urgic tone. So D-STEP, and I'll go through these one by one. It enhances gamma-urgic signaling at your cortex, specifically the thalamus, which is the gateway to your cortex. Yes, I'm fidgety right now because my back is bugging me sitting here. It's because I did this dumb workout. It was so savage. I don't even post my workouts anymore. I know this is totally off script, but it was like, I just, I went off the reservation here, I'll be talking about my workouts, but I just don't post them anymore because honestly, none of you guys care about my training. I work out really hard and you know, what really happens is a lot of people go, there's no way you do that. And I used to post full-length workouts and sometimes they were an hour, a half, two hours long and then everybody would start telling me I'm overtraining. I love David Goggins so much. I think he's such a stud. That guy is mentally unbreakable. And what I really like is when he said you have to train first in order to overtrain. And I train hard as a beast and I don't train like David Goggins and he doesn't overtrain. So I think I'm okay. He's a Navy freaking seal. You better respect that. I don't care who you are. You better respect Marines, SEALS, Special Forces, my buddy AF, 22 years, right? Kennedy. It's like all these are people that I am actual friends with that are good. I love them to death. They're incredible human beings, all military, right? Navy. I don't care. All of you guys, mad respect. I'll just leave it at that. So look at where I was like, GABA, right? So GABA is your, it's the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter. This is what happens. My brain just goes nuts. It's like hurting cats in here. Like inside my head is like trying to push a string because my brain never stops. My wife is like 21 years. She's human this way the whole time. Yep. And my wife loves a shit. This is what tells neurons to just a mellow. Just stand down a little bit. When GABA tone is optimal, your cortex can generate coherent oscillations, right? When GABA is deficient, which happens with stress and alcohol, age, certain diseases, your cortex becomes very noisy, which means it's incoherent. D-SIP essentially rebuilds GABA urgex. Your Schoenberg explained this in 1984. It enhances slow waves sleep. So during slow waves sleep, stage three, stage four, your cortex generates synchronized delta waves. This is where the magic happens. Memory consolidation happens here, by the way. So your brain, I love neurology and some of these people that really, I understand it really well. I've seen people like one of my friends, Dr. Murphy, this guy understands neurology. He makes me look dumb and I understand neurology really well. Your brain cycles through memories encoded during the day, integrates them into these slots, these long-term storage slots, and then clears out metabolic waste through something called the glimphatic system. It's like pressure washing your brain, right? D-SIP enhances the duration and the quality of slow waves sleep. It does this by modulating salamic reticular nuclear activity. It's this is the gatekeeper that lets sleep rhythms propagate through the cortex. So more, listen, here's the takeaway. Here's the rub. More slow waves sleep, better memory consolidation. So pay attention because if you're not getting your sleep and I'm not talking to run out and get a scuba mask and say that's healthy because I think putting a CPAP machine on you is one of the most idiotic things in the world. Hate me. I don't really care. I'm still right. So I'm trying to tell you there's a better way to do this. I'm not saying take D-SIP. That's not what I'm suggesting either. I'm saying find out what the real problem is. Your real problem isn't lack of scuba equipment. Your real problem is there's something underlying that's causing that. You better figure that out because that's not helping you. Even if you're like, I finally got to sleep with my CPAP machine. Cool. Cool story, bro. So what are you going to do when that doesn't work? Your systems needed that since the day you were born? No, you've been convinced that you need things to survive. Solve the machine, solve the ecosystem, solve the three biological failures. And most of the time, all the things that you thought you had to stay on for the rest of your life, you don't. I see this every day in my black card with real patients, real clients, real people I work with because I love them, the end. And I give tough love sometimes. I'm like, dude, what you want to do is stupid. Take that and throw in the trash and do this instead because I care. I love you enough to tell you the truth. So listen, if you have more slow wave sleep and you get better memory consolidation, you also get better cognitive function, which I'll help you. Here's the takeaway. Delayed neuro or if ever neuro degeneration, synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis. Look at this. DCIF does something even more incredible because it promotes the creation of neurons and the rewiring of all the existing ones. Here, it up regulates BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. This is the growth hormone for your brain. This stuff is so wicked. Like Cmax, cerebrolytes and all of this stuff, you need to understand this. It tells neurons to grow, to connect, to survive. So many studies. DCIF administration increases BDNF levels in the hippocampus. So many studies show this. But here's why this matters because the hippocampus is where all those new memories are encoded. Neurogenesis in the hippocampus is the foundation of learning and memory. So you've got to string this together. DCIF tells your brain, keep building, baby. So BDNF activates TRKB receptors on neurons, which activates P13K, AKT pathway, which promotes synaptogenesis, standard spine density. That's the connection points between neurons. mitochondrial density, which is energy for neural transmission. Antioxidant defense, which is protection from those things that punch holes in your cells in your life called reactive oxygen species. Look at adult. This is such a wicked thing. Adult neurogenesis. Okay, your brain doesn't stop making this no matter what. I'm tired of people saying this. Your brain does not stop making new neurons after childhood. It continues doing this throughout your entire life. Two specific areas to be honest. Subventricular zone and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus.  d-sip promotes proliferation of neuroprogenitor cells in these zones. Watch. Here's what happens. Cognitive decline reverses, memory improves, learning becomes easier, neuroplasticity returns. Do you know that d-sip protects against excitotoxicity? Just so you know what that is, it's what kills neurons. Excessive glutamate, to be honest. It's the easiest way to explain it. Excessive glutamate demolishes your neurons, and what do they give you? Something to reduce glutamate, not solve the problem about why it's high in the first place. Glutamate is your primary excitatory neurotransmitter. It's necessary, but when it builds up, which happens with inflammation, stress, mitochondrial failure, it becomes toxic. Neurons fire themselves to death. They go nuts, and they burn out. D-sip protects against this. Glutamate reuptake enhancement. So d-sip regulates EAA2. This is the glutamate vacuum cleaner. It sucks up excess glutamate out of the synapse, back into the glial cells. More glutamate reuptake, less excitotoxicity, neuronal survival. Calcium homeostasis. So excitotoxicity just so you know, works through calcium. Excess glutamate opens NMDA and AMPA receptors. Calcium floods in, like we're talking like a tsunami, and calcium activates proteases and phospholipases that destroy your neurons. D-sip enhances calcium buffering capacity in neurons. So here's what happens, and here's how. Increased mitochondrial calcium uptake enhanced sarcoplasmic and endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase function. I realize I'm going hard into biochemistry and pardon me as I want to stop, but this is a master class. You need to understand this. Upregulation of calbindin and calretinin, which are calcium binding proteins. So here's the takeaway. More calcium control, neuronal survivor. Neuronal survival. It provides this insane antioxidant to fight. Excitotoxic calcium influx generates reactive oxygen species, damages lipids, proteins, and your DNA. D-sip activates NRF2, which I already talked about. Your neurons manufacture more endogenous antioxidants. It manufactures more superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathion. So if you guys are all like, oh, I'm going to take my glutathion, you can also make your own. You know that. But when you have better antioxidant defense, you get long-term neuronal survival. Look at some neurological conditions. Just let me be direct on D-sip and explain how this works. Look at dementia and Alzheimer's. So Alzheimer's is fundamentally mitochondrial disease with neuroinflammation. And I've explained this. I've even solved it. The classic pathology, amyloid beta plaques and tau tangles. But the problem isn't the amyloid beta and the tau. It's why they develop. Those are, what do I call them, the tombstones. That's the flag. That's the thing that's going, this is what's going on, but that's not what's causing it. That's like treating, remember what I said? It's like trying to treat the smoke, put out the fire. Here, this is what causes this entire shit show called dementia. Mitochondrial dysfunction generates reactive oxygen species. Damage proteins misfold. Reactive oxygen species are what damage these proteins. Misfolded proteins aggregate. The aggregation triggers inflammation and the inflammation drives more mitochondrial dysfunction. It is this ugly vicious cycle. You can distill this down to systemic inflammation, insulin resistance. They're starving, not like MS where there's a kink in the system, but in the vascular, it's a vascular insufficiency and ATP shortage. You have mitochondrial dysfunction. Watch, which is what I just explained. So by restoring mitochondrial ATP production and reducing reactive oxygen species, here's what happens. You reduce amyloid beta generation, so less reactive oxygen species, less protein damage, less aggregation, right? It enhances the glimphatic clearance, which is the pressure washer for your brain, better sleep rhythms, better metabolic waste clearance, amyloid. So just see who under what I'm getting at reduces neuroinflammation. It does this through the TH2 shift in the IL-10 production, which I talked about earlier on in this podcast. It promotes neurogenesis, which is done through BDNF, primarily brain-derived neurotrophic factor, that the miracle grow. If you look at this, look, here's what's wild. Schoenenberg in 1994, showed the DCIP administration restored cognitive function and reduced markers of oxidative stress in your brain. So if I'm going to look at something that's going to get in the way of potential future neurodegenerative or cognitive decline, I'm going to put my money in DCIP. I could do this with Parkinson's. I could do this with multiple sclerosis. I just, I'm not going to. There's just too much to, I could do this for days. But here's where most people get DCIP wrong. It's the more is better thing. And I've had people do this even in my group. I'm going to take more. Why? If I take one, then two has to be better. But the law of diminishing returns happens. And what ends up happening is you get minimal positive feedback from it, but you get hundreds of like orders of magnitude more negative effects. Don't do that. If anything, read a true tide, prove that the difference between four milligrams and eight milligrams was a 5% increase in weight loss and a 300% increase in side effects. But the InstaBros, don't get mad. I'm out here to help you. If you're one of those InstaBros, maybe just take notes. And instead of trying to sell more of your product, try and sell more health, try and actually take care of the people you report to talk to, to just love so much. But everything has an affiliate code. Do you know that everything that I post, like you'll get a link somewhere on my copy underneath this video? It's not a funnel. There's nothing in it that's a funnel. There's a link to elite biogenics. Well, the only idiot, what do you think I'm going to put a link to somebody else's stuff? But I give you the answer. I don't even ask for anything in return. I go, if you want to get it, here's an easy way to find it. I give a link. I give the apply at unlockthecard.com to work with Dr. Trevor because I get thousands of emails from you guys every day going asking me for advice, which I legally can't do. So you want to work with me, join the black card, but I don't put you into funnels, man. I'm out here because I genuinely am going to save all of mankind and all their health because that's what God is giving me the power to do. That's not me, man. This is all coming down, right? I'm not doing this and I will never take credit for this. I am a tool that is being used to help you guys. That's it. Look at when you stimulate a receptor constantly, it down regulates the receptor becomes less sensitive. You need to understand this is called tachyphilaxis tolerance. When you take d-sip every single day for six months, your receptors will be giving you the finger and downregulating. You'd be taking it for 30% of the benefit that you're getting at best. You need to cycle it 10 days on, five days off, or five weeks on, two weeks off. There you go. You're welcome. And I never do this in these podcasts. Why? Because they always get me in trouble. Watch. Here's why this works, by the way, because in this off period, your receptors upregulate again, they become more sensitive. Your endogenous d-sip production, which gets suppressed with exogenous outside administration recovers and your body's own anti-homostatic mechanism, they all reset. So you come back to day one with receptors that are going, yeah, give me more. I'm ready. I'm ready. This is why every protocol for the most part outside of a very select few for a very specific case should be cycled because it's just better for you. Now, before you go, didn't you say there's some forever peptides? I sure did. But like I said, specific circumstances, specific peptides. Here's the other reason. Negative feedback. When you take endogenous or when you take exogenous d-sip outside your hypothalamus goes, okay, we've got enough. And it down regulates endogenous d-sip production, your own production. You do this for months. And your body goes, I don't even know how to do this anymore. It's not like riding a bike cycling prevents this. It keeps your endogenous production intact. And it makes sure that it understands the rules of the game. This is the difference between supplementation, actually, and dependency. You know what, you want to see something wild? I wasn't going to talk about this. I touched on it a little bit in my podcast or in my Instagram post. Look at menopause. I got to do this because it's making me crazy. I just got to help you people. Pause is not normal aging. I'm tired of people going, it's just normal. No, it's not. It's normal. So you can sell your book, your medication, your products, your pills, your hormones, your patches, your vag cream, your pellets, your secret, your secret protein hack, where if you just have enough protein, you don't have any issues with menopause. All this is bullshit. I'm not saying take what I'm selling, by the way, before somebody goes, oh, your method works. No, what I'm telling you is that's all a lie. My grandma didn't have crazy peri and menopause symptoms. Why? Because she was, her biology was functioning right, just like most other people that are in their 90s, right? Listen, when estrogen and progesterone drop, which they do during menopause, women lose cardiovascular protection because estrogen maintains endothelial function, the lining inside the vessels, neuro protection because estrogen enhances brain to ride neurotrophic factor and mitochondrial function, bone protection because estrogen maintains bone mineral density, osteoblasts versus osteoclasts, right? Thermal regulation, estrogen regulates hypothalamic temperature set point so you burn more fat. Metabolic stability, estrogen enhances insulin sensitivity. Desip addresses menopause through all of these and it does it independent of estrogen. Look at the hypothalamic GnRH modulation that it does. So it reduces dysrhythmia and that caused the hot flashes. Let me explain how this works. Hot flashes aren't, they're not random. They're caused by this ridiculously goofy GnRH pulse that triggers the luteinizing hormone surge and which is what causes the vasodilation. Desip normalizes GnRH pulse utility and it shuts down the hot flashes by 60%. Kanjiyama in 2001 came out and said, look at this, look what it's doing. And you had people like, I don't know, maybe I should get a cream. Are you crazy? What if you don't have to? What if you just get your system to do what it's supposed to do? You're welcome. That's part one. This heroin mustache is making me crazy. It protects your mitochondria, directly enhances mitochondrial function independent of estrogen, which protects neurons from the sudden loss of estrogen's mitochondrial support. If you understood that little list that I just gave you, menopausal women show accelerated cognitive decline. You go into a room, you forget why you're there five seconds after. It's not to be insulting. You get brain fog. It's part of this issue, but it's not supposed to be like this. Desip directly protects against this through BDNF and mitochondrial enhancement. Look at the cardiovascular protection. This one's going to blow your mind. Estrogen tanks, cardiovascular risk goes up. Desip enhances endothelial nitric oxide production, improves coronary blood flow, and vastly reduces atherosclerotic risk independent of estrogen. 2001, Kanjiyama showed that women on Desip during menopause had improved cardiovascular parameters and lipid profiles. Huh, but you probably don't want to take this. Look at the bone protection. Estrogen loss equals bone loss. Desip doesn't replace estrogen. If that's what you're hearing, you need to check your hearing because that's not what I'm saying. Here's what it does. It enhances, remember what I talked about? Osteoblasts, osteoclasts. Osteoblasts bone building cell function, it enhances that, and it reduces osteoclasts, destroying cell activity. It improves mineral metabolism. It reduces inflammation, which drives bone loss. The result is this. Menopause becomes something you can navigate. Bone loss slows down. Cognitive function goes up. Cardiovascular risk doesn't spike. Your system runs the way it's designed. Look at the HPTA axis and all the recovery that it controls. This is a command center for male reproductive endocrinology. Just follow me on this one. Before you, you're like, wait, what? Just follow me. When you train hard, you suppress appetite, stress, or use certain drugs, which you probably shouldn't be doing. You suppress the HPTA, but testosterone goes tits up. Desip supports HPTA recovery. Watch. Restores GNRH. It normalizes the pulsatility. Constant G-age suppression. Constant GNRH suppresses luteinizing hormone. Pulsatile GNRH stimulates luteinizing hormone. Follow me. Desip creates that pulsatility, allowing luteinizing hormone recovery. It reduces cortisol antagonism. So elevated cortisol, that doesn't matter by how, by the way, suppresses GNRH. It also suppresses luteinizing hormone. This antagonizes testosterone at the tissue level. So Desip normalizes cortical patterns. This is what I talked about, right? You don't wake up at midnight and get sleepy at noon because your cortisol doesn't know what the hell it's doing. It does this through H, like I said at the beginning, HPA access modulation. It removes the break on your testosterone in the process. This is why this stuff is so fantastic. And before you go, was this the magic pill? No. You also can't eat like an asshole. Train like you don't train. You sit around, you play Call of Duty all day in your mom's basement at 45. You need to actually take responsibility for your health. But this is for doctors and healthcare professionals that should actually go, maybe I should be all about actually doing health, not selling my product or service. I don't give a crap if you buy from me. I care that you actually buy from you, which means your mindset to be a healthy human being. Look at the recovery capacity this stuff does. Desip enhances sleep quality, sleep duration, and parasympathetic tone. Okay, these are the conditions under which testosterone is produced, primarily during sleep by the way, boys, and recovered after suppression. Better sleep, better testosterone recovery. The end. You really want to go from good to great. You ready? Desip, hypothetically, epitolon, and matzc. You're welcome. No, I can't go into the details before I look, at least you give me the dosage. No, I can't. Why? Because we live in a world that doesn't want you to be healthy, governed by people that work for big pharma and the FDA. That's why. Look, here's just watch. Desip enhances cortical rhythms and sleep architecture. Epitolon activates telemorais and restores pineal melatonin production and matzc enhances mitochondrial function needed to support circadian rhythm maintenance. There you go. You know what happens? Your circadian rhythm becomes so friggin solid, robust. It's almost unshakable. Jet lag daily that you have is gone and sleep becomes pretty much bulletproof. You're welcome. Listen, the secret about Desip isn't how it works. It's why it works when nothing else does because it's not about one mechanism. It's about signal integrity. Here's what I mean. Your body is this giant signaling organism. I know, I mean, that's two. Every single thing that happens, every protein you make, every cell you make, every thought you have, every heartbeat, every neurological function that you have, every hormone that you secret, every cell that lives or dies is based on signals. Period. When you age, when you get sick, when you have neuro degeneration, what's actually happening is massive signal corruption. Your cells are getting the wrong message at the wrong time. Yes, you're still supposed to die, but it's not supposed to happen at 45 and then you just hang on under managed decline until you're 85. That's not normal. Look at inflammation gives this constant attack signal, even if there's no threat. Mitochondrial dysfunction gives constant energy crisis signals. Neuro degeneration gives constant protein misfold signals. Your cells are listening to a bunch of radios that are playing static. Desip is the cleaner. It solves the problem. It works through so many damn pathways that not because it's doing a bunch of unrelated things, but because it's restoring baseline signal integrity. So your biology actually works because it's turning off the damn noise. When the noise goes down, your immune system hears real threats instead of the phantom one. So it doesn't go nuts. Your metabolic system hears recover instead of crisis and panic. Your neurological system hears build and connect instead of degrade and withdraw and decay, which is why Desip helps so many different conditions. It's not some magic bullet, by the way. It is signal restoration. When you restore signals, everything downstream gets restored. This is what the, this is, listen, all these, this is what pisses me off about current med school and current medical doctors. This is what pisses me off about the pharmaceutical industry. Like I said, I don't give a crap if you buy from me or not. I'm not trying to shill my stuff and sell my stuff and I have no desire to sit there going, I'm so right and make a reaction video. I'm here because I actually care. This is what the pharmaceutical industry doesn't want you to understand because they can't patent signal restoration. You can only patent specific drugs that address all the stuff downstream. Desip, Desip, are you kidding me? Desip addresses all the upstream causes. Good Lord, if you were to listen to my Kiss Pepton video, but your brains would have exploded because it's so fantastic. Listen, let me, let me reframe this entire conversation before I go inside and eat. The average person thinks Desip makes you sleep better, sleep is good, raw, therefore sleep, therefore Desip is good. That's true, but it's radically, I need some Snoopy coffee. This is, it's a longevity peptide. Listen, I'll just, let me explain it. Okay, it reduces mortality risk and extends health span years of quality life, by the way, improves functional capacity with age. It preserves cognition. It prevents age related disease, maintains metabolic health. Desip does all of this stuff and yet people look at it and go, I think I'll take some creatine. Listen, creatine is badass, by the way. I should probably do a podcast on all of this because it's very effective. It's just right up there with coffee in my books, but all of this stuff is good, not because it improves sleep. It's good because improving sleep is where all the other stuff happens. Mitochondrial repair, lymphatic clearance, immune optimization, protein synthesis, sleep, you guys, sleep is where you get younger. It's not in a surgeon's office. It's not with a face cream. It's when you're a sleep. Desip doesn't just make sleep happen. It makes deep sleep and regenerative sleep happen. Over years and years that compounds. A person taking Desip off and on for a decade, watch, better preserved mitochondrial function, lower chronic inflammation, better cognitive function, lower cardiovascular risk, better metabolic function, way lower cancer risk. Pretty much you're going to live longer, healthier and better. That's a longevity peptide. Listen, let me put a bow on this and go inside because it's been an hour. It's a long time. It's not a production system. It's not a performance system. It's a repair system. That's your body. And I know everybody talks about high performance machines, but you're a repair machine. Sleep, exercise, think, eat, sex, walking, building is either supporting or suppressing repair in modern life. Most of modern life suppresses repair. Watch, let's look at dysrhythmic living kills repair, mitochondrial dysfunction kills repair, inflammation kills repair, insulin resistance kills repair, chronic stress kills repair, poor sleep kills repair, you age because your repair capacity collapses. DeSIP is a repair enabler, enhances sleep, reduces inflammation, enhances mitochondrial function, optimizes hormone signaling, activates antioxidant defenses, which protects repair capacity. And over time, what did I just say? This compounds like crazy in your repair systems come back online, you stop aging and you start anti-aging. You start anti-aging. Listen, DeSIP is not a sleep supplement. It's a longevity molecule that works through sleep. You need to understand that fundamental difference. It addresses the three fundamental biological failures of all disease, inflammation, insulin resistance, and ATP shortage. It solves neurological problems by restoring signal and integrity and promoting neurogenesis, solves metabolic symptoms. It solves metabolic problems by fixing your damn mitochondria, solves hormone problems by restoring your circadian rhythm, an HPA-HPT axis function. It solves cardiovascular problems by restoring endothelial function. It solves aging itself because aging is fundamentally a repair system failure. And when you combine it with things, let's say hypothetically, for your kangaroo like a pitalon and mot-C, you create this trilogy of longevity that addresses telomere shortening, circadian rhythm restoration, and mitochondrial biogenesis at the same time. That is not supplement optimization. That is called anti-aging. Listen, the reason that you're not going to hear this pushed in mainstream, it's not because it doesn't work. It's because it's not profitable to cure aging. It's not profitable for Joe, medical student or Sally, medical student or Joe M.D. or Mr. Insta Bro or Mrs. Insta Bro or soccer mom selling this out of their basement. It's not profitable. They want you to buy their stuff, not buy your biology. Disease management is very pisses me off, to be honest. Above all, do no harm. I'm not out here to get you to buy my stuff. I really don't have anything to sell you. You decide, you want to join the black card, great. You want to buy from me, great. Either way, I got nothing to sell you. I want you to have the information. But you know what DCIP really is? You know how it works, you know why it works. Everything you've been told about sleep supplements has been missing the actual revolution happening at the cellular freaking level. The choice about what you do with this information that I come out here and I give you almost every damn day is up to you. But the information is irrefutable. It says uninterruptible as friggin gravity. Like this is for you guys. Anyway, I hope you guys got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.