2 o'clock on a Saturday. Where are you? So, I have my Spartan Live call on Saturdays at 10:00 a.m. It's a mindset and limiting beliefs call. And you know what's interesting is like I said, and a lot of you guys know I'm 52 years old. There there's been an explosion of mindset coaches, right? That's not what I am, by the way. Not at all. I'm just a gritty old bald doctor that's helping as many people as I can solving problems and I'm 100% certain that I've solved all disease. It's just biochemistry and physiology. I'm right. I said it yesterday. I'm right. The problem is most people won't have the intestinal fortitude or the capacity to actually step out on the ledge and go okay. They'll keep pushing on the door that says pull and they'll keep doing the same thing over and over again just harder and more frequently and spending more money doing it and expecting a different result and wondering why they're not getting anywhere. You know what that is? That's insanity. I'm going to talk about DIP, by the way, DSIP. And I'll explain it because I think a lot of god the instro world and the selfproclaimed experts call it a sleep peptide. Man, that is not even close to what it is. I'll explain why I'm going to blow your mind on this podcast because I want you to have the info. Like I said, this isn't about me. By the way, you see this? How many of you guys have one of these on today? I'll just leave it at that. What side? Mine's right here. 3.5 milligrams every day. Remember, viruses obligate parasites block where they bind and where they get into the cell and they die because they have no host. 29, right? 29 influenza viruses handles all of them. that you go ahead and keep getting those flu shots every year. Let me know how that works out. And I got to say this, I've gotten a lot of messages about the black card. I'm going to open with this part just because I you need to hear this. If you send an email to any other email other than apply unlockthecard.com, my team won't get it. We're redoing our entire email structure. And that is the only place to get into the black card now is apply@unlockthecard.com. It is $9,997 for the year. It is wire transfer only. There are no payment plans. And it is by far the cheapest thing you can ever buy for your health. And you get access to my live call every Monday where I just throw your questions at me. I'll help you. That's my job. The VIP community where you can type your questions in and I'll come in every 24 to 48 hours and answer the questions. I'm very sticky about people giving advice in my community if it's not me because that's a horrendous liability. So, you're also safe there because anybody that gives advice or drops links or tries to sell things or direct anybody elsewhere or how to do anything outside of, I don't know, brush your dog, the moderator, Amber or Jessica, will come in and shut [clears throat] that down real quick because I want you guys to have the right answers. So you have to be careful with the advice you're giving, right? Which is I just I don't tolerate it. But the other side of the equation is you also get access to all the protocols I've used for decades at work. Anyway, the point is that if you want into the black card and you want to have a way to like how long have you been waiting for answers for your health? Chasing solutions given to you by people that are trained by the very system that is built intentionally to keep you sick and dosile and extremely profitable. So anyway, that's it. And if you want to buy from Elite, great. If you don't, great. I'm still out here. And I'm more than my content, my conduct more than proves it. And anybody that comes out and says, "Let me talk about this Dr. Trevor and discredit." You can, but I'm always right because I don't open my mouth to gossip or discredit anyone else. And I don't open my mouth if I don't know the answer. I think we're in a world right now of pseudo experts and Jim Bro experts. and my ego is being trashed because I've been saying this for so long because I'm a gym bro or a self-proclaimed Insta guru or I don't care if you have degrees or not. I know plenty of people with degrees. I have tons of degrees. Pick one. I have a ton. Yes, I'm a real doctor, but none of those matter. I know plenty of idiots with a string of letters after their name. And I know plenty of people that are incredibly intelligent that have no letters after. You got to decide who you listen to and if they actually mean what they say and keep their word and do everything they can to give you the results that you want or answer the question, whatever it is, which is why I come out here. But anyway, DIP, forget the fluff and the inspirational, oh, this is going to be great. You guys are all adults for the most part. If there's kids listening to this, listen, because of a handful of people, I just went, you know what? I'll just I'll cuss a little less. But you're here listening to this podcast for one very main reason, which is the official story on health and aging. You suspect rightfully is a just a politically correct fairy tale designed to keep you what I said a minute ago, right? Sick and complacent, compliant, dosile, non-combative, and profitable. And you're right. You're right, man. You're right. Listen, you tell aging is normal as it stands, as in you only have a certain number of years on this planet. But forgetting your keys and losing your energy and watching your body slowly fail and labeling it as just getting older in an effort to make you believe that is not that is a medical condition. It is a treatable medical condition. And the treatment isn't another pill from a billion-doll corporation. It is a correct series of signaling corrections, right? biological signaling corrections that have been slowly how do you boil a frog, right? One degree at a time. What do you think they're doing to you? You guys, these you have these errors in your system. And I talk about this all the time. And if you don't know and you're new here, I'm going to tell you anyway. Is the three biological failures that I know that I came up with that I know are right that are responsible for every single problem that you will ever have physiologically. And most doctors are too busy pretending, playing God, getting their little fragile egos hurt because a guy like me comes and unravels everything they have been taught to tell you by companies that bought them. They're too caught up in beta blockers and statins and whatever else they're going to give you to understand. Look it, I'll make it really quick and then let's get into because you guys, what do I do? If you Here's what most of you guys come here for, by the way. What's the dosage? I tell you because I'm not getting knocked out of this arena for something that I should be able to talk about. Free speech, right? It's weird. Free speech. As long as you stay within the confines and the guardrails of what we determine is free speech. Free speech is free speech. Agreed. And there's always some idiot out there, some imbecile that says we need regulation and we need this. Who's going to regulate the people doing the regulating? You ever think of that? Who regulates the FDA? Who regulates big pharma? Who is the FDA or just their little Gestapo force? Who who regulates them? Nobody. Who regulates the IRS? Nobody. You guys are going to the president. No, it's free reign. Go against them, though, and see what happens. That's why I'm out here every day. Let's look at the biological failures real quick. There's just three. Every disease, every problem you'll ever have. Your body is on fire. It's failure one. All right. Chronic lowgrade systemwide inflammation. your immune system which is confused and pretty pissed off and exhausted is attacking your own tissues. It's like having a small contained explosion happening in every single organ all at the same time. That's the easiest way to look at it. Failure two is that your cells are deaf, right? They're insulin deaf. insulin resistance. The hormone insulin is banging away on the door, hitting the doorbell with bags and bags of energy and your cells have noiseancelling headphones on and they're ignoring it. It's like my teenage daughter. You're metabolically starving while bobbing away and floating away in a glucose-rich bloodstream. And the last one, failure three are the ATP, the power plants, the nuclear reactors, the mitochondria are bankrupt, right? It's complete mitochondrial dysfunction, ATP shortage. These tiny little engines in your cells that produce all the energy are inefficient and just coughing and belching blue smoke out on the freeway and they're dying and you are pretty much for lack of a better explanation, you are running out of gas at a cellular level and they are normalizing that treating the result, the symptom. They're not treating the problem. You know what's interesting is anything that is goes against the current narrative of western medicine is deemed unsafe, untested, unverified, not FDA approved, non-licensed in an effort to make sure you don't pay attention, not in an effort to make to protect you. When you actually get that's when you start getting better and you start solving your problems. Just leave it at that. But those three things, they're not separate issues, right? The inflammation, the insulin resistance, and the ATP problem, they're not separate issues. These are this cascading systems failure and the root cause of that failure sits in your brain in a re right now. This is why DIP is important. It's in a region that's no bigger than an almond called the hypothalamus. This is mission control for your entire endocrine system. And the most misunderstood signal it sends is this nine amino acid peptide called delta sleepind inducing peptide DIP. But they named it wrong. That's why I said this. Calling DIP a sleep peptide is like calling an F1 car a grocery go-getter for mom. And before somebody goes, "Oh, that's really sexist." Listen, women build the house, men protect it. The end. But saying that an F1 car is a grocery go-getter because it has wheels. Doesn't even make sense. It is a catastrophic misnomer that misses the entire point of the peptide. Sleep is a downstream effect. Follow me. DIP is the upstream command that reboots your entire system into repair mode. You don't repair when you go to the gym when you're running around all day. Let's get super technical for a second. How does it work? Forget simple mechanics. This is systemsbased endocrinology. DIP's primary target is the hypothalamic pituitary axis, HBA access. This is your body's central stress circuit. when it's chronically activated thanks to modern life and social media and very soft people that can't take hurt some hurty words and poor diet and toxins that we breathe, drink, rub on us, sleep the medications that we take in handfuls that don't need to be taken. It pumps out cortisol like a broken hose just belching it like somebody knocked over a fire hydrant and just pissing it out. High cortisol is a biological poison. It shreds tissue, suppresses immunity, and fires everything in your body that is meant to make you stronger and cooks your brain. That's it. Does it have a purpose? Yes. Before somebody gets in my comments and starts going, "Cortisol actually has a purpose." Lots of things have a purpose. Bear with me here. DIP doesn't just lower cortisol. That is purely an amateur statement. DIP recalibrates the HPA axises set point. So, it changes it from one level to another permanently. It goes into the hypothalamus and it effectively says, "Hey man, stand down. Just relax. The threat isn't here anymore. It's gone." And it restores the normal circadian rhythm of cortisol, which gives you that peak when you need energy and troughs when you need repair. That's how it's designed. This single action, by the way, is the master switch that turns off the other three systemwide failures. This is why DIP is not just a sleep peptide. Now, your brain neuroproction, yeah, you've been told that cognitive decline, I got to touch on this. And normally I don't but because it's getting a little redundant but you've been told cognitive decline is inevitable right I heard some horrible news it really pissed me off that so I have been trying to give Bruce Willis a solution for all of you doctors working with Bruce Willis it disgusts me because your ego won't let you allow someone to take care of another human being that is a son that is a husband that is a father he doesn't even recognize his own family anymore. Nothing. Bruce Willis moonlighting die hard bothers me. I saw a post today. That's how bad he's gotten. And I've been fighting to try and get in front of him. Talked to a couple of people that a lot of people actually, but I guarantee you the doctors went, "Nope, no, that's too risky. Too risky." Let me explain something about this, you guys. This is the hypnosis of social conditioning at its finest. If I needed help and I was dying and I was starting to fall apart psychologically, physically, emotionally, neurologically, biochemically, whatever it is, my wife, if what was being done wasn't helping, she would tear the place apart looking for solutions. I know because she's done it. My wife is my best friend. She snuck into the hospital when they kicked her out, locked her out while her husband was hooked up to machines keeping him alive. me when they started giving me remesae and it started to kill me. She went down the rabbit hole, figured it all out and said, "We got to go. I don't think they're helping you." Saved my life. That's an act of God for sure. Working with an angel, my wife. So, you can believe what you want. Think they have your best interest in mind, not a chance. So, all the doctors that are their egos are so fragile. They're like, "Don't do that. That's fringe science." It's not fringe science. It is practical biochemistry and human biology and endocrinology and neurology. It is everything required to make another human being a juggernaut and getting in the way of every what do you have to lose. What what if something bad happens? It's already happening. So it bothers me. So today I'm a little off cuz it pisses me off cuz I know for a fact I could have solved a lot of that problem cuz I know what the problem is. Stuffing him full of medication and watching him still deteriorate. How how does that even make sense? Or slowing it down though, right? Cognitive decline. So all of you doctors working with Bruce Willis, there's a special place in hell for you cuz that's somebody's husband. That's somebody's father, somebody's son, and you made them believe that what you're doing is right. Now that aggravates me. Like you guys have been told, cognitive decline is this big inevitability, right? Yeah, I know you're like, "Oh jeez, this guy's intense and serious today." I just It's a heavy cross to carry. Those are just more fairy tales. Your brain, listen, your brain is plastic. It can repair itself, but only if you give it the right dang signals. DIP is a master signal. So here's what it does. It very powerfully upregulates brain derived neurotrophic factor BDNF. BDNF just like cerebral, right? BDNF is not just brain fertilizer. It's a survival factor for existing neurons that are still functioning. It's a growth hormone for new neurons in the hippocampus called neurogenesis and a synapt and a synaptic architect that strengthens the connections between all of this stuff. This translates directly into enhanced memory consolidation during slowwave sleep. This is where it matters by the way. It improves focus by optimizing prefrontal cortex neurotransmission. It causes a fundamental increase in cognitive reserve. Like the things it does and yet doesn't matter here. Take this DHEA, take these omega-3s, right? Take Aerisep, take L-dopa. None of those have worked in the history. Dementia and Alzheimer's medication have a 99.6% failure rate. You want to hear that number again? 99.6% research proven post. I talked about the research that it proved that in the other podcast. I don't need to keep doing it. But if there was a 99.6% chance that you're going to get smoked by a car if you cross your own street. I'm going to tell you, nobody listening to this podcast in their right mind is going to walk across the street. People do it with medication all the time. So listen, here's how DIP worked. It does this the whole dance like this partly because by modulating the colonergic system acetylcholine, which is the key neurotransmitter for learning and memory and executive function, right? DEIT makes your brain's communication system work, the network work faster, cleaner, and it's becomes much more resilient. It's not a neurotropic. Put those cans down and all the nonsense that you keep buying into, stop it. It's a neuro regenerator. So go back to those three failures because this is important. So you can see what I'm talking about how this works with those three failures. go back to my three biological failures and look at how DSIP performs like a systemwide surgery right systemic inflammation which is the fire cortisol which I explained right just shreds your system in a normal acute stress response is very anti-inflammatory but when it's chronically high it becomes pro-inflammatory it activates the NFCappa B pathway which is the master switch for inflammatory cytoines same ones TNF alpha IL6 but by normalizing do you see the pattern here why all of these things are similar and they keep treating them with different drugs It's giving them different labels, but the problem is always the same. By normalizing the HBA access, DSIP shuts down this entire pathological signaling system. It's not putting out the fire with a bucket. It's just snipping the fuel line so it can't burn. Anyway, that's just the first one. Look at insulin resistance. The deaf cells cortisol elevates blood glucose and in it directly induces insulin resistance. Skeletal muscles, atapost tissue, everything. It's this classic catabolic hormone. So by restoring the cortisol rhythm, right, the peaks and troughs, DIP removes the primary driver of metabolic deafness. Your cells actually start to listen to insulin again. glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent improves. The risk of type 2 diabetes tanks. This is metabolic reprogramming. How long was the treatment? How complicated is this treat? It's not. I haven't even touched on the ATP yet. The bankrupt mitochondria. This is where D This is where DIP shows its absolute genius. This has a direct positive effect on mitochondrial biogenesis and efficiency. Enhances the function of the ETC electron transport chain complexes 1 to four specifically. It reduces electron leakage and increases ATP synthesis. So you crank out a nice fat juicy yield of ATP helps it. Less leakage means fewer ROS's reactive oxygen species which means less oxidative stress. More ATP means that every single cellular process from DNA repair to protein synthesis has the energy required to actually do the work. DIP fixes the power grid. This is why the sleep label is honestly a joke invented by some bro science wannabe with a podcast. DIP induces the specific neuroendocrine state required for systemic repair. Sleep is simply the behavioral manifestation of that state. If you understand human biology, this is starting to make sense. And if you don't, I hope you are. Dip is for longevity because it actively opposes the hallmarks of aging at their root. Which is why DIP is much more of a longevity peptide than a sleep peptide. But everybody, you'll see it everywhere on all of these sites everywhere, all these Insta bros and Insta experts talking about it with their pseudocience and their rent a degree or whatever it is they've got telling you it's for sleep. It does infinitely more than that. Look at neurological decline, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's. It's a pathway of inflammation, oxidative stress, metabolic waste accumulation, TP reduction, insulin resistance. Look at the entire look at the system. I'm right. Like I am this is the problem 100% of the time. Inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Period. Amaloid beta tow. That's what and Alzheimer's. DIP is a triple threat. Watch. It reduces neuroinflammation through the HPA access control. It cranks up antioxidant defenses. So it upregulates glutathione right the antioxidant in your liver promotes the glimpmphatic system actively during deep sleep to clear all the metabolic debris. So it opens up those channels and pressure washes your brain so the amaloid and the towel the railway tries ties right the towel don't get all twisted and tangled and screw up your system. It doesn't just treat symptoms it changes the brain's environment to be hostile to disease. That's how you're designed. You know that right? You're you're designed to be your system is designed to be Fort Knox against pathology. Look at cardiovascular health with DIP. Okay, so the HPA axis and cardiovascular system are intimately linked. Chronic stress which you are being inundated with and taught to believe is normal leads to endothelial dysfunction. It leads to hypertension. It leads to arterial stiffness. So by modulating the stress hormones and reducing the systemic inflammation, DIP is going to improve the endothelial function, the health of the lining of the inside of your vessels, right? The inside of the tube. So better blood flow means better oxygen, faster toxic waste and metabolic waste removal, better nutrient delivery to every organ including the brain. This is a virtuous cycle. Look at immune function. A disregulated HPA axis creates imunosuppression followed by autoimmunity. That's a hot mess. Dip restores the balance. It allows for a very competent, very adaptive, which is designed to do immune response. It's not about boosting immunity. These things that go this boosts your immunity. That doesn't make sense. You need to restore immune intelligence. It's constantly running surveillance to recognize self or other and then what to do about it. Boosting immunity usually creates more immune problems. So when you see immune boosting things, you need to go a little deeper and understand that's not the problem. The problem is your immune system needs to be more intelligent because right now it's dumb and weak. Look at menopause. This is critical peptide for menopause. How many people have you heard talk about that? None. Probably just me. Listen, the hormonal I feel for you women going through menopause. By the way, menopause is not supposed to be this chaotic experience. They've just convinced you that it's supposed to be. You're not even supposed to notice that much. You know what grandma didn't notice for the most part? Menopause. But people now are getting crippled by it. You guys need to start stitching this stuff together. The hormonal upheaval of pmenopause and menopause is a massive stressor disregulates the HPA axis. Dip like bad it desip gives that stabilizing signal. So it mitigates those hot flashes, sleep disruption, metabolic slowdown. It does this by giving the system a baseline of calm from this is your starting point from which it can adapt wherever it needs to go. Look at recovery from exercise, injury, illness, all this stuff. This is incredibly energyintensive. If you haven't figured it out, any kind of recovery requires immense amounts of ATP. So, and it's an anabolic process. So, DIP optimizes the hormonal millu for recovery, lower catabolic cortisol, higher growth hormone secretion during sleep, efficient ATP production. It basically turns your body into a repair shop operating at a million miles an hour. It's Millennium Falcon speed. Listen, there's a secret that they absolutely don't want you to know. And it's all the things I talk about, but specifically, and by the way, I am of sound mind. I'm not suicidal. I'm not anything. I am normal. I feel great. I love my wife. I love my kids. And I love the business and everything we've got. I love my friends and my family. I'm not going anywhere. So, I need to say that because this is a weird world we live in. But understand that this is what they want you to know. The research, much of which is buried, it can't be patented. That's the problem. DIP can't be patented. Shows D. This is the research shows proves DIP's profound efficacy against oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is the it's the rust that corrods your cellular machinery. DIP here, watch this. This is what is so cool. So DIP upregulates indogenous antioxidant systems far more effectively than any vitamins you're ever going to swallow ever. any IV or cream or drop or dry needling or acupuncture, acupressure, whatever it is you're doing. A art, ABC, or PT, whatever, it doesn't matter. None of that worthless bunk when it comes to handling antioxidants. It increases the activity of key enzymes like superoxide dismutase, catalase, there's a bunch. If you look at the models of neurodeenerative disease, zip is proven to protect neurons from oxidative a-op, the cell death, cell suicide. This isn't some kind of complimentary medicine, you guys. It's fundamental neurop protection for you. I think I was looking for my coffee. I don't have it in here, which is weird, right? Normally I have a coffee cup makes my It's like a cigarette, right? You want to hold it in your hands. I don't smoke. The safety data on this, it's absurd. It's absurd. It's so good. There's not a single published study anywhere demonstrating toxicity or significant adverse effects from DIP. None. Therapeutic index is enormous because it's a physiologic single, not a xenobiotic drug. They're not the same, you guys. The worst thing that happens is you get the deepest, most restorative sleep of your life and wake up with a clearer brain. Oh, what a horrifying side effect. Are you guys going to be okay? You going to handle that? Oh, no. I woke up and I feel so badass and I can actually back it up. Let's talk. How about this? I'm sorry, my mustache is prickling me in the nose. Look at the HPTA axis. Let's talk axis talk so you actually understand this. The hypothalamic pituitary, thyroid, adrenal, right? This is an integrated unit. You can't fix one without affecting the others. EIP's calming of the HPA axis has this positive knock-on effect on thyroid function. Lower stress means 100% of the time they've shown it. Better conversion of inactive T4 to active T3 thyroid hormone. So it impro this watch what happens then. Improves your metabolic rate, improves your energy, improves your systemic function. Dip harmonizes the entire endocrine orchestra that's running in your system 24/7 365. So if you have a thyroid issue, you might want to start looking this direction. But I'm not saying the solos aren't good, but a symphony works even better. The real power is in synergy. So watch. Hypothetically for a kangaroo experiment if you combine dip with a pititolon epitoolon is a tetropeptide that regulates telmmerase activity right helps maintain the telomeir length the telomeir is the protective caps the aglets on your chromosomes that shorten with age right so as the cells divide that telomeir gets shorter and shorter until the cell becomes senocent or dies but when it's a senocent cell it's a functionless cell that just pukes out inflammatory cytoines it's like a what do I call it a biological terrorist all the time that's what it does it's a terrorist against you So the epitoolon shorten protects that telomeir. Dip creates the low stress anabolic environment that's conducive to cellular health. And watch how they work together. And epitolon ensures that those cells can replicate properly for longer. Sounds terrible, huh? How about this? Add in C. I'm just throwing this stuff together just so you understand how well this works. Add in MOT C, the mitochondrial derived peptide, which is a direct regulator of metabolism. So it improves insulin sensitivity, makes your system brutally violently insulin sensitive in a very that's always a good thing by the way. Enhances metabolic homeostasis. It does this by activating the AMPK pathway. So the stack looks like this. Just follow me. Dip sets the stage. Gives you the low stress, low inflammation. Epitoolon protects that genetic blueprint that you've got. And then M C is like putting a supercharger on the system for energy and metabolism. This isn't 1 plus 1 equals 3. This is a m multiplicative effect. that addresses inflammation, metabolic dysfunction, and genomic instability all at the same time. It's a systemwide intervention for the thing that everybody is chasing, which is longevity. Listen, you guys, please understand, I don't come out here for my own benefit. I come out here because I want you guys to get this. So, I teach a class basically every day. The current medical paradigm is a failure. It's reactive. It's knee-jerk reactions, right? It waits for a disease to manifest and then tries to suppress the symptoms with drugs that quite often have worse side effects than the disease itself and create a whole new set of diseases. This is a proactive physiologic approach. It's about correcting the signaling errors that lead to the disease in the first place. The data is in the physiology. The pathway is glaringly obvious. It's the only thing standing between you and changing the entire thing, having different health trajectory is you looking past the BS sanctioned narratives and embracing real biology and looking at how repair functions. Dip isn't a magic bullet. It doesn't solve the problem like this. You actually have to take it. You can't read about it. That's like reading jiu-jitsu and going, I have a black belt. But it is the master signal. It's a signal that your body is desperate for. Listen, they want you passive. They want you sick. They want you to believe that your biology is this mystery that is shrouded in fog and smoke and the only people that can understand it are the experts that you pay to tell you what pill to take. It's not. Listen, I got nothing against medicine when it saves a life. That is a very small portion of medicine. The current medical industrial complex is a system. Systems obey rules. So, their rules are to keep you sick and subscribed. Biology and biochemistryy's rules and endocrinology rules are different. They want you to survive and be strong. It's not the same. So, you can learn the rules about your own biology, or you can just keep being a patient and shelling out all the money and watching drug ads on TV and thinking that the next thing you need because your sleep is interrupted and you can't get a good night's sleep is your sleepy time tea and an ambient or a Xanax and a glass of red wine. All of which hijack your system. Personally, the choice is embarrassingly simple. I had a friend of mine send me a message today. He says, "I want to live to be 100 healthy." I said, "Okay, let's do it. I'll help you." No problem. I think you guys need to stop asking for a better retirement plan and just start demanding better biology out of yourself. It starts by unknowing what the hell your biology is even doing. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Ever miss.