What's up, Smashers? Another day CSA. You know how it works. Oh, listen. Hey, you you got to check this out. So, that that right there is the fighters area. And one of the baddest I won't use any swears cuz I'm trying not to say [\h__\h] So, I won't say one of the baddest [\h__\h] Guy's legit. Check him out. Check him out. He's good. He's got a fight coming up. You need to watch. Okay, listen. We're going to be talking about elbows, which he throws a lot of, but uh we're looking at elbows, triceps, and biceps, and how they work together. And one of the problems is when you're unloading the tricep, let me put this down. So, right there. Right there. Just to let you know, she was outside in the outdoor area lifting everything that was very heavy. And uh so, one of the things with with the tricep is three heads, right? To the tricep. Problem is the long head. Sorry, I got kind of a brain fart right there. I was kind of looking around. Smells like food in here. I'm freaking starving. So, the uh the long head of the triceps different than the other two. And here's why. long head actually crosses the shoulder joint attaches to the infra glenoid tubacle on the inside of the scapula. So there's a problem with that because one it's going to affect what's called you got uh introversion and retroversion of the of the scapula. So what happens is it's going to affect mechanics of the scapula along with affecting the elbow. So, if you don't address how the scapula moves when you're mobilizing and working on the tricep, what's going to up happening is you're just going to hit two heads instead of three, and you're not really doing any good because the biggest and strongest one of the entire bunch is the long head of the tricep. So, we're going to I'm going to show you how to unload that long head of the tricep and then flip around to the other side. Remember, agonist antagonist, reciprocal inhibition, I talked about that with the abdominal training yesterday. We need to unload the entire bicep complex, brachi, brachiialis, all this stuff that's in there. And the way we do that is by forcing this into a really, really hyperextended state at the elbow, but that in turn turns off the tricep. So, we have this stuff going back and forth. Flex one side, relax the other side, go back and forth. That's what reciprocal inhibition is. So, we're going to unload it, and then we're going to fix the elbow real fast since we're in this area anyway. We're going to clean up how the elbow works so you don't miss that terminal elbow extension. So, here's what happens. Especially guys like him that are that are fighters. You know, even Jess over there, she's she's also a fighter, not just a badass CrossFitter. But when you're throwing a punch, you don't stop your punch here. You extend when you're doing that. So, if you look at guys like, you know, Kevin Ross or Gaston, these guys having fights that are coming up, when they're doing their punch, that's going all the way out. If you're missing that terminal elbow extension, you wind up throwing your punch and you stall out here, you're going to recover the force with the shoulder. This is going to get beat up. Just like if you're punching out on a snatch or a jerk, if you can't get that bone lock out, you're going to wind up using soft tissue, connective tissue to hold the weight. It's a lot harder to do, a lot harder on the system, winds up chewing up the joints. So, I'm going to show you how to recover that terminal elbow extension, get that full range of motion so the bicep and tricep don't keep spazzing out. Otherwise, everything you do, it's for nothing. So, why don't we just get right to work? So, first thing we do is we take a band, load it up onto the uh onto the bottom of the rig, and I'll show you. See if we can pull this off. See if we can do it this way. Yeah. Oh, that's some legit legit shizz right there. See? Can I Can I Is it going to stay? It's going to stay. Check that out. That's legit. So, I loop into the uh I loop into the band. This is a light band. It's like a quarter inch or a/2 inch band, rather. We're going to take the band, wind it up. Your job is going to be to get into the basically the armpit and open it up against the rig because just taking this and doing this allows too much. You can see how my scapula can dance around and my arm can dance around. You're not going to get the maximum out of what you're doing. As a matter of fact, you're going to wind up compensating for movement. So, you want to grab onto the rig and really crank in here and close up this gap. So, you can see me in here. I know I'm on the edge of the video, but you want to close up this gap, open up the tricep. So, what that's going to do is it's going to trap the scapula. So, you're pulling on that long head that's anchored to that uh infogenoid tuber. Now, when you're doing it, add a bonus to it. Put your hand into pronation. So, all the way down, which is this position, which is how you are when you're in your front rack. So, pronate the hand. That's the other important part. Find the rig, grab onto the side of the rig, pull yourself in, hang out for how long? Two minutes. That's number one. Number two, it's a fun freaking gym, you know? Just a fun freaking gym. So, number two is take a barbell. You're going to see me here. Oh, yeah. Let's change this. Otherwise, Jess gets mad when I don't have the right camera angle. And that's her right over there. So, we got to make sure I'm taking care of my friends the way I'm supposed to. So, we grab the barbell shoulder width. Okay? I don't care what kind of barbell it is. Grab it shoulder width. It's basically at the middle of your butt. That's the height you want it to be. Take a knee, start with a rounded out kyifonic thoracic spine, and then push yourself up. So, basically, just round out your back and then keep the elbows locked out. You're pushing away on the barbell and bring the chest up. Hold for how long? 2 minutes. That's number two. When you're done, that's how you unload it. Number three is we're going to unlock that elbow and get that terminal elbow extension. You notice I'm crawling around on my knees like this all the time. It's kind of weird. All right, Jess has got the most crazy That's the other Jess, by the way, Berdick. That's got the kick-ass music going on in the background. He's a uh built pretty much like a sequoia. So, what you do, load up opposite just above the elbow. So, just above the electron, right? Load it up, turn the palm in, and all you're going to do is you can come over, you can come under. I don't care where you are. You're just going to allow the band to really open that up. So, really load up the band, too. I mean, take it into full full extension and really let it peel that open. You might even get a little click and just work that tissue. And once you're in here, throw a little rotation in here to grind away on that annular ligament at that radial head. And just really unglue that. So, a little rotation, a little CPR to the floor. Do that till you feel it release. Call it an A. That's tricep, bicep, and elbow. That's how it's done over at CSA. Hey, I'm Trev Smashworks. I'll check you guys out tomorrow.