Hey, Smashers. Good morning. Guess what today is? It's hump day. Yeah, I It's so funny because everybody on Instagram goes crazy about hump day and they start posting pictures of their butts and stuff like that. I'm not posting a picture of my butt. Not good. Uhuh. Listen. No, I'm still not going to do it. But what we want to talk about today is um elbow problems. Elbow mobility. Sticky elbows. Bad bad bad front rack. You get that elbow mobility where you bring your elbow back to here and you're like, "This is my front rack and that's all they got." It's because this elbow isn't creating enough room to allow that arm to come all the way back. The other thing is what you want to do is even check your range of motion and check how your front rack is. Check your rack. That's what you got to do. So take your hand, stick it out like this, and just drop it back like that. And then flip your hand around. That is where your hand is supposed to be. I see a lot of guys grabbing really, really close or cranking out really, really wide. So just take your arm up, bring it up to where it's supposed to, drop your hand back, and then just flip it around. That's where your front rack is supposed to be, even about an inch wider. So if you go about an inch or two wider, um it'll make a huge difference. Go a little wider than you think you should. I guarantee your front rack will feel a little better. But if you're getting a lot of elbow issues, clicking in the elbows, elbow pain, lack of range of motion, you're missing that extension in the elbow. You get to about here, I see a lot of people um muscle-ups. When I was watching regionals, when I was watching the games last year, last couple of years actually, even in myself, my left arm, because my shoulder gives me a little bit of an issue when I go to punch out at the end of the muscle up, I was getting only a partial here and I was getting a full press out on this side. Well, that translates into overhead as well. If you're doing your overhead work and this is all you've got, I know you can only see my elbow here. You can't see my hand. For all you know, I'm hanging on to something up here. But like a 88lb kettle bell, I just keep throwing it up in the air. But when you get to this point, if you can't lock out like that, that kinetic chain is loose. And if it's super loose, you're relying on muscle, not bone. And I promise you, bone on bone, super locked out, much, much stronger than trying to muscle it. You ever try and do an overhead squat, you stay like this versus punched out like that? Try and stay like this and do uh just do 95 pounds for 34 and see how it feels. M it's going to be all just diabolical be abysmal. Your shoulder will fry, your bicep, your tricep, your midline will be just totally shot and you'll wind up rolling way far forward and cranking your shoulders back trying to recover mobility and you're just not going to succeed. Then the other thing is you're going to grind your joints into baby food. So don't do that either. So we're going to open up the elbow. We're going to clear away all the tissue in here. So we've got the bicep insertion in here and then all these flexors. Then you've got this fascia in here that tends to get really gummy and stuck. So we're going to open that up. And it's funny because people go, "Oh, can't I just go like this and stretch it?" You can't get that range of motion. This electronon just keeps you from locking or from getting out like that, from opening up that way. And the tissue in here keeps you from getting that full range of motion. So, you wind up you have a a big band of ropey nasty matted down tissue back here. And you got the same thing in the front. You lose all that range of motion. So, I'm going to show you some really funky stuff to do this stuff. The range of motion is about this much. And it's so awesome. It works so well. You want to do this a lot. So, man, it's a nice sunny morning out, huh? Like, just you got to love California. So, you're going to take a heavy band. You notice this is like a like a 10in band. So, I don't know how big it is. Inch and a half, maybe. You're going to take your elbow, put this above the elbow. Can I say it again? Where's it go? Above the elbow. Yeah. Don't put it right on the elbow. And you can see my hand. I'm going to turn it in. And then all I'm going to do is I'm going to plant it down just like I do for my wrist mobility. And all I'm going to do is I'm going to contract, relax. So, I'm basically going to I'm just going to floss and contract and relax and paperclipip this until it starts to open up. So, I'm almost going to push away and I'm just going to take it through some ranges of motion. Just like that. Man, this is actually pretty gummy. Good. I did a bunch of wall balls this morning. I really feel this God. So, that's one. You're going to do this until you feel the change. And then the second one is this one gets really funky. Really load up the band, too. Get about 40, 50, 60 lbs of tension on that band. Flip the hand all the way around. Get this hand up front to brace it. Get back a little bit. So, you're making you're perpendicular to the floor. That's the big thing. And then all you're going to do is you're going to just loosen it up and crank it out. Loosen it up. I know it looks like I'm not moving very much. Trust me. You want to just kind of grind away and scour around. You can go in a little bit, go out a little bit. Don't load up the elbow too much with weight because you're really putting a distraction on it. It just be it'll do some gnarly stuff. You don't want to do that. And you're just going to go all the way. You really want to come back a little bit. You're going to hit a little bit of the wrists, too, but you're going to really peel away those flexors and open up that fascia in the center of that elbow. Oh, man. That's just that is grizzly. Now, to get that can't even get out of the freaking band this morning. You know what I'm thinking? Burpees. Your house. 500 in a row. Do you remember that workout? Seven minutes of burpees. Oh, it was terrible. I can see Castro doing 10 minutes of burpees with a vest or something and everybody's going to beat their score by huge numbers. Athletes are savage these days, huh? So, you're going to hook your elbow in here. We need to distract that elbow now so we can actually create some room and get that elbow to open up. And we're going to take it. A lot of you guys are having an issue with that external rotation. Myself included. You can't get into that. You can't wind up that joint into that external rotation because it doesn't have the ability to do it because this is all matted down. But we need to create some room to allow for that external rotation and peel away the tissue so it can get into that external rotation. Basically, we're going to open up the elbow and get it to move right the right way. How's that sound? A little easier. So, what you're going to do is you're going to get on your side. You're going to loop your hand in through here. Wonder if you can still see me. Yeah. Good. Told you camera skills. And you're going to use your leg and you're going to push away. And all I'm doing is I'm I got this right in the crook of the arm here. And I'm loaded up pretty good. Oh, this is uncomfortable. And then all you're going to do, so you've got supernation, pronation. This is the problem position for 99% of you guys. The problem is this position. So grab your hand, crank it into that pronation, load up the band with your leg on the rig, and then just crank it all the way in. Wind it all the way out. Little karate chop. Then go ahead and supenate it. Oh man, I could feel that thing just ungluing in there. And go all the way out. Really wind up that external rotation. Take that elbow through full ranges of motion. Gap that elbow a little bit so you get that like this already feels so nice and loose and not unhealthy loose, but like just loose. Last one. I want you to peel away this last little bit of the tricep, all this connective tissue in the back. Stay away from this area. That's the nar nerve. You hit that, I promise you, you're going to send me a message going, "What the hell was that?" Because it'll hurt. Give yourself a uh It's like hitting your funny bone. I'm still here. You can see it's like hitting your funny bone repeatedly with a very small but very real bat. You use a peanut. I You can use a ball, but what's going to happen is you're going to want it rolling off the ball. The peanut's going to trap in there real nice, and then you can just take it through ranges of motion. So, all you're going to do is you're going to grab Notice I have a lighter band. Put it at about shin height. Grab it. Wind it up. Pull this a little bit closer so you can see what in the shizz I'm doing. You're going to take the uh the peanut. Let me block the sun a little bit. So you can see the peanut right here. All I'm going to do is I'm going to lay my elbow across it. And I'm going to let this I'm going to let this band really drag me up and over. I'm going to take this hand. I'm just going to push down. And I'm just going to Oh man, that's savage. And I'm just going to hit all the way around right up into that elbow and grind away. You can even get all the way into the belly of that tricep and just grind away on this stuff till you feel that bubble pack, that gristle go away. Hey, listen. That's how you free up the elbow. You'll recover a ton of range of motion and uh and you'll wind up probably getting rid of about 90% of your elbow pain and your lock out in all your overhead position, even your handstand push-ups. All that stuff will clear out. You'll do better. You'll feel better. Joints will last longer. Remember, mobility, flexibility, strength. Those three things go hand in hand, eh? I'm Trev Smashworks.