 whatisup, guys? Today, you know what? Today, you can thank a woman named Angelique for today's podcast. Because, and by the way, you need to look at this. If you can see my screen, I'm holding up something. It's a patch. It's got seven milligrams of something in it that I always get pinched for saying, so I'm not gonna say it. This is imperative to what I'm talking about today, as in you need to have these. Because our beautiful free speech is only free when you're on the right side of the equation. When you're on the wrong side of the equation, they go, we have to regulate that. And it's not free speech now, is it? Free speech is free speech. Love me, hate me. You should be able to talk about me. I don't care. You want to hate on me. I'm just coming out here giving solutions. Today, I'm talking about endometriosis, by the way. Like I said, you can thank Angelique. I don't want to say her last name because I don't want to put people, just send me a message. That's literally, I got the message early this morning. It's just saying, you know what, lots of women suffer from this. She needs help. You know what I realize I'm gonna do? I'm just gonna, I'm gonna just get you cure everything, all of it. Every disease of mankind, take that anyway you want, which is interesting if you wouldn't take it as anything other than, I love the mission. Let's do it. So that's what I'm doing today, endometriosis. If you are a dude and you're like, oh, it's boring, what's the peptide or the treatment or the protocol or the answer to getting me jacked or ripped or getting my girl back or whatever it is. I don't know. I don't have anything for you today. So anyway, Angelique, this one's all on you, man. It's your fault I'm doing this podcast. You know, what's interesting is this, I'm wearing this hat, right? I just actually caught it. I had a bunch of hats. I'm bald. I wear hats all the time. Do you know why I wear hat when I'm because I'm bald? I don't care that I'm bald. Hair fell out when I did chemotherapy decades ago. And I realized, you know what, I got pretty, I got a pretty good shaped dome, nice round head, no lumps or bumps. I'm not a phrenologist's wet dream. So they don't have to analyze all these weird nodules on my skull. And the sutures are not plainly visible in my, the sutures between the skull bones, by the way. But when you're bald and you go outside, number one, it's cold. Even a just a tiny little wisp of hair makes a difference. And number two is you burn your skull. I burned the top of my head or gotten damn near more times than I can count just because I didn't wear hat. So I just wear hat. But I don't, I like, I like Sean, Sean, I think Sean Wayland's a good dude, man. Like I said before, but I don't, he doesn't pay me to wear this hat and be like, oh, can you, he doesn't need me to market for him. He's killing the game. And rightfully, that's a hard working dude. He's a good family man, good God fearing man. I don't know. I swear because I like the hat. It's actually a good fitting hats fits this giant melon I have on my neck, this 12 to 14 pound ball. But I, I got an itch, of course, but I like wearing hats. You know, it's funny is I used to have, believe it or not, I was a long haired rock and roll guy. Like I had crazy long hair, like almost as long as my wife, like it was probably down to about here. Long wavy hair. I looked like the lead singer of slaughter. I don't regret that at all. I got more hair on my face than anywhere else. It's easy. It's just easy, right? Here's what's a trip. The point is I'm talking about endometriosis. I don't as in why, but like I said, Angelique, God, I really hoped that was her name. I feel like a jackass if it wasn't, there's importance in it. But I wonder, like, really think about, I know, I personally know women who have been struggling with this forever hoping for somebody to give them an answer and they've had, I know, two that have hysterectomy did nothing and I'll prove that it does nothing. I know at least a dozen that have had laparoscopy and burning off the lesions, which creates scar tissue and adhesions and attachment causes. And the birth control, growth hormone, analogs, like just the endless Lupron. Welcome to osteoporosis at 35. That stuff is catastrophic. You guys, I don't understand because I don't have a dermatriosis, but I understand that you guys are hoping for an answer and you're hoping for an answer from an organization, a system that isn't designed to give you answers. It's designed to keep you sick. Like hope is a marketing slogan for people that sell false promises. I don't know, I'm all about horse power. I just want to give you an answer. So I'm just gonna cure all mankind. I'm gonna just, everything God gives me, I'm just gonna give to you. That's how this works. I literally, I sit down here and I just start talking. You know, this isn't some support group or to hang out and everybody gets a hug. This is a, like a strategic briefing on the biological war that's going inside your body, going on inside your body right now that a lot of you guys wish you had answers for. And I'm not just talking about endometriosis. This could be all kinds of things, whether it's cancer or Hashimoto's or type two diabetes, type three diabetes, dementia. It doesn't matter what it is. You need answers. So I'm just giving it to you. You know what it is? I need you guys to do something for me though. And I really do. I don't market my podcast. I don't market my YouTube channel. It grows completely organically. I don't have a company doing it. Don't, if you're a company that does marketing for YouTube, don't start sending me emails. Because I'm just gonna ignore them. But I want you guys to share me with everybody. Give people the opportunity to have health. Give people the answers that they're clamoring for instead of waiting for a system to save them that's never gonna do. I get it. Like you have, you look, like endometriosis. Look at this. You have this biological war inside you that you didn't start. You didn't start it. But I promise you this. We're damn well going to finish this today. Just let that land. The official story. Listen to this nonsense. The official story of endometriosis is a fairy tale that's told by people who profit from the monster under your bed. They give, like, the explanations I've heard are more than stars in the sky. They're always some random idiopathic. And I told you what idiopathic means. We're idiots and we don't know the path. That's what it is. It's just a way to just brush it off and go, we're not willing to go into it. I had an attorney like that. Literally, endless promises. It was the most salesy son of a bitch I've ever, just recently. Salesy as it can be. Promises up down in sideways and then passed me off to his barely English speaking lackey who didn't do anything properly, couldn't get anything, kept showing up unprepared. I'm like, my wife and I are better prepared than this guy. And we don't, you do realize like if you hire me for an answer, it's my job to give you the answer, not to make you figure it out. Can we agree on that? But it was the same thing with this, right? This, we hire somebody to help us and give us answers and then they go, you're not giving us answers. But it's not my job to come up with a solution. It's yours. Needless to say, they got fired. But listen, they tell you endometriosis is mysterious. It's this complicated mysterious, ah, it's so many variables. Mrs. Jones, it's not mysterious. It's just inconveniently. And they tell you it's manageable. Management is what you do with a chronic problem that you have no intention. I'm going to solve the whole thing today. Whether you like it or not, you should probably listen to this and just pass it on to some woman that you know that desperately needs an answer. Forget the misplaced tissue thing. That's, it doesn't even make sense, right? Here's the lie. The tumor-like ecosystem that's fueled by immune it's like treason. I think treason in this country, they put you to death. You can't do that with your body, can you? Misplaced tissue. That's what I've heard doctors. These are people that have done the same thing I have done, that have graduated from the same schools that I have, the same programs that I have, that should technically have the same knowledge that I have, that don't. They just left and went, how quickly can we prescribe this drug for people and how do we make sure we don't violate HIPAA? That misplaced tissue is a kindergarten explanation for a graduate level friggin disease. 2019 human reproduction update. They framed it perfectly. Endometriotic lesions are clonal. They're invasive. They're metaplastic implants. They're not lost little cells jumping around your body. They're very organized. They're genetically distinct ecosystems with a singular destructive purpose, survival and expansion. That's it. That's all. That is their only reason for existence and their first act in your physiology and your biology is it's war. It's immune subversion. So your body has this standing army designed to detect and destroy this very threat. Endometriosis. This very, all threats, but this very threat. NK cells. I talk about this with cancer. Actual killer cells. 2005, they'll watch this. In 2005 study in fertility and sterility found perineal fluid from endometriosis. Patients contained, this is insane. This is why their treatments don't work. Soluble factors that crippled NK cell cytotoxicity by over 50%. 50. Half. Have half your bank account taken away from you. Let me know how happy you are. Double your chances of getting a terminal illness. Let's see how happy you are. You get where I'm going. This 50% is a ton. Your elite little troops, those NK cells are being systematically poisoned by you. The lesions watch. The lesions secrete prostaglandin E2 and interleukin 8. So they create this biochemical fog that blinds and paralyzes the defenses that are designed to take this out. How many of you have heard your doctor tell you that? Your gynecologist talked to you about that. Your endocrinologist, your vaginologist, which is a joke, by the way, I know that's not what it's called. I'm just like, it's basically what it should be called. You know why they're not called a vaginologist? Because nobody would want that name for a career. It's like a proctologist. You could just say you're a bum doctor, but they'll be like, it's so much more than that. Man, anatomically and physiologically, as a doc, you should know everything about the human body and how it works. A specialist is someone who knows more and more about less and less. Never forget that. And it's exactly why they cycle you through all these people in there. Well, try and, somebody's going to get my comments ago. You mean everybody should be a neurosurgeon, but that's going to the one part of your body that is more complicated than anything else. And it is the regulator and control system of everything else. Arguing the fringe is the weak form of argument. So you look at the second act of their recruitment, by the way, for endometriosis and the cells, is bringing cells in and then corrupting them. They don't hide. Listen, they don't hide at all. These little cells that float through your system, they don't hide. They got beacons on with loud bullhorns. Just yelling to everybody else. They recruit macrophages. That's what they recruit, by the way. It's your cleanup group. They're summoned to the site, as they're supposed to, according to your biology, but through a process driven by cytokines like isophage. These macrophages undergo something called a phenotypic switch, and they switch to M2. So M2 is a disaster necessary when required, but not right now. So 2016, co-target, a paper in OncoTarget, these M2 macrophages are little dirty traders, they're little double crossers. So instead of phagosophosing the enemy cells, they become the enemy cell support staff. It's like they get brainwashed into doing everything for the enemy. I'll even tell you how. Here's what they do. They secret TGF beta, which is the master signal for fibrosis and scar tissue. So they glue your organs together. We already know what that turns into. VEGF, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor. And if you're going to go, hey, Dr. Trevor, isn't that what VPC? Isn't that what that does? Absolutely. Absolutely does that. It upregulates that. But here's the problem. This is using it against you, and it's using it to build a very dedicated high-speed blood supply to the lesion that you don't want there. EGF, it's also what it secretes, by the way. So we've got three things, right? TGF beta, VEGF, and EGF. EGF is Epidermal Growth Factor. It stimulates this unwavering, relentless cell proliferation. It just reproduces, replicates, divides. That's what it does. But this isn't harmless growth, you guys. It's a parasitic organ. That's the best way to look at it. That's hijacked your body's own repair and construction mechanisms to build itself a little fortress. And they think burning it out. Oh, I'm going to show you that burning it out. Historectomies, come on. Historectomy, 70, I think it was 70, 75%. All the symptoms. For 75% of the people. The last brilliant act of these lesions is endocrinotomy. This is a real problem. The old model says this. The lesions responded to ovarian estrogen. And it was proven, the new model. It was proven by someone named Dr. Serdar Bolin, 2005, JCEM. The lesions declare estrogen independence. Let me explain what this means. They express the enzyme aromatized cytochrome P450. And they do it at levels that exceed normal endometrium by far, by orders of magnitude far. This enzyme converts circulating androgens, like androestine dial. You're adrenal bonds, for example, into very potent estradiol. But here's, watch, I'm about right below your mind, right at the site of the lesion. It does it right there on the spot. It's got its own little trader factory. So here's what I'm saying. This is why this is so important. You can't, they've proved it. Serdar Bolin proved this. You can remove both ovaries and the lesions still have this local self-sustaining estrogen production. This is why ovarian suppression fails 100% of the time. You're turning off the tap, but the lesions, hey man, I have my own, I don't need you. I'm sovereign. Look at this. The lesion is the loudest symptom of body-wide civil war. It's three biological failures all the time. Three critical systems of non-offline and all shit. This is why I'm trying to get you guys to understand, holy smokes, he's right. Where's my Nobel Prize? I told you, I don't want the money. I want my name in the book that says, this guy knows what he's talking about. He's solved the diseases of mad kind because he cares about my kind because he's on a mission from God because he loves people that much. Not because he's he's fun YouTube, but he's making all this noise. No, because I actually care. Like any of you guys that get in my comments that do anything other than thanks for taking the time to put this together, you're an imbecile. Where is, what are you contributing to society? What are you contributing to the world? Your hate, your misery, your bitterness? You just want to argue because you hate yourself that much? Go look in the mirror, ball up your face and punch yourself in the eye. It's about as effective. It's tiresome. So look, you have this nuclear reactor meltdown, chronic systemic inflammation, primary engine of all disease. But let's look at, we're looking at endometriosis. So the NFKappa B pathway is a master regulator of endometriosis. I talk about this a lot. In endometriosis, it's just blocked. It's jammed up into the on position like the switch is rusted and it's just on. 17 cell metabolism proved that NFKappa B activation in endometriotic cells is not a response. It's a fundamental characteristic of the entire thing, which this is the problem. It leads to a constant storm level release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. I talked about these, IL-1 beta, which is just literally five minutes ago, by the way. IL-1 beta is a pyrogen that causes fever and pain sensitization. So now you're running hot, which you mistake for hot flashes, by the way, and it's not what the problem is. And your pain tolerance is at an all-time low. So everything hurts. Like fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue levels. IL-6 causes fatigue. Muscle wasting promotes TH17 cell differentiation. It exacerbates autoimmunity. That's the problem. That's what this cell differentiation does. TNF alpha induces catexia, intensitates all pain signals. So catexia shrinks you into nothing, uses your, like it just pulls all, this is exactly what semi-glutide and tersepati do, by the way. Stop with your arguments. It's not a personal attack against the peptides. It's that they don't work nearly as they've been told that these people have been telling you. So I read a true tide is the one that works. It's the only one that works. And it's the only one that spares muscle. And when people argue, by the way, I have to say this because yesterday some of you guys are losing your mind. Go, what? I had some lady go, I really, this post disappointed me because you've been praising tersepati. I'm like, I've never praised tersepati. Anyone that's been listening to me for any amount of time, I have not once, zero times have I ever praised tersepati. I've said semi-glutide and tersepati are both trash because they are glorified appetite suppressants with fancy slick marketing. The reason that Eli Lilly is trying so desperately to walk down, read a true tide is so they can make all the money and control the narrative. So you can't get better. You have never seen semi-glutide or tersepati mitigate dementia, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's. You've never seen it mitigate fatty, liver, never, not once. You've never seen any of this type two diabetes, never. There is zero research showing that's what it can do because it can't, because it can't. And every DEXA scan, 100% of them, 70% of what you lose weight wise is muscle and connective tissue. But I don't know why people would argue against that instead of going, oh, geez, thank you for the information. I need to change. And if you're getting issues from red or tree tide, I just have to make this very clear. It's not a peptide problem. It's going to either be a source problem, what you bought was good chance it was bunk or, and like I said, you didn't get it from, you did not get it from my company. You did not get it from Elite Biogenics. Not a chance. Not a chance. No endotoxins, no issues, insane level of purity with what my lab creates because I would never, because I look at it the same ways. If you guys that buy from my company, first of all, thank you very much. You don't have to. I still come out here. I say this all the time. Buy from Elite Biogenics or don't. So when somebody comes in, like I had some lady today whining that USPS didn't says they delivered the package and that she sends me this long drawn out message on social media about how it was my responsibility, like my staff drove through her house and like my team and dropped off the package and didn't do it. I'm like, you do realize that's a third party. So regardless of whether Amazon would go, I'm going to send you a new one or not, it's out of my hands the second that FedEx or USPS or UPS or anybody else, DHL, whoever takes the package. I'm out of the picture. I'm not those drivers don't work for me. But you know why people don't call USPS is because they'll get the finger because they're they'll rattle off their part of the constitution. I think everybody that works for USPS should have some serious job shake ups because you have job security, which is why you act like a jackass, which is I've had packages lost thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of dollars. My in-laws sent us some stuff to our children. The package came with a we care bag. It was in a bag that said we care from USPS and said your package was damaged. It was an envelope with gift cards in it. And if you go, you're stupid enough to send gift cards. First of all, I didn't send it. My in-laws did. And second of all, it should be safe enough to do that. That's the problem I'm getting. Instead of going, you shouldn't do that. It should be safe enough to do that. And the person that stole it was a USPS worker. You think I'm going to yell at my in-laws and go, what's your responsibility? Given to you because it just did it again. Unbelievable. Started another track right again. That's hilarious. That's three times in this one thing. But you guys have to look at what you're doing and go, why am I mad? You just want somebody to be mad at you. Can't make a phone call to somebody. I realize this is a tangent. I'm here. It's my show. But the point is this. The problem you have just to come full circle is that you're busy defending what you're doing, even though what you're doing is causing you. Whether it's semi-glute, tersepati, whether it's thyroid medication, whether it's insulin, whether it's metformin, it doesn't matter. That's like arguing and getting actually angry that you think Ford is better than Chevy or Chevy's better than Ford. Whatever. I don't care. How about instead you go, our job is to go, what is the problem and how do we solve it? Above all, do no harm. I genuinely care, man. So I don't care if you buy from Elite Biogenics. If that's all I cared about, that's all I would do. It'd be just be one giant marketing plug. But it's not. I talk about my company maybe once a podcast twice at the most. It's like the black card. You want to join the black card? It's a wire transfer, $9997. January 1st, you're going to pay $25,000. Period. It is one year. You get access to my private Q&A that I do every Monday night where it's live. I'm on a real call. There's a bunch of people on it and I help everybody. You get a VIP community where you can ask me questions. You're not getting on the phone with me ever. You're not getting on a Zoom call with me ever other than the live call with everybody else. And all my protocols that I've done for decades with people that actually work. Well, my entire community is filled with people that are going, I've never had such incredible results as I have with you. It's a testament to me actually doing doctoring, not going, not doing marketing. I don't market the black card at all. I talk about it here. It's myself. It's my show. Of course, I'm going to talk. I'm not marketing for anybody else, but you want to join it? Great. Apply at unlockthecard.com. It's not to ask questions. If you give me this laundry list of questions for my team to answer, they're going to say, here's the wire information because I talk about it here in the call. That's all you need to know. There's nothing else to add to that. But that's it. But you guys get mad at things because it makes you realize your own ignorance. I have to deal with the same demons. You know that, right? If I do something and I do it for a year and I realize, this has actually been the thing that's been costing me. I'm not going to defend it. You just don't want to look stupid. And that's the problem is people don't, they're not afraid of failing. They're afraid of being seen to fail, afraid of being looking like an imbecile in social media is the giant cat. You think those glasses are going to make anything better, by the way. So maybe just swallow that ego and that soft self-worth and just go, maybe I just need to make a shift. But if the issue is with red or true tide to come back and if you go, it made me skin itch and killed my libido and of course it did. You're tapping. It's a triple receptor agonist. And you talk too much because you listen to Joe Idiot, Bro Science, knucklehead on Quora or Reddit who said you should start with 2.5 milligrams a week. Wrong. No, I'm not going to give you the dose, but it's significantly less than. And no microdosing doesn't work. Period. And I've proven it so many times. I don't need to get into this anymore. The point is that if you have an issue with a peptide, it's either going to be the source or it's going to be a biology problem with you. That's if saying, MOTC makes you tired, then there's a problem with it either not being MOTC or your biology has a problem. And then you need to find that, which is why I always tell people just throwing peptides together arbitrarily thinking their vitamins is what's screwing you up. The smarter thing would be to ask somebody for help and actually pay them for that help. Stop thinking you deserve it for free. By the way, you don't. So let's get back to endometriosis for Angelique. Listen, this isn't how it's not pelvic inflammation. And that's what they categorize on that. It's this whole body septic state. It's the reason. Everything I'm talking about is the reason for the crushing fatigue, the brain fog, the diffuse pain that goes, you guys know it. If you've had it goes far beyond the pelvis. The inflammation, you do understand the inflammation is the disease, right? The inflammation is the disease. And that's just the inflammation. Never mind the insulin resistance problem. That's just fueling this disaster. The modern watch, this is failure too. Biological failure too. I haven't even gotten to this one yet. The modern diet is a weapon of mass destruction turned right into you and people still defend it. It says it's really good for me. Yeah, Bill Gates tried to say that appeal was good for you too until he realized it's neurotoxin. Listen, chronic high insulin, hyperinsulinemia, is a catastrophe, you guys. It directly stimulates the ovaries to produce more androgens. Remember the aromatase in the lesions that I just talked about? Yeah, it greedily snaps up these androgens to synthesize its own estrogen. And insulin-like growth factor are potent mitogens. Watch, I'll prove it. 2013, endocrinology showed that IGF-1 receptors are overexpressed on endometriotic cells and binding them creates this, it's like a trigger. It's like a train wreck trigger for RAS, RAF and MAPK proliferation. The cascade is just unbelievable. It tells all the cells to divide uncontrollably. Easiest way to explain it. So for every sugary drink, every processed carbohydrate, this is a direct deposit into the lesions growth fund. And you're going, how do I give it more? It's like the redheaded stepchild that just doesn't do anything right. And you're going, let me give you a reward for doing stupid things 24, 7, 365. Look at failure 3, ATP shortage, right? The mitochondrial failure, the dysfunction. That fatigue that you guys are feeling, it's not in your head. It's really not. It's in your mitochondria. It really is. 2018, molecular human reproduction showed very clear evidence. Endometriotic cells have very, it's beyond very severely damaged mitochondria. They're inefficient. They're puking out electrons that create ROSs, reactive oxygen species, which further fuel the NFKAPA B inflammatory issue, the fire that's going on that's raging inside you. This mitochondrial bankruptcy creates a state that is so disastrous it causes cellular hypoxia. So here's what happens. Now the cell panics. We already know what happens if we're looking at the insulin side of this equation with the Warburg effect, right? So watch. This is what happens with cellular hypoxia because it's just as bad. The cell panics activates hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha. It's HIF1alpha's sole job is survival. That's it. Look at glycolysis for the Warburg effect. You see what your body does, right? It's always looking to survive. And if it can't survive by this means, it survives by a means that's going to cause it harm, but it just goes, I have to make sure this cell survives. You are wired for survival. If you have any doubts, go to Las Vegas. Look at any elevator. Get in 2.30 in the morning. You're just going to see a bunch of fat drunk people carrying margaritas out of the size of a, they're like three feet tall. Looks like a trombone with a straw. Each one or HIF1alpha orders the transcription of genes BGF. Build more vessels and one glucose transporters, which are, get more sugar. The lesion, watch. This is what happens. The lesion that's starved for energy literally forces your body, your biology to build a more robust supply line and then hijack glucose metabolism. It's a metabolic parasite. Isn't that what I called it at the beginning of this? It's exactly what it is, but you're not going to get doctors talking about this. Look at iatrogenic catastrophe called the standard of care. It's not. It's standardized harm. The medical systems playbook is a recipe for creating lifelong high value patients 24, 7, 3, 6, 2s. They're tools, brutality, ignorance, and suppression. I died in a fourth one actually. Censorship, because that's what they do. Look at here. Let's look at the pill. Birth control pill, everybody just, the pill. It's chemical lobotomy. Oral contraceptives do not treat endometriosis. They treat the symptom of cycling, but it does it by inducing a pathological state. They suppress the HBO axis. They create this anovulatory low estrogen state, but they do nothing to address the local aromatics activity in the lesion itself. Remember what I said? They just drill their own well. It does nothing. What's the pill do for that? Nothing. 2013 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism proved 100% that they were sin. insulin resistance, go back to the three metabolic failures. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP, shortage, failure two. You just check the box by doing this. They devastate the gut microbiome. Well, now we can go into inflammation because when you devastate the gut, you cause tight protein juctions to gap, which causes lipopolysaccharides to hemorrhage out into your nice clean blood system, which tells your immune system to attack it, which causes system-wide inflammation because you create this cytokine storm that destroys your body and puts you into a low-grade state of inflammation. There's checking boxes one and two. Now, what does inflammation do? It causes an ATP shortage because it causes the cells themselves to become very inefficient so they don't churn out mitochondria. In fact, they produce a lot more reactive oxygen species, oxidative stress, free radicals. Now, you've checked the box for all three biological failures. How anyone can argue against this is beyond me. There's always a way to argue, but I'm still right because, like I said, they debit just this alone, the pill alone. And if you go, what about injections and what, it's all the same. But they devastate the gut, increasing permeability, puking lipopolysaccharides into the bloodstream, which is the primary trigger for the one thing I was just spelling out for you, which is NF cap of B. So, here's the issue. You're trading pelvic pain for systemic metabolic dysfunction, gut issues, and nutrient deficiencies. I'm going to tell you right now, if you're trying to make a deal, that's a terrible deal. I wouldn't tell you. I'm telling you, a deal or no deal? Deal? No deal? Nope. No deal. I'm out. Look at Lupron. I talked about this at the beginning because this is just embarrassing. This is a controlled burn that torches your entire forest. Anadutropin releasing hormone agonists are biochemical warfare on your entire endocrine system. They create the state of pseudo menopause by overstimulating and then shutting down the deuterine function. 2006 fertility and sterility tracked and proved 6%. 6% might not sound like much, but look at the timeframe. 6% bone loss in six months. That's 1% a month. And that's just the beginning. The real issue is that it's therapeutically futile for the reason that I already explained. Endocrine autonomy. It doesn't make sense. The lesions don't care about your ovarian output. You can pull them out. They've proven this. They have their own supply. Well, there's no... I'm going to just do it myself. So, now you get osteoporosis, emissating hot flashes, oral cognitive decline, and a guaranteed disease recurrence the second that you stop the drug. But they'll convince you that Lupron works in people. Please listen to me, you guys. I'm not out here for me. Look at laparoscopy. It's like a $50,000 fertilization program. Excision surgery is the pinnacle of misapplied effort. 2007, BJOG followed women for five years post, post, after successful excision. The rate was 75%. The recurrence rate was 75%. Why? Because surgery is a massive oxidative stressor and inflammatory event. Anyone that's had surgery knows down. The trauma of ablation and cutting spikes levels of TGF beta and all the other inflammatory cytokines. So, effectively, you're fertilizing the microscopic disease remnants that inevitably are left behind. So, you're paying a surgeon, watch. You're paying a surgeon to create the perfect biochemical environment for a more aggressive, more widespread recurrence. You always sign from that check. You're pruning a weed whose roots are fed by a toxic dump and the pruning just stimulates more vigorous growth. So, it goes, oh, you want to play that game? Okay, I'm going to hit the gas. That's exactly what it does. The research proves it. So, it's irrelevant to argue. Now, look at a hysterectomy. This is the big dog. The ultimate act of biological vandalism. You are removing parts of the human being. I wish I had my lung back. Just so you know. You're never the same after surgery and you're never the same after they take parts out of you. Ever. This is hysterectomy.  lye, eversold, desperatwomen. Listen, desperat for relief, for something, because they've been in pain and suffering and going through all of this and getting nothing out of the solutions they're being given. This is the last resort. Men's will put them on chemotherapy. It's just as bad. Just start throwing methotrexate on them. So they get you for RA, by the way, which is also just as ridiculous. 2019, JAMA surgery, over 7,000 women, unequivocal. 62%, this is why I'm telling you, 62% had persistent pain. So you've been mutilated for nothing. The uterus is the victim, by the way, it's not the perpetrator. Removing it catastrophically disrupts pelvic neurology and vascular supply like crazy. It accelerates cardiovascular and neurological decline, induces surgical menopause instantly. Just bam, right away. Leaving the actual systemic disease, the immune dysfunction, the inflammation, the metabolic chaos completely outtouched. It didn't do anything for that. Show me where it did anything for that. You can't. You can't get a medical equivalent of sawing off the roof of your car because the check engine light is on. Make it make sense. So instead of you going, okay, what do we do? This is why I think a lot of people screw it up because they don't understand the mechanism of action. They just go, what's the answer? And then when they get the answer, it's like me going, I'm really tired because I didn't sleep at all. My mitochondria are shot. I'm running with massive systemic inflammation and I am insulin resistant. I'm going to drink this coffee and I take one sip and I go, this doesn't work clearly. I still don't have any energy. It screwed me up. That's a lie. That's what I see people doing is they don't get the answer right away, but they don't understand the mechanism of action. So they don't know that the coffee is not the answer for their problem. That's what's going on here. And medical world is very good at getting you guys to think that way. You should just take this bill. You'll be fine. Get the surgery. Surgery is only 20 minutes. Yeah, but the recovery is a lifetime because you never get it back. You don't manage. You don't suppress. You have to build and eliminate. You have to put something together that acts as a system level reset, which is what I'm very good at. Like I said, I suck at a lot of things, but I'm exceptional at being a doctor because I feel what you feel. Whether without a uterus, I still feel it. You have to look at it from like advanced molecular biology. So BPC-157. This is the master regulator of this entire machine. 2021 review in peptides shows its pleiotropic effects. It doesn't just reduce inflammation. It is the entire governor for healing, angiogenesis modulation. It promotes VEGF, but it does it in ischemic, healthy tissue like the gut lining. Here's the best part. While simultaneously suppressing the pathological VEGF, the signaling coming from the lesions and the tumors inside you from the endometriosis. It cuts off the endometriosis supply lines while rebuilding your own. So you do better. Look at TGF beta counteraction. It directly gets in the way and opposes the profibiotic defect of TGF beta. It prevents the adhesion formation that surgery causes. So even if you've had surgery, you're like, hey, Dr. Trevor, I'm already past this point. You still need to go down this road because we already established right now, research-based, but even just following physiology that this is already, it doesn't matter what you start pulling out. The problem are the lesions themselves because they create their own little ecosystem that goes, I can survive with or without you, baby. Now look at gut healing. Look at, oh, jeez, VPC 157. No, none of this is oral. You cannot take it orally. If you say you take it orally and it works, you're a liar. Show me the bloods. You can't. So it's just stop. Just pin it. Just pin it and win it. That's a great way. There you go. That's my catchphrase for the day. But it increases the expression of tight junction proteins. Z-01, clotted in. It seals the leaky gut. This is so critical because leaky gut is a fire hose of lipopolysaccharide, endotoxin waste that's dumping into portal circulation, which is the number one driver of systemic NF Kappa B activation period. Leaky gut is not something trendy that somebody talks about online. You don't need to have some strange magic treatment with herbs and supplements. You need to actually solve the problem. Once it's solved, the problem's good. Amazons alpha one. This is the next one. You need to run this in. This is a direct counter to the immune, what did I call it? Amazons. I mean, the logical treason, right? Amazons alpha one is an immune control system. 2020 study in frontiers and immunology shows it better than any other study I've ever read. It reactivates. Remember what I said about how the natural killer cells are reduced by 50%, 50%. Remember I made the example about your bank account. So it reactivates natural killer cells. It enhances their cytotoxicity and their cytokine production. It turns your lethal special forces crew back on. It reprograms the macrophages, which I told you get recruited, right? To become, it's like a civil war. They go to war against you and it shifts them from the pro lesion, pro fibrotic, which type M2 phenotype back to the destructive phagocytic. The better one. It's what I said M1 phenotype. It balances T cell response. It modulates the TH1, TH2, TH17 axis, but it does it away from the inflammatory autoimmune like TH17 response. So it actually makes things work the way they're designed at in copper. This is a, all of these are non-negotiable. GHK. And this is all for your kangaroo that happens to have endometriosis. Right? Cause I have to say that in our beautiful free country that's not free. GHK-Cu. It's like the operating system upgrade for your genetics. This Pickert 2020 in bio molecules. This is probably one of the coolest articles shows it has this stunning ability to normalize gene expression towards a healthy youthful state. This isn't just applicable to an endometriosis, by the way, this is applicable to life. And if you go, how do I, how do I mitigate the stinging? It hurts. You didn't get hit by dodgeballs enough when you were a kid or you didn't get skinned or you didn't get on your bike enough. Toughen up, you'll be fine. You want endometriosis or do you want to go stings every time I do it? You don't understand how bad it is. No, I don't because I don't have endometriosis, but I've also had a lung ribbed and you don't understand how bad that is. I don't know what to tell you. It upregulates genes for DNA repair. That's what it does. It cranks up antioxidants synthesis of super oxidized mutase, catalyst. It cranks up tissue remodeling. This stuff is so awesome. But here's what it shuts down. Genes for inflammation and FKB, COX-2, collagen overproduction, tumor progression. Effectively tells your cells to stop expressing the operating system for disease and instead start expressing the operating system for health. It's the easiest way to explain it, right? MOTC. This thing is like the ultimate ignition system for your mitochondria. Metabolic activator,abolic regulator, and aabolic potentiator. Nineteen cell metabolism showed. MOTC translocates to the nucleus under stress, which I've talked about this before, and it represses the folate cycle. So it shifts the metabolism to improve glucose utilization in ATP production. Watch what this means. Let me translate that. Combat sensual and resistance. Can you use redotrutide? Yeah, but you're missing a significant piece of the equation if you do. No, not in this case. Personally, I would never recommend it. Not for this. Combat sensual and resistance. It improves insulin sensitivity directly at the cellular level. It boosts ATP. This is the one that redotrutide doesn't do directly. Remember redotrutide? It doesn't solve the ATP as effectively as MOTC, but MOTC does. You see where I'm going? This is why you have to have a symbiotic relationship with everything. Synergy. It alleviates the cellular energy crisis, which is causing the problem. So it reduces the hypoxic drive for angiogenesis. If you remember what I talked about with the Warburg effect and how this is very similar to the hypoxic problem, it reduces oxidative stress. War efficient mitochondria does what? Fewer reactive oxygen species. Nice fact, juicy ATP yields. You have the energy to solve the problem. Throw KpB in there. Saffronin of alpha-MSA train. Its power is the specificity that has 2018. Nature communications showed in it. It's the NLRP3 inflammatory zone. This is the specific intracellular complex that activates, by the way, IL-1 beta. So it doesn't generally suppress immunity like a steroid does. This is why it's so much more precise, thread is on or anything like that. It surgically dismantles a key inflammatory engine, NLRP3 IL-1 beta. And it does it better than anything else I've ever seen anything else you will ever see too. And there's no weird systemic side effects like you get with prednisone. Like two days out, pain gate blocker acts as a modulator of a Milano Corten receptors in the CNS, the central nervous system. So it reduces the perception of pain signals. Remember what I said, you have a decreased threshold for pain, heightened pain sensitivity. Look at how this works. And by the way, you could throw in Natokinese as well. Pardon me, what's really to get into that? Because it's effective. I'll even give you a dosage just because 12,000 FU. I'll just leave it at that. You figure out the rest. Probably just blew my podcast by saying that because some weird sensors going to hear that. And go, Oh, you can't help people. You're not allowed even though you're a doctor. You do understand what I gave you is not a list of supplements. It's not something where you go, Oh, I have to take this every morning with my toast. No, it's this is like an assault team for your biology to solve the problem. Clear out all the crap that's not supposed to be there and then let you get back to work. Look at KPV and BPC-157, doused the NF cap of the fire. Thymus and Alpha one mobilizes and retrains that broken immune army to clean up the rubble and actually stand guard. So it doesn't go back. GHK-Cu rebuilds the city according to the original healthy blueprints that you were designed by God with and MOTC ensures that the power grid is robust and resilient enough to support the entire rebuilding process. So you've got fuel to do it. They work synergistically to make the host environment biochemically hostile to the existence of endometriosis. This is how I try and explain this to you guys is that your entire job is not to fight the disease. It's to make the disease want to leave and I'm not talking endometriosis. It's not a disease. I'm just saying it's the pathology. Your job is to make your ecosystem a juggernaut. So every pathology just goes, I'm not welcome here. I can't even survive. It makes it impossible to thrive and the science proves this all day long. Mechanisms prove this all day long. The current medical model is not broken. It's functioning perfectly. Yeah, he didn't expect me to say that. Did you? It's functioning perfectly for its intended purpose to create a perpetual revenue stream from human suffering. They're not healers. 99% of you doctors are not healers. You're shills for the pharmaceutical companies. And don't get mad in my comments. Become better above all. Do no harm. You guys are landlords of a disease. They want you on lifetime leases. That's what the big pharma does. The AMA, all of this is just makes me mad when I really think about it because it's not that that's not healthcare. What do I say all the time? Your body's known some mystery. Operating systems and levers and switches and biochemistry is basically what I'm saying. You have the schematic. I just handed you the blueprint to solve this. And if you've got no dosages, because I can't, if you go, they do on this one, they go listen to their podcast. I like what I do because I want to help people. If you want to go further down this rabbit hole thing, I'm going to tell you, it's not meant to dangle a carrot. It's because it's legally what I do. Join the black card. Problem solved. You get the tools, but you have to stop thinking of yourself as a patient. You need to start thinking of yourself as an engineer of your own life, your own health. Whose body is this? You trust other people with it. You're right. But the people you trust, they don't care about your health. They care about their wallet, biological sovereignty. That's always the goal, right? Anyway, I hope you guys got some out of this. I got to go. Ever miss.