It's actually early today. It's 1:00. It's cold here in Texas. I spent a lot of time in Winnipeg, so cold is relative. Woke up this morning. It was 32°. It's really not that cold now that I say it out loud. When you grow up and your parents go play outside and it's Celsius, right? You're 30 below Celsius. And they're like, "Okay." And it wasn't a big deal. I would go race snowmobiles and play outside all day long, 30, 40 below. And tell you, man, Winnipeg makes you tough. But I'm not going to lie to you, Winnipeg is a toilet. There is zero there that makes it a good city other than No, there's nothing. I actually tried to think of something. There's nothing about Winnipeg that's good. It is got two seasons, winter and construction. I got nothing good to say about that city whatsoever. It's dirty. It's grimy. It's freaking cold. It's a mess. And now Canada has pretty much fallen off the face of the earth. It's like another communist country. Anyway, so at Pilon, I got a lot of feedback from you guys. Thank you about what I posted yesterday on social media. You know what's wild? Check this out. I don't know if you can see this. This was this morning. You're reaching the world. I got cancelled this morning again. Again. Look at this right there. I don't know if you can see that. Oops. Here's why. How we made our decision. I circled that. It says our technology did it. It wasn't even a freaking person. But yeah, December 2nd, this morning, I was actually in the middle of posting and all of a sudden it went [clears throat] slid across. It was like a cover for what I was looking at and and getting my post ready. And I went, "Wait, what?" I was sitting right here. It was just facing that way. And I went, "This isn't right." No, it it didn't register. So, I swiped out. I I logged out, logged back in. Feed came back up for about one and a half seconds and then went across. I'm like, "Holy crap." Listen, this is a world. I want you guys to understand this. I don't come out here for me. And there's so many people out. They just get in my comments and chirp away. Just don't bother showing up. If you don't like my information or you just want to sit there and complain about it or flex your insecurity like a tiny little wiener, knock yourself out. You're only making yourself look stupid. I don't come out here for me. I don't monetize Instagram. I don't There's nothing I'm being paid for on here. You know what's funny is I monetize YouTube. Why? Because I'd be an idiot not to. But I don't really care. I'm actually trying to figure out how to turn off monetization on Rumble. I I have to look cuz I I haven't really spent a lot of time. I'm sure it's very easy. It's probably just a switch, but I don't care. It doesn't matter to me. Besides, they pay you through PayPal. No, PayPal can pound sand. But we're in a world right now where someone like me comes out and just gives you the answers and says, "Here, this is what you do. This will save your life. This will help you. This will help your eliminate cancer or Parkinson's or multiple sclerosis or ALS or SLE or whatever it is that you've got. Rossacea, it doesn't make a difference. Acne, sore joints, arthritis, bad attitude, I don't know, depression, anxiety, pick something. I just keep coming out here and giving you solutions. Do you know why? Because I've spent a lot of time with patients, decades. I'm 52. So whether you sit, it's wild because some of you guys act like toddlers and you just chirp away in my comments for what? Do you think I'm going to stop because you say you don't like me? A, I'm not for everybody and B, I think you're missing the point. You're a product of the system and they've got you. The hypnosis of social conditioning is so effective that you actually fight for their narrative even though it's their narrative that's killing you. I'm not a tinfoil hatwearing guy. I don't care about a lot of this stuff, but I think most of what we've learned is a fallacy. It's a lie. And maybe some of you guys are waking up. I don't know. But I don't come out here for me. I come out here to help you. And it matters to me. So if you say thank you, I love you. If you start beaking in my comments, I'm just going to block and delete you or just turn off comments altogether on YouTube and you guys can talk amongst yourselves. I really don't care because I just don't have the patience or the time. It's not about the hurty words that people say. I really don't care about that either. But nobody needs to be subject to that in my community when they're coming here to learn. And if you're not coming here to learn or become a better version of yourself or find the answer or a solution or cure something or whatever it is you're doing here, then you don't belong here. And that's fine. Go back to your entertainment and eat your bucket of cheesy poofs or whatever it is you eat, those little cheese balls that come in that plastic bucket, and drink your beer and wait for Friday. wait five out of seven days for two just to dread the following first day again on a Monday and be miserable in your life and take all your prescriptions and keep fueling the system. You're part of the problem and that's there's nothing I I'm not going to try and change you. I'm going to give the people the information so they can make a conscious decision to change themselves. It just it's like the black card. I've had people go, "Oh, come on, man. Is there any other way to get in contact with you without joining that $10,000 black card?" No, there isn't. None. Zero. Absolutely not. I won't get on a phone with you. I won't do a quick half hour consult. And if you want to if you want a one-hour consult, they're $10,000 to $50,000 for the hour depending on the nature of the consult. And it's not to be an ass. It's that I don't have time forcy. I just I'm not going to entertain it. When you can just do something about it, you just don't like the expense, the time, money, and the energy involved. It's that simple. But the black card is $10,000. It's 9,997 bucks. It's going to go up January 1st, and it's wire only, and I don't take credit cards anymore. And I just refund people now that send me credit cards. I if you buy it for six grand, I'm going to refund you cuz it's 10. I don't want you in my group. If you're going to look for a cheaper way or go back to find an old link, you can. I'm just going to refund you. Jen, my CFO, will just go. There you go. Because number one, it's worth it by far. And number two is I'm not dealing with credit card companies anymore because they decide what you should or shouldn't be allowed to do. It goes back to the freedom that I was talking about. It goes back to the the being cancelled this morning briefly or YouTube giving me a warning because I talk about something that they consider medical misinformation. But the people that say that are the people that are informing you guys incorrectly. Parkinson's is curable. Dementia is for the most part reversible. Alzheimer's reversible. They're all preventable. Cancer reverse all this stuff. Osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, seriatic arthritis. I could do this all day and I can find the exact means to solve the problem in every single patient that calls me. Because you can take this as being arrogant or egotistical. It doesn't matter. It's still the truth. Because I'm exceptional at what I do. Because I'm the best at what I do. Because I made sure of it. Because I care that much. Like you become the best because you care. Not because you want to walk around and go puff your chest out. I don't care. I care that people actually have an answer that they walk away and go, "Wow, that actually worked." I have people in my group all day yesterday in my call. Holy smokes, it's been three weeks. This and this are gone. This is awesome. Hey, I gave this to my friend. This took it all away. Hey, I'm not type two diabetic anymore. I have so many people in my group like that. And fast. No more Hashimoto's. No more thyroid issues. No, like I I don't know what to tell you. But if you want to join the black card, join. Apply at unlockthecard.com. That is not for information. If you ask for information, it won't be given. The black card is a live call every Monday and an access to all the the archive of all the calls and the VIP community where all my protocols are and I drop new ones in every couple of weeks or week or whatever and things I've used with patients and answer your questions in the comments in the VIP area and that's it. I don't offer the unbreakable anymore. I don't offer the cheap programs. I just don't most mostly because I just really don't want to. It's an incredibly large amount of work but I have a mission and my mission involves doing everything that's behind the scene on the black card. So, join or don't join. Either way, that's up to you. Buy from Elite or don't buy from Elite. It's way It's funny when people ask me where what what do you recommend for peptides? Where where do I go? I'm like, are you kidding me? You didn't just click the big button that has it on every single page. I don't talk about it all the time. I don't know. Here's your sign. So, a pit on a piton. Man, this is honestly I think most of you guys it's the most important discovery that you've never heard of because here's what I see on social media. While you guys are obsessing on your macros and your step count and your workout length and specific crazy movements that you do, you guys are missing the fundamental engine of aging itself and the key to slowing it down at least and ex extending your life and health span. I'm not selling you things on here. I'm just explaining biological inevitability and how to reduce the catastrophe and the chaos or break it in a good way like break that inevitability. I the human body is not this mystery you guys. It's not. And if you spend enough time looking at it and understanding it and looking doing a deep dive into the physiology and the biochemistry and the neurology and everything behind it, you'll see it's just a machine. It's this very beautiful excuse me complex ultimately very predictable engine. that is governed by a code. They don't want you to know that. Same reason why Latin is considered a dead language. No, it's because things are hidden in Latin. It's the reason why the medical world is all in Latin. So, you don't understand what the hell they're talking about. But I'm not just talking about DNA. I'm talking more critical code. It's like the code. This is where a pitilon comes in because you have to understand this. It's the code that's written on the end of your chromosomes, your telomeirs. And when people hear this, they go, "Oh, yeah. I heard about this stuff." But you don't understand. Imagine that your DNA is I said it yesterday. It's the easiest explanation, right? It's a shoelace and the plastic tip on the end, right? The plastic tip on the end of the shoelace is the telomeir. And every time your cells divide, that plastic tip gets a little shorter and eventually it wears off and the lace gets all frayed out and the cell can no longer divide the way it's designed properly and it enters this state called senicence. It's not dead. It's just garbage. That's easy way to say it. starts spewing out these inflammatory signals and poisons the cells all around it. It's destroying the environment and that's cellular aging. This is systemic aging. So to look at a pitilon, it's not some drug or some magic thing. It's just a peptide. It's a very short chain. It's only four amino acids long. But honestly, don't let the simplicity fool you. This thing is incredible. This is a master key that fits into the most fundamental locks of your own biology. And I'll explain how it works. Your cells have these this enzyme called tmerase. And its entire job is to rebuild those telomeres and maintain those plastic tips, right? But in most sematic cells, tmerase is mostly quiet. Like it's silenced pretty much after embryionic development, right? Ailon's most profound mechanism is it doesn't the system doesn't work without a pitilon because it's not really designed to the way I'm explaining it, which is why you need a pitilon. So the most profound mechanism it has is the epigenetic upregulation of the Turk genes timmerase reverse transcriptise. It doesn't really matter what it's called, but this is the gene that codes for the the catalytic subunit of tymemerase, right? It doesn't mutate or do anything weird. It just flips a switch on the genetic switch that your body already has. Like every other peptide they like not see, right? Flips on the EMPK pathway. It does. This is where peptides and drugs are totally different. And they're not supplements, by the way, so don't treat them as such. But it tells the cell to start maintaining and protecting its own infrastructure again. Does that does that compute? You get that? So in it basically turns on tmerase activity which then synthesizes new telomeic DNA repeats right TTA GGG onto the chromosome eds. So what it does is it effectively repairs the damage of cell division after cell division. And in doing that you have to think you have to understand that the telomeir the elongation of it like this is the cornerstone of life extending effects because by preventing replicative senicence the little zombie cell epitoolon preserves because the other side of the equation is preservation right preserves the replicative capacity of your stem cell pools your hematopoetic stem cells your mezzenymal stem cells just the body's repair crews that do all the jobs that you don't have to think about that nervous systems is taken care of, right? So, it makes them stay on the job longer. It makes them do all the work harder. It makes them work overtime and all with the greatest pay in the world. And this isn't theoretical. If you look at all organisms to be honest, mice to drosophilia, it doesn't matter. Epitoolon, it shows research has proven this so many times. It's this is if you look up a pitilon research there, this stuff is everywhere. It is actually the one that is proven beyond a shadow of a doubt to extend life. And yet this is the one that people like, "Dad, do you have anything to make my muscles bigger?" [sighs and gasps] You guys put things together and do it properly. I saw a guy taking a Pilon 2.5 milligrams in the morning, 2.5 milligrams at the end of the day, and I went, "What in the holy hell are you doing? That doesn't even make sense. That's how it works." He's a forever peptide. I'm going to do this for the next 10 years. Going to screw your system up. But I mean, go on to Reddit and get your dosage protocols there. Ask Chat GPT. Do all the stuff that you guys do. Enjoy it. you guys are just going to wind up screwing yourselves up because they're not applying direct physiology and pharmacocinetics and how the system works. But I don't know what to tell you. Yes, I would say join the black card because at least you're going to get the right information. But epitoolon is proven to significantly extend median and maximum lifespan. It shifts it shifts the entire survival curve way to the right. How is that something that you don't want to do? Maybe I just don't understand. But if you look at telomeirs and you go, "That's the only thing it does. Big deal." Oh man. Listen, telomeirs are just like the opening act. It's the warm-up band for this entire thing because aging and every single disease that comes along with it can be boiled down to the same three core biological failures, the three systemwide biological crashes that I always talk about. Here's the best part. Epitoolon addresses every single one. I'll prove it. Look at the inflammation issue, right? the systemwide inflammatory problem. Senic cells that I talked about, they create this cytoine storm called SASPs, right? It's senisonence associated secretary phenotype. And it's like having these little inflammatory, if you guys saw Aquaman 2, the factories that are puking out all that green whatever smoke it is, that's what it's doing. It's puking out these little it's like inflammation machines, these factories, and they're throughout your entire body. But what a pitilon does is it reduces the burden of senocent cells. So it it shuts off the fire at its source. And that's just failure one. I could do this about so many things, man. insulin resistance is the second failure, right? ATP is the third. So insulin resistance, this is an energy signaling failure. So as we age, our cells become incredibly deaf to insulin. The hypothalamus, which is you already know your body's master regulator, plays a very critical role in metabolic control. And epitoolon restores hypothalamic sensitivity to metabolic hormones specifically specifically like leptin and insulin. Huh, this kind of makes sense, right? So what it does is it changes the set point or more recalibrates the central command to be more more accurate where the in turn it improves peripheral insulin sensitivity. So what it does is it fixes the signal. That's only the second thing. Never mind the ATP where you need energy. The mitochondrial dysfunction, just so you know, is the hallmark of aging. Period. We'll stop. Your cellular power plants become very inefficient. They leak electrons and produce the ROS's. They reactive oxygen species instead of this very clean, very functional, very effective, and usable ATP, which is the currency of life. Epitoolon comes in and it cranks up biogenesis which is mitochondrial biogenesis which is the creation of new nuclear reactors that run better more efficiently and puke out much more effective ATP yield right so it improves the efficiency this right improves the efficiency of the electron transport chain but watch more ATP less oxidative stress more power more energy for all the repairs and yet it does still doesn't matter people will still take these weird chemicals and some supplements that aren't going to do anything and go take some route that they got from the Himalayas. I got nothing against that if it works, but most of the time it's sold by insta bros and PhD wannabes that don't know their ass from their elbow trying to convince you to buy their products. I haven't once told you to buy my products. I don't care. Buy from me, but or don't buy from me. But at least listen to the information. Look at your brain. Cognitive decline, right? Alzheimer's, Parkinson's. Here's what's happening. Neurons are postmotic, right? So just follow me on this because this that means that they don't divide very often but their telomeirs still shorten which leads to functional decline in apoptosis which is programmed cell death. Neuroinflammation is a the primary driver for the most part outside of the fuel shortage, right? Them being immersed in this buffet that they're insulin death to. They can't eat, right? So the cells die but then the inflammation causes a lot of this, right? So do you see how this all connects together? Ion's anti-inflammatory and telomeir supportive actions. They protect the neurons. If you look at studies and I could quote study after study which I do most of I just don't have the time. If you look at neurodeeneration so many studies epitoolon proves that it reduces the amaloid beta plaque formation and protects dopamineergic neurons. Basically it helps maintain the genomic stability of the neuroprogenitor cells that are crucial for brain plasticity and repair. If you can't maintain those cells it doesn't matter what drug you're taking because it's still not going to work. This brings us to another completely layer of this code though. By the way, look at methylation. God, there's so many people. You look at what's his name? Brea. Don't even get me started on that guy. Serial scammer is what that guy is. That guy is so full of crap. Peptide patches. Look at this thing. Right. This is I'm not going to say it. I'll hold it upside down. I had a bunch of people ask me if this was a condom the other day, too. Think I'm holding First of all, this is Look at how thin that is. The worst condom on Earth. So, it's the ilisori condom. You just imagine it. I manifest it. Yeah, good luck. [snorts] Enjoy your children. Just be responsible. But methylation, most people aren't even talking about this, right? So, I'll make it very simple. Your DNA has these chemical tags that are attached. Methyl groups, right? They control gene expression. This is your epigenome. So, as you age, the pattern goes a little nuts. And here's the two things that are going to affect your health more than anything else. Hypermethylation is going to shut down tumor suppressor genes and hypothylation activates enco genes. It's just a train wreck of health and cancer creation. So this epigenetic drift, by the way, is the primary driver of cancer. Marry that to the three biological failures, it's 100% guaranteed that you're going to get sick. Watch what epitoon does. It slides in and normalizes the age disrupted methylation patterns. It acts as an epigenetic regulator, right? It keeps things under control. It promotes a much more youthful, much more stable gene expression profile. Just so you know, this is pretty damn profound because it's not adding time to your life. It's adding life to your time, but it's doing it, and I realize that sounds cliche, but it's doing it by maintaining the integrity of the genetic software that's running right now as you're listening to this podcast. And somebody asked me about the calcification of the pineal gland. So, I'm going to hit that with this because you guys, you just need to hear it. Maybe you'll hear it, maybe you won't. Maybe you're one of the maybe you're the person that asked. I have no idea. But the pineal gland, this tiny structure in your brain that produces melatonin, it's more than just a sleep hormone though. I just I don't know if you know that the pineal gland is the central regulator of circadian rhythms and overall homeostasis of the machine. So with age, the pineal gland calcifies and its function drops off pretty severely and the disregulation is going to contribute to the systemic breakdown of your machine, your biology. A pitilon which is actually a synthetic analog of the pineal's own tetropeptide, right? Nepatholamin. And if you look, research proves again it re rejuvenates the pineal gland. It reduces the calcification. It restores morphological integrity and normalizes the hormone production. Checkbox. Checkbox. Checkbox. So a function here's why this matters. A functioning pineal gland means better sleep, more functional, more controlled hormone regulation and a much more robust, much more synchronized system. It's the leader of the band that gets the microphone back. Now all of a sudden everybody can hear them, right? Look at the enco effects of a pillon. This one's actually really cool. So, for anybody that's on chemo chemotherapy or radiation, you want to hear what I'm about to say. Number one is I'm not a big fan to the point where I think they burn you, they slice you, they poison you, and none of it works. And it is a trillion dollar industry to separate you from your finances and keep you scared of a disease that they are creating themselves by inducing the three biological failures. By the way, I'm of sound mind. I'm not suicidal and I am totally normal right now because listen, people like Neoissing, telling the truth. You know what's funny is people get in my comments and I'm like, "You have no idea the chops it takes to be here and go against the system. You guys are too busy chirping in my comments, whining about something, defending your ego instead of listening to the information. Maybe you should just do this stuff and actually go, "Wow, my life is better." Does this guy actually gives a [\h__\h] My patient base is all of mankind. In case you're trying to figure out who my patients are, mankind. Because I care that much. Doesn't mean I'm not going to charge money for it. But it means that I show up here every day so I give you at least the information I can so you can make the decisions to save yourself or destroy yourself. Cancer is a disease just so you know of genomic instability and immune invasion by maintaining the length of the telomeir. Watch what happens if pitilon is going to prevent the chromosomeal instability that leads to cancerous transformations. Never mind when I spoke about SS31 and the Warberg effect and all the stuff that happens with that. All of this is connected, right? I should just make a flowchart of how this all works and how actually a good idea. And where the break points are, like it's like jiu-jitsu. If you roll, the more complicated a submission, the more steps required, the more ways out, right? The more ways that somebody can escape. And you can argue, it doesn't matter. I'm not saying it to contest your fighting skills. Bunch of toddlers. I'm saying it because the more steps in anything, the more escape routes that exist. Doesn't mean you're not going to stick the submission. It just means that if there's one step, it's a lot versus 20 steps. Common sense, man. So, watch. By normalizing methylation, this is where it which is what epitoon does. It keeps the tumor suppressor genes active. And if you look at studies, Russia, Petravax company, that's the one. Petravax company in Russia, you got to look this up. Look it up. I just I'm not I don't have the information in front of me, but Petravax company in Russia has shown 100% epitoon stimulates the production of endogenous interferons and enhances the activity of natural killer NK cells. So it doesn't watch this is why this is so badass. I get excited about this stuff. big deal. It doesn't just make cells less likely to become cancerous. Takes your immune system and slaps a blower on it. Supercharger for people that don't know what that is. To make it more effective at hunting down and destroying all the cells that do that. How savage is that? Yeah, but I don't care about you. Look at the HBA, the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis. Your body's central stress response in everybody right now is running at heightened cortisol levels. So when it becomes disregulated, usually flattened out, right, by chronic stress, which is everywhere, all by decision. By the way, stress is not in you. It's not in the environment, right? It's your physical or psychological perception to threat. That's what stress is. You can argue. I I'm not saying it for any other reason other than it's a fact. But watch it. This when the HBA becomes shot, muted, disregulated, when it just doesn't function the way it's supposed to. It contributes to the three failures. Here, here's how. I'll watch. Just follow me. It drives inflammation via what did I say? Cortisol, promotes insulin resistance, trashes your system, and disrupts mitochondrial function. So there we've got inflammation, glucose, can't right, insulin resistance, and ATP. They're all there. Epitoolon has a restorative effect on the hypothalamus, normalizes the entire HPA axis. If you don't understand how big this is, pay attention. This creates a massive cascade of positive effects. It reestablishes the hormonal balance in you, which reduces the systemwide wear and tear that accelerates aging. You want to do some specific diseases? How about this? Somebody asked me about eyes, macular degeneration. There we go. Retinal pigment epithelial cells are essential for photo receptor health, right? Eye health. Their senicence is a the key factor in AMD. Epitoolon is proven again clinical studies to improve visual acuity and stabilize the pathological process in patients with retinal distrophe and AMD by supporting the RP cell viability. It supports the retinal pigment epithelial cells. That's just macular degeneration. How about atherosclerosis? This is an inflammatory disease of blood vessels. Now I realize that circulating sugar and all the things that happen with the foam cells and I can get into all this is just I've done this so many times. I just I'm trying to be quick so you understand how effective this is and why everybody should be just running this a couple of times a year. Senic vascular endothelial cells and macroofagages drive plaque formation. Here comes epidolon. Epitoolon's antics and anti-inflammatory properties directly counteract this process. Again, research proves that it [clears throat] improves epithelial function, endothelial function, reduces aoscllerotic lesions. So when it does that, it also normalizes blood pressure by improving vascular elasticity. If you hypothetically for your kangaroo added in GHK-Cu, BPC, you're turning yourself into Wolverine against aging. There's a whole lot of other things we could incorporate into this, but it's just a start. And yeah, I realized this was number five. Epitoolon was number five on my longevity peptides, but I explained why because I was going for hard hit. I had four and I that was in a podcast I did the other day, yesterday I believe it was. Look at neurodeenerative diseases. This is a big fear for people including one of my closest friends who's also my attorney. He's that's my biggest fear. He's losing my mind. Mine too, buddy. Mine too. So for Alzheimer's, it's about reducing the amaloid burden and neuroinflammation. Right. For Parkinson's, it's about protecting dopamineergic neurons, which I talked about. For MS, it's modulating the immune attack. Look at a pit on the mechanisms. Telmir support, epigenetic regulation, immune modulation. This is coming at this entire problem from every single side of what's going on. I don't understand how people look at this and go, "Yeah, but it's not Vincen Vin. It's a chemotherapeutic drug. It's not methtoresate, right? It's whatever else you guys are going to take." Here's the part I wanted to talk about on chemotherapy. I drifted off when I was talking about methylation, but understand this. If you're on chemotherapy, right about here, what am I at? 30 minutes and 57 seconds. I think with editing and gaps and all my stuff that I my my tangents that I take. Love me, love my tangents. This will probably be at a different point, maybe 26 minutes. But wherever this is, you need to pay attention to this. I'll try and highlight it in the table of contents or the menu or whatever that is. Adgiant therapy with chemotherapy. Pay attention to what I'm about to say. First of all, if you're doing chemotherapy, please look at the research. Believe me, I just want to tell you, if you were my wife or my son or my daughter, I would just tell you to stop. I've been through it. I did the CHOP series of chemotherapy. It just about killed me. My my wife watched me go through hell. Just this is four years ago. I did it again. And I was transparent about it. You guys saw me go through hell. Skinny knobbyby need wheelchair missing parts. Here's your prognosis. I'm sorry. You have a lifespan. And honestly, could I go? A lot of people would do what I am not doing, which would be to blame the the builder Jackac Jr. for putting me in an environment and me. I chose to stay, but putting me in an environment filled with black mold everywhere. 100 New Dominion Drive, Royce City, 75087 is the I believe that is the zip code. Most establish estates. Never buy anything from him. Never buy anything from that place, never buy his house, never do business with him. And that's just me being a loving person going, you are asking for trouble when someone has 22 lawsuits going against people. It's a bully. I get in the ring with bullies. I don't care how big you are. I'll fight you. I'll just keep getting up. You ever see The Last Samurai when Tom Cruz is just getting the piss beat out of him. And he just keeps getting up. And they're like, "Holy [\h__\h] these Americans, right? The samurai used to turn the blade in and take him take himself. He lost." And he just kept getting up and he had no chance of winning, no chance of victory, and he just didn't matter. Knock down, get back up. And like, what is with this guy? Stall Fending, right? When he's fighting Rocky, he's like, "This guy's a piece of steel, man. That's how you have to be." So anyway, I could sit there and I could blame him for making me lose a lung, reducing my family's life to rubble, draining every dollar out of our life and putting us through hell and medical bills and attorney fees and spending 5 years going to battle with this guy or I could just move on with my life. He keeps chasing. I don't. But believe me, I'm never going to stop fighting. Let me explain something about cancer. Ultimately, it comes down to you. It's not about getting it. It's about what you're going to do if it happens. Which is why I just gave away a protocol. I have so many of these and they all work because I'm not in it for profit. I'm in it. Yeah, you bet your ass. If you go, why are you asking to be paid? Because you're taking time away from my family. So, if you want something for free, that means you don't value your time or mine. Take that how you want. I value my time. I'm going to be 53 in 4 months. I value my time very much and every year even more. I adore my wife so much. I love sp like I hate that she's not here right now. I just want to go and she's at our lab right now and I just I just want to go hang out with her because I love being with my wife. I couldn't have built this monster without her. I couldn't have this life without her. So understand when I come to you guys with information, it's because I come to you with the same tenacity that I would in solving a problem for Brandy or for Hope or for Pierce for my children. So if you don't see that, well, you never will. But do I think it's worth 10 grand a year to come and hang out with me? Yeah. Yeah, I do. I think it's worth millions. Anyway, I just want you guys to have it, man. So, you look at this as what do they call it? An adguant therapy with chemo, right? So, chemo and radiation are brutal. I've had both, but some people have had it. That makes what I went through look like nothing. Like, they're just destroyed by this stuff. And people don't die from cancer. They die from organ failure for the most part because of the treatment. The research proves it. I don't even need to go into that. But here's the issue with chemo and radiation, why they're so brutal. They work by indiscriminately. I don't care what they try and sell you. They're wrong. I am right. I'll go toe-to-toe with any oncologist ever. And I will bury them because they ultimately know what they're doing is wrong. Chemo and radiation kill rapidly dividing cells, but indiscriminately cancer cells, but also your immune cells and your gut lining and your hair follicles and your hormone cells and your red blood cells and your neurological cells, your neurons. I could do this all day. Every cell. and they cause insane amounts of DNA damage. If you're listening to this, study after study on epitoolon specifically proves that when epitoolon is given alongside of chemotherapy, if you happen to be in this world, has this really remarkable dual effect. Protects healthy cells from the genotoxic damage of the treatment itself. And it reduces the side effects like amunosuppression and organ toxicity, which is what I said destroys most people. It's not the cancer. But here's the cool part because right now you're going, "What about the cancer then? It's going to protect the cells that are cancers. Nope. In fact, it does the opposite. It doesn't protect cancer cells. It sensitizes them to apotosis, programmed cell death. It's the ultimate bodyguard for your healthy tissue during a medically induced civil war that is being pumped into your system. This just I'll explain even how the protection works. It stems from the profound effect it has on immune function. A pitilon boosts the hematopoetic system, right? So, it enhances the production of gluccoytes. What this does though, this is what's wild. It increases the functional activity of Tlymphosytes and macroofagages. Watch what happens. So it upregulates the production of these critical cytoines that are needed specifically IL2. So you don't just have more immune cells. This is what makes it cool. You have smarter ones, more active ones that are running tighter surveillance. They're not like TSA, a bunch of bumbling idiots at the airport that just decide to randomly search your luggage. Like these are highly trained individuals that all they know how to do is hunt bad people. That's it. And they're so good at they can smell it a mile away and they know all the ways to find you and they're just running surveillance, right? Just the whole time. That's what your immune system is supposed to do. You destroy the surveillance and you destroy the immune system cuz it's always recognizing self or other. That's all. That's what makes this so effective. And how many people who have an oncologist, if this is you, have ever heard your oncologist tell you about a pitiline, I'll help you. None. Zero. And they just keep pumping you full of chemicals and keep going, trust me, we'll just do more. It'll help. Maybe you should make peace with God. You should just spend time with your family. Go home, have a donut, hang out with your wife, your son, your husband, your daughter, your dog, and just enjoy the last remaining days of your life. But don't worry, we'll keep treating you. If I am going to have the last days of my life, why am I going to go down miserable? I'm going to exhaust every possible option, not the ones that are known. 98.6. Same as your temperature, by the way. Chance of failure, ineffective. That's what you think about chemotherapy, though, that you should take it. Listen, here's what you're left with. A pitilon is not a magic bullet. It's a systemwide rejuvenator. It's preventative intervention that targets the root causes of aging, age related diseases, systematic decline, all the things that are happening that are eventually ultimately inevitable. And if you go, if it's inevitable, then why should I do it? Because you get more time on this planet where it's you're not a walking trash bag. That's why. Listen, here's how it works. Activates timmerase to maintain genomic stability. That's number one. alizes epigenetic patterns which in pretty much guarantee the correct gene expression which is required otherwise you have a bunch of weird things being created right the third thing rejuvenates the neuroendocrine system like pineal gland hba axis it restores the central command center so your system runs it enhances mitochondrial function boosts the cellular energy upregulates the ATP production right biogenesis more reactors more qualif or more high quality ATP fatter yield better repair less reactive oxygen species all this stuff marry this with SS31 hypothetically for your kangaroo and you're going to be blown away. Modulates the immune system for a it's the last thing I talked about a much superior surveillance and defense system. So your grid actually works properly. Listen, there's a guy Vladimir Cavinson in Russia. There's studies worldwide, but this guy has done a ton of research on a pitil. It paints a very consistent picture. This peptide represents a fundamental leap in our ability to intervene in the aging process and all the problems that come along with it. We have been treating disease at the wrong end of the equation. Please listen to me. We've been treating diseases at the endstage, putting band-aids on cancerous wounds and stances in crumbling arteries. And I have a really great friend of mine who's also a client, this guy Mike, who his entire life was changed because of changing the decision. The guy was in his 20s, had heart attack after heart attack after heart attack. And Mike's a good frigin guy. I love him like a brother. And it, you know, I've talked about it before and he is just crushing life right now. Him and his wife. He's got beautiful wife, great life ahead of him because he made the decision to go, I'm not going to listen. I don't know. You got to target the source. Maintain the machine before it breaks down. And we've all made dumb decisions. We've all gone down because they the knee-jerk reflex is the one that's based on terror and fear that are you being you're being fed. If you've ever watched the island the movie with what's his name from he plays Obi-Wan Kenobi and Scarlett Johansson. What is that dude's name? Anyway, the guy from he plays Obi-Wan in the newer Star Wars the island is a pretty wild movie and it's they basically program you from birth to fear the outside world. What do you think they're doing to you with commercials, with ads and the stuff on the radio and the doctors telling you this horrific news all the time? Come on, man. Then how is our population growing if it's getting catastrophically worse to live? If you watch MASH, listen to the numbers they talk about when MASH was running the mid to late 70s, ' 80s, I guess, early 70s, right? The numbers they talk about, the population of the world, the population of the US, and look at the numbers now. If things are so catastrophically bad, then why are the numbers growing? Why are there more of us? But the diseases are worse. The diseases aren't worse. The marketing is better on what is terrifying to you? And I know the goal is not to live forever. It's to live with genuine vitality, with the like I said at the beginning, right? like my friend and the attorney like to live with a sharp mind functional body but every single day that we're given on this planet you to die young as here here this is the easiest way to say it to die young as late as possible this isn't anything this isn't fringe and I'm tired of people saying it's not fringe this is physiology this is biology this is genetics epigenetics it's everything it's not some science fiction movie you guys I think the question you should probably be asking is no longer if we can do this it's what are you going to do with all the information? We are in the most informationrich time in human history. And I said it the other day that we are collectively dumber and doing even more knee-jerk things. And people don't know how to use a map or know where north is when they go outside or know anything about what's going on in the world other than what they're told by CNN. And they don't understand anything about healthcare except what the white coat with the god complex tells them and all the drugs in the big pharma. And big pharma is it makes it's literally a legal cartel. And you guys keep waiting for the FDA to approve the next thing. Huh? I saw some post the other day. What? This I'll say it. Just I'll tell you what I'm thinking. This is stupid broad. You better get your stuff from compoundingies. It says for research use and not for humans because because it's not in clean facilities. It's not Get the hell out of here, man. I could go down the rabbit hole on this, but I don't want to freak you guys out too bad. But all those compoundingies that you guys pay for, the raw comes from the same place. It's produced the same way. But you go ahead. Keep believing the science. I'm going to tell you right now, there's not a single product you couldn't test from Elite that won't test 99% plus pure and clean. No endtoxins, nothing. Every single time because anytime something comes back that doesn't have a qualifi a quality test, it doesn't exist. Listen, Sean is the closest person in the world to me as a brother. I would bleed and die for this guy. Him and his wife Joe. And I will tell you right now, both of us, I said the other day, I said, I think we're the last two ethical, hardworking people that genuinely give a [\h__\h] about mankind. But that also means we don't take crap from people. But we won't, we're never going to give anything to anyone that's going to cause any harm. He's not a doctor. He may as well be cuz he has the same mindset. Above all, do no harm unless you're an [\h__\h] and then above all do harm. But really, to say it's a marketing ploy. They're bad, we're good. Buy from us. All that does is discredit yourself. I just don't I don't care. I'm not going to talk poorly about people that aren't here to defend themselves. I will sit there though, let me be transparent about this. I will absolutely trash talk the medical world, big pharma, big insurance, and 99% of you medical doctors cuz you're sellouts and you know what you're doing. I think it's the 8020 rule, right? Good old Brian Tracy. of the doctors that go to med school, 20% go in for the [clears throat] right reason, to actually make a difference, to change the world, to help people, to solve problems, and then they become and they come out and they have tiny practices, no job or lose their license because they don't follow the narrative. And the 80% go in and go, I'll just follow the narrative and I'll get a bunch of letters after my name and I'll make a bunch of money and I'll put in a pair of tits every day or whatever it is you're going to do. I'll go in be an oncologist and lie to everybody. I'm going to tell you right now, those people, there's a special place in hell for you, man. I can't get my head around the fact that if you're doing something that causes harm, you're okay with it. Your hypocratic oath says, "Above all, do no harm." I don't know. Anyway, I hope you guys got something out of this. The Pedalon's a game changer in ways that you can't even understand. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.