Man, it's 10 to 6 date night Friday. Clean off my watch. You know, this is the first Rolex I got, right? Submariner. And it's not the watch. And that's not what this is about. It just made me think about it. But it's not the watch. It was the freedom to get the watch that was really that changed a lot of things for me. It was the mindset behind it. And you're going to hear all kinds of guys tell you about the mindset and change your thinking and be a visionary and all that. But listen, I'm going to tell you how to escape the matrix in a 100 days. And I got nothing to sell you. Nothing. I just I really want you to do this because I'm looking at society. People are getting worse, man. They're getting worse. Everybody is angry and miserable and justifying their poor, pitiful situations that they have created themselves and nobody wants to admit it. So, they're always on the prowl. They're always searching for the next thing that's going to take them to the spot they wish they were in while they're defending the position they're in. Anytime somebody points out that they don't like it, you can't escape the thing you're defending. It's impossible. If you're in a cage and the door opens up and you keep defending how you have to stay in the cage, it doesn't matter if the door's open. You're going to stay in the cage because you don't want to admit that you can't stand the cage and you don't want to do the work required to walk out of the cage. So either way, you're screwed. So you go, I may as well stay in the cage. It has nothing to do with who's the president. It has nothing to do with whatever school or whatever grades you went. I don't care. Nobody does. You guys are in love with an idea, not the work. And it doesn't matter how many times I wrap this up and present it to you guys, you're always looking for another way. You're always going, "I can't be it. There's another way, Spartan. I got to I heard this thing from this guy. I heard this thing from that guy." Then go try them. Go do them. But you don't even do that because the second you actually open that door and you start looking into that room where they say all the answers are, you go, "Man, that looks an awful lot like work. I don't at least I know how to do this." Which is the same reason why a lot of you guys don't commit to a program. You don't commit to a coaching program. You don't commit to a training program. You don't commit to a job or what's required or learning a skill set rather to upgrade your life. You don't do it because you're too busy being angry that you don't have it and you're too unwilling to put in the work and the struggle to change it because you surround yourself by people that have recruited you to stay where you are. Because if you change your position, that invalidates everything that they've said. Everybody wants a better life. I have a pretty great life. I want a better life. So, I work towards it. But a lot of people want a better life and they get mad when somebody shows them the better life and hands them the blueprint because they go, "Oh, no, no, no, no. I can't do that. I tried that. It didn't work for me." No, you didn't. And it would have. But that's exactly why you won't commit. You won't commit the money or the time or the energy to get to where you want to go. But you'll commit the money, the time, and the energy to buy a big screen TV, a big truck that you're still making payments on that your mom had to cosign for. And a mortgage that is not a tax write-off. It's the biggest liability in the world, by the way, is owning a home. It is a lie. You guys are in love with the idea. It's like a fantasy of what your life could be, right? This illusion of potential. And all it really is is you are mentally just rubbing one out to someday. How many days do you think you have on this planet? I'll tell you right now at 52 years old, I wish I had more days, but I don't know when I'm going to go. I'm hoping it's a really long time from now, but I don't think my mission's done. But I also know that tomorrow I have one less day. And I I don't think a lot of you guys take that seriously. You go, I'll spend the money later. I'll invest the money later. I'll invest the time later. I'll put the energy in later. But how many laterers do you have until you're out of lers? Even my mentorship, my online mentorship, my coaching mentorship, I give you the answers, the blueprints that work because I am a walking example of the fact that it works. It was 1,500 bucks to get in for a year. So, as of now, my sale price, it's $4,900 for a year. And even that is so cheap, it should be $49,000. If you got one answer that saved your marriage, how much money would that be worth? If you got one answer that turned your business from a $10,000 a year business to a $1 million a year business, which I've done, by the way, I just got off the phone with a guy today, a client, and his wife. I don't want to give out the names because you guys will search it, but he's in my group, and he's one of my OG guys. Him and his wife, they weren't even, they were just dating when he started with me. and he's gone through some serious health issues and he is about to have a $3 million minimum payday and they have struggled up until now and they're about to turn it all around and the next conversation I have with him I promise you is going to be hey Spartan what kind of plane should I get and I have so much respect for this guy because he's listened to everything I told him to do and he grinds hard him and his wife grind so hard and I'm so proud of him but he also spent the money to do one-on-one with me. And I have people go, "Well, I don't have the money. How can you find it to buy a house that you use one out of the 10 rooms that you've got or the truck that you needed to have that cost you 110 grand that you don't do anything with other than wash it and drive around with some it's a pavement princess? You couldn't even take it on the dirt if you want, but you have to be shiny and create this illusion so other people think you're successful, but you're not really successful. Then how can you go home at night and actually if you're willing to lie to yourself, you're not willing to win because what you're living is an illusion. It's an illusion to everybody else and honestly to yourself. You become delusional. But that's what I'm trying to tell you. This guy spent a ton of money. 4,900 bucks and you get in for a year and you're lucky that I'm even doing that because I know my worth and I know damn well how great this mentorship is. If you're looking for $40 mentorships, I'm not your guy. And neither are you. You'll never build a business that'll compete with me. And people go, "That's arrogant. That's not very nice. That's not very good coaching. Actually, that's the best coaching because I'm telling you, you're not putting in what's required for the life. You're in love. You're in love with an idea. It's a fantasy. You love the image and the outcome and all the applause that comes with telling people how successful you are, even though you're not there yet. But the minute the work shows up, you ghost it. like you you scroll and you avoid and you escape and you run and you excuse and you validate yourself to yourself and then you get mad when people show up on your feed. Like, how much of a coward do you have to be that you go into somebody else's feed and in their DMs and leave trash talk or even in their comments and leave trash talk? You're a coward. I I pity people like that because they go to bed worth nothing. You know, the best coach in the world is the one that tells you the truth immediately, doesn't drag it out for a month. If you want someone that's going to be tactful and soft and slow, I am not your coach. I'm not even the podcast you want to listen to. But if you want to win, just keep listening. I come out here every day. I haven't missed a day in 192. Get mad. Get mad at everything you see because that's what happens. You you see things and then you run away from the things that look, smell, and sound like work. But when you run away, you're running away pissed off. You're mad at the world and the winners and and the mirror. But it's never your fault verbally, externally, but I'll tell you right now, the only reason you're mad is because deep down you know damn well it's your fault. And you're right. You need to wake up. And I've said this a ton of times. You guys are all running your mouths about how you want more, but then you come into my feed and my comments trashtalking things that I give away for free because you don't like the information because it challenges the impetent belief mindset worldview that you have that isn't even getting you anywhere. But you don't like it because you spend your life as a headline reader, not an information seeker. You don't spend your days learning something new, seeking new information, and becoming a better version of yourself. You look at what's making the most noise, and you just side with that, which means you're being recruited by the idiots at the bottom until you become one. But everybody wants more. More money, more freedom, more strength, more love, more passion, more business, more leads. But you know what? Here's what it all means. I want more without doing anything. I want to feel better about my life without doing a damn thing. You don't want success if that's what you're doing. You want the idea of success. It's like you guys that go out and rent cars and then take as many pictures as you can. They're paid for. How about yours? If you are easily agitated, you are easily manipulated. Let me explain something about success and it this is the health I even becoming fit. I built this this body if you're listening to this the podcast and you're not seeing what I'm pointing at myself. My physical body I built this. If you don't think that I train hard, you better pay attention because I go to work when I go to the gym. I don't do it for you. I don't do it for anyone else. I do it to put demons in a box. The byproduct is I look and move like this. I'm not chasing a certain look. I'm putting in work to make sure that the demons don't win and I become the best version of myself who God intended for me to become. Right? And I think most of you guys don't do that. You guys insult the world by becoming the most embarrassing version of yourself and then defending the the prison that you built for yourself, the fat suit that you wear, the zeroed out bank account that you have, the business that you tried once and said didn't work. Do you have any idea how many businesses I've failed? How many millions of dollars I've lost? How many [\h__\h] I've had in my life that have just done me dirty or screwed up my life? You got to turn your palms up and release that to God and let him handle that weight, man. Because you're never going to get anywhere if that's what you keep focusing on. And every time that you go out and you stare at somebody else's feed and you get angry, how does that make sense really? that you get offended and triggered because of what I'm wearing or what I have on my wrist or the words that come out of my mouth that you chose to listen to by going to my feet and not swiping up, down, sideways, the car I drive, the life I have, the money I make, the mindset I have, the philosophy I have, the fact that whether I believe in God or and you don't, whatever. How is that offensive to you when you choose to look my direction, but yet the people with the multicolored rainbow hair and the cattail sticking out of their ass with a litter box in the corner trying to tell everybody that there are 35 genders and getting angry and bringing that stuff into a school and trashing the mindsets of children. That's not offensive. Yet, you're shoving it down our throats. You don't have to listen to this podcast at all. You can just turn it off. You know you are worth nothing when you get triggered by everything. Real success isn't sexy. I'll tell you that right now. It's dull. It's boring. It's lonely. It's hard. It's repetitive. It's incredibly painful. It's inconvenient as hell. And honestly, it demands that you die to who you've been. And that's exactly why you guys resist it. You avoid everything that makes you stronger. I really don't understand. Like the more I speak, the more frustrated it gets because you have endless tools. You have a machine in your hand that you can watch any kind offormational product to help upgrade your knowledge, which in turn will upgrade your skill set, which in turn will upgrade your worth and give you the money. And yes, you want the money because that gives you the freedom to make the decisions. The freedom money gives you makes people happy. But only the losers at the bottom and the crabs in the bucket argue that money is something that's bad and they think it's righteous and noble to be broke and to do more work than what's required to evolve. Like a lot of you guys, you could have your house on fire and somebody can hand you the fire extinguisher, the hose, the fire department, and you will turn around and get mad at a water shortage and saying they shouldn't spray the house, that their uniforms are offensive, that the fire retardant outfit is offensive, that the sirens are too loud, the lights are disturbing, they're probably affecting climate change, and that they are oppressive because they showed up when they weren't called, weren't asked. And the fact that if they spray your house, they're just an example of the repression of the world because you don't just let the fire be itself in its authentic self and burn. And then you'll blame those same firemen for the house burning down. See, that's how you guys think. You get presented with a solution and you come up with all the reasons why the solution won't work and you get mad that you still have the dumpster fire that you live in. I make that make sense. You guys are fighting to stay in a burning building even though you hate being in a burning building. You don't want the solution. Society is trashed right now. You guys are all pointing fingers at everybody else going at somebody else's fault. Y'all need to go into the bathroom and look in the mirror and negotiate with your boss because at any moment you can change your life. You guys avoid everything that makes you stronger. Everything that could make you smarter, wealthier, more powerful, more disciplined, faster, more wealthy, you instinctively recoil from. Why? It's because you've been programmed to equate discomfort with danger by the hypnosis of social conditioning. You say, "If I don't like it, I shouldn't have to do it." Because that's what everybody else is saying. You want to be accepted for where you are, even though you secretly hate where you are. Let that sink in. Like, let that land. How can you get anything better when you spend every day defending the life you secretly want to escape? The answer is you can't. You need a big blinking sign over your forehead that says dumbass until you stop doing that. You're not just avoiding the work. You're actively conspiring against yourself. That's the deeper cut. Think about this. Every excuse that you use to stay the same is a conscious act of self-sabotage. you're doing it. Nobody is making you. And to make it worse, you surround yourself with people doing the exact same thing and wondering why you're never changing. These are people that confirm your mediocrity and make you feel safe in your stagnation and misery. Not everybody wants to be successful. That's a lie. And here's the thing. If you climb out of that cave, if you evolve, if you actually become more and you start winning, you expose them because you destroy the narrative that they've been selling themselves for years. So, what they're going to do is they're going to fight. They're going to fight to keep you there and they're going to disguise it all as concern. We just want what's best for you. Or I liked who you were better. I've gotten that. Oh, I remember when you used to be this and this and now you're just, you know, I remember when you were this silly, funny, you would just make these mobility videos and, you know, you seemed, you were less intense and less serious. I liked you better when you were like that. Now you're just this arrogant [\h__\h] incorrect use of the word by the way because I'm not arrogant. Arrogant is to not know and think you don't need help but tell everybody that you do know. To know and not to do is not to know. I am not that person. If anything you want to call me something correct, say I'm egotistical, but I have all the results to back it up. So when you have the results to back it up and the receipts behind you and the confidence that is well-earned, it's not called ego, it's called a resume. That's where you guys are screwing up because you get angry that somebody else changed and you're mad that you're still where you are, but I leveled up. And instead of going, "Maybe I should take notes because this guy escaped the matrix I was in," you go, "I like who you used to be better. You've changed." And they say it like it's a threat. They liked you better when you were stuck because it justified their stuckness, your evolution. That's the death of their illusion. That's why they get pissed off. That's why anybody that's said that to me, I just laugh because I think you're still in the same place and it pisses you off and now you try and validate it to me. How can you think for a second that I'm going to give a crap if you like me? And and if you're in that position and you're trying to escape that cave, that's why you can't keep defending them and expect to become somebody new. You have to choose comfort. The illusion of safety with all these slobs or clarity, singularity of focus, and a whole bunch of life that you really wish you had that you can build. You know, I mean, the the buzzwords right now are people love, "Oh, I'm going to escape the matrix." Yeah, but you missed the truth, man. You built the damn matrix yourself. You subscribed. Listen, here's why. You subscribed to every system you now claim to be trapped by. Really? You walk around saying how controlled you are. Here, let let's test that theory. Nobody forces you to eat garbage. And your answer is, "Well, not all of us can afford to eat healthy food, so we have to eat." [\h__\h] Get a better job, upgrade your knowledge, and you'll upgrade your skill set. Next. Nobody forces you to sit on the couch, dent the couch with your big butt staring at Netflix all the time. Yeah, I just got to watch. Everybody needs downtime. You got to have a work life balance. Bull. Get up and do the work until you don't have to worry about anything anymore. That's one of my favorite ones. Some of us were forced. Are you out of your ever loving mind? Nobody forced you to take that jab. Nobody. Nobody pinned you down and stuck it in your arm or in your ass or wherever you had it. Nobody forced you to do that except the person you see every day in the mirror. And that's why you get so pissed off because nobody stood there. And even if somebody said, "Well, if somebody can force you to do something, what if they held a gun to you? You can take the bullet. You're still not being forced." Again, things that I teach in my mentorship. But no, you guys subscribe to the narrative that goes, "No, everything outside of this little bubble that is causing you misery is dangerous." Unpack that just for a second. Nobody forces you to be broke, addicted, bitter, anxious, depressed, or completely directionless. You are not imprisoned at all. At all. You are very well conditioned. Like you were told by who knows the constant drip feed of terrible information and the people that recruit you into their circle that you were told that you have no choice and you believed it. And then that belief you use to justify weakness. Because the second that you admit that nobody's forcing you, that even if they held a gun to your head, you still really have a choice. The second you do that, the illusion is gone. Freedom begins with a change in your perspective. You're going to keep building the exact life you claim to hate, brick by brick in that wall. unless you are willing to disagree with everything that you've been told. But most of you guys aren't willing to do that because it hurts your feelings and you were told that feelings matter more than anything else. Some of you guys are so unbelievably controllable. You've been manipulated. So like that burst of rage and fury that you feel when someone points at the life that you have indirectly by showing them the life that they have or the results that they have and you feel the need to justify your position by going, I bet their mom bought that. I bet their dad bought that. They take this chemical. They take that chemical. That car is not paid for. That's leased. That's not really their house. You look for anything you can to justify your position, but you wrap it up in a way that you want to sound virtuous that you're calling someone else out for their lives. But what you're really doing is calling out yourself cuz you go, I'm not worth it. I'm not worth it. Which means they can't have that because I can't have that. You can't have it because you don't think you're worth it. That's not righteousness. You know what that is? That's proof that you are absolutely controlled. Because when you react and defend and explain, every word that you speak is a link in that chain that proves you're easy to manipulate. How can you let somebody control you like that? What if what they said was offensive? How are words offensive to you? Grow up. Listen, I'll tell you the easiest way to control somebody, trigger their emotions. This is probably going to trigger a bunch of people. I get a bunch of weird comments in YouTube from you guys all angry and pissed off going that's not exactly true. What about this? Then keep justifying the prison that you are building for yourself bar by bar and brick by brick while I leave in my Lamborghini with my family and my amazing life that I have built. You keep justifying yours. I've been at the bottom. Do you have both lungs? I don't. Where were you four years ago? I was broker than broke, losing everything sick on my last breath. How about you? No, I don't have empathy or sympathy. I have expectations and standards. I'll trigger your emotions and I'll watch you dance around like a marionette. I make you feel offended and you guys are going to do everything to restore your ego. That makes you very, very weak. Here's the difference. I'll give you the secret. I told you I'm going to tell you how to do this. Most of you guys aren't going to listen. People that are high performers, elite people, exceptional people, they didn't start like that. They started by controlling themselves. People that are high performers, they don't react ever. They respond. They look at something, they analyze it, and then they adapt to whatever it is, and they control their reaction, and then they move. you guys in your knee-jerk reflexes about getting in the comments all the time. You're mad, but who you're mad at is the person that's typing, not the person you're watching. If somebody calls you lazy or weak like I am right now, or soft or a coward or broke or that you had a choice at all and you explode, you lose your mind. Congratulations, muppet. You're predictable, which is exactly what people want. the people that you don't want to be around, by the way. The people that are controlling you, just so you know, predictable people never win ever. You don't think that's how it works. They win sympathy. They don't win power. I'll give you that. They win sympathy and maybe a little bit of empathy till people figure them out. But they never ever control. They never win control. Not for themselves, not for anybody else, which is why their life sucks. And then they just die in their double wide when they're 85 with a Big Mac next to them. Listen, I I'll give you a 100 day exit plan for the matrix. Fair? Cuz I want to go hang out with my wife and it's 6:15. You want to escape here? I'll give you the whole map, the whole blueprint. And there's no money involved. You don't have to give me a dime. It's not for five grand or 10 grand or anything. This is stuff that I teach. What you should do is go, does this guy have the results I want? Ask yourself, do I have a fit body? Is my body fit? Did I earn it? Do you see me work out? Because I promise if you've watched any one of my workouts, you know damn well I train my balls off. Do I have an incredible wife? Do I brag about my wife? I love my wife. She's my best friend and I have an amazing marriage. Do I have great kids? You already know that. I talk about them all the time, too. What about business? What about success? I am doing this all the time and I show my steps because I want you to win. So, if I have everything that you want, you might want to listen to me. But here's how you break out of the matrix. how you walk out of this self-imposed prison and never ever go back no matter who's there. First one is you got to forgive yourself, bro. You can't move forward without dragging all that dead weight. Everything that you've done wrong that you keep running on repeating and going, "What if that happens again? Forgive it. Let it go." You don't do it for them. You do it for you. All the people that did you wrong, all the people that stole from you, broke things, hurt you, all that. Let it go. Cut it the hell loose. Grow up. Acid destroys the vessel it's stored in. How many times do you need to hear that? Because guilt is a leash that other people just they yank on it every time that you start to rise. I think real people that love to come together as a community and train. Badass. But that ain't what happened and you know that. But the judgment that comes with making any kind of a mistake and thinking that the judgment needs to be sustained because your life sucks just makes me pity you which is that's that guilt leash. Nobody can make you feel anything without your permission. So that's all on you. But if my success makes you realize your diminished life, maybe you just get up and go, I'm going to change it. Why? because that guy did it and he's got one lung and he went through hell and he loves his wife and he loves building business and he actually comes out here to help people. Even with peptides, the peptide company which is growing by the day helping people. What What about this and what about that? You are defending the very things that are killing you instead of the guy like me that goes, "Hey, listen. I have this solution. Peptides have been around for decades." That's a signal, not a hammer that's pounding your body into submission, making it do things it doesn't want to do at the expense of your own health. No. What about this, bro? What about that, bro? Okay. I like I'm not going to force you to do it. Like you guys, you guys remind people of their past to keep them on your level. And the ones who go, I don't care. Oh, that's infuriating to you because you lost another member of your little sad kumbaya party, your pity party, your victim party. So, if you are in that party and you want to rebuild your life, I don't care how big your vision is, make it giant. Get rid of those people that remind you of your past, cut that leash. Once you do it, you're never going to go back. The second thing I'll tell you is do this. Do what you say every time, no matter what. I don't care if you have to stay up, you don't sleep, you don't eat, I don't care. You do what you say because your word is your weapon. Anybody that doesn't do what they say is a disgusting piece of [\h__\h] in my world. If you procrastinate, defer, don't do what you say and you come up with different reasons and excuses why you can't do it at this time. I don't ever want to see you. I don't want to talk to you because you are a person that has no integrity and you want other people to believe that you have integrity, but you have no evidence. You have no receipts. You just have a bunch of words that spill out of your mouth. If your words aren't followed by an action, they're not promises, they're lies. Your word is your weapon. So you say something, it happens. There's power in that. No justifications or waiting for motivation or any specific conditions. You do that, your brain goes, this guy means business. The way you stack confidence and self-worth is by stacking wins. And the way you stack wins is by keeping your word, your promises. It's when you build receipts behind you. You need to celebrate your wins like your life depends on it. Every win that you ignore is a step backwards. And you keep reminding yourself of where you failed or you keep listening to other people remind you of where you failed, you are practicing losing. Every time you brush off a victory, you are stealing the emotional fuel that you need to build momentum to keep going that direction that you want. Those are the receipts. Confidence comes from stacked receipts of wins that you have already done. Wins build an identity. soda losses when all you do is focus on them and listen to the jackasses that like to remind you of where you've lost. Why are you listening to these people? When you evolve, you threaten the system around you. That's the problem. And they don't like it, which tells you you're in the wrong system. Time to get out. People are going to say, you know what, people used to say, "Oh, you've changed, man. I liked you better when you were. I'm not doing this for you to like me. I'm doing this for me to like me." I've changed. They're going to say this to you. I liked you better before. Of course you did. I made you comfortable. They don't want your growth because it reminds them that they haven't. That they've stayed the same and it pisses them off. Cut them loose. You don't owe stagnation to anybody. What are you doing hanging around these people? Decide what your life is supposed to look like. Get specific in every category and cut everybody out that doesn't help you get there or support you on your way. Eliminate every single thing in your life that doesn't move you towards that vision, that kingdom at the end of the road. Not most things, not some things, not well, I can't because this guy's been there for a really long time. If they do not help you move towards it, if they are holding you back, cut them out. No exceptions or negotiations. And definitely don't compromise. Either you want it or you don't. I think one of the most important things is upgrading your skill set. A lot of you guys want to start at the finish line. You haven't earned the finish line yet. I didn't. So, I upgraded my skill set by learning, upgrading my knowledge. If you don't have the life you want, it's really simple. It's because you don't know how to get it. There's something missing. Some knowledge that you don't have, which means the skill set is missing. And behind that missing skill set are all the things that you don't want to learn because you either think you're above them or you just don't want to put in the time or you just don't want to look stupid in front of other people. But you already look stupid to yourself. So what do you care about? Your life or their life? It's selfmastery. But you've heard this so many times as well. Just level up. Skill up every damn day. That's it. 100 days. Do this for 100 days. No breaks. No procrastination. You miss a day, start over at day one. You are on day 99 and you screw up and you miss it. Welcome to day one. Have that kind of integrity. But here's why. Because if you're willing to lie to yourself for convenience, you don't deserve the life that you claim to want that you run around telling everybody you wish you had. You want to You want to know what separates winners from everybody else? They don't tolerate lies ever, especially not their own. So, who are you? Yeah. I think this is a very disturbing thought and it it's it's brutally honest. You can't use weakness as a weapon. It just makes you look dumber than you already look. Which is why most people, they're never going to escape. They're never going to win. They're going to die defending a cage that they hate that they've built. And it's because comfort is addictive. The modern world is built to sell you comfort at the cost of your own upgrades and evolution. You do understand though comfort isn't neutral, right? It's death. It's stagnant. It's decay. It's you become this bottom feeder that can't even stand themselves and knows it but doesn't know how to escape because you're too afraid to look for the knowledge because when you do, all the people around you that recruited you into this disgusting circle chastise you. So instead of fighting back against them, you attack all the people that you wish you were. Comfort is a killer, man. It's like an assassin, right? Like it just destroys urgency and speed and necessity. If you want to know what the enemy of all of your victory is in that life that you want, it is your comfort. It is your unwillingness to spend the money, spend the time, spend the energy. And once you've built an identity around your excuses, growth now, evolution now becomes betrayal to yourself. Except here's the thing. You're not built for comfort. You're built for work, man. You're built to conquer and rise and keep doing things. That's how you're designed. Because listen, if you go lift weights, do you get stronger? Yes. If you invest time, money, and energy into growing a business, do you become more wealthy? Yes. If you expand and develop your communication skills with your spouse, do you have a better marriage? Yes. You're designed to conquer. And if you don't conquer something out there on a regular basis, which means constantly upgrading, I use the winds of yesterday as a standards for today, which means I am always upgrading my life. But if you don't do that, you start to destroy something in here in your surroundings, in the life that you're in. It's why people self-sabotage. They go, I can't do anything out there because they I might be seen to fail and I might go against my circle. I'll just start picking away at myself just because here's why the drive-thru never dies. It just aims itself inside and it starts chewing you up. You become your own worst enemy and then you call it anxiety or depression or burnout. No, that's not what it is. That is the cross of all your unused potential. And it is your psychology begging you. Is God's vision screaming at you to go do that thing? Listen, if you listen to this for entertainment, great. But I don't think so. If you're this far into this podcast, you you know something, and that's you've been playing small. I had to learn this the hard way. I didn't learn it until 48. You're playing small because you're you're too afraid to evolve out of the group you're in and you pretend that you don't know what to do and you use that as an excuse. But you do. You do. I just gave you the recipe to do this. But here's Listen, you show up every day. You tell the truth. You do what you say. You train harder. You carry more weight. You think more clearly. You stop with the [\h__\h] and the excuses. You leave the cowards and the liars and the procrastinators out of your life. Cut them off. You upgrade your skill set by upgrading your knowledge. You burn whoever the hell you are. Stop making decisions as who you are right now and start making decisions as who you want to become and ask yourself would that person make a decision like this today? If the answer is no, then you can stop right now. You got to burn that old identity. Build a new one and then just do this on repeat every day. No breaks, no misses, no excuses, no procrastination. You do it for 100 days and it won't matter that you even if you're like, "Oh, I'm going to stop after 100 days." You won't. You won't because now you you built a new habit. It takes one decision to build habit. Not 27 days, 21 days, 9 days, 3 weeks, whatever the [\h__\h] is. They say it takes one decision to build a new habit. Because if you do it twice, it is not a decision anymore. It's a habit. So all these guys that like, oh, change any habit in four weeks. You change it by the second time you do it because now it's a conscious effort. Now you decide to keep it. But you need better focus. And you need to quit worrying about being scared of what other people are going to say or think or whether they come into your comments and say things that might hurt your little precious feelings. You need to be okay with giving them the finger and going, "This is my life. I'm building it the way I want. You go ahead and demolish your life. I'm done listening to you or being triggered by anything you say because every time I get triggered by you, I'm handing the control to you. I just cut the leash. Go [\h__\h] yourself." See, now you've got the blueprint and you got the mirror, so you can look at yourself in the eye every day and go, "Did I do it?" So, what's your excuse now? What is it now? Because you got nothing. I'm a 52-year-old bald-bearded man on here giving you the exact recipe to get to where you want to go. And I'll bet 95% of you guys are going to go, "I'll do it tomorrow. I'll do it later. I don't know about his mentorship, man. May maybe there's a cheaper one out there." Like all the things you're going to come up with. The world doesn't give you what you fantasize about when you're laying in bed at night wishing your life were better. It gives you what you're willing to suffer for and relentlessly pursue. Anyone that's winning will tell you the same thing. Suffer well. That means suffer in the right direction. Suffer with a purpose, not because you think it's noble and that you're not taking a shortcut by choosing to suffer more. Because if you're willing to suffer well and suffer with direction, one day you're going to wake up and realize that life that you're dreaming of all the time is now the life you're defending. Now that's the life you wanted. So go ahead and defend it. But this time you're not going to want to escape. So it's the right life. You're going to fight to keep it and grow it and build it and evolve it and create even more. And you'll be blown away at what you can create because it's no longer just an idea in your head. That's your entire reality. But you have to make the decision to do that because once you do that, you're never going to want to stop because you've earned every damn piece of it. Winning or losing, both self-made. You decide which one you are. I got to go for date night. Never miss.