You know, I get a lot of questions about cholesterol from you guys, and keep them coming. Some of the questions I'll answer. Some of the questions I think you guys just I don't know why you're asking me. You know the answer. Maybe you just want reassurance. I have no idea. But it's not so much a cholesterol issue. You guys have been indoctrinated to buy into some serious corrupt dogma. And it doesn't even make sense according to physiology. I saw this doc, this I don't remember her name, but she was going on and on about how statins save people. You guys need to get your head out of your ass. That's absolutely incorrect. That is absolutely incorrect. Statins do not save a single [\h__\h] person. And this lady went full throttle into anti-hypertensives and anti- cholesterol med like cholesterol medications. I'm going to You guys got to stop believing mainstream medicine. I don't know how many times it needs to fail you, but the indoctrination is powerful. The marketing is fantastic. You guys want to learn how to run a business and how to do marketing? Look at big pharma. Don't even don't listen to any guru out there teaching you how to do marketing. Just watch big pharma and do what they do. Which I mean it's being facitious because that means you're going to lie. Don't do that. Don't do that. But understand before I go any further, this isn't meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, triage, advise. This is just hypothetical educational and theoretical and just purely for entertainment. And this is about uh the equivalent of watching the A team in the8s. Like there's no validity in what I'm saying. I have to say that. Why? Because apparently when you tell the truth on social media, when you tell the truth, when you explain things on social media and give facts, irrefutable facts, as immutable as the gravity that is holding me to this ground right now, it goes against community guidelines. It goes against terms of use. And so this is why, just to be very clear, you guys, I'm also setting up a Telegram and Rumble because, and I'm gonna be all over X, Twitter, formerly Twitter, because this is ridiculous. just to understand. I'm out here to help people and the heavily censored platforms are here. That should be a giant red flag for you guys to go, man. Maybe they don't have our best interest in mind. No, they don't. What how many hundreds of billions am I getting for pushing a narrative that is that I'm telling you right now? How how much money am I getting for this? Go ahead. None. What? Because you buy from my company? Because you join my black card group? Are you [\h__\h] me? That isn't hundreds of billions of dollars costing people their health. So, yes, it bothers me. Like, let me let me get one string one thing straight right from the beginning. This isn't opinion. This is like I'm going to tell you all about cholesterol, all about cardiovascular disease, how to put armor in front of your heart and your cardiovascular system. Tell you exactly what's going on. I'll back it by all the science in the world and all the studies that prove it. And yet, here's the problem. People will still run out and get Lipur, still run out and get anti-hypertensives. They'll still run out and get SSRIs and MAI inhibitors for neurotransmitter issues and they won't fix the underlying damn problem. Like, I'm going to give you a forensic audit of a 40-year-old medical fraud that's been going on. And the evidence is overwhelming. It's mindboggling because this is a multi-billion dollar empire built on cholesterol fear. And it's it's a house of cards. It can't work. I'm going to blow this whole [\h__\h] thing down so hard that you guys won't you won't be able to unsee it ever. Ever. Everywhere you look, you're just going to hear my voice in your head either getting pissed off because I forced you to see the truth. See, some of you guys don't want to see the truth because it it tells you that everything you've been fighting and defending for so long has been wrong. And you're more protective of your ego than your health. If I told somebody, and I'm not asking you for money, I'm just telling you this. If I told somebody it's going to cost them, I don't know, invent a number. It could be an astronomically high number. say it's 10 grand a month to virtually guarantee that they would, I don't know, have a successful business, learn how to do it, have a great marriage, be physically fit, and have all the health in the world until they're 100 years old. And then after that, they're on their own. 10 grand a month, and that's $120,000 a year. And if they spent that, they would have all those things virtually guaranteed with only one caveat that they would have to do the work and the instructions that are being told to them by whoever is charging them this fee. 9% of the people would go, "Fuck that. I don't have 10 grand, but they will run out and exhaust every credit card, every loan, get a heliloc on a house that they shouldn't do. Live in it like they will live in a double wide just so they can afford a big screen TV and a BMW that they shouldn't be driving that park outside so when it pales it just gets the [\h__\h] beat out of them. I don't know. I don't understand you guys. The one thing you can't get more of is your health and your time and you guys squander it on everything. and I'm out here trying to help you and it it gets very frustrating because I saw a post by a friend of mine and very intelligent man and he made a comment going what the [\h__\h] am I even doing this for? Clearly people just want information but they don't do a damn thing about it and he's right. He's damn well right which is why when I like with Telegram and Rumble I'm only going to let people in that really want the information. And the beauty is if anybody doesn't doesn't align with my values, my ethics, my principles, my mindset, my belief system, I can just extricate you from the entire [\h__\h] thing because I I just won't. It's the same reason why I block and delete people on Instagram. I don't want you here if you don't align with my belief system. Why would I? That's like somebody that hates God going to church to make sure that they tell everybody that they hate God. Are you out of your mind, man? God is a G. Josh Howton is my preacher and man, I'll tell you, he points you in the right direction. Lake Point, man, it's the greatest church I've ever been to in my life. So, listen, I'm going to give you some biological facts that are so fundamental, so binary, so black and white, and so inconvenient to the mainstream narrative that it has to be ignored. Listen to me. Cholesterol, there is no such thing as high cholesterol. Not in the way you're thinking. It sure as hell doesn't cause death. Cholesterol is the molecule of life. Your brain is 60% fat by dry weight and a quarter of that is cholesterol. Yes, this gets me really frustrated because I watch I've been a doctor for I don't care what you guys are going to get in my comments and say, "Please shut up and listen to me because I come out here because I give a [\h__\h] I genuinely [\h__\h] care." And and I'm going to tell you right now over and over again, I'm the only doctor that really cares. I'm not doing this for the money. I'm not I've been I've been rich a long time. I don't need to do this for the money. I do this cuz I give a [\h__\h] And if you go, "Well, why don't you do the black card for free?" Because I don't want a bunch of free just opinionated, mindless idiots coming into my black card just spouting off their mouth about a bunch of ridiculous things. I'm protecting my community. I only want people that are involved and invested in themselves. And you're lucky it's only six grand because I have a good mind to make it a hundred. It's going to go up to 25, but I have a good mind to just make it a h 100red and just keep everybody out that does like my best clients, just so you know, are the ones that pay me upwards of $100,000 a year. And I mean, they are so driven and so focused on becoming the best versions of themselves. They are so they pay attention everything I tell them and do everything I ask of them. And they brag on me up and down. You know what my most problematic people are? the cheap [\h__\h] that spend 72 bucks and complain that their package didn't come in one day or that the free shipping was cancelled off of Elite by a Jet. Like the complaint department is astronomical from people that pay nothing. Complainers will complain. Cheap people are always cheap. Take offense to that. You should be offended. If you are cheap, you are a [\h__\h] waste of my time. It bothers me because I don't care how broke I am. I will sell a kidney if I had to to make sure that the rest of my machine is strong enough and I can afford to do the things to make sure I can take care of my wife and my kids for a very long time. Even if it's with only one kidney, I got one lung and I bleed for everybody on this platform. I bleed for my family and I will kill myself to the level like with the amount of work I do for my my best, for Sean, for Joe, for my wife Brandy. Like you guys don't get it. I will go hard into the paint until I physically can't cuz I care. But I'm not doing that for somebody that's complaining about whatever the [\h__\h] it is they're complaining about and going, "I'm going to give you a one-star review because I don't like what you said and your customer service was terrible. [\h__\h] You're a [\h__\h] that you should not have bought from my company because all you want to do is complain. You do not want to listen to my information on social media. All you want to do is come in and complain. What you do is hate yourself. You're looking for a a sounding board for that. How about for once you guys, you just actually look at your life and go, "Maybe everything they've told me is a lie." Instead of fighting to protect your ego and the indoctrination, how about you just look at everything, go, "Maybe everything they've told me is just a damn lie." And if you go, "I'm going to play devil's advocate. Maybe what you're saying is a lie. I'm based on physiology and I have no vested interest in this." You know what my wife always says? Who my wife is so incredibly intelligent? Follow the money. How much money are you paying me to listen to this right now? None. How much money am I getting from YouTube to post this every day? Very little. Just to be very You can probably find it's public knowledge somewhere. It's not very much. No, I still show up. Listen, cholesterol, high cholesterol is there's no such thing. They put the word high in front of it so you guys freak the hell out. Think about that. Think about a like a quarter of that brain that is is cholesterol. The organ that defines your consciousness. It gives your memories, your very self. It is it is built and runs on the very substance that your doctor is trying to chemically suppress. If you have to take a chemical to suppress it, that should be just giant alarms going off. If cholesterol were so deadly, just so you know, evolution, according to all the laws, listen, look at it. All the laws of evolution, natural selection, evolution, all of it. If it were so deadly, just follow this part, then evolution would have selected against it with extreme prejudice. Instead, it's central to our damn biology. The entire cholesterol hypothesis is built on a single flawed premise. Correlation equals causation. And it was cemented into public policy by the Framingham Art Study. But how about we go hard into the paint on this? Read beyond the headlines. The initial data, initial data, 1961 absolutely showed a correlation between rising cholesterol and heart disease in men under 50. But science is about following the data, not the damn dogma. The 30-year follow-up data published in the Lancet in 1987, you could look it up yourself, delivered this fatal kick to the nuts about that hypothesis and the study's architects that they never they never publicized. The data showed that for everybody over 50, the primary demographic given statins, by the way, there was no increased risk of heart disease with high cholesterol. None. In fact, just to be very clear, the data showed a trend in the opposite [\h__\h] direction. The study's own director, Dr. William Castelli, wrote, "For every 1 mgram drop in cholesterol per year, there was an 11% increase in coronary and total mortality. Let that sink in, please." So, as cholesterol levels decreased, the rate of death increased. The foundational study used to scare you into taking a pill actually proves that the pill is associated with a higher chance of freaking dying. Listen, this isn't some minor footnote. It's the study's conclusion buried because it was commercially very inconvenient. But you go ahead and you keep taking your statins. Knock yourself out. So why is artificially low cholesterol so physiologically devastating then, Doc? Is that what you're asking? Why? Why? Why is it so why is it so bad for you? Okay. How about you go from epidemiology into the beautiful and intricate machinery of your damn cells? Statins work by irrevocably inhibiting an enzyme called HMBB COA reductase. This is the master control switch for the mvalinate pathway. The drug companies want you to think that this pathway only produces the bad cholesterol. What a lie of omission that is. Try doing that in court. Lies of omission. Lie. The pathway is a biochemical factory that produces three three critical products. Cholesterol. So for cell membranes and brain function and hormone synthesis. Didn't know that, did you? Co-enzyme Q10. CoQ10. We see this all the time. the essential electron carrier in the mitochondrial electron transport chain, the ETC. It's the spark for ATP production. Adenazine, triphosphate, no kill, no CoQ10, no cellular energy. You can take all the methylene blue you want. Won't work. Go figure. Dole coals. I didn't even know what those were, did you? Critical for intracellular communication and protein synthesis. Can't do those three things. You're [\h__\h] So, when you take a statin, this is why I'm telling you this. When you take a statin, you don't just lower cholesterol. You induce induce the state of controlled starvation in every single energy dependent process in your body. The muscle pain and the weakness and induce myopathy that up to 25% of users experience that. It's not a random side effect. 25% is not random. If we do some math, 25% is sign. I call it appalling. They call it significant. It is a direct result of CoQ10 depletion that causes mitochondrial dysfunction in muscle tissue. The muscles ain't working right, son. Yes, I'm irritated at this. Your muscles are literally being energy starved. In 2018, a meta analysis of the JACC, basic to transitional science or basic to translational science. Confirmed. Confirmed. Where are all these studies, by the way, all over the internet? Why shouldn't they? Why aren't they front page? Because they disrupt their entire narrative. Confirmed that statin therapy directly compromises mitochondrial function. The cure is causing the symptom of chronic disease, fatigue. You want to let that land for a second or you want to argue with me in the comments a little more? I am out here trying to save lives and you guys are arguing to die. Make it make sense. Mankind is it's in your nature to argue stupidity to destroy yourself because you want to protect the one thing that has no value, your [\h__\h] ego. Listen, the neurological consequences of this are even more alarming. In Jamba Neurology, it followed nearly 4,000 elderly patients for 7 years. Seven. You know what the finding was? Low cholesterol levels were significantly associated with greater cognitive decline and an increased risk of dementia. I told you what my terri my terror is, right? My brain losing the ability to give all this information and assimilate information as fast as I can to be able to help people. It's terrifying to me. Your brain synapses, the connections that hold your thoughts and memories are enriched with cholesterol. The drug prescribed to save your heart is actively damaging your brain. This is not a trade-off, just so you know. It's a catastrophic net loss with some muppet arguing to say statins save lives. How about you look at your hormones then? Let's just keep going with this. Every steroid in every steroid hormone in the human body, testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, cortisol, vitamin D, yep, hormone synthesized from cholesterol. It's this unbreakable biochemical chain. In 2010, study in the Journal of Sexual Medicine found that statin use was associated with significantly lower levels of testosterone. I'll let that hit for a second. I got I can keep going on this. I got studies up the wazoo. Another study sclerosis showed direct dose dose dependent. Dose dependent. Dose depend. Yeah, this makes me mad. Do cuz people just voluntarily line up for this [\h__\h] It's like you idiots going get C19 shots for a [\h__\h] donut. What is wrong with you, man? Again, what what do I want you to be? I don't care if you buy my stuff. I really don't. But I care that you're the CEO of your own [\h__\h] biology. You deserve that. But that means you need to admit when you're wrong and you need to go, man, I have been believing some lies. Dose dependent relationship between statin use and decreased libido. Your desire to have sex is gone because your cholesterol is gone. You don't think this is a grand plan? We are chemically castrating millions of people in the name of unproven cardiovascular prevention. How about this? For women, the disruption of progesterone and estrogen that exacerbates permenopause permenopause symptoms and accelerates hormonal aging. Sign me up. Sign me up. This is pure physiology. It's not speculation, you guys. None of this is manufactured going, "Well, hypothetically, even though I said hypothetically at the beginning, that's because I'm not allowed to tell the truth because everything is so heavily censored." You know what I say about that? [\h__\h] you. To all you sensors, you guys are a bunch of dicks because you're suppressing the truth on account of a profit. The pharmaceutical's greatest trick was convincing the world that the bandage was the problem, not the think about what I just said. The real cause of atherosclerosis is not cholesterol. It's systemic inflammation. Cholesterol is the innocent bystander. It's the heroic freaking firefighter that's trying to put the damn blaze out. The arsonist. I'll tell you what they are. It's three things. It's the same three things I talk about all the time. Same three problems. insulin resistance driven by chronic high blood sugar from processed carbohydrates. High insulin levels damage the delicate endothelial lining of your arteries creating these micro tears. Basically turning the inside of your arteries and and venules and veins into velcro. This is the initial injury. By the way, in European heart journal, it confirmed that insulin resistance is a more powerful predictor, listen to me right here, more powerful predictor of cardiovascular events than LDL cholesterol. But yet, what do people line up for? Statins. That's only the first thing. insulin resistance, systemic inflammation. I talk about this all the time. This is the fire. It's fueled by the pro-inflammatory modern diet, particularly industrially processed seed oil, soybean, corn, canola oil in high in omega-6 linoleic acids. Yeah, this creates this cascade of oxidative stress. We measure this, by the way, very realistically with biomarkers of high sensitivity C reactive proteins called hs-CRP, not LDL. Not even the same measurement, not even the same thing. You're looking at the Jupiter trial. Look it up. Just look it up. The Jupiter trial, which marketed a statin of people with normal cholesterol, but high inflammation, proved the point. Reducing inflammation, proved a benefit, not a minor cholesterol reduction. So, which one are you chasing after? Is it systemic inflammation or is it a cholesterol number? Because if you're chasing the cholesterol number, you're [\h__\h] up and it's costing you your health. Mitochondrial dysfunction is the last one. ATP, energy production. I talk about these three all the time because they are the fundamental basis for all metabolic diseases on the planet which tells you what that metabolic diseases diseases in general for the most part are man-made. The energy crisis in your system without efficient ATP production which goes back to CoQ10 which goes back to statins. Do you see how this is all tied together? This is why understanding basic biochemistry and pharmarmacology and physiology matters because you can stitch this all together. And I'm just trying to put this in a nice neat little package and give it to you. That's it. I have been asked by providers, doctors, up, down, and sideways because you know what? They don't learn this stuff. I am a doctor and I know I had to put this all together myself. And I'll tell you right now, I'm no idiot. I'm very intelligent and I had to build this all myself. Put this all together and stitch this all together because they compartmentalize everything. Until you understand the application, all you have is empty knowledge. Without ATP, adenazine triophosphate production, which is crippled by a poor diet, nutrient deficiencies, and statins, the body can't perform basic maintenance. It can't perform basic repairs to damaged arteries. It can't regulate inflammation. You are running on a drained battery. If you understand your your car, if you don't have an alternator, your car is going to run off your battery until the battery is tanked, and then it just doesn't do a damn thing. These three drivers are the epidemic. It's not cholesterol, you guys. And they are utterly untreatable with a single target poison like statin. They require a completely systemic solution. A nutrient-dense anti-inflammatory diet, strength training, real quality sleep. Fix your sleep architecture and stress management of your body, your mind, your environment, what you're doing. There is no pharmaceutical shortcut to metabolic health. None. So here I'll even give you the information about real cholesterol levels. The current guidelines of less than 200 milligrams are a crime against physiology. By far proven. This isn't me making this up. None of this is me just having an opinion. This is just fact. But nobody knows these facts. Consider the data. 2003 in the Annals of Neurology found that individuals with the highest cholesterol levels had the lowest risk of dementia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's. Huh? Sign me up for it though, right? 2016 review in the BMJ, British Medical Journal, concluded that elderly individuals with high cholesterol live longer. What did our grandparents eat? Butter, fat on their meat. What are you guys eating? Based on the physiological demands of the human body for hormone production, neurological function and cellular repair, a healthy total cholesterol level for a thriving adult. Just so you know, oh, some of you guys are about to have an aneurysm. I don't even know if I want to tell you, but I'm going to anyway because it's my [\h__\h] channel. 50 milligrams. That's what it is. usually closer 280 to 300. We are pathizing the very biomarker of vitality. I've said that before because if you make it a weapon against you, you'll never look at it as anything else. Marketing. This is and always has been about money. Statins have generated over a trillion, let this number sink in, trillion dollars in revenue. I want you to think about something. If you earned $1 million profit every month, you would put $12 million profit. Free and clear. $12 million a month into your life. You'd infuse that cash into your life every single year. How many of you guys could stand would have a better life even if you just went a million dollars in a year just short of just south of $84,000 a month? I know most people don't make half of that every year. But yet those are the people that are pumping billions and now trillions into statins. Do you really understand what's happening here? The side effects are a feature of statins, not a bug. They create a perfect lifelong customer, the statin user who then needs pain medication for the myopathy, right? Muscle aches, anti-depressants for the low mood, and eventually more drugs to treat the cognitive and hormonal decline that have been caused by the statin. It is a business model of iatrogenic disease, creating sickness with the the very treatment that you're given. Doubt me all you want. Run to the doctor, spend all your money, watch your managed decline of health. I can only give you the information. Like I said, I can lead you to the water. You decide whether you want to drink or not. The statistical manipulation is the final layer of deception in this entire [\h__\h] pile lasagna that you're looking at. Drug companies trump it. Relative risk reduction. Well, you will see this all the time on every commercial you poss. And and just pay attention now. You will never see anything the same. Relative risk reduction. Remember those three words because it sounds impressive. The drug reduces your risk of heart attack by 36%. Real fact. That's what they tell you. By the way, what they don't tell you is the absolute risk reduction. So follow me on this. relative risk reduction, absolute risk reduction. This is why you need to understand all about the research and disease and research principles and how it how this all works and how they spin it together. If so, follow me. If your 10ear risk of a heart attack is 3%. A third, just follow the math. 36% relative reduction brings it down to 1.9 and change. 1.9%. The absolute risk reduction, you ready? The absolute risk reduction is just slightly over 1%. Which means you would need to treat, just look at the number. You would need to treat 93 people for 10 years to prevent one single heart attack. Number needed to treat 93. Meanwhile, you've actually harmed the other two with mitochondrial poison. The other 92 people, mitochondrial poison, hormonal disruption, and cognitive risk. This isn't medicine. It's a numbers game designed to sell pills. It doesn't even make sense once you start picking apart the numbers. But nobody ever sits down and does it. Cuz what are you taught in school? To believe, not to learn. It's what I talked about earlier today. The evidence is undeniable. The Framingham study data proves that low cholesterol kills. Proves it. And they [\h__\h] that up. So they buried it. The neurological studies prove it. Damages the brain. Endocrinology proves it. That it wrecks your hormones. Biochemistry proves it. I could do this with every system in the body. Starves your cells of energy. The real drivers of heart disease, inflammation, metabolic dysfunction are ignored because they can't be monetized with a patentable pill. The war on cholesterol is a war on human optimization. It's a war on your energy, your mood, your libido, your life, your mind. It's you have got to sit there and go to war for yourself and become the CEO of your own [\h__\h] biology. Stop poisoning the very source of your life force for corporate profit that you are never going to see. Never. And you know what the problem is? You guys are like, "Okay, fine, great. So, if drugs are the problem, what's the real solution? What's the actual armor here, doc? How am I going to do this? What do you got for me now, Trev?" Future of cardiovascular defense isn't in a single patentable side effectladen pill. It's not. It's in a synergistic combination of peptide therapies at work. I don't care if you do it or not. Just change your diet. I'll even help you. Watch this. You ready? Hybrid Mediterranean carnivore diet. It is carnivore diet is hands down what I've seen as the most effective elimination diet without being an elimination diet. It's fantastic. And I won't say that about any other diet. I don't care. But you want to have a great diet. Mediterranean carnivore diet. Get out of my comments if you're going to sit there and justify why being a vegan is great or all this other stuff. No, it's not. No, it's not. You can argue all you want. I don't care. I'm right. It doesn't matter. You can chat GPT this all you want. I'm still right. Just so you know, AI, its entire purpose right now is to please you. So all the answers you're getting, you [\h__\h] are usually wrong. And I can spot them a mile away. I can smell all this a mile away. So save your arguments and just for once open your mind. There is no pill that is going to help this. So, let's say you were going to go down the rabbit hole with pep pets. I don't care if you do. I'm just giving you something to put armor on your system. How about that? You don't want the armor? Change your [\h__\h] diet. Go for a onem walk every day. Love on your wife a whole bunch and lose the weight so you don't have a dicky where your belly sticks out more than your dickydoo. Get off your couch, you fat bastard. Fix your life, you lazy bastard. Earn some money and stop complaining about how it's your boss's fault or government's fault or the tax's fault. Start a business and actually pay money to learn how to [\h__\h] do it from somebody that makes a lot of money. I made over a million dollars last month. Profit. I teach people how to do this. I'm not marketing my my program, by the way. I don't give a [\h__\h] In fact, if you're going to come in and be lazy, I don't want you and I won't sell you my product. I only sell two things. Unbreakable mastermind black card. The That's it. You want one-on-one, it's $150,000 a year. If you go, "Whatever, dude. Don't It's okay. I'm still going to eat tonight. You're good." But what I'm trying to tell you is come go to people that actually have the answers in the life that you want. Someone who gives a [\h__\h] enough that they're willing to get in your face like me and every time you do something, they're getting in your face going wrong, wrong, do this right because I'm trying to save your ass. That's somebody who loves you if you haven't figured that out yet. So, if you don't get it that I love you, you're blind and stupid. So, use peptides don't. I don't care. I'm just giving you a way to put armor around yourself. If you think it comes out of a supplement bottle from some white label supplier at your local chiropractic office, go wasting your money. I don't have anything against supplements, but most of those things are high price [\h__\h] Listen, I'll give you the exact layout. If I was going to do this and I knew nothing about it and it was somebody like I am a walking billboard of what real health is, what success is, what a great marriage is, what a solid mindset and an unbreakable psychology is, what real success financially is. I am a walking billboard and I've done it in four years and I went from zero to 1 million in a month in 4 months and I just did it just now. I've done this enough times to know how to do this and it's all provable. The reason I'm telling you this is because I give a [\h__\h] But maybe you should start paying attention to people I care instead of paying attention to the next cheap thing that you can get that you think is going to do the work for you. So I will lay this out. You play it out. TB-500 BPC-157 MC Redat True Tide GHK-Cu. You're welcome. That is armor for your body. This isn't some random cocktail. It's a very targeted physiological strike force designed to keep you solid and savage and turn you into a damn juggernaut. I'll even explain how they work together. system by system. First, if you look at BPC-157 and TB-500, that's like the emergency repair system for you. Just so you know, TB-500 is the only product on earth that heals the moardium versus fibrodic problems after an MI, myioardial inffection. You have heart damage, TB-500 fixes it. Nothing else say they will argue against that up, down, and sideways except the data is irrefutable. The research is everywhere on this. They just don't want you to know. Unless you're one of these guys, what is a mice? What is a mouse study though compared to a human? I got nothing for you, then go back to taking your statins. I had some guy in my comments go, you know, I'm not trying to be an [\h__\h] but I'm going to be an [\h__\h] I treated him like an [\h__\h] Wiped them with toilet paper and threw them in the toilet. That's funny. I don't care who you are. TB-500 and BPC57 along with the systemic effects and the cardiovascular effects, let alone like the cardiovascular repair, the myioardium repair. They're the master regulators of something called angioenesis, which is the creation of new blood vessels. The tissue repair is requires that. So when systemic inflammation damages the endothelial linings of the arteries that you have all through your body, this duo, it's like wonder twins, I use this all the time, activate, pow, accelerates healing at a genetic level. They don't just put a bandage on the damn problem. They instruct your body to build a stronger, more resilient vascule to withstand the onslaught of all the stupid things that we do every day. They are the ultimate response to the initial arterial insult and onslaught and injury that happens from doing the things we do. Add in mod C. It's the mitochondrial nuclear reactor. Remember mitochondrial dysfunction is primary driver of cardiovascular decline because you don't have the energy to do the repairs. M C is mitochondrial derived peptide that gets into the nucleus and reprograms your metabolism to do better. It enhances glucose utilization, increases ATP production, directly combating the energy crisis that statins have effectively worsened. It ensures that the cells that are lining your cardiovascular system have the energy to maintain themselves and repair all the damage that's going on in there. And by the way, all of this stuff is so ridiculously inexpensive. But a true and people hear this, it's a weight loss, it's a weight loss peptide. What about tepatide? What a semiglutide. Zeppid, semiglutide, if you have them, I don't care if they were two grand and you bought so much of them that you should have stock in the [\h__\h] company. Throw them in the trash. They are garbage. And if you are one of those doctors that sells those to at your longevity or TRT clinic or weight loss clinic and you keep selling them, you haven't thrown them in the garbage. You're a [\h__\h] sellout. You're a sellout. I have no sympathy for you. I hope there's a special circle in hell just for you because you damn well know that they are effectively doing Jack and [\h__\h] and Jack left town. It bothers me a lot because they absolutely have been proven to show muscle wasting. They do not prevent sarcopenia. Only Reddit True Tide does. And all the idiots out there going, "What about bioglutide? What about adding this and what about adding that?" None. That's all redundancy in order to make profit and sell a pill. Orals don't work. The only one that's ever worked that is very effective is Redat True Tide. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you buy it from me or not. Just make sure it's real. The reason all you docs get all butt hurt when I say that is cuz you can't get red of True Tide and you damn well know it. So, you are pushing what you can get because you don't want to lose your business. You should lose every ounce of your business you've got, every dollar you've made, and every customer that comes to see you because that's what they are. They're not patients cuz they could get on the phone with me and they could spend a quarter of what they've given you and get 10 times the results. And you know that too, which is why you get pissed off. Redatite is the nuclear option against insulin resistance period, which is the other primary driver of cardiovascular problems. triple agonist, right? GIP, GLP-1, glucagon, powerfully normalizes blood sugar. Imp improves insulin sensitivity, which is a train wreck in most people. Reduces the inflammatory fat storage problem that most people have. But it does this by tackling the root cause of the metabolic dysfunction that created the arterial damage in the first place. Removes the arsonist from the equation. Do you see how this works together? You guys add in GHK-Cu. I had somebody send me a message go, I just can't do it. It just stings so much. Toughen up. That's the only answer I've got for you. Because you know that stinging that you feel that's infinitely less than what you're going to feel hooked up to machines in ICU texting your wife that you're not going to make the [\h__\h] morning, which is what I've had to do. Don't you dare compare those two. Tolerate a little discomfort. Tolerate a little discomfort. This is the systemwide organizer. Copper, this copper, it's this master gene regulator that shifts expression from inflammatory pathways to anti-inflammatory tissue repair pathways. increases collagen, elastin, glycosamino glycans, strengthens the very structure of your blood vessels, solves the musculature that surrounds that that the blood vessels are made of. Makes them strong and resilient so you can control blood blood pressure properly. It's the overarching signal that tells your entire system to stop breaking down. Not only does it say stop breaking down, by the way, it says, "Hey, start rebuilding all this stuff, too." The synergy is amazing with these. This is why if anything just listen to what I'm telling you for 5 minutes of your life and then go out and do all the dumb things you want to do after that. But at least now I know I've told you the truth. Redat true tide stops the metabolic damage. MC powers the entire system for the cellular cleanup and repair. BPC57 and TB-500 directly fish fix all the damage in the entire cardiovascular system including your heart. GHK-Cu does it does two things actually. It provides armor for all of your neurons. I forgot to mention that. That's how badass this is. And it orchestrates the entire anti-inflammatory pro repair business plan. They don't just work on separate paths, you guys. They amplify each other. Better metabolism from reatride and mod Creates a less inflammatory environment. Follow me. Okay. So now you've got you've got better metabolic processes. You've got lower inflammation from just two reat C. We're not done. But it allows the repair peptides to work more effectively. The repaired vascule in turn, this is why you have to connect the dots. The repaired vasculature in your system in turn provides or improves nutrient and oxygen delivery and profusion to the tissues, right? Further enhancing the metabolic health that you so desperately need. It's this virtuous cycle of capitalization and optimization. You know what people are going to say? Yeah, but it's really expensive. Oh, okay. Listen, I have no idea because I really don't know the prices on my site. And yes, I know it's my company. I just don't know. A month of this at the most is probably anywhere from three to 500 bucks, maybe 600 at the most. And people are going to hear that go, see, not all of us can afford afford that. Get rid of ESPN, you stupid ass. Get rid of your fancy truck and go or how about this? Figure out a way to make more money because anybody can do it because I've been broke. Broker than broke. And I went from I filmed it from the very beginning. I've never missed a day. So, if you think that three to five, three to 600 bucks sounds significant. Okay, follow me. That's fine. How about this? Compare this to the real cost of cardiovascular disease. If you listen, because if you look at this entire thing and it costs you 3 to 600 bucks a month, if it maybe runs that, that's being pretty that's generous. It's probably significantly less. So, if it sounds significant, great. Then compare it to the real cost. Compared to the real cost of cardiovascular disease, financial cost, a single heart attack incurs a medical bill of about a about a h 100red grand, if not more. Coronary bypass surgery costs 75 to $150,000. A lifetime of statins, blood pressure meds, and subsequent prescriptions for all the side effects easily surpasses a half a million dollars. We're talking about a financial [\h__\h] torpedo aimed at your life savings, not at your health. You look at the physical and human cost because this is the real price. the fear, the physical debilitation, the loss of your vitality, the cognitive decline from both the disease and the medications, the hormonal collapse, the years of life lost, or worse, the years of health lost while you're still damn alive. This is incalculable. I don't care where you buy it. I don't care what you do with it. I just care that you do something for the price of a probably a damn car payment. You're not just preventing a bill of hundreds of thousands of dollars. You're purchasing your own state of fortified [\h__\h] health. You are investing in arterial resilience, metabolic flexibility and systemic repair that you guys so desperately need. You are buying guaranteed performance right now to prevent all the catastrophic failures tomorrow. But we're in this world. It's the ultimate mñana syndrome, right? Everybody's all about tomorrow. This is the fundamental shift. Moving from sick care models that profit from your decline to a preventative model that invests in your your vitality. Managed decline is the disease. That's the epidemic. The choice isn't between expensive drugs and nothing. It's no longer that. It doesn't exist. The choice is between a lifetime of expensive, damaging sickness management, managed decline, or a manageable monthly investment of something somewhere of these things, including the physical aspect of going for a walk and spending time having conversations with your wife or your husband and raising your family and isolating yourself from the idiots out there that tend to tell you that if you don't take this magic powder or magic pill, you're going to die. I don't care if you listen to me or not, but I'm giving you the answers. Again, I'm not going give me money. That's what's wild. Like, some of you guys are going to be, well, you're pedaling this stuff. No, I'm not. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you buy from me or not. I don't care if you join my black card or not. I care that you have the information so you can make an educated decision and actually go and save your own damn life instead of relying on somebody out there that's going to give you a bunch of pills that are going to kill you. And it would take takes a some kind a manageable monthly investment in becoming a functionally armorplated juggernaut against the diseases of modern civilization. The tools are here. The science is so transparent. The question becomes one of priority. Do you pay now to be strong or pay later and infinitely more to be sick? All right. It's your move, man. Armor is always cheaper than a hospital bill. I'll tell you that. I know because I've been through the other side of this equation. They almost killed me. So, if you think I'm out here for myself, you're dead wrong. I'm out here because I give a [\h__\h] about you. I got to go.