It never ceases to amaze me the number of people that will and the lengths that they'll go to to defend their choice to to live in poverty. the number of people that will go to war to defend staying where they are, yet spend the majority of their time talking about how they hate where they are. But when confronted with a solution or pointing out that they in fact do hate where they are, they defend their position as if their circumstances are unchangeable. And they'll cite examples from either side of the equation. But the farthest reaches of the extreme on either side, they will cite every possible example in order to prove that their circumstances are very unique and subsequently unchangeable. Everybody wants to be rich. Everybody. I mean, it's a lie when people say, "I don't care about money." They're the same people that go, "Haven't you read the Bible? The love of money is the root of all evil." But that's not what the Bible says. The Bible says, "The love of money above all else." Taking those few words out of that sentence radically changes that sentence is meaning. But people, it's a lie. I don't care about money. I don't want money. I don't want to be rich. I never wanted to be rich. You guys have heard people. So maybe you guys even say that. Maybe maybe it's something that you say on a regular basis and you say it with pride like somehow it makes you noble and grounded and enlightened. It doesn't. What it does is it makes you full of [\h__\h] because there is not a single human being on this planet who doesn't want more freedom. Not one. And the truth is simple. Money buys freedom. Buys options. It buys time. It buys peace that you guys all talk about. It buys security. It buys control. It buys choices and deep down everybody wants that. So you can virtue signal all that you want. You can wrap it up in humility and pretend that you are morally above the pursuit of wealth. But the second your back is against the wall when your landlord or your mortgage holder or your car payments or whatever it is is knocking at your door or your kid is hungry or you're one emergency away from complete collapse. Guess what? You're going to wish you had more money. Why do you let that land? Because everything you're everything else you're about to say is built on one unshakable truth. That really let that land. Because every single thing that you're about to say is built on that single irrefutable truth. Everybody wants to be rich whether they admit it or not. It's when people say they don't care about money, what what they're often expressing is resentment disguised as virtue. They aren't beyond wealth. They're beneath it. And rather than confronting their own inadequacies, they invert the value structure to maintain this weird level of self-respect that isn't even self-respect. Like, in other words, if I can't climb the hierarchy, I'll pretend the hierarchy is evil. If I can't get the thing, then I'm going to say that the thing doesn't matter. This is classic moral rationalization. But go ahead, look a little deeper because what is money? Money at a purely psychological level, money is a standin for opportunity. It's potential. It's stored potential. Stored, transferable, scalable, always usable potential. It's ability to trade today's time for tomorrow's freedom. That's money. Everybody wants that. Everybody wants some form of currency. They need that because they crave the ability to say no to what hurts them and yes to what elevates them, what increases their quality of life. But when they can't get it because of fear or incompetence or poor habits or lack of a skill set, whatever it is, they pretend they never wanted it in the first place. That is not maturity. That is your psyche in survival mode. And it's this it's this desperate ego preservation at the expense of the truth. And it's everywhere. Look on social media. It's everywhere. Anybody that is successful is going to be met with hate and just jealousy, envy. See, I think the fundamental problem with all of that kind of think is you cannot build a meaningful life on a lie. I said this yesterday and the the lie that wealth doesn't matter is one of the most poisonous toxic lies in the modern age because it keeps people stuck and it gives them permission to quit justifying average and mediocrity as morality. Make that make sense because everybody wants to be rich. Like just cut the [\h__\h] I don't care how many crystals you have in your apartment, how many spirits you know you have wandering around you or how spiritual you claim to be or how many times that you've posted money doesn't buy happiness on Instagram. If I walked up to you with a suitcase with $10 million cash in it, I laid it on a table and said, "Take it or leave it." Not one of you guys would say no. Not one. You wouldn't even blink. You wouldn't hesitate because you want it. All of it. Every single penny. Why? Because you don't want to ask for permission anymore. You don't want to be told what hours you can work, when you can sleep, when you can do things, when you can see your kids, what food you can afford, or whether or not you are allowed to retire or stop doing what you're doing before your body gives out. You want options, freedom. You want power. You want to know all of those things that are certain for you. And you know that money gets you that. Listen, every time my wife and I, whether we go private, semi-private, chartered, first class, it doesn't matter. But every time we are at the front of the plane, look at first class, you we get nothing but ugly looks from people as they walk by, trapped in their own choices, blaming us for them. And a lot of you guys do that. You want to fly first class and not look at the price, that's what money gives you. You want to stay in a hotel without checking the rates, that's what money gives you. You want to send your parents money, give them a home, put them in a better place, a better lifestyle, and not feel it. Money gives you that. You want to eat clean, train every day, sleep 6 hours, 8 hours, 10 hours, whatever it is, and run a business that you can actually control. Money gives you all of that. But here's the problem. You want the discipline. That's what you don't want. You don't want the discipline that makes all of that real. So instead of owning that, you pretend money is not that important. and you go on hikes and do stupid things and then validate it and get all this applause from social media going, "Finally, brother, I'm so glad you said it." That family is so much more important than money. Except when your family is starving because you can't pay the bills, they are not going to remember your precious little experiences because they're going to remember that mommy and daddy got divorced because of money or that mommy and daddy fought about money or that mommy or daddy couldn't pay the bills and they had to eat garbage every day and they wondered why all their friends had clothes that fit. Didn't have to buy from a secondhand store. that, hey, you got a trampoline in the backyard and that makes it all the it makes it all better. That's not true. You lie to yourself on behalf of your children thinking that your children aren't going to remember remember that you had nothing. I had nothing when I was a child. My parents had no money whatsoever. They were broker than broke. I listened to them argue about money. I watched them make promises about doing things and never come through with it because they didn't have the money. We flew in the crappiest planes, drove the shittiest cars. I never saw air conditioning until I moved out on my own in a car because my parents couldn't afford a car with air conditioning. My dad bought cars at gas stations for a couple of hundred bucks because that's all we could afford. I remember tow trucks coming to boost our car, fix our car, do whatever it is our car in the morning so my dad could get to work and my mom could get to work. My mom took the bus, my dad took the bus. We had one car and a crappy little house that we lived in. We had no money. We ate shitty food and never did anything that cost any money. And everywhere we went, we had to drive because flying was too expensive. So when you sit there and say my children are going to remember the experiences, just to be very clear, my parents did all kinds of things with me. They took me all over the place. I've been all over the place. I've seen all over Canada and the US so many times. I've been everywhere except Disneyland. Disneyland was the only place I had to go on my own because my parents wouldn't take me there. And I didn't figure out why until later because it cost too much money. The reason I'm saying that is for all of you people saying, "Parents, you need to conduct yourself outside of the confines of money and say it's not important and concentrate on the experiences with your children." I was one of those children that had non-stop. I saw so many things. Mount Rushmore, Grand Canyon, Yellowstone Park, Old Faithful when it was still faithful. I've seen all kinds of castles. Noonstein in Germany. Yes, you're going to hear that and go, "I thought you had no money." My dad was a school teacher where the school paid for me and my mom and my dad to go to Germany because he was the chaperon for three weeks with the German class. It's the only reason we even went. And my tonahida and uncle Ganote lived in Germany. So, we would go see my dad's sister and my cousin Alexandra and my uncle Genno. The whole point is while we were there, we drove around in a crappy little car with no air conditioning on the autobond and went and saw all these things. The reason I'm saying that is yeah, I had more experiences with my parents. I did. My parents did everything with me. I don't condemn them all. My parents did all kinds of stuff with me. But you know what I remember? We had no money. We had shitty cars and a crappy house with no air conditioning and food that was garbage and I was hungry a lot and I had clothes that I made fun of and didn't I got made fun of in and didn't fit me. That we never did anything that I wanted to do. That I had to buy my own dirt bike every single time. That I had to buy my own snowmobiles every single time. That I had to buy my own cars every single time. And all of that before somebody says, "Well, that's how it should I had my first job in the third grade, Winnipeg Free Press. They delivered the bundle at the end of my driveway and I was responsible to go doortodoor to all my houses on all and I was one street over. And if you understand how paper routes work, they get passed down to brothers and sisters because they are like gold. So the fact that I got one that was one street over from my house is an act of God. And I never let that thing go until I went into something that gave me more money. But the reason I'm saying that is I had to go collect from everybody and go knock collecting. I had to punch it and collect their money and it was like a buck, two bucks and I mean once in a while at Christmas time I would get a tip and the tip was maybe 50 cents. You have no idea how much I would have rather had a little more money and a little less experience. So I'm telling you from not this is not anecdotal from someone who actually went through parents who loved him who took him places who had discipline who gave me all kinds of experiences as a child I still would have rather had a life with more money in it. So, all of you guys that are saying that as parents, you know what's interesting is I've been doing a an experiment where I don't swear on my podcast if you've noticed. But all of you parents that are saying they're going to remember the connection more than they're going to remember the money, [\h__\h] you. You're a liar to yourself and you're placating yourself so you don't do the work. And I can single out one person that's running his mouth about that all the time about his family because he got dropped by his wife. And that bugs me because you are using that as an excuse to not do the work you originally set out to do and were called to God called by God to do. So yeah, that pisses me off because that means you've let your discipline slide. There is not a sing I work so hard. Yesterday I was talking to my wife again. My wife is my best friend if you haven't guessed it yet. I adore my wife and I adore my kids. But I was talking to my wife and I said, "I only have one goal. That you never have to worry. That you can sit on the couch all day and do nothing if you choose to. Because I want you to. Because because you choose to. You can stay at home and never work a day in your life because you choose to. Do I want my wife staying home because I'm going to demand that she stays home? That's ridiculous. But I want her to have the freedom to go. I have to work if I don't want to because my man, my husband, my protector, and my provider gives me that option. And I said, I don't care if you never do a thing in your life. I want to make sure you know that you are protected and safe and provided for and deeply loved by your husband. She started crying and I hugged her and I said, "I just want to make sure that you experience all of the life you can because you feel safe enough to experience all of the life you can." And she said, "I do. One of the greatest things my wife has ever said to me is that I feel safe with 20 years of marriage. She is my best friend. You know what? I couldn't do that if I didn't have any money. So save your explanations. Instead of trying to validate where you are and make it sound noble and virtuous, do something about it and change it so you can do things that change your generations. And I'm not one of these generation breakers and all this nonsense that's going on in social media. Do everything you can. There are trillions of dollars in the market right now in the world. Stick out a bucket and get some. You've heard me say that before. But in order but for you to sit there and go I'm giving my children the most epic childhood and the most incredible experiences rather than working to make money so that the rest of their life and 10 generations from now on will never have to be concerned about finances again. You are a selfish jackass because you are using your children as a reason as a shield to not go and work slightly harder. I promise you if you spend a half hour with them or 5 hours with them, depending on what it is, they're not going to know the difference. I'm not saying you only have to spend 10 minutes a day with your children. That's ridiculous. I love spending time with my kids. But you know what else I do? Teach my kids how to work. I think one of the greatest things you can do is teach your kid. Don't kick your kids out of the house. Don't kick your kids to the curb when they're 18 years old. Teach them everything. grow a business of your own and then allow them to slide into your business so they never have to worry about money again in their life and they know how to run a business. So you have given them a leg up. You have made the ceiling of your life the platform the foundation of theirs so they can go higher than you ever did. You know what allows you to do that? You making the decision to go all in in making generational wealth and starting with you. So when you guys talk about how not every I don't want to be rich. You are selfish and you are taking that away from your children. I'm not saying write a check and hand your kid $10 million. I'm saying teach your kids how to run businesses and be successful so they never have to go out and get a job, have a resume, become an employee. They become leaders right out of the gate and they know how to run the whole damn thing because you taught them right. Anything less than that I think is selfish. Except you guys run around going, "It's my experience. I'm giving them the best experience. My kids have the most kick-ass experience in life." And you know what's wild? I work really, really hard, hours and hours a day, seven days a week. To justify that you're supposed to take days off because it says it in the Bible. Most of you guys got it wrong. You say it's Sunday, it was Saturday. So the second you say that, I already know you have no idea what you're talking about and you're using it as leverage. So you don't have to do the work on Sunday and then lecture everybody else about how they are. You're a hypocrite because you're the same person that if somebody handed you a briefcase of $10 million, you wouldn't think twice and you would take it. Just like I said, you don't want the discipline that makes the money real. So now you started pretending because you lost something. You had a catastrophe. Something happened. You had a hardship. Instead, now you are living in that hardship instead of looking at it as a lesson and going, "What did it teach me? How do I make it better? How do I change the lives of my children?" Because if your children have to go out and make eight bucks an hour for the rest of their life because you didn't educate them on the value of becoming wealthy, that's on you because your relationship with your children is your responsibility, not theirs. Your job is to make a life that is so big, so powerful, so epic that they look at you and they go, I want to do that and more. And then you give them your ceiling as their springboard and they go higher than you can even imagine. That is what's being a great parent. giving them experiences and being present. That's not how you become a great parent. Somehow that's been lost. All of you guys need to watch Duck Dynasty. And look at Phil. Phil is the dad. 66 years old. He is harsh, abrasive, knows how to do anything and probably kill you without lifting a finger because he's so badass with a gun. What he also is is a man and a father. And you know what his kids do? Love him. I don't care if you tell me that that series is manufactured or whatever it is you want to come up with to justify your insignificant little life that you're living in right now because you're too cowardly to do something about changing your circumstances. What I do know is that if you watch that, you will see boys that love his their father and a father that loves the boys and knows more than they do and keeps teaching them even at 66 years old and they're rich. And he taught them how to be rich. In fact, Phil told Willie, "Here you go. Take the company, make it even bigger." Could they even have done that if Phil didn't have a company of 40 years? No, they couldn't have. No, they couldn't have. Did they see their dad all the time? No, they didn't. He worked. Do they adore their dad? Yep. Are they still scared of their dad? You bet your ass. Do they respect their dad? Yep. Do they listen to their dad? Yep. Can he still get them to do things because he is still their dad? Absolutely. Do you have that relationship? or your kid's going to have to go out and get a job because you didn't sit there and put your life together the way you should have because you were getting connected with your kids trying to be friends with them instead of being a leader and training them to be leaders. What is wrong with you guys? It ticks me off because you pretend you're above it, above money. You lie to yourself and say, "I just want to be happy." Okay, champ. How happy are you when you have to sell your house at a loss? How happy are you that you lose everything that your kids have lived in? I don't care if they go, "We just we never liked it." [\h__\h] How happy are you when you have to shove your kids at the back of the plane or you can't go somewhere that they want to go? How happy are you when you can't go get the best health care and god forbid something happens to your child and they're sick? How happy are you when your rent is late, when your mortgage is late? When your car is being repossessed? How enlightened do you feel when your bank account is gasping for air and on life support? This idea that wealth is evil or selfish or even optional. That's the mindset of a loser. And if you don't snap out of it, you are going to spend your whole life pretending that your cage is a temple. Listen here. Here's the thing about money. Everybody says that they don't care about it until their kids get sick. Until the rent's gone, until they have no money. Until they need the money, until they go, I wish I had the money to get that car, that TV, that house, that life. If I could go get that healthcare. if I could take care of my mom or my dad or my wife or my sister or my brother, everybody. They all think they don't care about it until that ambulance ride is out of network and now they have to wait for one that's covered because they don't have the money. Suddenly cash matters. Suddenly, I just want the simple life becomes how much is the co-ay. It's funny how fast enlightenment collapses when real life shows up and punches you in the face. Listen, I I told you I I've heard this so many times. I had a guy actually say this to me that money is the root of all evil. And I saw him post it on social media. Made me want to smack him in the mouth. I said, "Well, yeah, first of all, you're wrong because that's not what it is. It says the love of money above all else is the root of all evil. So get it right if you're going to quote it. And second of all, well, poverty sure ain't a fountain of [\h__\h] purity." Damn it. I swear again. If money is evil, I'm going to tell you, I've seen a lot more nice things done with a fat check than with good intentions. Get real. You are not skipping brunch because you're holy. You're skipping brunch because your card keeps declining and you can't pay for it. And your ego's writing a story to cope with all of that. You don't meditate because you're spiritually centered. You meditate because it's cheaper than therapy and your insurance sucks. Listen, I coach people every day. I get asked to coach people every day. And I turn 60 to 70% of the people away. Not because of the money. They have the money because they don't have the mindset to commit to what I'm going to tell them to do. Cuz I don't bend. My standards don't lower. So when people go, "How how much is it to coach with you? How committed are you?" Because I will not bend because my standards become your standards the second you join my world. So the whole I don't care about being rich. That thing that's the grown-up version of a toddler pretending they didn't want the toy after somebody else took it. You wanted the toy. You just didn't want to compete for it. So now here you are, right, sipping your iced oat milk delusion drink, acting like ambition is capitalism's fault. You guys go out and you blame Trump. And if it wasn't Trump, it'd be somebody else. Let me help you, princess. Money isn't dirty. Your relationship with it is. Listen, we could look pure data. When people say they don't care about money, they usually mean one of two things. They've never had enough of it to understand what it actually does, or they've mismanaged it so poorly. so badly that they've convinced themselves it's not worth the stress. Either way, they are operating from scarcity, not the truth. Let that sink in just a lot of you guys aren't even honest with yourselves. And here's the reality. Money doesn't buy happiness. You are absolutely correct. What it does is it removes the source of unhappiness. Listen, I will say that one more time because this is critical. Money does not guarantee joy, but it eliminates the stressors that keep people from ever accessing it because money solves 90% of time based problems. Easily 80% of logistics based problems and nearly every decision-making bottleneck in daily life. Time, locate, location, leverage, choice, those are all wealth's primary functions. And people want those. They a may not say, "I want money." But you know what they're going to say? I wish I had more time. I hate being stuck here. I hate this life. I wish I could say no to this. I wish I didn't have to work weekends. I wish I didn't have to work overtime. I just want to feel like I'm in control. Guess what? Those are money problems. The solution is more of it. People want rich behavior without the rich responsibility. They want all this passive income, which doesn't exist by the way, without an active skill. So, you want options without sacrifice is what you're saying. You want all of the the stuff without doing any of the stuff. But the math doesn't lie ever. That's the beauty of math. It never lies. Here's how it plays out. Rich person wakes up and asks, "What would I like to do today?" A broke person wakes up and asks, "What do I have to do today to survive?" And that's the difference. One owns their time. and the other rents it out hour by hour for just enough to stay stuck. Everybody wants the first version. I don't care who you are, even if they won't say it out loud. Money isn't the goal. It is not the goal. I need to be precise about this because a lot of you guys are going to misinterpret what I'm saying. Freedom is the goal. Autonomy is the goal. The ability to decide your environment and your energy and your output and your time and your relationships. And money is the tool that gives you access to all of that control. When people say you guys in your I want peace and then you dance around a crystal listening to some Inya CD. When people say I want peace, what they mean is I don't want to be owned by a boss, a bill, a broken, tired ass car, or a system I didn't choose. It's like when people say, "I I just want to feel safe." Like Brandy, I feel safe. Do you know what that is? Because of because she trusts me to take care of her and she never has to worry about money. So when people say I just want to feel safe, what that means is I want the power to create stability without waiting for any permission. You guys have treated and normalized asking for permission for things that you could do if you had enough revenue, profit or money or investments, whatever you want to name it. Oh, I want meaningful work though, Spartan. You know what you mean? You want the freedom to say no to all of the things that drain you and say yes to the things that build you. Same problem. Money. That's what makes this all possible. Money. It's not complicated. Listen, you don't have to worship it. Chase it mindlessly. That's not what I'm saying. But if you care about your time and you care about your kids and you care about your calling that you keep talking about, then you care about money. It doesn't matter what you think or what you're getting in the comments. and arguing about I'm right. You're just too afraid to say it out loud. You want to be rich. You do. You want to be rich. Not because you want a gold watch or some private jet or a a Rolex or 30 cars, but because you want to be able to say no without any fear. You want to stop working for people you don't respect or who don't respect you. You want to live where you want, how you want. You want to eat what fuels you, whatever that may be. You want to help who needs you. You want to build what matters to you. You want to drive whatever it is you want to drive. and never again sacrifice your dignity for a paycheck. That's why you want money. So stop lying and virtue signaling and pretending that you are content with all the [\h__\h] you're telling yourself when you're really just tired of losing. That's what you are. You are tired of losing and you're looking for a way to explain it away because one, you need to get honest with yourself because once you tell the truth, once you say, you know what, Spartan, you're right. Yes, I want wealth. I want control. I want options. I want it all. That's when you can finally start doing what it takes to build it. And I'll tell you this, when that day comes, you're gonna you're going to stop envying freedom and you're going to start living it. And when that day comes, call me because I'll help you get there. I got to go. Never miss.