25 after 6 already on June 17th, Tuesday, 2025. Someday I'm going to listen to this podcast episode or somebody will. And it's going to be 30 years from now. And I think about how many episodes I'll have. So many. I remember when I started doing this. I'm 167 I believe episodes in just since the January 1st 2025 do one a day. And I think had I not started it would still be June 17th, still be 2025. And had I not started January 1st and committed to say I will do this no matter what. I will never miss a habit. I would be at zero. I would have nothing to show for it, but the date would still be the same. Time will have still passed and I would be further into my life with less time to get things done. Still complaining about how I need to just start and one day I'll get around to it. But one day I'll get around to it. Turns into an 80-year-old looking at their life going, "Well, my life wasn't so bad." Justifying where they were instead of going, "You know what? I wanted so much more and all I had to do is try." Every time that you wait, every second that you blow, please listen to me. Every second that you wait is a second that your dream gets smaller. Your likelihood of achieving it shrinks. This is as direct as it gets. Like right now, as I'm recording this, it is 25 after 6. And this moment, right now, this very second, whenever it is for you, it might be tomorrow, it might be a year from now, whatever. But whatever moment it is right now, it is irrelevant. This is the most time that you're ever going to have for the rest of your life. You do not get more than this. You don't get a bonus round. You don't get to save time for later. You can't bank it. It's not a job. This is it. So, while you're sitting there thinking, just ponder this a little bit. Let me do my due diligence. Do a little more research. Let me think about it a little bit, but give me about two weeks and I'll get back to you. I'll get back to me. I'll get back to them. you're planning your next move or lining things up, just know the clock doesn't care. The calendar doesn't care. Your DNA, your genetics, your life, your expiry date doesn't care. Every single tick of that secondhand, you're not going to get it. And I think the problem with that is most of you guys just don't take that seriously. It is 6:25. If at 7:25 you expire today, right now, and you have an hour, an hour of life left, and you have people that you love and care about, your wife, your kids, all the things, and some of you guys would go, "Oh god, I'm going to go out with a bang. I'm going to slide in at the end with a chocolate in one hand and a martini in the other." I had this gay coach that used to say stuff like that and, you know, saying, "What a ride," and all this stuff. And he was the most soft, simpy dude. Once I really got to figure him out, I was like, "Dude, you're terrible looking at me, coach." Lessons learned though, right? But that guy would have wasted the hour. But the reason I'm saying is you have an hour. You have an hour. That's all you've got left. Most of you guys, no matter what you're about to say right now, cuz you're not on that final hour. I know what it feels like. Remember, I sent my wife a message because I was absolutely certain that I wasn't going to make the morning. I don't know how else to tell you, but I felt it. Like, I felt it. Demons were coming trying to kill me. Some of those demons were doctors and nurses in our health care system pumping me full of just garbage trying to convince me to take a jab while I was sick with what ended up being cancer trying to like putting me on remmes knowing full well it kills people. mortality rate is 54% of rem desae on rem desae 54% organ failure 54 54% of the time you take rem desa just look at that and they put me on that stuff and I remember sending my wife this message going holy [\h__\h] this is it I'm really [\h__\h] I'm really not going to make it I don't know if you understand the gravity of what I'm saying because most of you you go oh yeah bro me to I've been through so many near-death. No, you haven't. I'm going to tell you right now, everybody I've spoken to, I will look right into your soul and I will see that you haven't. But when I sent her the message going, I'm not going to make it. I love you more than there needs to be another word for and I'm sad that I'm not going to be able to do the rest of this life with you was what came out of my mouth basically. And here's how you are going to need to manage the rest of your life without me. You may have heard the story a hundred times. I don't care. This is my show. But this is the value of time. And she sent back the message that said, I can't do this life without you. I need you. I love you, Trevor. She's my best friend. And if somebody said, "I want to buy your last hour." There's no price. There's no price. I would rather just spend it with Brandy. I wouldn't have looked at the clock. I would have just enjoyed, loved on her, made her feel so important and special. Everything I do every day, just a thousand times more. I would have talked to God saying, "Take care of this woman." I would have told her, "I'll see you when when God says your time's up." But let me explain this. My time is so priceless. And yet so many people disrespect the time they have for escape and distraction and approval and permission and procrastination and delay. Like if you're a procrastinator, you're a [\h__\h] I have nothing for you. I don't even want to be around you. You are a disgusting human being. Because I I laid there in a bed thinking I wasn't going to see the next day. And there's some of you guys out there that you're healthy. You're strong. You're powerful. There's nothing wrong with you at all other than your psychology sucks. And you just piss away your time staring at your television, [\h__\h] around on your phone, netwhacking to the weirdest things you can find, and being an [\h__\h] to your wife and your kids, and blaming coffee and your business model for why your marriage is destroyed. Like, you guys are so simp. And you get angry at me when I call you out for it. Stop being a [\h__\h] How about this? You just stop being a [\h__\h] Your time is so priceless. But most of you guys take these hours, these 1-hour blocks of your day and just let them evaporate into the ether. But if that was your last hour, you would never give it up. Why are you giving it up now? Why are you blowing it now? Today is the most amount of time that you will ever have. And I'm sure somebody's going to get on there and in the comments and go, "Last thing I'm going to do is listen to your podcast if it's the last hour." Okay, I don't really care. I'm trying to give you something. I come out here every day teaching you how to win. Most of you numbs don't apply it. I had somebody say, "Well, maybe you shouldn't insult your audience. Maybe you shouldn't be so insulting to yourself." The longer you wait, the harder this gets to achieve your goals. Right now, this second, this very second, this microcond, it's the most amount of time you are ever going to have to achieve what you want and build the vision that God put in your soul. The mountain gets taller, the cost gets steeper, the energy required gets greater, and the odds get worse. And yet, most of you are walking around like time is a gift that you can just open up later. It's a warrior already losing, and the only way to win is to race the clock. I race the clock every day. And I've had people go, "Well, that's no way to live. That's not living. You got to live, bro." I'm living more than 99% of you people, and I try and teach you how to do it. How about I just put this into some kind of psychological context. So, it drives a little deeper than the surface level that most people are functioning at, which is where all your excuses live. Just to be very transparent, the illusion of more time is, I believe, at least the greatest psychological con ever sold to humanity. It's what justifies inaction. It makes you believe that you're safe. It's what allows you to pretend that I don't know that starting tomorrow is rational and in fact actually more intelligent, more tactical, more noble. you guys are even good about the it's noble and righteous. I'm going to do it tomorrow because today I had this barbecue to go to. Time doesn't negotiate. Just so we're clear. Not at all. It doesn't delay. It doesn't negotiate. It doesn't have a break. It doesn't slow down. It doesn't wait for your alignment or your season or your [\h__\h] readiness. The moment is right now. I just had this conversation with my daughter. I said, "You know, if you argue with mom about what needs to be done, you're burning the clock and you want to go on a date with your boyfriend right now." And mom is going, "You need to get this [\h__\h] done that you didn't finish." And we are on the same team, Brandy. 24/7, 365, we're on the same team, no matter what. Us versus the universe. And I stood out there with we have these trees that we planted all along the side of our property here. And I said, "You got to trim around the bottom of the trees." But I did. That's as close as I can get. Give me the mower. And I showed her exactly how to do it. And then it was argument and argument. Well, mom makes it more complicated. And when mom's there and I'm not there, then it's dad makes it more complicated. If you have children, you know what I'm talking about. I don't bend the rules. I have the consequences. You don't get to go. I don't care. And her boyfriend is in the house hanging out with us waiting to see if his girlfriend, my daughter, could go. But I said, "You realize that the more time you waste speaking with me, the more likely it is that you're not going to go, the more energy it takes, the more time it costs, the more money this is going to cost, the more anguish it's going to cause. You don't understand." And I'm trying to explain this to my 18-year-old child so she gets it so she doesn't turn out like a 40-year-old thumb sucking toddler who lives at home asking their parents for allowance or to pay for their cell bill. It's time doesn't delay. It doesn't have a pause button. The moment is right now. Whatever it is, if you can get your head around that, you become the most unstoppable force in the universe. If you can just get your head around that going, I'm going to race the clock every damn day. But you guys hang around people that go, "Bro, you got to live a little. Enjoy yourself. FOMO, man. What if I never get to do this again?" And you guys play it on the other side of that equation going, "What if I never have this opportunity to be entertained again? I don't know what to tell you. Then go be entertained and be miserable. Be a 51-year-old greeter at Walmart, pissed off that your buddy that you grew up with has a garage full of Lamborghinis, a mansion, and has sold six companies and is living the life that you wish you had, and you call him lucky. I don't understand how to how to look at it any different. It doesn't wait for you. The moment is right now. Right this very second. This one. Right now. This one. This is This moment. This one is the only It is the only time in your life that you're ever going to have this much time to change everything. Everything. Let that hit. Just let that land for a second. Change everything because every second after this one, you have less. Right now, I'll say now 1 1,00 2 1,000 3 seconds less to do anything I want because my life has a finite has an expiry date. Just because you don't know it doesn't mean it doesn't have an expiry date. It's predetermined. I'm sorry. I fully believe that. You don't have to. All you guys chasing longevity and saying you're going to beat the clock. You're going to live to be 8,000 years old and you're going to download your brain into a computer. I don't know. Anytime people try and play God, things go really, really badly. I mean, I have a whole theory about the Tower of Babel where I fully believe that it doesn't matter. I won't get into it. Anyway, the point is that didn't work out well just trying to reach heaven. So I think all of these things anytime human beings try and become God and try and replace God with something it never works out well because God goes let me remind you. Respect the seconds that he gave you and the vision that he stuck inside your soul man because that vision is so that you can enjoy the life and fulfill the purpose that he put you here for. But if you waste this time every second it is less time less time to get rich to fix your marriage. Yeah, you should get rich. You should be rich as hell. You know why? Part of why I started my mastermind is to help you get rich. You want blunt? There you go. To help you get rich. To make as much money as humanly possible. We make a ton of money. Four years ago, we made no money. So, I know what I'm doing. I'm not trying to convince you. I'm just telling you that I'm here to help you. And most of you guys keep looking for the next thing. If you added up all the $39 and $50 and $297 programs that you've bought, I'll bet you it's less money than just a lifetime membership than my mastermind. It's $4,997. You never pay me again, man. That's for two people. And it's not filled with PDFs and Google Docs and other [\h__\h] And every Friday we have a emergency call or some I had some coach that oh you can schedule an emergency call. can't. But nobody wants to talk to you, man. Cuz you don't solve problems because you can't even manage your own life. Look at your coach. Does your coach actually manage their life? Is are they qualified to manage their own life? And if they're not, would you trade with them? Would you look at their life and go, I will check every single box to trade with them. If the answer is no, stop listening to them. The end. Because they're wasting your seconds. That's why they're you're believing in something that you don't want. You're just trying to convince yourself because you paid for it. Realize it's not what you wanted. Move on. Don't even chase them down. But you won't do that. You have less time after this second. You have less time to get rich, get fit, fix your health, fix your marriage, get lean, break your addictions, build the vision that God placed in your heart and soul. You have less time every second you waste. And what do most people do with the day they have right today? They sandbag it. You guys woke up today. A lot of you guys listen to me. I'm trying to help you. You wake up every day and this is what most people do. They wake up in the morning. They look at the clock. They complain that they have to wake up. They hate their job. They hate their boss. They half the time they hate waking up next to somebody that they used to be in love with. I woke up this morning and I had wild sex with my wife. It was amazing. You know what? That's almost every morning because you should have sex every day. I don't give a [\h__\h] what your sex life is, but it should be intimate, close, and wild and messy and loud and everything you've ever wanted for each other. If it's not, you're doing it wrong. I wake up and my wife and I, we just say, "I love you all the time." And it's just I adore my wife and we have breakfast together. We drink coffee together. We do things together. We work out together every day. We have worked out together every day for years and years and years. She's my best friend. Why would I want to waste time trying to go, "How much longer can I take? I'll get to it tomorrow, Brandy." But that's what And a lot of you guys, you wake up and you [\h__\h] talk yourselves. And then you [\h__\h] talk yourselves all day at work. And then you [\h__\h] talk yourselves when you get home. And then you [\h__\h] talk yourselves before you go to bed. And then you grumble and complain about how nothing is going the way you want it to go. And then you lay in bed wishing one thing would happen while another thing is happening. Or you wishing something would happen that isn't happening. And then you turn on the TV. You stare at a show that you wish you were in the place of the main protagonist. And then you fall asleep and repeat and open up your eyes to a movie that you can't stand watching. And you do that for 40 years and you call it a life. That's the biggest waste of time and the biggest con on earth. It's exactly what I said. It's the biggest psychological con ever created by humanity. Wasting time thinking that it's going to benefit you. You guys, this is like most people, like I said, when they wake up, they sandbag their day. They waste it on Instagram, Twitter, or X, YouTube, Tik Tok. They scroll with envy. They scroll through things with so much envy and jealousy. They debate strangers in the comment sections of people's feed and then fantasize about the life that they want while living the exact opposite of everything they want. The psychological tragedy is that you've convinced yourself that you're doing research while you decay in your own life. You're learning but you're moving. Right? That's what you're doing. You're learning but you're and then you're not moving. And you convince movement for progress, for achievement. You're planning but you're not executing. So you're always learning and planning but you're never moving and executing. So you're never getting anywhere. You're not lost. You're just avoiding the life that you should be doing. And if you keep doing it, here's what happens. This moment right now becomes a regret that you're going to carry for the rest of your life. And you're going to know. You're going to know. And so now you have to make noise elsewhere to cover up the regrets that you see in your face every time you look in the mirror. What do you do? Break the mirror because you don't like the reflection. It's you. It's you. This isn't about strategy. It is about urgency. When you want to sell something, scarcity and urgency. Agreed. Absolutely. You create scarcity and urgency. and you explain that this is going to help solve the problems that they have. And if they believe you and you do a good job because you're not a [\h__\h] and you actually do solve their problems, you're answering the one question they all have, will this work for me? A deeper question in sales is, am I going to believe and do what they're asking me to follow through on? And if they don't believe in you because you don't believe in your own [\h__\h] there's your sales lesson right now. They're never going to buy because they don't believe that you're going to do it. They're never going to believe that they're going to do it. That's why listening to a fat trainer is stupid. They're liars. They spend their entire day trying to justify why it's okay to be fat, but they're telling you how to be thin. If they can't trust themselves with the food they shove into their pie hole, you think that I'm going to trust you with my health? If they can't trust themselves with their money, but they tell you how rich they're going to make you, you think I'm going to trust you with mine? You think that you're going to give me marriage advice, but you don't have a marriage because you burnt yours to the ground. I'm going to trust you with marriage advice. You think that you can give advice on raising children and when you've never had a child, get the hell out of here. Not a chance. That's a con. Listen, tomorrow's a scam. That's what tomorrow is. The reality of this is that there's no other way to look at it. Tomorrow's a scam. You tell yourself, "I'll start tomorrow." Because you don't have the balls to do it today. And you know I'm right. You think somehow that tomorrow you'll have more money, more energy, more discipline, more focus, more more power, more clarity, more resources that you think you're going to have all of that tomorrow. You won't. You'll have less. You will be more tired. You'll be more broke, more frustrated, more insecure. And the problem you're avoiding is going to be bigger. The mountain gets higher. But you're still going to convince yourself that this makebelieve version of you is going to wake up one day and just smash. Tomorrow I'm going to work 10 hours harder. I'm going to have more willpower, more drive, more obsession, more singularity of focus. Tomorrow I'm going to hit the throttle, smash that skinny pedal. You can't do the basics today. You won't even skip sugar or put your phone down or stop drinking today, but somehow tomorrow you're going to build an empire. Get real. That's not planning. That is delusion. You keep moving the deadline like your time is your employee. I can't stand people that constantly move the deadline. I have no respect for you. But time doesn't work for you. It's not your employee. It works against you the second you stop moving. You want to fix your life. Really, you want to fix your life? Then make today your weapon. Treat this moment like it is the only one you've got because that's what it is. You don't get another one of these moments. Wake up. Listen, you're in a race. I don't know if you get that, but you're in a race. And let me explain what this race is. Imagine we're both in a two-mile race. We're both in a two-mile race. We start at the same time. We have to start at the same time, and we have the same amount of time to complete the race. So now you start jogging, and I sit down. You're not even going full throttle. I sit down. I start looking at my phone, arguing with strangers online, watching people do what I say I wish I could do and convince myself that they're just lucky. Meanwhile, you're still moving. You're still jogging. We both have an hour to go 2 miles. 45 minutes in, I still have started. I stand up and I panic. Now I have anxiety. I'm stressed out. I'm overwhelmed. I'm freaked out. I'm shit-talking myself. I'm coming up with all kinds of excuses. But I still have to run that race. And I realize the finish line is still 2 miles away. It hasn't moved. Finish line is still in the same place. You guys get that, right? That vision that you want. It hasn't moved. You keep throwing [\h__\h] in the way. So now I sprint full blast. My legs are burning. My lung is on fire. It just feels like I'm bleeding out of my chest. I blow my ACL halfway through. And you're chilling at the finish line. You're sipping lemonade or a Cokes or whatever the hell it is. Eating a burger and you're building this badass life with all the other people that finished at the same time as you and me. I'm broken. I'm exhausted. I'm bitter. I'm pissed off. I'm envious. I'm jealous because I waited. Because I waited. And now now I've got to work harder. I've got to move faster. I've got to spend more money and endure more pain to maybe, just maybe, end up where I could have been if I just started when I should have. That's what most of you guys are doing every day. And you know what you do? Well, yeah. If I would have started 10 years ago, it would be better. So what? If you start tomorrow, it's worse than today. Start today. the best time to plant a tree 20 years ago. The second best time to plant a tree today. Today. You guys will go, "Wow, there's no point right now." And you talk yourself out of it and you just sit there and you go, "It's a waste." There is always a best move, no matter how bad it is. And I've told you this before. So, make that best move. The best move is starting today. You watch people get ahead of you and you think they have some secret advantage. They didn't. They had no advantage. None. They just [\h__\h] started. That is the only difference. They ran the damn race while you were planning your race. You were organizing your playlist and you were hunting down a different coach and you were watching partial clips of free videos thinking those are going to make you a millionaire, get you lean, get you strong, make you more confident, help you get the girl. You read parts of books. You scroll through Amazon looking for something that's going to do the work for you. You go through chat GPT for 9 hours asking a question. Look at all these great answers and applying none of them. And now you're pissed. Crime me. I don't care. You didn't start. There's no apologies. But you I shouldn't have any and you shouldn't expect any, but you will because well you that's not you should be empathetic. I don't have empathy for your own stupid choices. The consequences of your inaction are your lack of results. The life that you are in is 100% a result of what you've said or haven't said or done or haven't done. The end. Because let me tell you what happens when you keep putting [\h__\h] off. You build a lifestyle out of excuses and that becomes your norm. It goes back to neuroplasticity. You are training your brain with reps to come up with more reasons. And your default fault, your knee-jerk reaction is to go, I can't. Here's why. You start telling other people. This is the worst part. I see this all the time. You come up with excuses and actually move your target to a lower place. You you bring your target down so it's easier to hit. You go, this is what you start telling me. It just pisses me right the hell off. When you start waiting, you come up with excuses. You go, you know what? Actually, I really I realized I never really wanted that. Pardon? You I hear you guys say that you set this audacious goal and then you realize how much work it is, so you move the target. Yeah. Okay. Like I've heard people, ashley, you know what? I realized I didn't really want that. Turns out I'm happier right here. You know, it's not about money, bro. It's about my inner peace and my connection and my presence with my family. That was just my ego building that big vision. Nap, not at all. That was your ambition. And you buried it. You buried it in a worthless shallow grave so you wouldn't have to face the fact that that you quit. That's what this is. You ever see a guy do this? He blows his shot at business. Listen to me. This is going to be probably most of you guys listening have done this. And if you've done it, so what? Burn your life to the ground and you can still start over and create it if you have a breath in your body. Go flat broke, bankrupt, lose it all, everything collapses. Your life implodes and you're left with a shopping cart and a t-shirt that says who farted on it and you can still rebuild to whatever empire you want. Stop thinking that it's too late just because you're not a billionaire by 22. You're watching too many highlight reels thinking that it should happen in 3 weeks. You guys are the same people that think you should look like Captain America using a shake weight. So think like, have you ever seen this guy? Maybe you are this guy. And again, who cares? Instead of right away getting triggered going, "Oh, yeah." And then just coming out in the comments, grow up. You see this guy? And I've seen people do this. He blows his shot at a business. Fails a handful of times. And I failed so many businesses, by the way, but he fails a few times. So he goes back to the cubicle that he's in. And he starts telling people he had this epiphany, this awakening. He says his true calling was middle management. Liar. That's you. You couldn't handle the heat. That what that's what was wrong with this guy. He couldn't handle the heat. That's it. So he signed up for soft living and tried to make it sound holy. He's evangelical about his own disgrace. Or how about the guy that gets dumped by his wife? His wife just checks out and goes just leaves the country with his trainer because he's more manly than the husband cuz the husband's a whiny, simpy guy that comes home and cries on her shoulder every day and isn't a man. So, the guy gets dumped by this hot and ambitious woman because he's weak, simps being present and vulnerable is what she wanted. Just so we're clear, your wife doesn't want a second child in you. She doesn't want to be your mom. She doesn't want a therapist where you're fixing every [\h__\h] problem that she comes to you with. She doesn't want to be your therapist either. She wants a man. You know what my wife says to me that makes me feel so proud of how I conduct myself in my marriage? Brandy always says this. I always know I'm safe with you, babe. I always know I'm safe with you. You're going to make sure we have food and money and shelter and life, and you're going to protect me, and I know that you'd never let anything happened to me, and even if it was something catastrophic, you'd make sure I was okay. And you know what proved that? the message I sent to her when I actually was on death's doorstep. I wasn't whining or whimpering or simpating or justifying. I told her how important she is to me, how much I adore her, and how much I'm going to miss her, and that I'm going to be in heaven making sure I get in the way of anything that tries to harm her. And these are the things that she needs to do to take care of life when I'm not around. See, at up until that point, I was about 90 95% sure of who I was after that point. And when they took out this cylinder, this lung, and I had to rebuild everything. Oh, I know damn well who I am now. That's why when I hear somebody go, I'm a resiliency expert. I I rebuilt myself after after what? choosing to do chemo. Well, you're just I'm sorry. I have no respect for you. I think that's embarrassing. If you're so resilient, then things wouldn't sh they wouldn't shake you. You know how you know that somebody's resilient? Cuz you never know what's going on in their life. That's how you know. You never see the transition. There is a war zone going on in your own mind. Your psychology is beyond cognitive dissonance. It's nuclear cognitive dissonance and nobody knows but you. That's resilient. If you shut down, get defeated, cry, whine about it, blame, sit in the corner at 50 years old talking about how bad your life is and blaming things in your past for why you are where you are, you're not resilient. And if you're a man, you're a male. You're not a man. And you can get mad. It doesn't matter. I'm not wrong. But see, here's the problem. And when this guy, the wife leaves, dumps his ass, and now this guy builds his entire brand around how women are broken, marriage is a lie, I lost everything in my life because of coffee or anabolic steroids, or I had this big vision and I realized it was so corrupt, even though I was bringing my family into it. All just to protect his ego. I've seen this. He's not evolved. He's injured and he's recruiting everybody else that goes, "Yeah, yeah, that's me, man." But all of you guys that are getting recruited into the lower levels, you want to play in the big leagues because you keep watching, but you're not willing to do what's required to play in the big leagues. So, you allow yourself to get recruited. Not even the minors, man. You're a wreck league. You know what happens when you live life? Stick with me. This is how it works. You pitch a tent at the base of the mountain and you start blaming the rock for your refusal to climb, for your failure to climb. And the longer you camp there, the more that lie becomes your home. That's your condo, man. You walk around that cleaning it all day long. Because listen, here's I don't even think there's as much anxiety and depression in the besides there's no such thing as having anxiety or having depression. That's another conversation. You can feel anxious and you can feel depressed. But here's why. Even if everything in your life looks fine, you still feel anxious and depressed and angry and bitter and frustrated, overwhelmed, all those things. It's because you're lying. You're lying about your discipline, your effort, and you're lying about what you want. Look at yourself. Go into the bathroom right now. Look at yourself. Look yourself in the eyes. Tell yourself where you are is where you want to be, and you're so happy. It's the best thing in the world. Don't explain it away. Does it match your vision? because you guys have a blueprint mismatch. Your world in the outside doesn't match the conversations you're having on the inside. That's why your life sucks because you're always at war with yourself. And see, I said it before. If you wake up every day and you feel anxious, frustrated, depressed, bitter, annoyed, you [\h__\h] talk yourself. It doesn't matter if you have $100 million in the bank, your life is anxious, bitter, frustrated, annoyed, and depressed. Same thing with your fitness. Same thing with your marriage. Whatever you tell yourself is what you have. And usually it's because you're not doing you're a liar. And here's what's even worse. You're lying about why you're not doing anything about it. Come on, man. You're waiting and you're telling stories about why you're waiting, knowing full well that right now you have the most amount of time you will ever see this side of the grave. Oh, I'm just I'm just waiting for the right time, bro. I see people do this with my program. It's hilarious. And then I see them a year later and they're still in the same spot. But I'm not. I've evolved. I've made more money. I've grown the company. And I've started a new one. I'm healthier. I'm stronger. I've become leaner. I've become more powerful. My kids are even better. My relationship with my wife is even better. And I'm out here giving you the answers for free. And if you really want them in depth, tailored to you, just join the Unbreakable Mastermind. That's all you got to do. Drop the word beast or unbreakable. Either or works. It'll trigger the same many chat sequence, just so you know. But you guys walk around your head up your ass, "Oh, I can't. I can't. I'd love to give you the money, man, but I just can't." No, you don't want the commitment because you know damn well I'll hold you to it. Then you go and you buy a new phone, big screen TV, and you make another payment on your leased Maserati for $1,500 so your neighbors don't know how broke you really are. I'm not telling you anything you don't know. I'm trying to save you from the mistakes you're about to make. Running around saying, "I'm just waiting for the right time, bro. I'm going to do it. I'm just waiting for the right time. I'm being patient. I'm just doing my due diligence." It's what I said before. It's always my favorite. You know, I'm learning first. I'm aligning my energy or my chakras or my meridian lines or whatever you guys come up with. I'm healing. That's my favorite one. That's become a fallback for so many people. I got to heal my trauma and create a safe space for myself and everybody around me because if I don't create this safe space which now gives me control over their domain. So it's a very powerful thing and I have to be very careful what I do with that. Are you nuts? You're hiding. You're a coward and you're hiding and you're still recruiting. Most people at the bottom are desperately trying to recruit. Most people at the top are going, "I'll help you if you need my help. I'll just keep showing up and giving it to you." Kind of like this. You want to join a bigger, better, more badass tribe and sit in a room full of millionaires and successful men and women all the time, then you join the unbreakable mastermind. If not, keep searching. I'm okay, bro. Knock. My family's still going to eat tomorrow. See, and your subconscious, by the way, is sounding every alarm when you do things like that to try and get your [\h__\h] attention. That's what anxiety is. Anxiety is your nervous system rebelling against your own lies. That's it. And every time you come up with an explanation, it makes the people that you say that to want to punch you in the face and makes your subconscious want to beat you to death. It's not some cosmic imbalance. It's your soul that's screaming, "I know you're full of shit." And the longer you ignore it, the louder this gets. Haven't you noticed this? So, you try and make noise somewhere else so you don't have to hear it. But the second that noise is gone and the world shuts down and you are left with your own thoughts. All that noise is still there but now it's louder. You know how you fix it? Just take action. Not distraction by the way. Action. Any action. Anything in the direction of what you want. But first, see, but you have to know what you want first. Stop lying about it. Stop going. I had this epiphany. I had this this oh was a revelation. I realized I don't want any of that. And I changed my mind. I actually wanted all this and I did it all the time. I wanted that all along. You can't hide from your own lies. And God is going to remind you by just throwing [\h__\h] in your way until you figure it out. So take action in the direction of what you really want and break the loop. It's all you got to do. Yep. It's going to suck. It's going to be hard. It's going to be painful, uncomfortable. It's going to frustrate you. You're going to quit. And you're going to want to quit. And you're going to doubt it every second of the way for the first little while until you've stacked enough receipts behind you that let your subconscious know, all right, this guy, he's relentless. He's actually resilient. Because the belief doesn't come first. That's where I think a lot of people are mistaken. The belief doesn't come first, the action does. I've done so many things where I had to do the action. I didn't have belief in it. I just did it and I went, "Holy [\h__\h] it actually worked." every second that you wait. I mean, there's a lot of seconds, man. And you guys keep blowing them. Think about what you can do, not how many you have to waste. Every second you wait, it gets harder. That voice gets louder. And the worst part is the lies you tell yourself get more convincing to you and to other people until eventually other people leave and they stop listening to your lies and they give you a big GF Y. and you get mad and then you gaslight. Listen, here's the deal. That person at the end of the race, they did the two miles in an hour and you didn't start till 45 minutes in and you both had that hour. The person that's at the end drinking lemonade, eating burgers, and living the life they want, driving whatever car they want and living in the mansion and having the money. Money is freedom, by the way. So, stop insulting money because if you insult it, the universe is going to go, "I guess you don't want it." And then you get even more mad and bitter, making $19,000 a year pissed off. Look at the life you want. Get real honest about it. That version that has all that stuff, that's the person that started walking right away today. They didn't go, I'll do it tomorrow. They didn't procrastinate. They didn't say the word yet. I had somebody say this. I haven't done this yet. And then try and tell me that it's the most powerful word in the English language. You know what yet is? It's an excuse that you think absolves you from the promises that you've made that turned out to be lies. I haven't done it yet. How many deadlines are in it yet? How many days? How many contractual obligations or how long does it take to come to fruition in a yet? That's like saying it's it'll be anytime. How many minutes are in any time? I don't know. Tell me when is now a good time. That's the best way to look at life. When is now a good time? When should I do it? When is now a good time? Anytime you say that, when is now a good time? is me sitting here doing nothing or me taking action in the direction with the intensity required of my goals with the intensity required in the direction specifically in the direction that I need to go to achieve that audacious set of goals that I had right at the very beginning that I decided to bail on because I had an awakening. You didn't have an awakening. You got lazy and somebody else supported it or you just turned saw. When is now a good time? Next time you you question, should I do it? Is staying where you are right now, doing the things you're doing, going to further your quest or is you getting off your ass and doing it, spending the money, spending the time, spending the energy. Is that going to do it? You have to decide. I said this before, because that's the version that's at the end after that two-m race, what pick a distance, but it's what I happen to be talking about at the beginning, that two-mile race. That's the version. Like I said, drinking lemonade, eating burgers, living a life, getting in their crazy ass truck, going to their mansion, living in Lamborghinis, Ferraris, whatever it is you want, jets, living in a yurt in the middle of the rainforest. It doesn't make a difference. But if the vision and the version of that of the life is that, and you bailed on it because it's too hard, the problem isn't with the tasks. The problem's with you. And usually it's because you're hanging around people that go, "Yeah, you're totally right. I totally see it, man. Good job. I would have done the same thing. I'm glad you had that awakening because they don't want to try either. And you give them the excuse to sit on their ass, too. See, you don't get it. But somebody is always watching you and you are the example. You're either the example in the permission slip to sit on their ass and get fat and weak or scrawny or do nothing or validate why the big ambition and the big audacious set of goals they had previously aren't really what they want. And that like you're either that example or you're the example for them to go, I need to game up, man. That is a gritty tough son of a [\h__\h] that does everything he or she says. They don't procrastinate. They just do. They don't come up with reasons why they can't. They don't explain it away. They just do. And holy [\h__\h] they're lucky. They have all the money, all the freedom, all the health, the greatest marriage, the cars, the mansion, the power, the self-worth, the connection to God. They have it all. And you call them lucky. You want that version, right? the car, the girl, the body, the empire, the business, the life, the mindset, the psychology, the bulletproof psychology, the unbreakable mindset. I tell my clients, I am unbreakable. I am unstoppable. You say that on repeat all day long until that's all you know. That version of you, he exists. Just so you know, he's not imaginary. It's not some theory, right? This isn't hypothetical. He's just further down the timeline. The timeline that you're blowing, right? Here's the catch. He only becomes real if you race the clock today. Today. Right now. Not tomorrow. Not soon. Not almost, bro. Not when your feelings line up. Not when the stars line up. Not when the moon and everything else are in retrograde or whatever the [\h__\h] it is you guys pay attention to. Today. Today. Right now. Today. Because the guy who started when you started but didn't hesitate, he's already stacking. He's stacking receipts. He's got proof behind him. He's finished the mile ahead. He's living the life that you think about when nobody else is looking. That's that. So if you sit here again convincing yourself that tomorrow that's your time and you actually think you're going to have more time, more money, more energy, more power, more drive, more focus, all of it. Tomorrow when you don't even apply that today, I mean, follow me on this. You're not doing it today. You don't put in the time, the money, and the energy today. And you come up with reasons why you can't swipe your credit card and put it on a card. You come up with reasons why you can't go to the gym and lift the weights. You come up or walk or run or do something, I don't care what you do, something physical that you should be doing. You You come up with why today you can't have the conversation with your wife about the sex you want, the life you want, the marriage you want, the connection you want, the love you want, the beauty, the magic, all the things that you want in your life. You can't do that. You're not doing it today. And then you turn on Netflix and you zone out watching Game of Thrones. You can't do any of the stuff that you think you're going to do tomorrow. And then you tell yourself, "I'm going to do it tomorrow though. Tomorrow I'm going to be ready. You're going to do more of that tomorrow cuz that's what's going to be required. More than what you would have to do today. You're not racing the clock. If you're doing it, man. You think tomorrow is your time. You're not racing the clock. Stay up all night today. Smash as much coffee as you can. Take modafanil, coffee, and everything you can to stay [\h__\h] awake and get as much done tonight. Race the clock until midnight. See what happens. Because if you're not willing to go at it today, you're not racing the clock. You're watching it. And you're just stacking regrets, not receipts. Every second you watch it, you build this list of regrets that are designed just for you, man. They're designed just for you. Even though you want results, you want outcomes, you want achievement, but you're not doing anything. There's only two outcomes. You stack receipts or you stack lies and excuses. So, you can either race the clock or you can accept all the regrets that are headed your way and that most of you probably already have that you can change right now. Doesn't matter if you should have invested in Bitcoin in 2009. You'd probably all be hundred millionaires.$1 would have given you over $100 million today. Just so you let that sink in. But you're going to wait. Those are the same people like, "Well, I'm not going to put anything in now. I don't have 100 grand." But what happens when it's 13 million a coin? You're going to look back and go, "Dude, if I would have just put a little money in, I'd have two $300,000 right now for the hundred bucks I put in. That's all I could put in." But you're not even thinking like that. You play the game going, "I'll do it when you'll do it." Never. You either climb that mountain. You stare at that mountain and go, "All right, [\h__\h] I'm getting to the top because I want to see the next one behind you because I'm going to or you just try and hump that lie into submission. There's no middle. There's no middle. If you really want to win, if you want the Lamborghini, the Ferrari, the empire, the dream, the life, the fitness, the marriage, the connection, the confidence, the power, the self-worth, the bank account, the zeros, the businesses, the freedom, all of that stuff, the destiny. Then stop watching the clock. Start racing it. Get up every day at the same [\h__\h] time and race the clock. That's all this takes. It's your moves, Slick. I got to go. Never miss.