Hey guys, welcome to Smash Works. Trev again. Um, inside my house today because um, we got to go over some stuff. I had kind of an emergency call um, by one of my uh, one of my friends who said they were having some issues with um, thumb, first finger, some intermittent tingling and numbness. So, I'm going to go over some things that help with that because on her, for example, um the Terry's is just lit right up to the point where um it's painful to touch. The lat is really tight and and the uh the scapula on the one side isn't really moving. So, it feels basically stuck against against the rib cage. And if you remember what I talked about, um scapula has those six different ranges of motion, right? It's got protraction, retraction, elevation, depression, and then rotation against uh clockwise and counterclockwise and opposing each other, of course. But you have a lot of muscles that control that movement and uh and they start to bind up and they start to kind of glue that scapula against the rib cage. And the scapula and the shoulder are basically the same joint because that scapula is is not the connection to the axial skeleton. Actually, it's that clavicle that's the connection to the axial skeleton. So, it it doesn't have much of a connection to the skeleton itself other than a bunch of soft tissue. So, when that soft tissue starts to get really gummed up, the mechanics of the shoulder really start to go um down by the wayside. And then along with that, all the neurovvascular structures that pass through those tissues, uh, for example, even up into the first rib, we have that neurovvascular bundle that goes up and over that first rib and then down underneath that clavicle down into the arm, which is going to cause some of those symptoms that I was just talking about with the numbing, the numbness and the tingling into the fingers. So, I'm going to show you how to loosen some of this stuff up. Super gnarly, super effective, and uh, it's going to get rid of some of that problem. So, a couple of them are just basic uh basic mobility drills and a couple of them are some pretty severe smashing. So, first of all, you know, we want to get on that terry's and we want to get on that lat. There's two ways you can do it. One, you can do it with a ball. Um when you're doing it with a ball, I'm going to move this so we can actually see it. Get on that. When you get on it with a ball, the terry sits up and high right here. So, the lat is this big meaty piece of steak right here. And the the tererry's minor sits right above it. And that's an that's a muscle that does uh that does that external rotation, which when we look at uh at a lot of the movements we do in CrossFit, we do a lot of external rotation and a lot of internal rotation. So that internal rotation is the one we're going to address after this, but I want to hit this one first. These you have to do these all together and that's going to help relieve a lot of those hand symptoms that you guys are getting. Um and a lot of times people think that it's a a symptom and a problem with the hand. Uh the person I'm talking about, Dawn, she knows that this isn't a hand problem. It's more a structural cervical problem or a soft tissue. So, a muscular skeletal problem put together. So, the structure and the soft tissue go hand in hand. And we know that stuff. That's why you guys are watching Smashworks. All right. So, the first thing you're going to do is you're going to get your lacrosse ball like this. Now, I'm on a carpet. Not a big fan of that. I'd rather have you on the floor of a of a box, of course. If not, put a book here so it doesn't sink into the carpet and the carpet pads. You get a lot more contact on that uh on that Terry's minor. You're going to put your hand. Now, if you look, my hand is completely extended. So, I'm going to drop down just a little bit so you can see exactly what I'm doing. I have the ball here. I'm going to open my palm up just like this. Completely externally rotate that. And I'm going to find that hot spot. And not everybody has them, but a lot of us CrossFitters do. So, right there, I got this hand down as support. My my one knee, you can see this leg is ra is raised. I don't have the camera long enough, but you're just going to have to trust me on this one. The other leg is fully extended. So, I'm sitting here like this, and all I'm going to do is I'm going to windmill this. So, I'm at about I'm almost um completely perpendicular to the ground with my torso, but what I'm going to do is I'm going to lean just a little bit forward like this. It's going to suck. Embrace the suck. As my good friend Jamie Lee says, just embrace the suck. You're going to come down. Trust me, you're going to want to support yourself. This freaking hurts. You're going to get on that Terry's minor and you're just going to take it through those ranges of motion. You're going to go back and forth, back and forth. Um there's a way to do this with a band. Obviously, I'm not sitting in front of a rig, so we can't do this with a with a rig. sitting in uh in one of the rooms of my house. So, we're going to do it this way. I know KStar, you got bands all over your house. So, I'm going to start sniping your idea and putting bands all over my house, too. Hiding with cross balls everywhere. But for now, this is what you're going to do. You're going to go back and forth like this until when? Till you make a change. So, change only happens when what? Change happens. So profound. So, you're going to do that. That's number one. Number two is you're going to come back. I'm about maybe 30° off center. I'm going to go a little deeper. So that lacrosse ball, if you can see it right there, I'm just a little further inwards. So more towards my midline. I'm going to hit that spot. Now, we're going to recover some of that internal rotation. Now, mine's not bad because my shoulder doesn't come up, but that's cuz I work on it all the time. I hit that long head of the bicep. Totally different video, though. We're not doing that today. And all we're going to do is we're going to make sure this is making a 90° angle with my torso. So, we're making a 90°ree angle between the arm and the body. Super easy. you know, technical terms. And we're just going to come down. Force it down as far as we can. And then we're going to come all the way back. All the way down. Oh man. Seriously, I almost want to block my face. I'm going to make the pain face. And I know millions of viewers. We're going to come back and forth and do this over and over again until when you remember I just gave you the answer. Till change happens. All right, that's number two. So the first one is that windmill, that starfish we do. The second one is this one. Okay, we're going to pivot back and forth. The third one, we're going to take the foam roller instead. We're going to hit that lat. Now, the lat does a ton of stuff. You start swinging a kettle bell, for example, right? Person that's watching this knows exactly what I'm talking about. you start swinging a kettle bell a whole bunch of times and if you're snatching it instead of, you know, even if it's two-handed, if you're not doing a Russian kettle bell and you're snatching, you're bringing it all the way up to the top, you're doing that sweep just like you do on a snatch before you bring it up and then punch out into that internal rotation when you extend that kettle bell all the way overhead. So, when you're doing that, you're engaging the lat on and off, on and off, on and off a ton. And I'll tell you, that glues up that lat. And that lat is a big strong muscle. Does a lot of work on that humorris. So, it's what's going to bring that arm close into the body. It's what's going to do rotation on that arm and it's going to get fully extended and it's also going to get fully contracted when you bring that kettle bell down. So, it's doing a lot of actions. So, you're going to get on that lat. So, the lat's a little lower than that terry's. Now, old school is we just get on it. We start rolling around. I don't like that. We're going to do what's called cross friction. We're just going to go back and forth on that thing. So, you're going to keep that hand. If you notice, I'm always wound up like this. External rotation until I tell you otherwise. All right? Right? And we're going to make sure it's all the way into that full range of motion. So, as if we're setting up for a snatch and we're on our side, we're going to have this at that punch out position. So, if I was going to be in a snatch, this is exactly how I'd be. We mobilize in the position we want to get into, right? So, make sure that's all the way out. And then you're just going to rock back and forth on this. This has an ouch factor of about eight out of 10 and it's pretty gnarly. And you're just going to go back and forth. The reason I have the foam roller, you can use PVC if you're super super brave and like a Smash Works Ninja, but until that point, use a foam roller. PVC is completely unforgiving. Trust me, you'll get that tissue to move even if you don't want it to. But the foam roller gives you something to hang on to. So, this way you can control the amount of pressure. And the rule I have about mobilizing is you got to be able to breathe. If you can't breathe when you're doing it, you're going too hard. So, you're just going to go back and forth and back and forth until you make that change. Come up a little higher. Back and forth. back and forth. That's number three. So, we've got the tererry's minor. We've got deeper into that terries when we get kind of at that 30° angle. Then, we've got completely on our side hitting that lat. There two more. You're going to take this. You're going to put it on. I'm going to come I'm going to come back this way. So, between the shoulder blade and the spine. So, I'll bring my hand all the way up. So, you're going to be hitting right there. So, between the shoulder blade and spine, that's where that ball's going to go. Always use that lacrosse ball. You're going to take your hand, you're going to bring it all the way across to the opposing shoulder, just like this. So, you just grab onto the meat of the other shoulder. Roll yourself back onto that ball and you're going to come down. I'll I'll call it T4 cuz that's pretty much where it is. It's going to be about midway down of that uh on that scapula on the inside of the scapula. So, when you move your arm like this, you actually pull that scapula out of the way so you can get to the subscapularis and you just unglue that thing. Now, that muscle is designed to hold that scapula there. Um, so you really want to smash away on this thing. So, go ahead and get on it because that's what does that internal rotation. And kettle bell swings, again, we're going to go right back to that because that's what caused this injury. Kettle bell swings has a both an internal and an external rotational component. So, we want to make sure we're going to hitting we're going to hit both of those movements. We're going to get right on it. This hand here, keep those knees bent. And we're just going to do this. We're going to stay in this position. We're going to go all the way up and all the way down. All the way up. all the way down. We're going to work our way all along the border of that scapula, staying on the inside. Don't smash the bone. Bones aren't tissue. They don't move. They're moved by tissue. So, you can't smash out a bone. Remember that. And you'll know when you get on a bone cuz a lacrosse ball and a bone. Bad, bad mix. So, you're going to do that same thing till you make a change. So, basically, you're doing this motion up and down, and it's going to move that scapula just slightly, but it's going to cause that tissue to get longer and shorter. So, basically, contract, relax. That's number four. All right. Fifth one. You're going to actually hit the front and you're going to use both. So, you're going to take this. You're going to put this here. You're going to get this right in the pocket. So, the reason I'm going to bring that up in here is let me sit like this just so you can see. You're going to sit right in the pocket here. When you have that internal rotation, so I want you to look at my shoulder from the side. When I'm bringing when I'm coming down into a snatch and I'm into this position or a kettle bell, if my shoulder is coming forward, that means I'm trying to recover that internal rotation because I don't have it in the joint itself. So, the shoulder wants to roll forward. So, we're going to recover some of that internal rotation super fast. And here's how you do it. You take this, put it on the foam roller. You can put this on anything, but I like a foam roller because it's got a little bit of give. You're going to take this. You're going to find that pocket. You're gonna take your hand. You're gonna open it up palm up. So, if I move over just so you can see what I'm doing, you're gonna get just like this. So, I'm actually laying on that foam roller so I control the pressure. You're going to hold your hand here. Palm up. I'm going to lay in my as much weight as I can possibly take on it. And I'm going to go all the way up. Oh, yeah. Welcome home. Right there. And then we're going to come all the way back down. We're going to come all the way back up. We're going to do this a bunch of times. This is going to help recover a lot of that internal rotation. So, you're having an argument on your shoulder right now um before you've done any of this mobility. And this is how you stop the argument. So, this is one of those times when you want to win an argument, just get ugly on the muscle. So, this is going to take care of both sides of that shoulder. And if you look now, I realize I showed you that I had some pretty good internal rotation, but I should have done a test and a retest, but if you check this out, I can come all the way down here. My shoulder's not coming up off the ground, and I'm pretty much here. So, we want to have that range of motion. If you don't have that, get on that lacrosse ball, smash away on the front. I'll show you how to do the long head of the biceps, or you can check out one of my videos, the one I did with um Lenny. She's the one uh I had her do it with a uh with an Olympic bar. That's super gnarly. But anyway, those are the five things. Get those done. It'll help unglue that scapula. It'll free up all the structures around the shoulder. It'll get rid of that uh pain, numbness, and tingling in the uh in the index finger and the thumb. And it'll let your shoulder kind of feel its way around and and start moving the way it's supposed to. All right, I'm Trev Smashworks. You guys have a great night. I'll see you tomorrow.