Man, you know, sometimes you just sit down and you're just lit, right? Like today, today I I don't know. I I woke up. It's Monday, Labor Day weekend, right? Apparently, everybody's having sales and weird stuff like that. But, I mean, sometimes you wake up and you realize the weight of the cross that's on you, right? Whatever that is. And I know some of you guys are going through some some horrific things. To be honest, I I've gotten messages. Keep them coming as and I'll I'll help solve everything I can. There's one of me and 9 billion people on the planet. And I fully believe that God has charged me with helping as many people as I can. Whether it's in their health or their psychology or their physicality, all of it. I I do believe that. I really do. I mean, you don't go through hell that I've been through just to keep it to yourself, the lessons, right? But today, I woke up and I went, sometimes these lessons get a little [\h__\h] heavy. So, I know some of you guys wake up like that, too. So, I thought, you know what? Why don't I just come out here and just light it up? None of this is, By the way, I'm going to tell you some pretty transparent and personal things. I just don't really care. You know, my dad was, man, he was a good man. Sometimes I think I I don't know. I'll tell you this just really quickly. My dad and I didn't always get along. And uh that's the one thing I regret. You know, 67 years old, he passed away of endstage liver disease. And I remember one time, real short story, and then I'll tell you, this is a really wild, this is going to be a wild podcast. You guys are going to be like, "Holy shit." But I didn't talk to my dad for a couple of years. Juvenile. It's It's totally juvenile to act like that. And this is about 22 24 years ago. And it was before I got married. Brandy and I had just started dating, I think. And I'm saying about 24 years ago when I I didn't talk to my dad. And I mean, we just two stubborn dudes, I guess, really. And one of my friends, I grew up with this guy. He at the time was uh probably the closest thing to a brother I ever had back then. His name is Greg. Great guy. I mean, we just we hung out almost every day for decades. And I mean, racing dirt bikes and doing stupid things until we both got driver's licenses and then we just did more stupid things, you know? He's just always there. And he's got this weird intuition that he was he could get a vibe for somebody and go, "Ah, that's not a good person. That's a good He was always right. It's wild." And anyway, one day he said to me, "Hey man, you talked to your dad yet?" And I'll never I mean I you can tell just by talking me he's talking about it was it's burned into my skull. And I said, "Nah, nah, I'll do it someday. I just it's not the right time. Not going to do it. Not the right time." And you know what he said? This listen to me. You guys need to take take to heart. This is a 52-year-old man explaining this to you right now. Take this to heart. And he said, "You know what, Trev? One day you're going to you're going to pick up the phone." He goes, "And you're going to say, "Okay, now's the time." And he goes, "You're going to call your house and you're going to say, "Hey, mom, can I talk to dad?" And he goes, "Your mom is going to say, "Dad passed away like 6 months ago. You guys just never spoke." And some of you guys might not realize the gravity of how just how heavy that is when he said that. And I went, "Son of a bitch." Now, here's where it gets wild. My dad was a preacher, right? And I was already living in California and I had this clinic in this in a city called Walnut Creek. And beautiful place. And the next day, I'm in the back in my office. The next day, if you don't believe in God, I I don't know what to tell you. But you maybe then I'm just not for you. But the next day, my front receptionist comes to the back. Some of you guys just lost your mind. You're like, "Receptionist? It's a bad word. Really?" Okay. Steartus, waitress, how about we just keep going? Give me a break. She's like, "Hey, there's some guy here that says he's your dad." And I went, "What?" My parents lived in Winnipeg. This was in the Bay Area of California. It's a little bit of a drive, let's just say. And I'm like, nah. And so I thought maybe it was my my future father-in-law, right? Cuz he would come by and get adjusted sometimes. You would come by and see me for treatment, whatever. And I come around the corner and there's my dad, except he'd lost like 60 lb. And he just got this big smile on his face. My dad and I, we went at it like at each other pretty hard sometimes. And he just got this big smile on his face. and I just started crying and I just gave him a hug and I talked to my dad all the time after that. I used to talk to my mom all the way home from my office. It was usually anywhere from 40 minutes to an hour. I actually missed that because it was about the only free time I had in my life and you know stacking all these companies now I literally have no before you go oh you should have balance bro that's not what I'm saying. I just you know what I need to talk to my mom. How about that there? I'll just say that like this is why I'm saying this is not like a regular podcast where I'm like if you take this and you do this this is how this is about getting your head right because take the lessons from the people that have made mistakes and come out the other side and solve the equation like me and then go do this it'll make it better so you don't have to make the mistake or if you're making it at 20 you don't make it all the way until 50 and keep screwing things up. You guys need to understand this and again this is one of these days where I just came out here I'm just talking and which is almost every day to be honest. I don't know what episode I'm on. 241 242. And if you caught yesterday's on DMSO, by the way, it was pretty badass. And somebody asked me if you're listening, when do you stop stinking? Never. When you take DMSO, always. There you go. There's your answer. But you have to understand, it's one of those things when when you look at the world, like my parents, the reason I had I I went toe-to-toe with my dad a lot is because I had a lot of consequences when I was a kid. Like if I screwed up, I know like I knew. I told you. My mom backhanded me one time when we were driving home. I was probably the seventh grade or eighth grade. Hard enough to give me a bloody nose. I disrespected the crap out of my mom and she didn't miss a beat driving. Pow! That hand came out. Just it's like a grenade went off on my face. Fully deserved it. I was acting like a punk. But listen to this. This is why I'm telling you this before we even go any further because I could sit out here for probably about 4 hours right now and just regail you with stories about my life of dumb [\h__\h] I've done. But the point is is that somebody pointed me in the right direction and it made me make a better decision. So that's what I'm helping you with. And if you don't listen, then don't listen and that's on you. Go back to being entertained and making your stupid mistakes. But do you ever notice like in life the dumbest [\h__\h] gets the loudest applause right now. It's mindboggling to me. Like we live in a society where truth is hate speech. What? And feelings? Well, feelings and they're just some kind of currency that you guys trade with each other. And there are no consequences in the world anymore. No real consequences. None. No, nobody has consequences for real things. There's consequences for stupid things, but to benefit stupid people, but I think that's the single biggest mistake we have ever made as a society right now. Not AI or politics or the BS climate change. And don't get on my case about that. I just don't agree with it. I think the greatest mistake we have made as a current society is removing consequences for what deserves a consequence. Consequences are reality. You guys need to listen to me. They are that's how you get better. And if you don't have them, you can't improve. Consequences demand standards. No standards, the consequences get worse. So until you understand that, your standards are going to go the wrong freaking direction. Like consequences, they're the invoice that that the universe sends to you for your boneheaded decisions. Ignore them long enough. And here's what happens. Reality comes along and repossesses your entire damn life. But somehow in our infinite stupidity, we have decided to cancel that reality check, chin check, invoice system. And now, well, we're broke. Like, culturally in society, really, listen, stop getting mad if you're listening to this. Just grow up for a second. We're broke morally, psychologically, culturally, financially, emotionally. We're just bankrupt. Let me explain. And I will I will bear my soul on this part and you'll hear this as I go through this, but we have built an entire industry around fake consequences. Watch. You call somebody obese. Heaven forbid you say the word fat, they'll lose their mind. But you call somebody obese and it's a hate crime. How? Really? A hate crime? What's next? You call somebody broke and it's financial terrorism? Stop pretending. We have to We have to stop pretending that words are violence. They're not. Fat is not an insult. It is a category. You don't scream at your scale in your bathroom for racism. You scream because it told you the freaking truth. The real consequence, and I'm just using obesity as an example. I could use a million things, but the real consequence of obesity isn't that your feelings get bruised. It's diabetes, coronary artery disease, neuropathy, amputations, visual problems, dying 20 years too freaking early, leaving your kids with memories of hospital visits instead of vacations in life. Those are consequences. That is biology sending you a final notice, a default going, "You're out." But we've inverted it. We punish the truth and excuse dysfunction and give gold stars for mediocrity and all these hugs and rewards and applause, freaking medals for participation. Listen, you can fail every single test, but if you feel good about yourself, you are celebrated as brave. Okay? So meanwhile, the laws of biology and physics and endocrinology and economics and mathematics, they don't give a damn about your courage. Just so you know, they hand you a bill. A bill. And just so you know, that bill for whatever it is that you are getting checked on, it always comes due. It always does. I don't know. Maybe you're listening to this and go, "No, it hasn't for me." It's going to slap you in the mouth. Like we're watching this insanity just metastasize. Ninth graders with full biological external plumbing. They have a penis. They go out and announce that they are a woman. Instead of consequences, we have parades and celebrations and have parties. You have gender reveal parties for people that are in the 11th grade. These are people that are now walking into women's locker rooms and fighting women in boxing matches. Are you out of your ever loving mind? My wife is insanely tough. I mean, she is an animal. Don't get in the way of her throwing a punch. But I promise you this, a punch from me or a punch from her radically different. You got dudes identifying as a woman sitting in women's prisons and impregnating inmates. And what happens? Nothing. Zero. Nothing. In fact, we are told to clap like we're a bunch of trained freaking seals, right? Or we're the problem or else we're the problem. We get the consequence. That's what I mean. It's inverted. The consequence is on the people that are actually going. But that's wrong. No, no, no, no, no, no consequence. That is not inclusion. That is absolute delusion. And delusion with no consequence. Holy [\h__\h] That is that's what I was saying about metastasize. It is spread. It spreads like a cancer. Even our legal system, it is so corrupt, which is supposed to be just so we're clear before somebody gets mad goes, "Oh, it's corrupt. It's got all kinds of problems." But it's supposed to be the scoreboard of consequence. It has turned into high stakes auctioning. Justice doesn't go to the wronged. It goes to the highest bidder and the most manipulative. I'll make this very real for you. I'll tell you all about my whole life. What's going on in our life right now? So, four years ago, this is like I just don't care. You know what my dad always said? Tell the truth. There's less to remember and you can't [\h__\h] up your own story. He didn't use the f- word, but I am. Four years ago, I'll tell you this. I've worked my fingers to the bone. If you haven't seen how hard I work, then it's not to brag. It's because it's all I know. My parents instilled a monumental work ethic into me. And I thank them for that. Despite how many times it pissed me off when I was a kid, but I worked so hard for well over a decade to build a life for my wife Brandy. Because when I when we first got married, she said, "One day I want to live out in the country on land. Maybe some she loves these little tiny fuzzy-headed cows. I don't remember what they're called, but they have these crazy long hair and they're actually kind of cute. But I want cows and chickens and all this stuff." And at the time, we had no money in a tiny little 1400 ft² house in a tiny little neighborhood with a backyard that looked it was about the size of a postage stamp. And in California, that costs 800 grand million. And I went, "Holy shit." did. And at the time, I had no money. I was sick, going through chemo, and I had no idea how I was going to do it. But I knew damn well I wasn't going to let that woman down at all. And so, I've had tons of ups and downs and es and flows and losses and wins and all kinds of stuff. But I got to a point where I went, "All right, now we can do this." Four years ago, four years ago, I got to that point where I went, "Okay, I can put her in her dream house and put her on the land." I I do this whole thing for my wife. If you guys don't understand that by now, you're never going to get it. And so we built this custom home that was supposed to be the forever house. The one where it was like this has everything. This is it here in Texas. In fact, about 20 mi from where I am right now. Well over a million dollars poured into this into this house. The builder guy's name is Lucian Tujag Jr. T U J A G U. Lucian. I mean, I should have known. Should have just swapped it off for Lucifer. Guy owns a company called Dominion Asset Development, among other things. Oh, there's some legal reason I'm not supposed to type it in an email because that's the one segment. I'll tell you why. This is how corrupt this dude is and how corrupt the system is. When we moved in, so we bought it. We got the inspection before somebody says, "Wasn't that what an inspection is supposed to be?" Just so you know, everybody that is going to buy a house, I'll give you very and you'll find. So, if you look up builder brigade, this is my buddy Dennis. Look him up on social media. This guy talks about some really cool stuff. And then this other guy that I follow, he always says that's not right. And he's a building inspector. I freaking love these guys because they expose all these corrupt, crooked [\h__\h] that are taking advantage of everybody and harming them, putting them in unsafe conditions or just ripping them off, which has happened to us. So, a building inspector goes and checks boxes as best they can. You know what I'm going to tell you to do? And you can agree or disagree. It's really irrelevant. If I don't like your comment in my social media, you know what? It's my world. I'll just block you, kick you out, and make sure you never come back cuz I just don't have time for idiots anymore. I just don't. So, you've been warned. You've been warned. But get a contractor and have them go through whatever house you're about to buy with a fine tooth comb instead of going, "Well, that's going to be expensive." You know what's even more expensive? Half a million dollars in repairs and poor shoddy workmanship when you buy a house, which is what happened to us the day we got it. So, we got there and the inspector checked it all off. We moved in and it's like we had just nothing but bricks thrown at it. But when we looked at the house, it was had some dirt in it. Had it was it was just fresh built. Had the cardboard roll out that the um workers walk on so it doesn't they don't dirty up the none of that was taken away. There was still scorpions all over the place, wasps nests all over the outside. It's Texas. Like they just nothing was maintained. Was well over a million dollars for this house, brand new. And we went, "Okay." So I called the guy and I said, "Hey, this house is just there's not even a fruit basket on my island. Like what's going on?" And he went, "That's crazy. I had a professional cleaned line number one." And that's when they started. So just to give you a little preface, was our bank. Take number one. These are all lessons. So take my lessons. He was our bank. He was the builder. He is the developer of the entire Los Establo Estates in Roy City. 89 is the zip code. He is a corrupt [\h__\h] Here's I'll explain. The HOA, Lena, Los Establo Neighborhood Association is what it's called. And I don't I'm not saying this to be a victim. I don't want any sympathy. I don't care. We're I'll tell you we I'll get in the ring. a box with you all day until I'm dead. And you should know that by now. But I want you guys to understand this happens to everybody. Like we carry crosses just like all of you guys. His vote counts for an automatic 50 votes. There are 42 plots of land in this development. Do the math. He can supersede any any vote. He is also the president of the HOA, which we found out later is completely illegal. And he never did anything in the HOA. He just lied. He used it as his own personal little hobby place where he could run money through where he launderers money. He's a crooked dude. guy lives in a $5 million house in in Dallas. So, we confronted him for well over a year to fix this stuff. And he kept, "Oh, yeah, yeah, we're gonna I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna send these people out. I'm gonna do this. I'm going to do this." Nothing but promises. Big long texts and emails and everything. The most he did was put a coat of paint on a drawer. That's it. So, here's what what it what happened. Just so you understand, save you a long giant story. We found out black mold throughout the entire house. I lost my lung just so we're clear. between the black mold and remesae. It's no wonder I'm not dead. Black mold in the insulation everywhere. That's if you guys understand black mold. If you do, you do. If you don't, you don't. It's never going away to get that house cleaned out. It's never going away. Black mold throughout the entire home cuz the house sat for 9 months empty, but doors open. Like, there was critters everywhere. I had more scorpions in my house. I had needlenose pliers in almost every room of the house to pick up scorpions by the tail and kill them because they were everywhere. I don't know if you've ever stepped on a scorpion, but it's incredibly uncomfortable. I four times in a my first week, I stepped on them until I finally had to wear flip-flops in the house. Come on. This is my house. Sewer pipes broke in the walls and leaked sewage and gray water under the hardwood, into the carpets, into the walls. The roof was put on wet. If you understand roofing, for those of you guys that don't know, I'm no roofer, but laying it down when it's wet is a ticking time bomb. It's very bad. The roof leaked so bad that every time it rained, it poured into our laundry room all over the slate tile, which wasn't put. Because if you understand what back buttering is, you put thin set on the tile. You put thin set on the ground with a notch tel and then put it on, set it, you know, wrap it in place, make sure it's great. He put little dollops, two or three. That's it. You could take the tiles and pull them up. So I I drug a chain around all over. If you've ever done that, you can hear it. Sounds very hollow. You want to check your tiles. You might be disappointed. I hope not. I hope your tile is just perfect. It sounds awesome. We heard these big bangs a couple of times. Middle of the night. So loud that I felt it. Turned out the foundation cracked. Not once, not twice, three times. Bad enough that the second floor sagged by about 5°. Another ticking time bomb. We had an inspected by um Williamson Foundations here in Rock Wall. And he goes, "Yeah, this is a disaster, man. This is a brand new house." And he Here's what happened with Lucian, just so you understand about consequences. He got a incredibly And then he said, "You left me with emotional bruises. You know, you really hurt my feelings about how you talked about my house. This is a work of art. What? Dude, if you buy my 911 Turbo S, any of you guys, let's say, I'm going to make sure that it is like brand new when you get it because that's how I'm wired. Why would I send you to give you a piece of [\h__\h] It's just weird. And my son, just so we know, just and I posted this actually, two rattlesnakes in his bedroom. He had a bunk bed, one queen bed on the bottom, and then an opposing like perpendicular twin above. It was like a little fort. I'm telling you, this was a kid's awesome room. I wanted this. It's like I'm like, "This is great." He used to put all his stuffed animals up there. He was 10. And he comes out to the living room and I'm working. He goes, "Dad, can I talk to you for a second?" I go, "Yeah, give me one second. Let me finish up." He goes, "Okay." I wait about 10 seconds, finish up what I'm doing. Go, "Yeah, what is it, buddy?" He goes, "There's a snake in my room." I drop everything, run to the room. I look at it. It's freaking rattlesnake. You It's all on video. That's what's even crazier. This is all on this all. You can't make this up. It's that bad. So, I go and I dispatch this snake. My son has a gaming chair. It's like a rumble seat you sit in. It's got speakers, a little tiny thing on the floor if you've seen. And I thought I thought we handled it. We looked around the house, made sure there was nothing else. 10 minutes later, my wife yells, "Get your father." I hear her. I'm already running to the bedroom. There was another one coiled up underneath the gaming chair that he sits in every day because the house wasn't sealed at all. All the pipes that go into the ground through the conduit, PVC piping, right? No foam, no seal, nothing. Just big gaping holes enough that you could get a draft. Like I just can't. two rattlesnakes, never mind one that I had in the kitchen and another one in the back room. They were everywhere, which means they were all over the place. So, here here's what happened. We again begged and pleaded and sent him emails and said, "Hey, listen. You got to fix this [\h__\h] man. This is bad. You put my health my family in jeopardy." And we were like, "We got to move out until you fix this." Nothing. So, what did we do? We took him to court in the nice legal way because that's what civilized people should do. And he should have just done the right thing. Except the civilized system is run by [\h__\h] wolves. So, he lies and cheats, manipulates, and guess what? We lose. We lose. We had two contractors come in and go through the whole house, over half a million dollars worth of repair work on a punch list. He gave us a $68,000 landscaping credit written in the contract. And I this this is going to get awesome. You guys are going to be like, "Holy shit." Yeah. Like no kidding. Like we've had some pretty wild rides for the last four and a half, five years. My wife is my best friend. Like we just keep on going. That 68 grand which is written in as a landscaping credit. He sends back an attorney letter that says, "That's what I gave you the 68 grand for was to fix all the stuff on the punch list." No consequences. No consequences. So, we lose while he pockets all this cash. We lose while the house just disintegrates around us. And that the hard line was seeing my wife, even just recently, 2 weeks ago. It's been almost 5 years in total, I guess, not four, since we started this endeavor with this jack wagon. And we pray before every meal, and she just falls apart. She starts balling and sobbing at the table. Seeing my wife upset is the worst thing in the world for me because I want to take it away and I want to do damage to somebody that makes her cry. Even if it's me, but it wasn't me. And she's just saying, "God, I don't I don't know why we're going through this, but I know there's a plan." She's just It's just really frustrating and really hard. And I'll tell you why she was crying, not because of this. I mean, this is her dream house, so it really bothers me cuz this is I worked for her because everything she dreamt of was stolen. No consequence. But here's what's wild. Then after we expose this guy publicly, he put up websites everywhere just telling the truth. Like tell the truth. It's very easy. There's nothing malicious and an attack. It is just the truth with dozens of pictures explaining and showing all everything he's ever said. He sues us for defamation. Well, it gets better. You guys are going, "Holy crap." It gets even better. And then he forecloses on the house on us. Not because we didn't pay him. He foreclosed after we made a payment on time. But use the HOA. Use because if you understand HOAs, Texas, you can for HOAs have a lot of power, man. You guys do not want HOAs. I'll just tell you that. Well, he used that to his advantage. Foreclosed on the house. Took the house and then filed a $900,000 judgment against us for the house and then sent us the information to make court to contest the judgment. Court at 9:00 a.m. We got the letter at 3:10. I saved all the stuff and none of this was defendable because it was a default judgment. I'm not an attorney, so I don't know. We have an attorney now who's great. But then he f Wait, it gets even better. Then he files just and he lost the defamation case maybe 7 6 weeks ago. He drugg us through court for 3 years watching my wife get upset every time. He kept trying to take down those sites and we kept going, "Not a chance. They're the truth. Screw you." Like we're about ready to blast this all over the news. Like if any of you guys are journalists, you just contact me. I'll give you the whole thing and you do what you want with it. I don't want retribution. I want this guy just to go the [\h__\h] away. Leave my family alone. I don't I don't want my money from you. Nothing. But really, I just don't care. Go be a [\h__\h] somewhere else. Stay out of my life. But then he files a receiverhip against us. If you don't know what a receiverhip is, it basically is like, I'm going to climb up your ass with a microscope and I'm going to look at everything you do financially, everything you have, and then we're going to go and take everything we can to satisfy whatever debt we're trying to collect on. He listed, here's why I'm going to tell you this. No consequence. lists my wife's wedding ring, her engagement ring, our kids clothes and their toys in the receiverhip, all as documents that he could seize, but here's the killer part. Two websites that he lost against, he listed them as assets so he could take them and shut them down. Manipulative, no consequence. This is why I'm explaining. So, it happens to me, just so you understand, this happens to everybody, just not not at this level. And here we are going, "Wait a minute. We're the ones that lost everything and on top of a lung. No remorse from this guy. Like evil will not stop itself. It must be stopped. You need to understand that. Like you guys hear me? He builds this snakeinfested mold palace, robs us blind, and the system hands him the sword while we get crucified. No consequence for him. None catastrophic consequence for us. So now, of course, this is the next battle we have in this phase of beautiful experiences with this jackass. But the point I'm making is it's a product of never see he's if you look him up 20 22 lawsuits he's got going right now. A ton. His default knee-jerk reaction is to sue people the second they contest him and come at him for all the screw-ups he's made. But he's got incredibly deep pockets and he drags them through the legal system until they're broke and then he just wins. So the reason I'm telling you that is there's no consequence for manipulating the system. And that's when I realized that this isn't an isolated case. This is the just the new normal in society cuz I'm looking at this going if there was a consequence for his actions. So I we're the only ones, the Bogmires, Trevor and Brandy are the only ones that have gotten in the ring and gone, "All right, you want to box? Let's go." And we've just non-stop. And it's been and I've told my wife, "Hey, do you just want to listen? We're done." And she's like, "Hell no. No way." And not out of vengeance or anger or bitterness or trying to get revenge. Out of going, I know what's right. And even then, this is the kind of person you give an inch, they take a mile. If you know these people, they do. If you hand them a victory, they'll just go, "But I want more of a victory." Right? So those that's what I'm talking about. There's no consequence until something gets stopped, it's going to continue. If it's evil, the system doesn't punish corruption anymore. It laers it, right? Predators thrive when look at the world, right? Predators thrive when consequences evaporate. Whether it is somebody that shouldn't be here that is here that's doing things that shouldn't be doing things and taking children and like predators are bad. That's why I'm telling you this. consequences at school being incredibly obese with kitten ears and a litter box in the back trying to corrupt the children and then sending them home and getting into arguments with your kid never happened to us because their ideologies are being corrupt because they're being told something and indoctrinated into school. No consequence consequence for us as parents. You need to zoom out a little bit and look at the culture. Look at kids. Kids don't need safe spaces, you guys. They need they need a dodgeball to the face. They don't need bubble wrap and a protective little seal. They need scuffed up knees and a couple of broken bones and maybe a fat lip and somebody's older brother just knocking them around because it was Tuesday and they could. Like they don't need mommy charging into the gym yelling at the PE teacher because Timmy got hit with a ball. Because here's why. When you remove little consequences, you [\h__\h] them for the big ones that are going to show up in the terrible world that we live in that they're going to tell you, right? But that's not the truth. We've built an entire generation that's allergic to discomfort. They've never been grounded or punished or whacked or taken had something taken away or scuffed up or beat up or banged up or even told they're wrong. And so when reality comes and gives them a right cross, they collapse. One breakup and they're just they need therapy for 2 years, a boss saying, "Listen, you screwed up. You get a speeding ticket and their brains explode and they're destroyed." Failure isn't supposed to be fatal. It's not. That's why we just keep fighting. It's supposed to be an education. It's instructive. We've learned all kinds of things going through this because if we don't, we're going to make the same mistake. But when you erase consequences, the failure becomes unbearable, which is now why we have a society of a bunch of spineless little jellyfish that just no skin just floating around waiting to be offended on somebody else's behalf. Here's the truth that I I think a lot of people just don't want to hear. Life is going to hurt no matter what you do. If you quit and you roll over and you just take it, you're going to suffer and struggle and bleed. If you get back in the ring and you get in the arena, you're going to suffer and struggle and bleed. It's a package deal about being alive. But the difference is is this. If you roll over, you suffer for nothing. If you fight, you suffer forward. That is it. You are going to suffer either side of this equation. One is going to move you. The other one's going to [\h__\h] you even further. Resilience is not built in comfort, you guys. It's not. You have to have all these consequences. That's what makes you tough. It's the burn when you touch the stove. Those coily little elements that we used to see all bright orange. Just don't touch it. Well, let's see. the humiliation of something happening, getting crippled in a game, losing the big match, getting a smack from your parents, going through a a a issue like with Lucian Tuja Jr., what did it teach us? How do we insulate ourselves and inoculate ourselves against that? And how do we resilient up and go, "All right, now what? What did we learn? How do we put up another wall and go bring it, motherfucker?" Like, that's how you have to look at it. It's by the way, just full transparency, the jackass is now trying to sell the house for $1.4 million. And it's listed. No mention of any of the [\h__\h] that happened. None. So that tells I already know he covered it up. I would go if you're you should go look at it and go, "Let me see all the receipts and the work orders and proof that you actually stripped it down to the sticks and got rid of all the black mold was in every piece of insulation in the whole. It was everywhere. Broken. Like you should just go to the website and just look. Just look. It's so insane. I've never seen something so catastrophically bad." But anyway, there's that's a side funny. So, not only, listen, not only if he sucks 900 grand out of us for nothing, he's going to sell it for 1.4 million and they get profit on the house, so he'll make even more. No consequence. You try that in the fits, those people usually disappear. Like, that's what there's no consequence. Understand the pain of falling and getting beat up and taking a hit like this or getting bruised or whatever it is. and learning that you can stand again. That's what builds you into a savage character. That's why kids who grow up like our children have consequences. Pierce and hope have consequences. When they grow up with real consequence and become become more resilient, they become adults who can handle adversity and reality. Kids who grow up all shielded from consequence. They become these adults who need non-stop therapy and a bunch of anti-depressants, SSRIs, and MAIS because somebody didn't use their preferred pronoun. You want to raise yourself to be tougher, which you should. This isn't some alpha grind set BS. This is you need to to toughen up. Just have obnoxiously thick skin. You want to raise tough kids, then let them fall. Let them fail. Let them get get beat up. Let them like my kids are going to beat me when they can beat me. And Pierce is getting close, just so you know. But they're going to beat me. I am never going to let my kids win. My wife never lets me win if we're racing in a workout. Are you nuts? Why would you, though? It doesn't make you better. It makes you believe you're better. And now you're delusional until you get out to the real world and you get the [\h__\h] kicked out of you by life. Face the consequences because reality is is zero as far as coddling somebody. It won't do it. Go. Let me go macro more for a second. When you coddle dysfunction, you normalize corruption. When you remove all of the consequences that should be there, you remove that feedback loop that's required for growth. No feedback, no growth, right? And then what? Wait, follow me. No growth, no improvement. And no improvement. You just disintegrate. You become this shallow person that that you can't even man you can't get out of your driveway without somebody driving by and you thinking that the color of their car is offensive. It's like ripping out the check engine light in your car. You don't fix the [\h__\h] problem. You're just driving until like blind until your engine explodes. That's how people are right now. And that's where like we are a society that is unplugging every single CE check engine light everywhere. Nobody wants to be told they're wrong because it's offensive. Nobody wants to face the bill because it's too expensive and I shouldn't have to pay it and it should be free. So, we just keep driving along pretending that the smoke belching out of the hood is normal and then we wonder why the entire system is collapsing. I think the answer is I mean I honestly this is just a personal opinion. That's what this entire podcast is today is just a personal opinion. I don't think it's complicated. It's not complicated. It's not uncomfortable. I think it's incredibly necessary. We bring consequences back. Man, I can't tell you the number of times I faced ugly, uncomfortable consequences. I can go right back to this house to use myself as an example. I didn't have a contractor go line by line cuz the first contractor that went in and went through the house went he left because he was so pissed off and then came back later cuz he's like this is ridiculous that somebody would even do this to you guys. That's a contractor that takes pride in his work. Had I done that, it's my fault. That's why I'm not blaming anybody, but I sure as hell I'm going to war with this son of a [\h__\h] Kids need discipline and punishment and outcomes and freedom to fail without coming in with pillows and rescuing them. Adults need accountability. myself, my wife, you guys, this knucklehead, right? They don't need HR departments babysitting feelings and going, "You hurt my feelings, I want to take everything you own. You hurt my feelings, you're fired." That's the world we live in. Corrupt predators need exposure, not protection. Are you out of your mind? Truth needs a shield. What truth doesn't need is a freaking gag order. Like, you don't fix any of this by making by making people safer. And I think that's going to be misconstrued, but it's the truth. You fix it by making people stronger. And strength only comes from one thing. When reality punches you right in the damn face and you learn how to punch back. And a lot of people don't. They think they can because they hide behind that little glass screen with a lot of big words using AI to answer the questions for them. But the truth is they haven't they haven't thrown a punch their entire life. And if they did, it was to something that when they were 7 years old that resembled a pillow. A lot of courage comes behind that glass screen until they're put in a situation. But then they don't understand the process. They have no real knowledge, no concept of application of what they sort of they or they pseudo learn because all of their intellect and answers and solutions comes from AI, which is fine. Make sure you understand it. Because if you don't understand it, when you're put on on the hot seat and you need to apply it, you can't cuz there's no recall cuz there's nothing there. You're going, "Where's the internet?" It's like going, "I need someone to protect me physically because I'm fat. I'm morbidly obese. I'm disgusting. I'm taking a bunch of medications. I can't run three steps without being winded." But you're being chased by a killer. Easy to run away on social media because you just swipe right or turn it off, but you can't do that in the real world. Like on listen to me. I I adore my wife. If you don't understand that by now, you're probably never going to. But I adore my wife. She is my best friend and everything I could ever imagine. I love Brandy so much. And I seeing her cry. And even more so, I hate seeing her cry and upset because of some rich [\h__\h] who stole her dream home and walked away richer because he put things in place to make sure that we lose and the consequence is on us regardless of us not doing that. We're not in the wrong. But you know what I hate more? A society that rewards the predator and punishes the truth teller. That's why we fight. That's why we'll keep going back to court. We'll keep talking about this. We'll keep blasting it everywhere. That's why I'm we don't roll over. Like my wife, she would be so pissed off if I rolled over. If you remember, I stood I I sat on a that rogue box doing Arnold presses with 5 lb weights. I got so pissed off. Oxygen machine purring in the background because of this [\h__\h] by the way, sucking in black mold mixing with Remesa. Are you out of your mind? That's why the tumor was this big. I almost died. All you have to do is look at the story. No remorse. But when I dropped the weights and I started crying and I was upset, she dropped her workout, came walking over, hugged me as hard as she could, and she said a couple of things. Number one is she said, "You're the strongest man I've ever seen, Trevor." She said, "I love you so much. You are the strongest man in the world." And then she said this, "You got to finish, baby. You got to finish the workout." If you don't understand how impactful that is, then this entire podcast was a waste of your time because that's who we are. We don't roll over. will fight for what's right. Because if you're not willing to fight for the truth and demand that people are accountable for their actions against you or anybody else that are hurting people, then you really aren't of strong moral character. You're just a bunch of words and puffery behind a a glass screen. That's why we raise our kids with spines, not memes and slogans. Because in the end, listen, whether you like it or not, life is consequenced. All of it. You can outlaw words and hand out place trophies and ribbons and high fives for doing absolutely nothing, congratulating somebody for staying home instead of going to the game. And you can make up genders, however many there are. But you cannot outlaw reality. It doesn't work. Reality doesn't care about your feelings. It doesn't care about your stupid identity or your excuses. It sends the invoice, like I said it at the beginning. And the greatest mistake we have ever made was pretending that that invoice could be shredded and ignored cuz it can't. You want the truth? Bring back consequences because without them, listen, hear me out. Without consequence, no strength, no justice, no future, which means no life the way you want it despite what you think. Anyway, hope you get something out of that. I got to go. Never miss.