So, it's funny. I'm doing a podcast on heart disease, but let me put the blanket statement for all the three-letter agencies that don't want you to be healthy. And that is this. This is not meant to prescribe, diagnose, advise, cure, all this stuff. It's just experimental, hypothetical, and just surely for entertainment. If you know, you know that our first amendment rights are being absolutely violated. Just to be clear, I took an oath. Above all, do no harm. As a doctor, to not give you the information and to voluntarily hide it and lie is doing harm. I refuse to do that. Absolutely not. I've been coming out here for almost 11 years giving people advice on how to change their life. And all of it accurate. Whether you take it or not is up to you. But I've told you guys how to hack your psychology, how to make millions of dollars, how to solve just about every injury you've ever had. And now I'm teaching you how to just fix your entire damn health from cover to cover. And what's wild to me is people still go, I don't know, maybe I should try something different. Okay? Enjoy whatever life you've got and complaining about how it's somebody else's fault. I I don't have sympathy when someone goes, "Oh my god, I have a heart disease." You're 150 pounds overweight. you did it to yourself. And people go, "That's really harsh. I thought you're a doctor." I am a doctor. I'm not too much of a [\h__\h] to not tell you the truth and help you. And by helping you, that means I'm not going to enable you and ignore the things you're doing that are costing you the life that you have been granted by God. But what's wild is I mean, e even this like I'm I'm a branding guy. I'm a business guy. I know how to build incredibly huge businesses. I told you I'm on my I'm on the way to making a $10 million business in less than a year and I'm proving it every step of the way in my mentorship. This isn't even a plug. This is just me telling you the truth. I'm just sharing everything I'm doing and proving it. And yet people go, "I don't know. Go back to being broke then. I don't know what to tell you." I give you the answer and I go, "Here, here's how you can do it. You can put an extra couple hundred grand into your pocket every year. You can put a million dollars in my mentorship. And that's not what this is about. Just so you know, it's a million-doll mentorship. It's not how much it costs, it's what it is. And I stay with you until you get to the million dollars. And if you want to stay longer, that's on you. But it doesn't cost you extra to stay with me until that million. I don't just keep charging you. I demand results from myself, but I also demand results from you, which is why people go, "I don't know. This guy's pretty intense." No, I have standards, but I also have them for your health. I have clients and patients that I treat all over the world because I'm very good at what I do. I don't care what problem you have, I will solve it. And I've put my money where my mouth is more times than I can count and proven it. Like I've been a doc for 25 years and I've seen well over a million patients. That's not what this is about. It's that of those million patients, all of them got better when they listened to what I tell them to do. But my one-on-one clients that I consult for their health, you have 100 days. I give you 100 days with me, and a 100 days is $100,000. I will solve every health problem you've got. And I've heard people on both sides of the equation. Where do I sign? And then they wire. And then we get to work and I make sure when you come out the other side, you're a juggernaut. But I do have one caveat and that is you need to be completely honest with me because if you're not, nothing I tell you is going to work. But you need to do that for yourself, too. 100 days, $100,000. I'm your doctor for every day for a 100 days. and I will solve every problem you've got. I don't care what they are. Again, not an egotistical statement when you do it on a consistent basis. It's called a resume. There's a guy named Bedros Koulian. If you don't know who he is, you should look him up. He's an amazing man, strong man, great man, good friend of mine. Just to let you know how much integrity I have and how much I respect that guy. He was on stage. His knee was causing him problems to the point where he had a meniscus issue. Like not just a sore knee, bad. He couldn't walk. He went upstairs and started and he is a tough dude. Just so you know, this guy is a savage. He sat beside me at lunch. We were at a speaking engagement together. He sat beside me at lunch. We're bullshitting a little bit. And he goes, "Hey, listen. You still doing all that health stuff?" Yeah. He's like, "I was just upstairs. My knee hurts so bad. I couldn't even walk. It was nauseating. I couldn't get it to go away. Would you mind?" I go, "Let's go." Absolutely. His integrity is so just so you know, his I don't know how much his one-on-one coaching is now. I I think he said he was going up to 250,000 a year and you meet him twice and then you have access to him all the time. And worth it, by the way. And I have my own coaching and I'm saying that about another guy that does very similar things to me. Worth it. The winners have coaches, just so you know. And I'll get to the rest of the podcast in a second. If you want to sit there and put a little note in the comments, go the good stuff starts at three minutes or five minutes or whatever. Go ahead. But then you missed all the good stuff already because it's right here. So I fixed his knee. He gave me a shout out in front of 400 people going, "That doctor right there, that's the guy. That guy, look at me." And he's walking around the stage going, "I've been crippled by this thing. He fell off a a fat tire. One of those uni tire skateboards with a tire in the middle. He just ate it, chewed him up. The guy does jiu-jitsu, surfs, owns like he's Forbes, top 500, I think. But the reason I'm saying it is people like that come to me all the time because I don't let them down because I also don't [\h__\h] around. I don't promise you snake oil [\h__\h] and sprinkle pixie dust on you and say, "If you just do this magic thing, you're going to be great. Sleep with this weird pillow between your legs and hook a magnetic blanket up to your ball sack and then go to bed and you wake up tomorrow and you're fine." That's not what I do. I'm a real doctor that solves real problems. That makes sure when you walk out of my life in a 100 days or stay if you want to. It's just going to cost you more money and you need to understand why. Your job is to maintain what we just fixed. And the other side of this equation is if you just want answers, every Monday I do a Q&A where it's like having me one-on-one for business, psychology, life, marriage, fitness, you name it. And that's also part of my mentorship. But that's not what this is. But if you want me to solve your health problems, you have a 100 days with me and it's $100,000. And when people go, "This doctor is just about the money." No, I'm about that commitment. I don't want people that are going to roll in and say, "I tried it. It didn't work." Because I know for a fact if I give you something, there is 0% chance that it's not going to work. So, it's your choice. So, if you're listening to this and you've been running at the walls and you can't solve the problem, you can message me. I'm not chasing you down. But I'm a walking talking example of knowing what the hell I'm talking about. Yep. I'm a doctor that curses and is raw and gritty and trains and is as savage as it gets. But I also give a [\h__\h] about the human that I'm talking to. But I mean, I'm missing a lung. I've been through cancer four times. I've gone through more hell than most people ever will. So whatever problems you have, I can solve because I'm a walking billboard for everything that works. If you don't watch me, I won't tell you how I move. I'll show you. But let me explain something. You don't die. I was going on about heart disease and I don't know how many minutes we're in here already. 7 8 9 10. I feel like a Rogan podcast. And I love Joe, by the way. I don't care about your opinion. I care about mine about myself. You don't die from being fat or stressed or some rough breakup because you're like, "Oh, you don't understand what a heartbreak feels like." Or you don't even die from a heart attack. Yeah, I know lots of people are going to lose their mind with me saying that. You don't you do not die from a heart attack. You die from neglect. You have to understand that you die from the compounding effects of inaction disguised as life, your life. You die from ignoring all the warning signs of your body whispering and telling you and going, "Hey, pay attention until it screamed and you finally listened on a gurnie a slab. You're dead." And that's where most of you guys are with your healthcare, which is exactly why I go. You want me to be your health advisor, your doctor, whatever you want to call me, 100 days, $100,000. You listen to everything I tell you. Because most of the world treats heart disease like it's some big mystery. It runs in my family. It's genetics. It is not. That's not even possible. What runs in your family are the bad habits, bad foods, and stupid psychology that you've got. So today, I'm going to rewire all of that and give you a punch in the face, chin shack you once or twice, and rip apart that blueprint of cardiovascular destruction and rebuild one that like a playbook that actually works using everything that modern medicine is not willing to tell you because they can't profit, right? They just can't profit from it. So, buckle up, Bambi. Cardiovascular disease kills more people than anything else on Earth, and it's entirely avoidable. Now, let me now I'll stick with that because adverse drug reactions and medical doctors actually kill more people. And by the way, this is all hypothetical entertainment. Let me say it again. Hypothetical entertainment, not cure, diagnose, treat, advise, nothing. This is all hypothetical and experimental. If you know, you know. Even though our first amendment rights are being violated up, down, and sideways, right? I can tell you the truth, but I can't tell you the truth, which I said at the beginning, right? Above all, do no harm. The world wants you fat, medicated, and dependent. And the moment that you start asking questions about fixing your heart without lifelong prescriptions, and some kind of surgical roulette that they want to throw you into, they look at you like you're the crazy one. So, here's the first truth. Heart, by the way, heart disease is not caused by a lack of lipore. It's caused by a system that's falling apart hormonally, vascularly, and mitochondrially. Your arteries aren't just pipes. They're alive. They're lined with these things called endothelial cells which regulate blood flow like a traffic cop, right? Air traffic controller. When they're damaged by chronic inflammation or high blood sugar or high blood pressure or low nitric oxide or oxidative stress, all the free radicals floating around, those cells become dysfunctional. Like your uncle that sits at the barbecue and just stares at everybody playing with his belly button. Once that endothelial barrier is gone, it's game over. You're done. Because LDL gets oxidized, plaque builds up, the artery gets stiff and hard. It's the only one you don't want to do that. You lose elasticity, you lose oxygen delivery, and you lose power in your own body. Eventually, the game just ends. Instead of addressing this cascade of nonsense at the root, modern medicine manages. So, you get beta blockers to slow the heart, statins to thin the blood, diuretics, usually ferosomide too, which is the loop diuretic. 50% of the filtered load gets excreted. Are you insane? That is so much that you have to take slow K to to even mitigate that potassium supple like they just endless of [\h__\h] they give you. But they give you diuretics to get the fluid out all while and when this all goes sideways they cut you open and bolt a stent into your chest and go congratulations. That's not medicine. That is mechanical pharmaceutical life support from day one. And you guys just indoctrinated to buy into it. You have got to drop the freaking illusion, man. Your heart doesn't wear out like an old engine. It breaks down because the cellular systems that keep it running, right? Fueling, repairing, signaling, all quietly failed and nobody notices until it's too late because you're told not to notice. So, if you're going to fix your heart disease, you don't just treat the damn symptom. You have to rebuild the system from the inside out, which means getting beneath that diagnosis, past blood pressure, past cholesterol. Oh, I could do a podcast on that. And go down into the cellular machinery where the war is actually going on, where you got to win. Like, we're not managing decline here. This is your body. We're leveraging your own biology to reverse the damage and restore all the function that's already sitting there. One stinking molecule at a time. So there are going to be 10 different compounds, peptides that you need to listen to me about because these are game changers. This is where your life is either going to go up or down. This is something it literally rewinds your clock. So every time your cells divide, they lose a little bit of their protective DNA tip. It's like the aglet on the end of a shoelace, right? It's called the tieamir. And once they fray, that lace unravels and so do your cells. So epitolon turns timmerase, which is the enzyme that does this, back on. It's the enzyme that rebuilds these tips. And this isn't just an anti-aging gimmick. This is essential for cardiac longevity because endothelial cells, the ones that line your arteries that I just explained, are constantly repairing themselves. But if the telomeirs are gone, they stop dividing. No repair, no resilience, just plaque stiffness and eventually nothing. The gurnie breakdown epitoolon restores their ability to regenerate. So the cells just they don't just last longer, they work like they're younger. So now all of a sudden less inflammation, smoother blood flow, and slower vascular aging. Check all three boxes. The second one is TB-500, which is the synthetic form of thyus beta 4. It's amazing how heavy this coffee cup gets when you just hold it in your hand. It's like that whole stress video. I know a pivot real quick where they hold the water. They go, "It's light right now." You hold a cup of water, two hours later, you're shaking. It's awful, but the weight hasn't changed. You've just been holding it too long. So, I'm going to hit this real quick. This coffee. Why? Cuz coffee is amazing. So, TB-500, this is the ultimate rebuild tool. When your heart tissue gets damaged after years of stress and pressure, even a heart attack, to be honest, your body responds by laying down scar tissue. And scar tissue doesn't pump. It doesn't move. It doesn't stretch. It just sits there stiff. It's like a piece of steel. It just It's dangerous as [\h__\h] TB-500 is like a tactical precision repair molecule. It boosts which is a structural protein that helps cells migrate to where they need to and rebuild all the damaged tissue. And then it promotes something called angioenesis. Angioenesis is the creation of new blood vessels. Better blood flow, better oxygen delivery, better healing. You know what's even better? It even helps reverse fibrosis. This scarring that stiffens up your heart over time, even athletes heart. Listen, you end up because of this one thing we're too deep and TB-500. You end up with flexible cardiac tissue, improved oxygenation, and a vascular system that can actually run and heal and do its job. Then you get BPC-157. I've talked about these last two, TB-500 and BPC-157 at nausea like all the time. So BPC57, body protection compound made in the gut. All this stuff's already in your body, which is why they can't patent it. Short chain amino acids, like they're like five, six, you know, molecule. They're just short. Amino's long. BPC-157 patches the leaks. That's the easiest way to explain. So, think of your arteries like a hose under pressure. And now imagine dragging that hose across gravel every like sharp crappy old school driveway gravel every day. And what happens is you get these micro tears, micro leaks, and eventually ruptures. That's your vascular lining under all the stress that you keep putting it under. And no, an 83 milligram, excuse me, baby aspirin isn't going to help you. In fact, it's doing more damage than you can possibly comprehend. If I have time, I'll touch on it. So, we're dragging this hose back across the gravel, causing all these micro traumas and tears and leaks and everything. BPC-157 steps in to fix all those micro tears fast, like blindingly fast, days, because it signals for repair at the cellular level. So, you're not just putting a clamp on a hose. It activates something called FAK, which is a protein that helps cells move and close the wound, right? It increases nitric oxide, you've heard, for better blood flow. And it boosts angioenic growth factors like VEGF. I talked about that yesterday in my post about the Wolverine protocol. And it helps, this is the best part, it's where I I'll touch on it. You know what else it does? It helps prevent damage from medications like NSAIDs, an non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, aspirin. The fact that they've got all of you guys taking baby aspirin every day and you think you're extending your life and you believe that [\h__\h] I just can't. No. Like, throw that out, man. Hypothetically, like BPC-157 even works in the GI tract. It reduces systemic inflammation, increases nutrient absorption, both of which affect heart health. So now, because of this, we got healthier arteries, smoother circulation, fewer clots if any, and stronger blood vessel linings. Sign me up. Fourth one is GHK-Cu. It's copper, right? This is like a molecular reboot. GHK-Cu is the best way to explain it's like a software upgrade for your cells. It fixes the bugs, improves performance. It's the ultimate patch, right? It protects against all the stress. I don't mean a patch like it covers it up. I mean like a software patch, right? It fixes the operating system. This copper binding peptide, which is what it is, it stimulates collagen and elastin for vessel elasticity, which you need. It activates antioxidant enzymes like SOD and catalase. It doesn't matter what they are. I just if you want me to talk about them, but dismutase is what the SOD is and catal is self-explanatory. It enhances gene expression for which you need because it it that's where your body gets its information from. But it does this for wound healing and in uh inflammatory control. But think about this. If you have something telling your body to do what it's supposed to do already, not getting in the way, what do you think your body's going to do? Your body's going to go do all the things it's meant to do. So you have something already four peptides in doing its job because it's telling your body to do your job better. And yet some people listening to this are still going to run out and go take Crestor. They're going to take Lipur. They're going to take statin drugs. They're going to take baby aspirins. And they're going to go, "Well, it's because I need to be healthy." Are you out of your frigin mind? GHK-Cu. It's even selective. It turns on what you want, repair, and turns off what you don't. Fibrosis, inflammation. Where's the drug that does that? I'll wait. I'll sit here and I'll wait. Bring me anybody. I will I won't argue. I will burn your eyes out of their sockets with facts and truth. Nobody cares about humans and their lives more than me. Whether it's in my coaching program to help you get rich, to help help you fix your marriage, change your psychology, which is what all of this is predicated on, by the way, because I can give you all this information. If you don't have the psychology that goes, I need to do this, does not matter what I give you. But I also want to go, here's your sign. You cannot fix stupid, so stop acting like it. Like you you got to want it, man. Yeah. It pisses me off. like the disrespect people have for their own lives. Man, I almost died. And it's not one of those, bro, I almost died stories. I almost died twice inside of two months. I almost orphaned my wife and kids or widowed my wife and orphaned my kids. That was four years ago. I'm building a monster to bulletproof and just turn every damn human into a juggernaut. It upsets me cuz you guys need to do better. You guys need to stop listening to the people that are that have nothing but hatred and animosity towards you that they're conditioned to try and shove a square peg into a round hole and convince you that it's health. And you guys are so untrained and unwilling to learn new information by somebody like me that actually knows what the freak I'm talking about. Four years ago, I was in a wheelchair when they took out this lung. I was 150 155 lbs. Big knobbyby knees, weak, couldn't even squat my own body weight. Hooked up to an oxygen machine keeping me alive. And they wanted to give me 12 meds, sit me on a couch and say, "Too bad. You're never going to be athletic, fit, run, nothing. You are going to be sick and you're going to have to deal with it. We will manage your symptoms though, Mr. Bachmeire. First of all, it's Dr. Bachmire. Don't you ever forget it. And second of all, nobody calls me that. Everybody calls me the Spartan. And that started from my son because he thinks I'm that badass, which means you better know it. If I would have listened to them, I wouldn't be here. So instead, I became the expert. And now I come out here and I share it with you. But my story is real. It's not a overnight success. Let me tell you how great I am story. It sucked. Like I hated it. I watched my wife looking at me when I would be falling apart and I could barely move a 5 lb dumbbell. You can follow it. There's nothing about it that's like, ah, it sounds manufactured. Go back four years on my Instagram. You will see every single day with an oxygen machine all scrawny and weak, sometimes falling apart, sometimes crying, sometimes angry. I never quit. Which is exactly why I damn well say I never miss. But I know what I'm talking about. I know how to build an unbreakable human being physically, emotionally, financially, and psychologically because that's where it starts. It's very frustrating to go, "Oh, look, I gave you the information. 400 [\h__\h] views on a YouTube video or a podcast." Because people go, "But it's not really entertaining enough." for and it's not even that cuz I actually get nothing but compliments on this. It's that the algorithm goes, "We better not tell any." It's like they dig for water and when water shows up, which is the solution, they go, "Shit, we need a couple more days of work. We better bury that." So, it's your job to share it and tell everybody, "Oh, I'm going to get everywhere. I'm going to be omniresent and I am offensively offensive." Good. Because I'm doing it in the right direction. So, you guys have a long powerful life. You want to be rich, listen to what I tell you to do. You want to have unbreakable psychology, want to have a body that just won't faking quit, listen to what I tell you to do. I got a two decade marriage. Oh, I know how to have a great marriage cuz my wife is my best friend. I got two children who are so kick-ass. A daughter who's 18, a son who's 16. Like, I could do this all day. But I have earned this, man. Because I want you guys to win. Don't think because I'm a bald, gritty, tattooed, bearded guy that cusses that I don't have that I've forgotten more than most people will ever learn. You bet your ass I'm a doctor and I'm damn good at it and I give a [\h__\h] I'm just not a white coat sellout or someone coming on here because I go, I just want to get the views and the likes. I come out here to go, let's see how many people's lives I can absolutely evolve in the right direction and just put them in the [\h__\h] stratosphere with just nothing but success. My job, my goal is to build a life so big, so massive, so powerful that I can fit all of your lives and hopes and dreams in it and help you get all the way to the top. Can't do that if you're only searching for one thing, folks. And where was I? Copper. This is a rant. HKCU, right? I said it's selective, right? Turns on repairs and it turns off fibrosis and inflammation. Well, you can't find drugs that do this cuz they don't. It doesn't overwhelm your system. It upgrades it one command at a time. That's how this works. So, think about this. More resilient arteries, cleaner gene expression. Whoa, that's a big one. and cardiovascular system that responds like it's a decade or two younger. That's number four. Number five, M C. I was talking about this before. This is like the supercharger for your engine. Your heart, just to be very clear about your heart, your heart is the most energy demanding organ in your body and its energy comes from one place, mitochondria. M C M C is a mitochondrial derived peptide. You with me so far? You know why I'm going here? It activates something called AMK. That's the cell's fuel sensor. If you understand cars, this is going to make sense. If you don't, I don't know. If you're a dude and you don't understand cars, I don't know where to go with you. But what it does is it tells the body to burn fat more efficiently, use glucose better, more intelligently, and produce clean, powerful, unbreakable, sustained energy. What we're trying to do in the real world, well, you can do this for your body, too. Here's what this looks like. Gives you better metabolic function, lower insulin resistance, more mitochondria. It's something called mitochondrial biogenesis. More mitochondria, good, less mitochondria, bad. So, you're just the short story here is your heart gets more fuel and runs more efficiently. It's like swapping a diesel, which I love my diesel, for an F-35 jet engine tuned and ready to go. So, now you have more energy, better endurance, and a stronger heart that lasts longer and performs better under pressure. Again, sign me up. I said there were 10. That's only five. Do I have to take them all? Hypothetically, if you were running a research on some mice or kangaroos or primates, yeah, if you're going to do halfass stuff, stop listening to me. I got no time for you. If you're going to do this, do it. So, the next one is I talked about this too. Five amino 1MQ. This keeps something called NAD+ just flowing like Niagara. NAD+ is it's like the electricity that runs your cellular house, right? Without it, nothing works. But there's this nasty little enzyme called NMT and it drains your NAD+ supply. So 5 amino 1MQ blocks NMT, which means it preserves, you see, you see where I'm going? Blocks the NMT, preserves the pool of NAD+ so your cells can repair DNA, run mitochondria, uh, control inflammation, and burn fat at the source. Yeah, it sounds all fun, but you know what it really does? Specifically reduces something called epicardial fat. Yeah, this matters. Now, I got your attention, right? This is the dangerous fat that's wrapped around your heart that releases inflammatory cytoines. Cytoines are bad. I'll just leave it at that. You don't want to listen to me for another two hours talk about the physiology of the human body. I could, but there's just more fun things you'd like to do. And honestly, my wife's inside and I want to button this up and give you all the information. Then see how many of you guys actually do it. How and if you need all this stuff, by the way. No, this isn't a plug for my company other than yes, it's a plug for my company. Elite Biogenics, you can go somewhere else, but the guy that's telling you how to do this is also telling you where to go. I'm not doing this because I want your money. I'm doing this because I want your health and I want your commitment to yourself. So the outcome just so you know with this the point is that you're going to get oh god your energy metabolism goes through the roof way less inflammation and a lighter biological load on your heart. What are we at? Seven CJC-1295 and I am man this is the hormone pulse that you want. Let me just touch on this. Injecting GH growth hormone, that's like using a fire hose to water a tiny little bonsai tree, right? Mr. Miyagi's little tree. Too much too fast. And honestly, there's a lot of messy side effects with it. I I've talked to people about this with GH and they're like, well, two IU, 2.5 IU every day. Great. But when you start getting carpal tunnel and water and it's making things grow that shouldn't be growing and remember, it makes all cells grow. So, yeah, it's kind of a fountain of youth, but not really because it comes with some knuckle dragging side effects. So, CJC129. So, I hope I mitigated all your questions right there. CJC-1295 and a Pamarellin stimulates your own natural growth hormone pulses and it does it with it the same. It synchronizes with how your body was built to operate. Yeah, it matters. Just trust me on that. So, here's what it does. gives you improved cardiac muscle regeneration, way faster tissue repair, increased lean mass without all that bloat and weird stuff that comes with taking most exogenous GH, and a way better lipid metabolism. To me, that sounds like nothing but upside, no catastrophe, no chaos. Sign me up. So now the byproduct is stronger cardiac tissue, better body composition, great. Faster recovery, frigin awesome. All without cooking your pituitary. I'm in. So eight is something called LL37. It's like it comes in and just it's right before they're about to they just finished framing up your house and now they want to clean it all out and build the walls. Not just the frame, but the drywall and stuff on. And this is the part nobody talks about. Arterial plaque doesn't just trap cholesterol. It traps pathogens. Arterial plaque does not come from cholesterol. By the way, just so we're clear, trapping it and coming from it are not the same. But I'm not going to get into that because the whole high cholesterol thing is a it's a lie. But it doesn't the plaque doesn't just trap the cholesterol. And like I said, it traps the things that shouldn't be there, the pathogens. So I'm talking viruses, bacteria, biofilm, and just these hidden nasty sources of inflammation. Let me explain what inflammation is. Bad. That's all you need to know about inflammatory processes. Unless they're there for healing, very shortly and like short-lived to do its job, chronic inflammation is going to demolish you. And that's exactly where they want you to be. So LL37 clears all of that stuff out. It's an antimicrobial peptide. Destroys bacterial membranes, triggers tissue regeneration, and promotes angioenesis. Angioenesis is the creation of new blood vessels. Right? We went over this before. So, it just drops a nuke on the battlefield, clears everything off, and then rebuilds the perimeter. It's like having a Navy Seal who does all the stuff inside who's also a stonemason or a brick layer. I'll take that deal because what you get are cleaner arteries, reduced infection driven inflammation. You have parasites and fungi and bacteria and viruses in you that you have no idea are even there except because you've been told the symptoms are a normal part of aging. No, they're not. and your gut biome is not the end all be all despite what I keep seeing on social media where people are like you just fix your gut and everything goes back to normal and you're great wrong it's a good start but that couldn't be further from the truth again put somebody in front of me I'll bury them because I'll I'll give you all the facts I don't cherrypick the facts whether you like them or not so I hope you understand that so you're reducing infection-driven inflammation check that box and you have improved endothelial protection Check that box. Again, goes back to the lining of the vascular system, endothelial cells, which allow your arteries and veins and everything else to function, right? Keeps them pliable. The the next one, the ninth one is uh to samurellin, right? This burns the fat that matters. And by the way, from about 30 to 50 years old, older, but I just want to use this as a target real quick just so you can hear it. to Samarellin. Hypothetically, if I was looking to get rid of my dickydoo, where my belly sticks out further than my dicky doo, right? Because I've got gut fat, belly fat, tamarellin, is the only thing that pretty much guarantees it in three to four months, hypothetically. You get where I'm going with this? You should be calling me right about now. Just FYI. So with the thing with tesamarl, let me explain fat. First of all, not all fat is the same. Visceral fat, especially the kind wrapped around your heart that I just talked about, that's highly inflammatory and metabolically destructive. It's a catastrophe in your body. It's a bomb to Samaran. Yeah, it's FDA approved to reduce this specific fat. So you already know this stuff, so I can safely talk about it. But it works by increasing growth hormone, activating something called lipolysis, and improving insulin sensitivity. Good. Good. The visible results are awesome. Trust me, they are. All of a sudden, you go, I don't have a dadbod gut. There's so much more than you need to do than just take this, by the way, if you think that's going to be the answer. But the internal benefits, these will extend your life. Lower inflammation. What did I say about inflammation? You paying attention? healthier metabolic profile and a heart that it's like removing all the emission control stuff off your diesel. And if you know, you know. You just cleaned that out. Now it runs smooth, powerful, has just gobs of torque and horsepower, and it'll last five times longer. Roll coal all you want, baby. The last one, Cax or Seank, right? Those rewire the entire rhythm. So your heart responds to your nervous system. PNS and CNS, right? Not penis, PNS, peripheral nervous system. CNS, central nervous system, because somebody's going to go run with that. Your heart responds to your nervous system. But in this weird, screwed up, social mediadriven, hyper stimulated world, most people are stuck in sympathetic overdrive. They're always tense and wound up and always hyperreactive because they're told that's you guys don't even know. You're being trained to think like that. So, CAX and Sank like regulators for your brain heart access, right? They reduce anxiety, normalize cortisol, and improve something called heart rate variability, HRV. It doesn't matter if I get into this because sometimes I think I overload you guys with information, but this isn't just mental. This is neurocardiology. How calm your brain is affects how stable your heart is. Now you have a lower resting heart rate, smoother rhythms, and better stress recovery. I could stop right here and go, "There's your 10." But you know what? I'm going to keep going because I want to give you everything that you can follow hypothetically if you were running an experiment because this targets the root cause of cardiovascular dysfunction. I'm talking like if you look at this entire thing, all 10 of these, we're going all the way from inflammation to fibrosis to mitochondrial fatigue, endothelial breakdown, and the gradual and unnecessary hormonal decline. You're going to want to listen to this. So, I'm going to fly through these real quick. Hypothetically, if I was running an experiment, it would look a lot like this. I would think let's see with 10 milligrams per day. Subq that means subcutaneous that means 29 gauge needle in the fat. I'm not going any deeper than this. So that's all you're getting from me. If you can't figure it out by then you don't deserve to be anything other than sick. Pinch the fat. You feel me? So 10 milligrams a day subq every day 20 days in a row. Repeat this every three to six months because remember what I said epitoolon activates timmerase which helps preserve the integrity of your DNA. It just think of it as restoring the regenerative ability of your cells especially those lining your arteries. Cool. All right. TB-500 the synthetic form of thyus beta 4. Start with five milligrams. Same thing subq twice per week for the first four weeks. You can probably go six. After that, I would taper that down hypothetically to two milligrams every week for maintenance. And if people go, "Do I have to take this for the rest of my life?" Do you like having cardiovascular disease? Do you like cardiovascular decline? No. Shut up. I'm not sympathetic. Shut up. You can go and find a way to get cigarettes and booze all the time. You can't do this. Is it expensive? Your life is priceless. again. Shut up. So after 4 to 6 weeks, tapered down to 2 milligrams every week. TB-500 enhances cell migration, promotes blood vessel formation, angiogenesis, and repairs scarred cardiac tissue by stimulating actin production and angioenesis. There is nothing greater. This is one of the most epic compounds on the planet. Whether you think the planet's round or flat, I don't care. This thing is epic. Give me more coffee. Hold on a second. All right, that's number two. Let's go a little faster. BPC-157. 500 to,000 micrograms a day. So, half a milligram to 1 milligram every day. Subq, not orally. I don't care if it's bioactive orally. Subq. I mean, just subq. Run this daily for 12 weeks. Vascular endothelium boosts nitric oxide production. Accelerates healing across god only knows what tissue in your body. Everything. And it protects you against all kinds of stuff. There you go. BPC-157. GHK-Cu. Cuz I I want to go inside. I'm hungry. Copper, right? 100 to 200 micrograms daily. You can probably sit around 250 and be happy. Does it sting a little bit? Hypothetically, yes. Welcome to being an adult. It's okay. Subq topically doesn't work. Not for this. For eczema, totally different story. But for this, yeah, I know you guys are going to send me messages. Subq. six week cycle is pretty average for vascular repair and gene level inflammation like inflammatory mitigation modulation whatever you want to call it we can talk about what it does the whole collagen one and three elastin anti I don't need to do that matzi let's get into the next one because I really do I want to go inside I don't know how long I've been on this 45 minutes 10 to 15 milligrams subq two to three times a week does it matter how you space it out do math just cut the week into three parts. This isn't hard. Eight weeks. Eight weeks will improve hypothetically mitochondrial function. It'll also radically enhance insulin sensitivity. Hey, I don't need to get into the rest of this. You can go back and listen to the rest of the podcast. Five amino 1MQ. Man, this one is designed for long-term use. So, 50 to 100 milligrams daily. And this is oral. So, if you try and use a needle, it's not going to work. You can take this continuously for months on end. A lot of people cycle it. I honestly haven't seen anything that says which one is more beneficial than the other. So, I'm just going to take it every day. If I was going to run a research study, I'm going to give it to my mice every day, my kangaroo, my primate, whatever I'm doing the research on. This is remember it protects the NAD plus pools. You want that, right? Mitigates NMT. CJC-1295 and a pomellin. Use CJC-1295. Yeah, I need it with DAC by the way. I don't think I said that earlier. We need it with DAC. 2 milligrams once per week subcutaneously. Pair it with a pomearellin like marri like same like these are two different compounds. Pair it with a pomearellin 300 micrograms twice a day five days a week. You want to cycle this to work in pulses. This combination I will say something about this combination this marriage between these two. This the CJC and the pamelan man this naturally stimulates growth hormone in ways that you can't imagine and it cycles with your body. So now you're improving the cardiac repair, reducing body fat, and you're enhancing your lipid profiles in ways that you can't even comprehend. Here's the other thing. It does it all without those weird cortisol or prolactin spikes. If you don't know, then it doesn't matter, but you that's an important thing. LL37, this is the immune one, right? So 250 micrograms subq, two to three times a week. Just go three times a week. I would limit this one to four weeks and I would pay serious attention to my immune response. And if you go, how do I do that? See if you're having hyperimmune responses to anything, even mosquito bites. I realize that's a histamine response and there's all kinds of other things going on there. But what I'm saying is you want to just pay attention because you can become hyperimmune. I'm being very honest and transparent about that. The odds of that are almost zero. But LL37 is a massively powerful antimicrobial and wound healing peptide. Has this propensity to crank up immune function. Not to be bad, but it just gets rid of things fast and it does a very good job of it. So, I would just keep it at four weeks. You don't need it for longer than that anyway. Remember, we're getting rid of all the things that are locked inside the plaque. So, just use it the right way. Uh, tamarellin 2 milligrams every day. Subq 6 months. More is not better by the way you guys in doing all this. So, think about that. Keep like be smart, be vigilant about how you do this stuff. Irresponsible is irresponsible. Stupid is stupid. And I know Tesamarl is all FDA approved for visceral fat reduction, but I don't care about any of that stuff. I care about this 6 months, 2 milligrams every day, subq. And then Cax and Sank 300 microgram. These are two things, right? Two uh 300 micrograms of each. Uh they come, you can mix them intraasally. So I would just get a pump hypothetically and uh use them intraasally for my mice or my raccoons or my kangaroos or whatever it is you're doing research on. Wink wink. two times a day, five days a week. Pulse this, right? Just like the other one. These are neurom modulators is the way they should be described. They improve autonomic balance. So your body's always fighting for homeostasis, right? It's looking for balance all the time. It doesn't give a [\h__\h] how you look, how good you look naked, or what's going on with whether you have a pimple or whether your eye is twitching. It's looking for balance 247 365. This works with that incredibly. So lower cortisol, lower anxiety, enhanced heart rate variability, right? So it gives your heart this nice calm, smooth, adaptable nervous system to operate with. So it makes everything function more smoothly. If I was going to run some kind of a research stack hypothetically, and this is not meant to be advice, hey, I would start with two to three of these and I'd layer more over a week or two based on what the tolerance is. No. Can you Are there contraindications? No. Peptides are signals. They're protein signals. They are not drugs. So, they're not forcing your body to do something. They're telling the things that your body is doing right now to do it better. They're going, "Hey, let's install the software upgrade because what you've been doing is filled with viruses and garbage and telling your software to run like a spaz." This fixes that. Okay? Just keep that in mind when I'm telling you how to do this stuff. So, I'd start with one, two to three peptid, I just start with three and just layer in every week just based on I mean, if you have some weird symptoms, it is what it is. If your mice do most regeneration focused peptides, so pitilon, TB-500, BPC-157, GHK-Cu, you can cycle those for 6 to 12 weeks. Metabolic support peptides. So that would be tamelan, mati, uh 5 1 mq, you can run those for a really long time. And I'm telling this so you can pay attention to this stuff. The hormonal and neuro regulators. So that's the cank, the CJC, a pomearellin stack. five days on, two days off. They just work better pulsing and they work better when you cycle on and off every couple of months. LL37 is the only one that I would be really really vigilant about because it has such potent immune modulating effects. So I three to four weeks, that's it. Just bursts, right? Three to four weeks. Let me explain something because like I said, I want to go inside. I want to hang out with my family, but I really want you guys to get better and I want you guys to understand you have options. Each of these peptides are they're they have a specific job. Whether it's healing the endothelium, restoring energy production, modulating inflammation and fat around the heart, it doesn't matter. But this is how you move from managing cardiovascular decline that they told you you have to do to reversing it with tactics and strategy and precision tools and what I always call molecular leverage. and the biological intelligence that resides inside you already. None of this stuff is telling your body to do things that it doesn't know how to do. It's that the things that are going on in your life right now have made the signal staticky and fuzzy. This fixes all that because this isn't about treating symptoms. It's about building a new baseline. So, it installs you never go back unless you act like an idiot because each one of these solves a different piece of the puzzle, right? That's why there's 10 of them. DNA protection, uh, mitochondrial power, tissue regeneration, hormonal optimization, inflammation, cortisol, like together, they give your body all the resources to repair and put on a suit of armor against future damage. That's how you need to be looking at this because if you're looking for an instant fix, it doesn't exist. This is the I need to turn myself into a juggernaut for life kind of a a protocol, right? Because you're not managing disease. You're redesigning your internal operating system on your damn terms instead of listening to somebody telling you you have to do it this way because uh we just can manage it and I guess you're just gonna have to deal with it. Mr. Jones, are you nuts? If you're Mr. Jones, you better stand up and go not on your life. I'm taking charge of my health and then start doing things that actually help you. So the question isn't does it work? Just so we're clear because I'm going to get bombarded by you guys. The question is are you going to be the one disciplined enough to actually use it? You're going to have the psychology that says do it because let me explain this real quick. This is the most important part of this and most of you guys are going to just buzz on by this. You want to know the real reason why people stay sick and and have all these medications to help them manage their problems? It's not because there's no solution. It's because they are emotionally addicted to the identity of being broken. See, listen. Healing your heart physically, psychologically requires you to change at every level. You can't reverse decades of damage while sitting there drinking sodas and thinking that you're going to be healthy. You can't repair your arteries while getting in the comments of other people defending your stupid excuses and stories about why it's different for you and you have to stay where you are. Even though somebody hands you a blueprint that works 100% of the time, you're fighting to stay where you are. You're defending a castle that you don't want to be in. You can't regenerate if your ego just loves being a victim and waving it around to everybody going, "Look how bad I am. Feel sorry for me." Peptides don't work until you do. They're not a cheat code. They don't do anything unless you do. So, you want molecular leverage like I talk about, earn it. Do you want a heart that just pounds like a powerful diesel engine, banging away in your chest with nothing but revenge and misery and grumpiness? at 80, by the way, earn it and then move like that at 40 so you actually make it to 80. You want to erase all that biological debt that you've been accumulating. Here's how you do it. You pay it forward with a discipline that you're not using. I'm tired of the term biohacking because it's [\h__\h] You're not hacking your biology. You're allowing it to do the things you're already designed to do. That innate intelligence inside you is designed to do all this stuff. There's just a bunch of garbage that got in the way because when you were five, you didn't have these problems. So, this isn't biohacking. This is like full-on war. So if you want to win, you have got to be willing to outdisipline your past self, outeducate all your impotent former beliefs cuz they got to be new and out action and execute the every single average man that's still taking Lysinipril and Lipur like it's this badge of honor and chasing it with anti-depressants. You got to be willing, man. This isn't about me. You were born with a heart strong enough to work like you could, I've said it before, to rebuild the Roman Empire. That's the truth. You were born with a powerhouse pumping inside your chest that's so strong you could probably carry a small city. But most of you guys traded it for convenience and shortcuts and sedation disguised as safety. You don't need another drug or another excuse. You need a blueprint and a set of balls. big round set of Harry coonies to execute it like the peptide stack that hypothetically right that I talked about the hypothetical peptide stack it's not going to repair damage it rewrites your damn biology it is molecular leverage for the man who refuses to die with regret so you can listen here's your choice keep pretending and talking about how you're too far gone and you need to do a little more research arch on it and find out if it's actually going to help or start acting like your damn life is worth saving. Take it from a guy that almost lost his twice because your life is worth saving. In case you didn't figure that out what I just said. So, it's your move, man. You want it? Mic drop. I got to go. Never miss.