You know, this is I always come out here with the intention of doing something different and then I just it's in my soul I have to talk about it. Wearing this rad shirt that I got from my buddy Brad. I got a bunch of these. I might have to hit him up with some more because they're getting worn out. Mr. Lee, I'm going to call you for some shirts if you're listening and pay for them. See that right there? So I listen I want to talk about Gen Z versus Gen X because even that statement Brad and I aren't like Bradley we're not that far off in in birthdays. I think he's got me by like two years two or three years but he's a good dude. He is also a Gen X guy. He knows Guy's been homeless. The guy's created a crazy legacy and an amazing empire. He loves his family. He adores his wife and he knows what that men are men and women are women and God is God versus Gen Z. Like if you caught yesterday I had a guy that chased me all over the internet for about two weeks, two and a half weeks. I need your help. I need your help. I don't care if I have to pay. Cool. I had my executive assistant say, "Here's the option. Let's do it." Crickets. Everybody wants to help until you get the bill. And then you go, I changed my mind. I think he is a Gen Xer, but I think he's got Jenz mindset. Like, you ever see a Gen Z get a parking ticket? They lose their mind. It's like watching a therapy session just disintegrate and collapse live on Instagram. They're hyperventilating and calling mom and they're making self crying videos telling the world how upset they are and writing a Yelp review on the city that gave them the ticket and tagging the cop. You know what a Gen X person would do when they saw a ticket? Because I've gotten parking tickets. Oh no. Right. Catastrophe. Fold it up and use it for a coaster in my truck. We're different species. And what's interesting is to listen to Gen Z people hate on a Gen X person. Yet a Gen X person on their worst day will outdo a Gen Z person on their best day and get mad. I don't know why you'd get mad. Instead of going, "We need to take notes." I'm not talking about automation and text and all that nonsense. I'm talking about how like a Gen X person was raised on struggle and pain and dirt and obstacles and consequences and probably a whole bunch of duct tape. Gen Z cautionary notices, disclaimers, and a bunch of dopamine. Tell me I'm wrong. And if somebody gets offended, you just proved my point. Even if you're not a Gen Z according to the calendar, you're still thinking like one. Listen, Gen Z is the first generation raised by more iPads than parents. They've never had to wait for anything. Like the pizza showed up before the dialup would have even connected and Amazon didn't just destroy patience, it nuked the hell out of it. Listen, I got nothing against Bezos and and Amazon. I use Amazon all the time, but I also have patience. If it doesn't come, then okay, I don't freak out. I have people buying from one of our companies where if they don't hear within 24 hours, they lose their mind and they pepper me with phone calls and emails and texts nonstop. Patience, it's coming. You know what the good thing about a Gen Xer is? We don't rip people off ever. If you caught what I said about paying for a shirt from Brad, I mean, it's a t-shirt. I don't know how much they are. He gave Brandy and I a bunch when we were there, did the podcast, but I don't mind. I We just pay. That's because we have integrity and ethics. Gen Z doesn't process discomfort. They send it out to get therapy and then get it back done. Like when if you get you Jenzers, you get rejected and it's toxic toxic energy, bro. And if somebody points at your flaws or criticizes something that's necessary, not just being aimless criticism. Hey, you could have done this better. Why are you doing that? You need improvement there. That sucks. Which is a good coach. That's trauma to you guys. And if you get told no, heaven forbid, you have a therapy session and if you're working, you call HR and file a claim. You got 19year-olds on LinkedIn. I actually saw this the other day with a title that says mental health advocate who've never paid this dude's probably never paid a cell phone bill in his life. How about you just advocate getting a job first? Maybe just start there. The ideology behind Gen Z is it's the Disneyland version of adulthood. Here, let me come up with like a Gen Z flowchart for how conduct what I've observed as a 52-year-old dude who's had to go through hell and come out the other side. Not go through hell and then whine about it and stay at the bottom. By the way, if you are Gen X, born in the 70s, if you're like, I don't know what that is, born in the 70s. I think millennials are born in the 80s. But if you haven't made something of your life because you make excuses about why you've been trying to do something else and the trauma was so severe and you said that's what you've been doing for the last year, that's why you're not succeeding, you are a Gen X body with a Gen Z psychology. You've been around the bottom too much and validating too much and you think it's okay. Try doing that on a farm when the crops need to be harvested. try hanging out in my house when I was a kid and arguing with your parents about going to church on a Sunday and you tell them tell them you're you're feeling oppressed. My dad would have kicked my ass and then taking me to church anyway. We used to go to church on Sundays, come home, we didn't have a lot of money, so we'd come home and it was always soup. That was lunch. That's all we had. So, soup and then we'd go crosscountry skiing. I don't know if y'all have been crosscountry skiing, but it is pretty much the dumbest thing on earth. I don't like it for so many reasons. One of them being that it's the dumbest thing on earth. And we would cross-country ski all the time. And my mom and dad would drag my my mom would go in the back. My dad would be in the front and I'd be in the middle. I'd be a little kid. Like I was I'm probably five when I started doing this. And my dad would always tell us we were going on a one click or a two click trail and it was wind. It was like eight or 10 clicks uh kilometers Canada. It was a nightmare. But now made me tough. Was 25 below 30 below. The summer time I'd race dirt bikes. The winter time I'd race snowmobiles. I don't know. I I don't know. Now, people would complain and want to make sure they're I put on hockey skates to to play hockey, warming them up on a hair dryer in the locker at a park called Macccyver Park in a change area, the locker area that wasn't heated. The haird dryer was in the bathroom and your fingers are numb and using a skate tightener. If you know what they are, it looks like a little knife with a nail sticking out of it that has a hook on it. You pull up pull the laces up, tighten up your skates cuz loose skates, you ankle burn all day and you can't play hockey where the crap and well, you look like an idiot. But the point is is that we had to be tough. We didn't have a choice. One of the most common things my parents would do is kick my ass outside and then say, "I'll see you when the street lights come home. But don't come home before that unless there's blood." Like the ideology, it's like, "If it's hard, avoid it. If it offends me, you better cancel it. If it doesn't validate me, I'm going to unfollow it because I don't want to support it. If it's popular, you definitely need to believe it. And if you feel it, it must be true." We're in an era now that someone's emotions carry more social weight than the evidence. Try telling a Gen Z person that facts don't give a crap about your feelings and they're going to stare at you like you just said gravity was optional. We've raised this generation of people who believe their identity is whatever they say it is and that the world is obligated to respect that hallucination and if you don't you're toxic. That doesn't even make sense because now we have a world where mediocrity is enforcing the rules. I don't know if you get that, but if you lift a lighter weight in the gym just because it's easier, even though you are capable of lifting something stronger, it's only going to feel easy until you become weaker because you're lifting light weights. And then that lightweight feels heavy. So if you keep you're going the wrong direction, you keep lifting lighter and lighter weights, you get weaker and weaker, dumbass. Like you can identify as a cat now. You really can't. Like there are schools with litter boxes in them. You think I'm kidding. I wish this was being me being funny. It's the truth. We are now negotiating reality with people who don't pay taxes, don't raise kids, and think hard work is a microaggression. I mean, never mind the fragility of all of this. Not talking physical fragility, psychological. Gen Z treats discomfort like it's a terminal disease. Disagree with them and you are a violent person. Hold them accountable and you are oppressive. Tell them the truth and you are gaslighting. God forbid you ask one of them to come to work on time, you're going to get hit with a three-part story on Instagram about protecting my peace. might even be all 10 tiles. We have glorified fragility so much that it's become a competition. Oh, you have anxiety. Yeah, I have CPTTSD. So, you made up something worse to outd do me on the way down. You get overwhelmed. I dissociate. I guess it would be disassociate, but still same thing. Same difference, by the way, is a phrase that irritates me. It's right up there with irregardless. And using literally when they mean figuratively and using there, there, and there completely incorrectly. Just had to throw that in there. Jenzie, we have made suffering a currency, not to overcome, but to show the world, to display. Jenzie doesn't want to solve any of their pain. They want to be applauded for surviving it. But they never learned the lesson. They don't want to earn any strength. They want to be pied into a position of power because the attention's on them, but you have attention for people looking at you going, I empathize with you without really empathizing with you and you never changing. But here's the truth. In all of this, fragility doesn't scale. It's not possible. Comfort cannot grow you. It doesn't compound your life. And if you think for a second that you can build selfworth out of validation, think again. It doesn't work like that. You cannot self-love your way out of weakness if you never do anything difficult. And that's where Gen Z is stuck. It's the intersection of comfort addiction on one side, right? And hiding from all accountability on the other side, just avoiding all of it. And they think therapy speak is personality. Social media is a disaster. I've seen more people post healing is my journey. Let me take you on my journey. Come again. You know what else is a journey? Paying rent, hard work, lifting heavy things, paying your bills, going to your job. How about just cutting your lawn? Try grooming. Try all that first. Just try all that. Just try that first before you start talking about your healing journey at 17 years old. And listen, how about this? Look at the last generation built before the internet started raising children. Gen X, my generation. Oh yeah, we're savage. And what people go is, here we go. Another bald guy with a beard talking about how tough he is. And then you guys just rant about all your stuff. But you guys cry when somebody like when Bambi died, when the artist stopped drawing the cartoon. Do you want really want to know how strong Gen X is? How strong we are? We're the first generation to come home to empty houses, cook our own damn food, do our own homework, and not get offended or abducted like latch key kids with no phone. I would come home, I had a gray shoelace around my neck, just a plain old shoelace, two aglets and everything tied around my neck. My mom and dad said, "Do not take that key off your neck no matter what. Don't put it in your bag. Don't put it in your desk. Nothing." This is an elementary school. I would walk to the crackers house, that was their last name, from a school when I was in kindergarten over this big snowy ass hill to their house and wait for my parents to be done work to come and get me. I'd hang out with my friend Cameron and I would just stay there till my I walked. I was four. I rode my bike to and from school I don't know how many times. I walked to and from school and my school was three blocks. When I first came to California and I saw these people picking up kids at school, I'm like, "What is wrong with all you guys? Where all the bike racks? Where all the kids?" I asked my wife, I go, "Did you ever walk to school?" She goes, "No, no, my mom always drove me." And then of course it, you know, well, you have to worry about getting abducted and and the pedos and child trafficking and all this stuff. And I just I mean we had things called block parents when I was a kid where there was a sign an white and orange sign with an adult and a kid. It's like a little cartoon version holding the kid's hand and that was in the window and you got vetted and you could go to that house if you were in trouble and they would take you in and help you and call your parents to come get you. There was no weirdness about it. What the hell is wrong with people nowadays? Like I was I would come home and there would be nobody in the house and my mom would say you could eat two cookies out of this, you know, Duncan Hind soft cookie. I used to love these things, right? But that was it. I would watch my parents leave and I'd have to leave by myself and I would come home and wait for my parents. And that was in elementary school. Like we grew up watching violent cartoons, listening to music that would probably get banned right now. Riding bikes with no helmets on pavement while chewing big league chew that looked like tobacco. I swear. Find a Gen Z that knows how to fix a lawnmower. I'll wait. Or could take a punch, get chin checked. Someone who doesn't walk around talking about how great they are at MMA until they get into a ring with a Gen Xer who knocks them out. didn't need a safe space. Like when someone called them a name, you called me a name. I need my safe space. Where's my bubble? My protective bubble. We didn't care. Stick some stones, man. Gen X didn't need ever constant praise when we were young. We were ignored. We got stronger because we got ignored all the time. My parents would be having a barbecue with their friends and I'd be out in the backyard playing by myself or with my next door neighbor. And my parents were like, "I don't know, are they still alive?" Okay, cool. No trigger warnings. We had three movie ratings. That's it. G, PG, and R. That's it. Like if we had any kind of trauma, I got so many things happen to me. We just kept going. This generation watched society change. Like the Gen X's, we have all watched society change right underneath our feet from no tech. Listen to me. No tech. My kids are never going to know a world without the internet or cell phone. They don't know what that's like. They have no idea. That's trippy. Think about the last time you actually looked at a CRT television. Cathode ray tube is what it stands for. It giant heavy front heavy. If you carried it by the back, you fall over and it breaks. A big giant tube where you needed if you had to mount this on the wall or hang it and put it in the corner of your ceiling. You needed industrial equipment to do it. Now you have TVs that are paper thin that are LEDs that probably are watching you and burning out your retinas while you're watching them. Like we went no tech to full tech. Even this I am talking on a microphone in a recording studio which has just become normal that we built here. I mean this is full studio badass giant 150in four panel TV up there huge couch LEDs everywhere stripes lines sound tiles crazy like tech everywhere did not exist when I was a kid. I mean your cell phone is a full recording studio if you want it to be. No coddling to this coddling culture. no therapy to therapy apps to chat GPT becoming your therapist and you know what adapted adjusted never made it about us because when we grew up us Gen Xers we grew stronger we developed these emotional calluses from realworld friction and there's not one time I think I recall asking for sympathy we just built real resilience when people go I'm a resiliency expert if you cry if you get upset or if anybody else knows that you're upset you are not resilient you know how you know somebody's resilient when you find out later holy crap you were going through that. Most of my patients when I was going through cancer, this is 20 years ago, stage 3B, non-hodgkins lymphoma. I looked like hell and for a couple of weeks I walked with a cane cuz I was that screwed up. While my wife was building our baby, our daughter and we were trying to set ourselves up financially because we had no money. We just got married. We just figured it out until one day that one of my patients Yeah. And I save his last name because he's a big dog. You can easily look him up. So, I don't want to put him in that position. Again, Gen X, we protect people. Gen Z, oh, I'm going to put you on blast and tell the whole world and get into Reddit, make sure everybody knows what is wrong with you guys. Bunch of [\h__\h] cowards. Imagine going out to somebody's door as a, this is a tangent, as a Gen X and blasting the hell out of them the way some of you guys go and blast people on social media. They would wait till you are done. Actually, they wouldn't even wait till you were done. A couple of things would come out of their mouth. It would be completely ridiculous. They would just knock you in the jaw like and then probably invite you in back for a barbecue. You genzers, man. You will spend a month hating on somebody, writing 10 paragraphs a day in Kora or Reddit about how offended and how everybody shouldn't buy from them and unfollow them and dislike them and you'd create fan pages of hate thinking that you're winning. You know, you could have just did the right thing and you didn't have to hurt my feelings. Now I've devoted my life to chasing you down. Yeah, but now you have no life, dumbass, and I'm still building mine. Gen Z people allow people to live rentree in your head thinking you're winning. Make it make sense. I don't even know if I'm going to put this podcast out because it's just so ridiculous. Like, just go deep for a second. Psychologically, what's happening? What? Gen Z was raised in these feedback loops. It's like it's like rats in a dopamine maze, right? Post, like, feel seen and important, talk, applause, feel important, victimize, validate, feel okay. Right? Does that about sum it up? There's probably a few more, but that's about what I've been seeing. Conditioned to believe that external validation equals internal worth. It doesn't. And that that's that's core. That is deep core fragility. If you outsource your own value, you also outsource who you are, your identity. It's not you can't separate the two. You're not who you are. You you're who the algorithm lets you be today. Right now, today like cancel somebody. Cancel. Make it make sense. You think you're winning cuz you canceled somebody. Which is exactly why Gen Z breaks so easily. You'll spend all day on your cell phone hating on somebody and you think you're winning. You'll get mad because you didn't make a million dollars the first day you started your business. and you think you have a right to be mad. You'll buy a $40 coaching program and get pissed off when it doesn't do the work for you. And then you get ticked off at your parents when they hold you accountable to you being a responsible human being. And then you decide to change your your gender to one of the 50 that are out there apparently, even though there are two men and women. Again, NX, Gen Z, like Gen Z are a bunch of identity renters. That's why they that's why that's why you guys break if that's you. Cuz you're not an owner. You never own your stuff. You need to listen to to Joo. That is a gritty ombre, man. I love Jaco. I could listen to him all day. That guy's great because he's gritty and he's real. That guy's been through hell and I have a lot of respect for the way he delivers his information. Like look at just contrast Gen Z with Gen X. Didn't we didn't grow up thinking like being told we were special. We had to prove it. We had to earn it. Identity was earned through action, not affirmations. And Gen Z said, "You need to support me no matter what." You know what Gen X says? Improve or shut the hell up. Gen Z is going to cry. Why isn't the world fair? Stomp, stomp, stomp. And a Gen X person is going to shrug their shoulders. It's not supposed to be. Do it anyway. Listen, here's the most important psychological distinction between Gen Z and Gen X. Gen Z believes feelings are the reason. And actually, just thinking about this, they believe the feelings are the reason. Gen X knows feelings are the signal. Huge differences. Huge feelings will it's like a compass. I said it in another podcast. You think it's the reason for like you have a a pathology with your feelings. No, it's a compass. That's it. It's not a disease. There's no such thing as depression. You feel sad. Welcome to being a human. Feelings tell you something, but they don't decide for you. You do. That's why Gen X builds businesses while Gen Z builds massive audiences. Look at I have all these followers. Yeah, but I know people with 10 million followers that still don't make more than 30 grand a year. And then somebody that's a Gen Z or a broke Gen X is going to go, "Well, maybe that's all they want." You see what I mean? Like, you guys get so triggered about stuff. Gen X raised real children to be real leaders. And Gen Z goes around going, "Let me make another holiday, another safe day. Maybe I need to make you aware." You guys are raising awareness. That's gay. You build your whole life becomes a personal brand. And you're told that's how you should be. Get strong. Then you become a brand. Everybody goes, "That brand's strong." Most of you guys are building brands around weakness and going, "Why is nobody liking your stuff or buying your stuff or you're attracting all these people that just can't comprehend what life really is?" Listen, look at the scoreboard. Look at resilience. Gen X can sit in discomfort, solve problems, and Gen Z quits, cries, and posts an Instagram video about it. Work ethic. Look at Gen X. Shows up without needing a parade or accolades. And Gen Z goes, "Can you have remote work? I need mental health days." Or, "You know what? At least give me a six-figure salary with zero experience and I have no idea what I'm doing, but I feel I deserve it because I showed up to work today. Emotional stability. Go right there. Gen X had to regulate themselves without apps or podcasts or therapy guides or fancy books that tell us how to be and how to live. And Gen Z has every resource on earth and still falls apart at a tough conversation. We are watching the most connected generation become the most depressed generation. Why? because they were told that they could do anything and be anything without ever being told they had to actually earn it first. You sold the dream, but you're told you can have the dream without the discipline. So now you stand at the finish line waiting for all the results and demanding that they show up and getting pissed off when they don't and everybody went the other direction because that finish line is for all the losers that all think they deserve something for doing nothing. You want outcomes without effort and you go, "Well, I have a confidence problem." It's because you've stacked no seats behind you. You don't get freedom without any of the responsibility and accountability that is required prior. Gen X didn't have time for that [\h__\h] We didn't even know what self-care was other than taking a shower. Burnout was Tuesday. I I don't I don't understand. Listen, even this Gen Z collapses. I see it in my comments all the time when I offer truth that doesn't taste and feel and smell like a compliment. I will say if you get into my comments and you throw hate, you're the dumb one. Like you're literally the stupidest person on the planet because you could have just kept on going. You didn't have to watch. You didn't have to listen. We have conditioned Gen Z to confuse comfort with accuracy, correctness. Raised on a system where emotional safety has now become more important than intellectual honesty. Everybody's truth is now valid. Right? That doesn't even make sense because that replaced truth is verifiable. Now your truth is based on feelings and it's my truth and your truth, not the truth. praise is is now given out like [\h__\h] Skittles and everybody is diabetic on all the [\h__\h] that you guys have. The emotional garbage. You guys are a bunch of dopamine addicts. Here's what happens when you say, "Hey, you're not strong yet, but here's how to get there." What they don't hear is the instruction. Most of you guys don't hear the instruction. You hear an insult because your identity is built on being accepted, not by improving your circumstances. Give a blueprint to somebody. I've seen it. I've seen this so many times. Here's a blueprint to solve the problem that you are in right now, and you feel judged. Here's a solution. I'm attacked. If you say take responsibility online, test it. You need to take responsibility for your actions. Look in the mirror, negotiate with your boss, and you will be met with endless comments of people saying, "You don't understand my circumstances. It's not that easy, bro. Some of us have other things to deal with. You don't know the trauma I've been through. What you're hearing is rejection." Gen Z has replaced selfworth with social affirmations. Gen Z psyche is weak. And if you're Gen Z, you get mad. Listen, your entire psyche as a Gen Z is propped up by followers and trends and comments and shares and likes and little bubbles of conversation and the constant illusion that I matter because people see me. Here's the problem with that psychology. The moment that you stop getting validation, you start collapsing. That's why they panic at criticism because it feels like an identity collapse. That's why they avoid all the challenges because it threatens the comfort that props up their worth. And you know I'm right, which is I'm sure going to trigger somebody and they're going to get at my comments and give me a thumbs down on YouTube. Which is even the weirdest thing. It just proves my point because that's why when somebody from Gen X like me right now comes along and says, "You're not broken, you're just weak. Lift more. Whine lessons and get to work. Quit being a bitch." They see it as toxic. You hurt me. You offended. That's hurtful. I need a sad day because Gen Z psyche wants transformation without being reminded that they need to actually transform. You need to actually do something. You want to heal without admitting that there's any damage and evolve without confronting all of the useless immaturity and horrific habits that exist inside you by your own design. It's like it goes right back to the finish line. I want to I want to start at the finish line. I want to win but without running the race. You want to win, but you never show up to practice. So here's what happens. You know what they do instead? Deflect reality and call it cruelty. I can't I'm trying not to laugh because I I mean I don't even give a [\h__\h] If it's my show, don't listen. I don't care. I was going to say because I don't really want to insult anybody, but I don't really care. I hope I insult a bunch of people with this because you're being ridiculous. You guys reject if you're Gen Z, even if you're not, if you are a Gen X with this stupid Gen Z mindset, this entitlement mindset, you reject instruction and you call it oppression. This is what you get in your the way of all the solutions that you have and you look at truth. I said at the beginning, that's gaslighting. How is the truth gaslighting? We've taught an entire generation that emotional offense is a form of violence. And now they view psychological mirrors as in here this is you take a look you need to fix that as a weapon. Okay. How about you look at the Gen X operating system then? The one that's going through my head. The one that I had Gen Z mindset like I said doesn't matter. You might be a born in the 70s but your mindset is embarrassing and that oppressive toxic judgmental painful hurtful. You probably need a sad day. That's okay. I'm still going to be here. You won't. That's okay. But that's why when I was doing pull-ups with an oxygen machine keeping me alive, when I was working out, struggling, all scrawny and weak and broke, I got hate. Make it make sense. I got hate for showing up and doing the work and I got called irresponsible, selfish, rude, and every other insult I could possibly disrespectful to the doctors that told me what to do that would have left me in a body bag. F all of you that said that. every last one of you ass clowns because anyone that ever said that to me couldn't keep up with me on my worst day with me missing a limb on their best day because go live with me toe-to-toe about any of the knowledge I actually have and I will burn out your eye sockets. Go come to my gym. The invite's always there. I'm just a 52y old man. I'm an old man with one lung. You should be able to slam dance me into the next zip code physically, but you can't. I'll roll with you. I'll pull out the mats. I'll I'll do it right there on the rubber floor. Let's go. I'll run. I'll outrun you. I'll outlift you. I'll out fitness everything you do. Hell, I'll throw heat better than most of you guys because you're too busy telling everybody how good you are versus becoming good, becoming exceptional. You're too busy making sure everybody knows how exceptional you think you are, even though you're not. I was a generation built on rejection. And just so you understand that, that's why that's what makes me incredibly indestructible. My operating system built on getting trashed by people all the time. I didn't have gentle parenting. I had because I said so. Stop crying or I'll give you something to cry about and go outside and don't come back till the damn street lights come on. And if you're late, you're getting whooped. You know what that created? Autonomy, grit, emotional regulation, maturity. I learned to process pain without some narration. I didn't have to talk it out every time something went wrong. I figured it out. I processed pain and learned the lesson and then moved the hell on versus staying in there for a year going, "You don't understand how bad it feels. My dad died and I'm really upset and I've been trying to deal with it for the last year. Listen, my dad died 13 years ago. I love my dad. I miss him every day. I still have [\h__\h] to do." And and you know, this is what happens is people go, "Well, yeah, but you're just a robot. Emotionally numb." It's not that we're emotionally numb as Gen X. It's that we never worship our feelings. Feelings are just data. Gen Z and and even just the weak Gen Xers treat it as doctrine. You want to know the Gen X philosophy in one sentence? Here, I'll help you. If it hurts, figure it out. If it's hard, get faking stronger. If it sucks, do it anyway. You're welcome. Nobody clapped when we got up in the morning. Nobody told me that sadness was something that I need to cherish and it's sacred. And nobody ever gave me an award for just showing up. That's exactly what made us strong. Welcome to Gen X. I don't understand how how did the chasm get so between Gen X and Gen Z? How? Cuz we are right now in real time watching two generations occupy the same world with two completely different realities. Here's why I think Gen Z is raised in a world that prioritizes feelings over facts. And Gen X was raised in a world that prioritized facts independent of any feelings. One generation was told, "You're enough." current generation, by the way, you're enough. It's okay. Make them accept you. They should all approve and you seek approval and acceptance. You demand it, thinking that you're entitled to it for doing nothing and that if you're 100 lb overweight, your body positive and big is beautiful. You're unhealthy, you're diabetic, and you're a burden. And in nature, you would cease to exist. So, grow up. If you're broke and you wanted more money, it's never your fault. It's the economy, the job, the boss, the career. social media, not enough followers, you come up with every possible excuse. Instead of going, I need to work harder. And I'm not talking work harder like the roofers next door who work 10 times harder physically than me. You need to work harder, upgrade your skill set, and then scale. You're welcome. Why do you think my cure program is $100,000? Why do you think? Cuz I got an email, that was about a week ago, trying to chastise me for charging so much. And my follow-up was, "If it was $1,000, would you pay it?" Well, I don't have $1,000. I just think it's rude that you charge so much, but I come out here for free every day and solve problems non-stop. And every Monday, I answer every possible question people throw at me. Welcome to Gen X, me versus the Gen Z that sent the message. That's what I'm talking about. You're not enough. You think you're enough, you're not enough. Like that, that's the difference between Gen X and Gen Z. Gen Z, you're enough. Make them accept. Make everybody lower their standards to where you are so you don't feel shamed. Gen X men and women like me. The women, the Gen X women have more testosterone than Gen Z men, just so we're clear. And they all look like women, not beach balls. They don't look like Veruka salt from Charlie in the Chocolate Factory. We were told like, "You're never going to be enough unless you prove it and earn it. And it's going to be rough." Gen Z is given this identity as if it's a gift. I had to earn it like a paycheck non-stop. And now marry this with a digital area and you have got the perfect storm. It is a disaster. Jenzie has been raised in the first era ever, I think, that I can even think of. And I actually tried to go down this rabbit hole to find it. The first era ever of customizable identity. I think about it. Gen Z fully raised where you can customize your identity at any moment. You don't like who you are, change your gender. You don't like your job, quit on Instagram, on Tik Tok. If you don't like your body, just filter it. Demand acceptance and approval from other people so you don't feel shamed. You don't like your beliefs? You know what? Adopt a trending one so you fit in with the crowd. So you are approved by your peer group. Even though maybe deep down inside you don't agree and you don't even know why you disagree. You don't like reality. Rebrand it. That's the world that Gen Z lives in. That is our current reality. Gen X didn't have the option to customize their struggle. I didn't get an option to do that. I had to confront it. So now there's one group trained to face reality and another trained to curate it. You think that those two groups are going to agree on truth or discipline or strength? Ask yourself, hell no. Never. Living on completely different psychological planets. Even that is a conversation in and of itself. This is what's fascinating to me about all of us. Why? Because I said this yesterday. Why does Gen Z reject solutions that fix the problem? Here you go. Here is a blueprint that will solve the nightmare [\h__\h] storm that you're living in and take you to that kingdom that you see at the end of the road that you wish you were at that you refuse to walk towards instead taking exits where all the distractions are because you think that's going to help you because you're having a sad day and you think you have unlimited time. Why? Why does Gen Z just refuse reject all of the solutions that are going to solve their problem? They're anxious, they're depressed, they're broke, completely disconnected, and they damn well know it and they admit it. But but here's what happens. And I'm not talking just the birthdays. I'm talking people that have this mindset. When you give somebody like that the real path to move forward, to change their life, lift weights, build a highpaying skill set, just get a real damn job, do something meaningful, limit your social media. Just turn it off. Get rid of it. Except that nobody is coming to save you. This is what happens. They come into my comments or anybody else's comments, you're ignorant, you're outdated. Oh, you don't get it. You don't understand what I'm going through. Okay, so let's unpack that then. It's not that they don't want the solution. It's that the solution invalidates their victim identity and they know it because they've built an entire identity on being seen as broken. You're not broken, man. That's the problem. And you know it. You just like what comes with saying that. So you offer a way to become strong. I come along and I go, "Here's how you be strong." Anybody that says, "Here, this is how you change that." You're asking them to let go of the only thing that makes them feel significant. They'd rather be important for being hurt than invisible for being healed. That is some [\h__\h] up twisted logic. Just so we're clear. Because here's the the the mindset. And I guarantee you this is going to set somebody off. Good. I don't care. I just don't care. Don't listen. That's what's weird. Gen Z, I don't like you. You hurt my feelings. And if someone goes on a Gen Xer and I didn't like it, you still didn't have to listen. Just so you know, Nancy, go back and hang out with Karen. Like that is twisted logic. If I get better, I'm going to lose all my sympathy points. If I get stronger, heaven forbid, I'm going to probably lose my identity that I have right now. And if I start winning and stacking points on the or putting points on the board and succeeding, all my excuses are invalid, which is exact. That's Gen Z thinking. That is weak mindset thinking. Never mind just Gen Z. It's just that I just point at Gen Z because I see it everywhere, even sometimes in our daughter, which is like, no, hell no. This is why you hear Gen Z say things like that's not going to work for me. You know, that is some really toxic positivity. You can't say that. You don't understand my trauma. My favorite is that's abbleist. Most of them can't even spell that. They have to defend their weakness or else they have to become somebody new. Do you guys get this? Because becoming somebody new that demands discomfort. It requires it. It's not an option. And the world has now trained them any training all of you to be honest to avoid discomfort at all costs because it's bad for you. The idea that something offended you is a red flag and it means something's wrong. That's Gen Z thinking. You know what being offended is? It's a green light that something is pointing at you and waking you the hell up. You know why? Because being offended, regardless of what it is, doesn't mean you get into the comments or you write emails or you send it to the head of the HR department, whatever it is you guys do nowadays, it means that you are exiting that useless faking echo chamber and exposing a weakness that you have subscribed to and you're actually reaching out and grabbing the truth for the first time in your life. Because here's the real talk. Truth is supposed to hurt before it actually ever makes you feel better. before it ever heals a damn thing. Truth is going to hurt. And the more it stings, the closer it is to something that is worth faking fixing. Listen, being weak or genz or having a just a soft mindset like that doesn't need more comfort. It is not going to solve the problem. You need more resilience training. I can't even believe I have to say that. You need more resilience training. You need so much more confrontation without anybody running to save you. You need to figure it the [\h__\h] out. And you need all kinds of high standards. And you need to stop using hashtags to describe them. # high standards. But you don't have any. Honestly, you guys thinking like that need it now because the world is getting harder, not easier. You're under the illusion that it's getting easier. It's not. Not at all. Just look around and see how many people are struggling with health, wealth, and relationships and blaming anything but the person they see in the mirror. The world is not getting easier. If you don't learn to regulate emotions, you are going to get eaten alive by men and women like me who have that. We've mastered that. Why wouldn't you want to? Children don't have a grasp on their emotions, which is why they react. Adults are adults. So, act like one. Build a backbone. Because the problem is, if you don't have some titanium in your spine, you're going to collapse under the weight of your own identity politics that you argue in your own head. You have got to learn how to face all the [\h__\h] that you don't like, all the discomfort and all the obstacles and adversity because you are right now in the world most of you guys are in. You see adversity or obstacles or any kind of discomfort and you run away from it which causes you to decay and get demolished under the illusion of your own safety. Your job like when somebody has actually gone through it, me or anybody else. Listen, for example, most Gen X's have been through significantly more stuff than any Gen Z because Gen X, we're the last of the unbreakable people. And if you don't listen, I can't force you, but if you don't listen to the things I'm saying or anybody else like me that's saying a lot of the same things, you're going to spend your life broadcasting all of the pain that you have and avoiding all of the things required to change your own damn circumstances. And you're going to blame somebody other than who you see in the mirror. Let me make this very clear. This isn't because somebody's going to be like, "You're attacking Gen Z. Who are you? How come you're so great, dude? I've made so many damn mistakes and screwed up so many times I lost track. I just get back up and fix it. I talk to God and I go, "Give me the strength to never do that again and give me the strength to move forward." This is not an attack on Gen Z people. This is a wakeup call to the ideologies that some of you grown ass men and women have adopted that are causing you the light. The world doesn't care if you're offended or if you're anxious. It's not going to bend to your little soft emotions. Emotions don't matter. Strength doesn't come from being hurt. It comes from getting beat up and kicked around and then getting back up and putting calluses on your body, your mind, your life, and stacking receipts behind you that say, "I did it anyway. I can listen. Gen X doesn't we guys like I don't care if you praise me or not. We just do the work." Nobody asked when I was a kid. We never asked, "Can you praise me for doing this?" I just did it. In fact, I don't remember a time where I went, "Hey, mom and dad, can you tell me that I did a good job?" And pat me on the head. They never came outside and looked at my chores and went, "You did a really good job. Is your self worth better, son? do the chores and they'd come out and look and go, "Do them again because you missed all of this. Do it all again." I've cut my own lawn more than once in the same day because I didn't do it right the first time. I didn't cut the spot that was missing. It was cut the whole thing again. Why? So you remember. And that's the point. You are either becoming stronger or softer. There is no neutral ground. No matter what you guys think, one builds character and the other builds a big following that is comprised of people that are just like you that you never would trade places with. What are you doing? You were either enduring and growing in life or you were trying to negotiate with it. So here here's a challenge. I'll leave you with a challenge because I I got to go and honestly I've been out here way too long already. You want to be powerful. You want to be resilient. You want to be strong. You want to be unbreakable, unstoppable. You want to be all the things that you talk about that you claim to be or claim to want. Turn off the comments. Show up on time. Take the L. If you lost, take the damn L. Lift the weights. get criticized all day long and toughen up your [\h__\h] skin and keep building and do something hard and don't post about it at all. Just do it until people go, "Holy crap, how did you become like that?" Because I never backed down. I kept going and I kept getting back up. Every time I got my teeth kicked in. Every time I got chin checked, I got back up. I didn't broadcast or have a talk about my trauma or say how bad it was and then wait for the sympathy to pour in. I just did it because true power, all that strength is never visible. It's internal. and Gen X. We figured that out decades ago. Well, you guys are still buffering your identity through Wi-Fi and VPNs. You don't inherit strength, you build it. And somewhere it's being lost. Like I am a 52year-old man and this is going to come. Somebody's going to get mad. Most of you guys couldn't go toe-to-toe with me on at all. Not even close. Financially, psychologically, physically, you just couldn't. And that triggers you. Make it make sense. I look at people that are doing better than me and go, there's a target. You build strength through hardship, not broadcasting in a bunch of hashtags and whatever it is you're posting. So, while listen all of you guys, all you Gen Z that are just freaking out right now or have not maybe you stopped listening or you Gen Xers that are thinking like that soft weird mindset, if you're waiting for permission to feel safe, let me help you out. People that are winning that you look at with all the hate and disgust cuz you're pissed off that it's not you, we already built everything we want. So, quit crying on TikTok. Quit making Instagram lives about how sad you are and how your boss did you wrong and how you're so upset by what somebody said or you don't like who won the election or all the things where you need to take medication. You're physically depressed or you can't come up with what you want to do for a living because there's just too much in your life and you're too stressed out and you can't handle that kind of trauma and it's hurtful. Knock off all that [\h__\h] and go earn your name. Become somebody you want. I got to go. Never miss.