Oh, 3:15. Time for another coffee. It's funny. So, Sean Whan, right? He's the lion's not cheap. Good dude. He's edgy. He's gritty. That's why I like him. God-fearing man. But these hats, man, they fit so well. And I don't get anything for him. I'm not marketing for him or anything. And when I see something good, it's something good. I just say it because I think that's what good people do is just you might I'm going to talk about glutathione by the way before you're like, "Okay, what the hell are you talking about, Dr. Trevor? But I want you guys to understand something. The best thing you can do instead of going out and complaining on Yelp or wherever it is you guys go and cry about something that didn't work out the way you wanted it to because you decided to do it. Just to be very clear, I've never asked for a refund in my life. I I haven't. I made the conscious decision to buy it. Whatever it is, even if I was like, "Damn it, that was stupid." That's what leaders do. That's what people that are in control of themselves do. When you sit there and you go, "I'm going to return something because I don't like it." You made the decision. Now, if it was deceptive, that's different. If you said, "Hey, I want to buy this truck." And they sold you a mug of coffee. Yeah, bring it back. But nothing is that extreme. People now have given up their personal accountability when it's convenient. Only when it's convenient. Only when it's convenient. With your health, even look at that. But I'm not like I don't get anything for talking about Sean's hat or I actually have his keychain too. I just thought about that. Yeah. Live free or die. Lion's not sheep. And this is long before I ever sent a message to Shawn. Long before any of that stuff. I But I think the best thing you can do for someone is buy their product at full price. Leave them a five, six, seven paragraph blindingly positive ray of sunshine review of whatever the hell it is and help their business. Stop being such a jealous little toddler when somebody else is successful just because you don't like the accountability of being responsible for your own decisions. Health is the same way. Nobody made you fat. Nobody made you sick. Nobody made you broke. Nobody made your marriage fail. Nobody none of that. You did that. And instead of getting mad at me and getting in my comments and chirping about it, maybe just understand that I'm trying to give you the recipe so you can control every single aspect of your life, right down to every molecule you've got in your physiology. That's all I want, man. What do I say in every single podcast? You want to buy from my company from Elite Biogenics? Go ahead. Go ahead. I love it. I thank you so much for supporting me. I hope they radically change your life for the the better. I really do. I hope everything you buy from me elevates your health and your your physiology, your biology, and just your life. Gives you longevity and health span that you would have never achieved without listening to me and applying it to the products you buy from Elite Biogenics. But if you don't buy them from me, that's okay. I still love you. I still think, okay, I'm still I'm not like that's a weird concept, right? I'm not going to tell you if you don't get it from me. That doesn't make any sense. The only thing if someone goes, I keep asking you for dosages. Yeah, there are laws against that. You can talk to your favorite local government official and say, "Hey, [\h__\h] why don't you start allowing people to talk about this freely and openly, even though we're in free speech, so people can get healthy instead of being locked in on 6 7 8 9 12 different medications in this spiral of managed decline that's slowly killing them while you watch your wife or your husband or your child, God forbid. I I just couldn't do it. I love my son. I love my daughter so much and my wife I even more if that's even possible. I would never want to I want them to have the most robust health that they just they're immune to getting sick cuz their physiology just makes pathology unwelcome. That's what I'm trying to do for you guys. That's it. So, you can get in my comments and argue and complain or you can get in my comments and go, "You know what? Thanks for taking the time every single freaking day to share every ounce of knowledge you've got so that we can have a better life cuz that is what I'm doing. I don't market the hell out of anything on these podcasts. Whatever ads are from YouTube, they're not from me and probably I wouldn't doubt it if they're drug ads. I never watch I never watch my own stuff really. And if you want to join the black card, it is $9,997 to have access to me directly on my live call every single Monday. People ask what can you explain what it is? I just did. You get 52 weeks of a live call to ask me questions live. Me really me, no AI, no weirdness. You get a VIP community with all kinds of stuff that's in there that you can use to help you. The protocols I've used for decades with patients that actually work and they don't cost anything extra. There's no marketing in there. There's no little special areas that if you can upgrade, but wait, there's more. None of that. None of that. Plus a community of really badass people. Like I love the people that are in my community and the people that don't belong there. I extricate from that community and I have no problem doing that. I told you I have a no [\h__\h] policy. If somebody's an [\h__\h] in my community, I'm not going to argue. I'm not going to have a conversation with them. I don't need to. I will just There you go. You can have your remainder of your money back. I'm out because I want to keep my community safe. It's not censoring anything because we have free conversations. But it's because I want everybody there to feel safe. I want everybody there to feel protected and know that over everything, I got your back. I'll go to war with the people in my group. God, I love them so much. And you can take it however you want. But that's what the black card is. It is a place where a doctor me actually helps people. I want to build this thing so big. It's not for the money. What 10 grand? You guys spend more than that on insurance. So it's not about the money. Yeah, you bet your butt. I feed my family and I take care of my life. It's called my career. But at the same time, if you don't join us, I don't stop coming out here. Have I? No, I haven't. So keep that in mind before you start running your complaint department in my comments. But it's here. You want to know where to go for that? By the way, lie at unlockthecard.com. That is a payment verification. If you send a bunch of emails, I've gotten a couple of people. I send emails to what about this and I ordered this and how about that? You will get an email back from my team going this is the request for payment verification and request for payment information for wire transfer because it's the only way I take payment. 9,997 wire transfer only. That's all that email is for. So, if you ask questions, maybe some of you guys have found out, they're going to literally shoot it back. But I think it's worth it because I put my heart and soul into this. Listen, let me let me go over and glutathione was something I was really arguing about on whether or not because there's so much bro science going on in the world right now. It's very frustrating, but at the same time, if you're not willing to get out front and start leading people, it doesn't really matter what you say. So, until you're ready to get out front and start swinging the axe, you got Mjolnir in your hand, right? You're Thor. If you're not willing to do that, you can't really say anything. I I And so listen, the next whatever 30, 40 minutes, 20, I don't know, however long I'm going to be on. I just I never know. This isn't This is I think it's probably going to be one of the most valuable things you've ever listened to. Not because I'm some genius. Yeah, I believe me, I'm very intelligent, but it's earned, but because I'm going to tell you the truth that everybody else is too scared or too stupid or too financially incentivized to tell you. Like, you guys have been gaslit so bad by these wellness gurus and these pharmaceutical marketing plays that I see all over social media. I see them all over TV. I'm pointing at a TV. There's a giant 150 I don't know 160 in screen over there and it's made up of four TVs. I've shown it. I built it. It's actually pretty rad. Actually, it's pretty I'm not going to lie. It's pretty rad. But it's this the entire $4 trillion wellness industry that profits from your confusion and ultimately your illness. The entire business model stands on one simple idea that health is complicated. You guys, it's not. Health is not. It's really not. Because if it was complicated, how did we populate the planet? Luck. just sheer dumb luck. No, it's because it wasn't complicated. They're complicating it so you can't figure it out. It's the same reason why everything that I learned in it was in Latin. But why you gonna see a cop yelling freeze if that's what they still do right before somebody's I don't do that. It's all whatever they're going to yell what congeal at them. They're not no cops yelling it out in Latin. So they do it so you don't understand what it is. Latin is not a dead language. Just to be just to be clear. By the way, I'm actively learning Latin because I think it's really cool. Yeah. Really? It's not a dead language. It was a killed language. Go down the rabbit hole. Don't take my word for it. I'm not some tinfoil hatwearing guy. I'm just telling you, just go down the rabbit hole. So, health, it is infuriatingly simple. Your body's ability to not listen your body's ability to not develop cancer, to not get Alzheimer's or dementia, to not get multiple sclerosis or ALS, to not get diabetes, to not get Parkinson's disease, to have the energy to actually live your life does not hinge on a thousand different things. It hinges on one really, this is pretty wild. This is going to blow your mind. One very single kind of pathetic looking molecule that every cell in your body makes. Everyone or at least tries to make to be honest before you personally nuke its production. Glutathione. But nobody told you that. Just let that stick for a second here. Let's have fun. Say it with me. Glut. Just remember it because really cuz everybody's an expert but they're not. I see these guys. Oh, I got 50,000 shares and everybody is looking at my stuff but you don't know what you're doing. and you're rifling it off of some defunct Pleaser Chad GPT prompt. But so you guys ask me, by the way, what books? The an the anatomy coloring book, cap it, and the physiology coloring book. Those two. You want to know the two ultimate books to give you so much knowledge it'll make your brain explode and you will know more than 99 I'll say it again, 99.9% of the medical doctors on the planet. You will know more if you go through those two books and actually comprehend every single thing in those two books. I promise. Believe me. I was actually looking for a bunch of people. I was just going to send 20 or 30 of these out for Christmas to people that just people I liked in my audience. Whoever if you start sending me emails to apply at unlock the card, I'm going to send you a bill for 10 grand. You pay it, I'll give you a book. How about that? Because don't do that. But like I was just looking for because I want you guys to understand it. There's no there's not going to be some secret marketing in the book or anything where hey by the way get this like go to elite biogenics.com go to unlockthecard.com I I don't care but I really want you guys to understand this and maybe that's finally coming across. I got AI will say he's a good friend man. Mark Bell if you don't know who Mark Bell is. He's a really good dude. I just I need to say that like this guy he does some abstract stuff and I support everything he does. The guy's a good dude man. He's a multi-millionaire, very successful, incredibly strong guy. He's gone through all kinds of things. He's a very knowledgeable guy. The cool he sent me a text today. Oo text. And he's just he's a good guy. And I'll just leave it at that because this isn't the Mark Bell podcast, but it's the He's a good dude. If you don't if you don't know him, look him up, follow him, pay attention to things he says. Guy's got a heart of gold and a body that's just he is as strong as it gets. The guy's a beast and he's a good dude. Family guy, right? But he sent me a text today and or a voice text and it actually made me consider some things about educating and and you guys, which is actually what prompted this glutathione because I've been inundated with glutathione requests. And I realized somebody's rambling on about this. You know what? It's my show. You don't like it? Scroll to about the 14minute mark and you'll miss all of this. But it made me realize that there are things that I talk about that perhaps people don't understand because they don't have the foundation yet. So, I'll just start talking about that, too. Believe me, I want to make this the most educational, kick-ass channel where you guys go. I can just go here. Dr. Trevor's going to give me the answer because it's in one of his podcasts or one of his episodes or one of his go to Rumble. I'm telling you, go to Rumble. If you guys aren't supporting me on Rumble, I'm going to tell you right now, it's the only time I'll push you from like I'll mark it to you. Go support me on Rumble. Go to Rumble. Dr. Trevor Bachmeire. Three words, doctor. It's just Dr. But just go. It's on every single post I make in my stories because that's where the videos are. Why? Because in the land of the free, we are not allowed to be free. But Rumble is. Hey, maybe one of you guys can tell me. I know social media pretty well, but Twitter is X. It's pretty free, huh? I can pretty much say anything I want there. Maybe one of you guys can tell me if that's actually the case instead of me asking somebody who's a non-expert, which perhaps I just did. But listen, glutathione, this thing, I don't know, man. It might be almost more important than your first born. I know. Careful, Dr. T, don't say that. But here's the deal. If this molecule fails, nothing else works. And so if that's the case, if it's the foundation of everything else, then it does have that kind of that that kind of value. Agreed? Listen, I'll give you the unvarnished biochemical truth so we can just get right into this. It's not some superfood or an extract. It is a tripeptide, right? Glutamate, cyine, glycine, three boring amino acids that are chained together. That is it. That's I told you this is a boring molecule. Describing it this way, just so you know, I think is like describing the internet though as maybe some wires and some electricity. Technically, it's true. catastrophically. It's incomplete insult to the majesty that this thing is. This thing is so amazing. Glutathione does so many badass things in your body. Listen here, listen. Your mitochondria, okay, those little tiny power plants. Remember my universal symbol for power plant, which is cooling tower. They burn oxygen to make ATP, adenazine triphosphate, right? Which is the cellular currency of all life that you've got. Any cell that's alive is using ATP. That process creates these exhaust fumes, reactive oxygen species, ROS's. They're free radicals. We've heard of these free radicals. These are not bad in small amounts. They're signaling molecules. In large amounts, though, they're biochemical terrorists, which I've called them before. They're unstable. They're missing an electron, and they will carve through your cell membranes and shred your proteins and mutilate your DNA to steal one of those frigin electrons. This is oxidative stress. So, if nobody's ever explained it that way, now you have a foundation to go. That's what it is. It's not some new age concept, you guys. This is the literal physical corrosion of your body. It's the rust. It's the root cause of aging and every single chronic disease on the planet. Full stop. Now, marry this to my three biological failures for life and you will see exactly why this is so important because this is the foundation for those three biological failures. Yeah. Now, it's starting to come together, right? So, think about glutathione as the body's one of my buddies, AF, right? He's a special forces ranger, sniper, 22 years. He's a good man and uh dangerous man, great man. and him and Tim Kennedy are like best friends. And so he's a special forces guy. So think of glutathione as a special forces. They come in and they neutralize these terrorists. It's the sacrificial lamb, right? It's a spotless lamb. If you want to go into theology, it hands its own electron to the free radical pacifying it. But in doing so, glutathione itself becomes oxidized. It gets it used up is the easiest way to explain that. But the system is so brilliant. Check this out. There's an enzyme called glutathione reductase which uses energy from NADPH. It slaps a new electron on it and puts it right back out into the field. It's a renewable self-charging biochemical turbocharged superhero. Now, do you see why it's badass? Think about it. So, remember what I talked about with the methylene blue, right? It goes back and forth. It just keeps working non-stop. That's like glutathione. But this is just glutathione's day job. The real job this thing has is a lot more interesting than what I'm talking about. Your glutathione level is it's like a bank account. You're not making deposits. You're a spender of epic and reckless proportions. So, let me explain how you guys are screwing up your books and your accountant sucks and you're I'll even give you the names of the thieves that are robbing you guys blind in your health. All the things that are causing glutathione depletion in your system that you guys a lot of you guys don't even know because you're being told by the system, the medical industrial complex that says no, it's okay. Don't worry about it. Except the problem is it's not and you should worry about it. Chronic stress. This is like a cortisol hammer just beating the hell out of you. This isn't psychology. This is hardcore endocrinology. Stress activates the HPA axis. It floods your system with cortisol. Chronic high cortisol isn't just bad for your sleep. By the way, it is a direct molecular assassin. Suppresses the gene expression and activity of GCL. Emma, I'm a glutamistine liaz. This is the rate limiting enzyme that builds what do you think? Udithion. 2008 study from UC San Diego published in biological psychiatry showed sustained psychosocial stress. Think about our social media system. Just follow me on this. Sustained psychosocial stress depleted glutathione by over 40% in the prefrontal cortex. So, you're not just stressed, you're chemically disarming your brain's primary defense system. You're literally woring yourself into oxidative brain damage. What's my biggest fear? My only fear, losing my cognitive ability to come out here and be able to share this with you, to share everything I've learned, to share all the things I still learn. I learn every day. That is my only fear. Look at this. That's the first one. Okay. Stress standard of this disastrous American diet. I will say American because not all other countries don't eat like this. This one does. It's like biochemical malnutrition with a price tag. Like you're not just eating junk. You're eating nothing. Glutathione production requires raw materials. cysteine, which is the most critical one, which is why NAC, I'll get to that in a minute, is so crucial, glycine, and glutamate. But it also needs a bunch of co-actors, magnesium, magnesium, L3N8. But if you guys, before you guys go off on this because you guys, what magnesium do I take? I take this one cuz it's better than that one. No, that's not how this works. Magnesium. You want to find I'll give you the quick hack to figure out which magnesium you should take. Take one for 10 days. If you see no change in anything in your body, switch to the next one. It's that simple. Yes, it's that easy. Stop complicating it. There's no Einstein level like nothing. This is so easy. 10 days no change. Like your sleep doesn't change. Your legs still are restless. You still get aches and pains. You still have all kinds of issues, anxiety, all the things change because it is very physiologically specific. Keep that in mind. So the co-actors, magnesium, selenium, zinc, B6, B9, B12, right? Cyanocobalamin. I talked about that one. The diet of processed seed oil. I'm tired of these guys who seed oils don't do anything. my eye. Listen, they're not the be all end all, the ones that are killing everybody. But I'll tell you right now, they're doing a whole lot of a shitload of damage to you. So, a diet of processed seed oils and refined carbs and a sugar is a dessert for these freaking micronutrients. 1995 95 this is so long ago, 1995, 30 years a study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition proved that just a we're talking marginal selenium deficiency, that's how important selenium is. common in by the way over 60% of the population cripples the activity of glutathione peroxidase. This is the vital enzyme that glutathione that uses glutathione to neutralize peroxide. So you can't build a fortress without bricks. You're building on the sand. You have to understand this toxin exposure. We put so much crap in our bodies. It's spraying in our skies. It's probably in my coffee. It's in my water. It's in our food. It's on our clothes. Do you don't understand the clothes you wear are sucking the life out of you. Right? There's so many things that we aren't even looking at. You know, I I trust you Sean, so I have no idea. But the maybe the hat, I really have no idea. But it's in so many things that you are having either stuck on your body. You take a shower. People go, "I drink really purified water." What do you take a shower in? What do you take a shower in? Same thing. Do you have a whole house filter that's actually keeping your water clean? I doubt it. Most people don't. They're like, "Wow, I have this great water filter under my sink." Yeah, but you take a shower and the most prominent organ of your body is your skin, and you are just absorbing crap transermally into your system. And you wonder why you feel like hammer dog [\h__\h] all day. That's why. Toxin exposure. It's the world's tribute. Your liver is your detox organ, right? Its phase 2 pathway is called glutathione conjugation. So what it does, let me explain it. What it does is it slaps a glutathione molecule onto a fat soluble toxin, pesticides, plasticizers, heavy metals, drugs, pharmaceuticals, lots to make it water soluble so you can pee it out. Every time you drink a glass of wine, your liver uses glutathione to convert the carcinogen acid alahhide into harmless acetate. Didn't know that, did you? All you guys out there that sell booze or try and justify it, the quantity of alcohol that is non-toxic is zero. Anything above zero is toxic. I'm not saying don't drink. I'm not chastising you for drinking. I You're going to do what you're going to do. And if you start quoting the Bible, Jesus trained water into if you know the whole story, right, where Mary comes up and says, "Hey, you know the whole marriage thing." And then he goes, "Why are you bothering me, woman?" like the whole if you do but understand you can't quote something and then just sit there and go Jesus did it just so you can do it. You going to die on the cross too because Jesus did that. Didn't think so. So maybe stop being so selective with what you're choosing to fight for or use as a reference. Understand alcohol is never good for you. Do what you want, but it's never 0%. The French paradox is a lie. So it changes that carcinogen into harmless acetate Tylenol. So, Tylenol overdose is fatal for one reason and one reason alone. It exhausts the liver's entire glutathione reserve, allowing its toxic metabolite, NAPQI, to fry to cook the organ. You're living in a toxic soup and your glutathione is the it's the price of admission, you guys. You're spending your life savings though just to stay afloat because there's so much going into your system. Look at pharmaceuticals. This is what I was talking about before. The NSA are the big one, right? talk about your Advils, your alves, your Tylenol, right? All the non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, their stated job is to inhibit COX enzymes and reduce inflammation. Okay, so the real job according to a very brutal paper in 2001 in free radical biology and medicine is to induce mitochondrial oxidative stress. Right? So that directly depletes glutathione reserves. So, you take a pill for a headache and its mechanism of action is to sabotage your body's number one defense against the very oxidative stress that likely caused the damn headache in the first place. It's not a medicine. It's not It's a biological Ponzi scheme. You're taking this high interest loan. It's like a student loan. It's a high interest loan. You're never going to be able to pay it back. That's what this is. You can never repay this. That's how bad this stuff is for you. But nobody's ever telling you this because they want you to buy their drug. They want you to buy their supplement. They want you to buy their pill, their magic elixir. I'm not telling you any of that stuff. Aging and disease. There's another one. It's a vicious cycle, by the way. This is such a vicious cycle. As you age, your body's ability to synthesize glutathione just nose dives. This isn't a coincidence, by the way. This is the cycle. It's the primary driver of aging itself. Then conditions like diabetes and autoimmunity create this perpetual state of inflammation and oxidative stress and insulin resistance and ATP shortage. Are you seeing some familiarity here? Creating this insatiable demand for glutathione. The lower your levels, the worse the disease gets. The worse the disease, the more glutathione you b you burn. It's this death spiral. 2011 review in aging research reviews clearly, very clearly, easily outlined this feedback loop as the foundational to age related decline. Huh? But yet nobody talks about that. Let me explain the organs and how this works. The clinical pathological round if it needs an explanation. Let's just do some rounds. All of us, let's just go. walkounds and every room has an organ in it. How about that? Let's see what happens when this system fails organ by organ, right? I need more of this to tax my glue with that. Listen, I'm not I don't come out here to be your guru. I don't If anything, this is a sucky thing to say. I'm here to be your pathologist. I know it leaves a dirty taste in my mouth. Look at the liver. Grand Central Station. Highest concentration of GSH in the body. And here, it's not just an antioxidant. It's a detox molecule. It conjugates toxins for biliary excretion. So when glutathione is low, toxins recirculate causing systemic havoc. This is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. This is chemical sensitivity. This is diabetes. This is cognitive decline. This is coronary artery disease. This is the core of modern toxicity. And I'm just getting started. Look at the brain. 2% of your mass consumes 20%. Remember I told you about this before? 20% of your oxygen. This you have this raging metabolic infir inferno producing this torrent of ROS's reactive oxygen species. If you don't remember the brain's native antioxidant systems are weak. It's desperate for imported not even even exotic just your own just something that works. Glutathione 2017 study using advanced MRI spectroscopy. JAMA psychiat directly correlated depleted hypocample glutathione with impaired memory and depression. Awesome. Low glutathione isn't a symptom of neurodeeneration. It's a primary cause. You got to flip the script. This is why I'm telling you this. Alzheimer plaques and tangles are the chaotic wreckage left behind. Oxidative stress is the IED that went off and disrupted everything and destroyed the system. Look at the lungs, right? The front line directly exposed to 21% oxygen and environmental pollutants 24/7 365. How many breaths do you take a minute? It's usually about 17. The epithelial lining fluid is saturated surfactant, right, is saturated with glutathione as a firstline defense. In asthma, COPD critically low. 2013 Cochran review found that glutathione improved lung function by restoring this critical barrier. without it. Just so you know, 17 breaths a minute, every single one of them is an insult. How how important is this? You guys look at the kidneys, man. These things. Yeah, you got two, but you still don't want to get rid of any of them. These are filtration factories that are packed full of mitochondria, allowing them to high metabolic rate equals high oxidative stress. Glutathione protects those very delicate, very fragile nephrons. Renal failure and glutathione depletion are inseparable companions. You can't have one without the other ever. So listen, remember what I always talk about the unfortunate unholy trinity of disease and one solution. I'll help you. This is yet another example where I am ripe again and stop thinking it's me being e egotistical. I have the receipts to back it up. It's the knowledge and the understanding and the capacity of biochemistry and physiology to go this is exactly what's going on. And yet you know what? Somebody better put me on a stage and give me a Nobel Prize. I'm not kidding. And I told you I'll give that million bucks to somebody. But you guys, just because I want people to remember this frustrates me a lot because above all do no harm is a phrase that most people take very lightly. They are above all do no harm until somebody hurts my little feelings with their hurty words and then they go I'm going to get you back and they'll spend their whole life. That's like literally getting bit by a snake, never ever addressing the poison in your system and then running after the snake trying to figure out and ask him and find out why the snake bit you in the first place and dying doesn't even make any sense to me. Every single chronic disease, every single one, you guys, manifests through these three final common pathways. Glutathione is the master that addresses all three. It's the magic key that starts this entire [\h__\h] process. And I don't know how else to put it. Inflammation, right? Systemic inflammation failure one. Inflammation is oxidative stress. Cytoines. Which ones? Let's have a real pop quiz. TNF alpha. How about IL6? Yep. How about IL1 beta? that one too. They directly stimulate ROS, reactive oxygen species production. You know what glutathione does? Quenches a whole freaking thing. But it's smarter because it also inhibits the NFCappa B pathway, the inflammatory pathway, which is the master switch for inflammation, which is what I talked about yesterday with TB-500. Excuse me. It doesn't just mop up the mess. It goes to the valve, turns off the fire hose. 2011 paper in Cell Cycle detailed the entire mechanism showing that's exactly what it does. Huh. Don't don't trust me. Look at the research. I could quote this all day, baby. insulin resistance, oxidative stress damages insulin receptor substrate proteins, the IRS proteins. I know you guys are I almost didn't want to say it cuz you like what IRS the signal doesn't get through. That's the problem. So glucose piles up in the blood. 2009 the study in diabetes showed that elevating glutathione levels improves insulin sensitivity in vivo by protecting these signaling pathways. That's like using contact cleaner on corroded circuit board. It's like polishing the the terminals on a battery so you get a better connection. Your car starts. Problem wasn't the battery. Problem was the connection. That's what this does. Glutathione connection restored. Does that make sense? Mitochondrial dysfunction. This is the ATP shortage. This is the big one. Sick mitochondria hemorrhage electrons. They just leak them like crazy. They produce less ATP. They generate far more ROS's. The exhaust is just reactive oxygen species non-stop. Glutathione is essential for maintaining the integrity of the mitochondrial membrane and the entire DNA structure. 2018 mitochondri called glutathione the cornerstone of mitochondrial antioxidant defense. You can't have cellular energy without cellular cleanliness. Period. I need some more coffee. 34 minutes in. Here's the issue. I look at people taking it. I get a lot of people asking me questions. What What kind do I take? Where do I get it? The supplement industry. Please hear me before you guys get mad. And if you guys are the people that sell these supple supplements, ball up your fist, punch yourself in the face, and then go back into the world and realize that you were lying to people for profit. The supplement industry is a monument to your gullibility. You buy oral glutathione. It's a scam. Here's the brutal biochemical truth to that that your naturopath or your osteopath or your insta guru or your bro science or your PhD is not going to tell you. Your digestive tract is lined with enzymes called gl called gamma glutamill transeptideases. Their job is to break down peptides. The moment that you swallowed that glutathione, it's over. It hits your gut and these enzymes just dismember it into its three useless amino acid parts. 2015 study European Journal of Drug Metabolism and Phicinetics proved it showed negligible bioavailability less than 3% of oral GSH. You are paying for expensive raw materials which again if you remember how this works it is a key. It has to fit the lock once it gets through. If the key is just a bunch of brass shavings, you're just throwing dust at a lock. Imagine I just come up to the lock at your house and I'm throwing metal dust at it going, "Why is the key not working?" That's essentially what's going on. And people argue non-stop because they just want to sell their crap. How about you just stop selling crap? I'll tell you right now, Elite Biogenics, I sell zero crap from my labs or my company. I don't I care because I know I if I wouldn't trust it with my wife or my kids, I sure as hell am giving it to anybody out there. Here, let me give you some solutions that actually work that you don't even involve. They don't even involve a peptide or you like think I'm shilling that all the time. I said this before. Nic acetylcysteine. By the way, remember I told you they tried to ban it? Weird. They tried to ban it during COVID, huh? Because it was solving problems. Just the this thing that I apparently am not allowed to say. Right. Right here. I don't know why I just keep this thing in here. They think I'd market for these guys. I have no stock in this company. It's rugby. I just happens to sit here. I just keep forgetting to bring in the house. NEC. It's a stable bioavailable precursor to cyine. Cyine is the rate liimmiting bottleneck. It works. It works. It really works. 2000 study in European respiratory journal proved its efficacy famously in COPD. It showed a radical improvement to the tune of 83%. Subcutaneous glutathione the only one gold standard passes digestion 100% bioavailability bioavailability 2014 study in medical gas research on subq administration showed radical dramatic elevation in serum levels. It's not alternative medicine. This is just an efficient delivery system. I don't know why people get mad. There's really no reason you get mad because your pills don't work. How about you just stop selling junk that doesn't work? Listen, how about this? I'll show you some a really cool stack that works very well to help this entire system and keep your mitochondria online and keep your glutathione at the top of the food chain. Right? So glutathione isn't this lone wolf. It's the quarterback for the most elite biochemical football team on the planet. It's remember the more cutting edge things get the more they work synergistically with a bunch of other compounds. It's like systems level warfare on your system that you constantly have to be engaging in for the gorillas that keep coming in and attacking you out in the world. Whether it's our disgusting American diet, the Western diet, or Western medicine, which is killing more people than guns do, it's the number one cause of death is medical doctors. Look it up. Number one, it beats out heart disease. If you want to look at like the things being sprayed in our skies or in our water or plants we're eating or the fact that people are like they're trying to put vaccines in freaking lettuce. Come on, man. Just let us eat. Not that hard. BBC 157. Add it to this by far. This and this is for your kangaroo. Of course, this isn't just for healing tendons. Really, it's real magic. In 2015, they showed it. Journal of applied physiology, a potent upregulator of the NRF2 pathway. NRF, just so you know what it is. NRF2 is the master genetic switch for your entire antioxidant response, the whole thing, including glutathione synthesis. BPC57 doesn't bring soldiers. It brings the the entire army barracks and recruits new troops the whole way. It's like a force multiplier. Of course, this stuff needs to be part of this. And people go, I don't know. I thought it was just for healing injuries. So much more. KPB, another triple amino, incredible affinity for melanocorton receptors. Its job 2018 frontiers and immunology is to suppress inflammation at the source. And it works better than anything I've ever seen in my life, by the way. It's a suppressor. Reduces the demand signal. Watch. Reduces the demand signal for glutathione. Here's why, though. So your reserves aren't wasted on trivial inflammatory skirmishes. It can actually be deployed for critical missions like mitochondrial defense, things that would help. 31. Ah, yeah, you guys thought I was going to say M C, but this is where it gets really beautiful. This is one of the times where SS31 is where you want to go right out of the gate. Condria have this unique phosphoipid layer in their inner membrane called cardipin. It's essential for this is why I'm telling you about this, right? If you understand how glutathione works, it's essential for the etc the electron transport chain. So when it gets oxidized by reactive oxygen species, the whole system shunts, leaks electrons, becomes a pro-inflammatory [\h__\h] storm. SS31 proven 2016 study in JACC basic to translational science. It's a targeted peptide that binds to and stabilizes cardiolipin. It's armor plating for your little power plants. Stops the leak at the source. If you understood what I talked about when I was going over cancer and SS31, you guys should keep this stuff in your house. Now watch for your kangaroo. Layer this with a metabolic wrecking ball like reatride, GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon triple agonist that oh man, it brutally optimizes metabolism. You're not treating disease. You're conducting this multiffront. It's war. You're securing the energy supply SS31. You're suppressing the enemy attacks, KPV, and you're expanding your army. What did I say? Does that BPC-157 glutathione and changing the entire terrain of the body reatride? You put this all together and you radically change your physiology. Look at for cognitive decline. This is the endgame for Alzheimer's by the way and dementia. You're attacking the pathophysiology from every conceivable possible angle. This is not speculation. It's the inevitable future of medical care. But they're not trying to do it. You need to be you need to be the ones who enforce it. You need to be the ones that go out and say, "No, I refuse to manage decline. I need to be healthy. I need to be stronger." Take all your pills and lotions and potions and things you want to give me that are going to make me worse. And go f yourself. You can pound sand. You guys need to do this. I can't do this by myself. You guys need to go out and do this and say, "Listen, this is where I am. I want my health. I want to be a juggernaut when I'm 100 years old." Listen. So, here's your diagnosis. You're not a victim of your genes. You're a victim of your own damn biochemistry. And that is that's pretty fantastic news because biochem chemistry can be manipulated. It's not a supplement. It's a very powerful weapon. That's how you have to look at this. Right? So if you understand how this all works, right? So let me give you some more things. I said an acetylcysteine, right? Let me drop a few more things in here because I think you need some more because you guys, what else can I take besides this? Selenium. I had mentioned this before. I think I just want to touch on these before I bounce out of here because I know I'm 43 minutes in. This is longer than I thought. But selenium, it's not a it's not a direct boost, but remember what I said, it's an essential co-actor. Selenium is a crucial component of the enzyme glutathione peroxidase, right? Which I told you, which is responsible for glutathione's primary antioxidant activity. But without adequate selenium, your glutathione is like a it's like this Glock right here without any bullets. Well, I'm going to throw it. I'm not John Wick. Ensures that this critical enzyme actually functions at peak capacity because a deficiency directly cripples the entire glutathione defense system. You have to think, remember chess, right? play the game a little deeper. Alphalapoic acid, ALA, ALA operate, this is another one you want to take. It operates as this powerful recycler. It it can regenerate other antioxidants including C, vitamin C, vitamin E. But most importantly, it regenerates oxidized glutathione. Remember what I said? It goes back and forth back to its active reduced form, GSH. Actually, it actually aids in synthesizing new glutathione as well. I'll tell you this dual action role precursor and regenerator that's some support that you want your system. I think if you look at your system and you think you're resilient, you're functional, you're operating the way you're supposed to be. Ask yourself if you can do the things that you look at other people with admiration physically what they can do. And if the answer is no or you'd struggle, then the problem is you've been accepting a lesser version of yourself physiologically. Like you are a lot of times personally and systematically and relentlessly depleting your own glutathione and most people don't even know it. Listen, the health is not complex. It's not. It's ruthless simplicity. It's protecting and augmenting this one system that I've been talking about. Stop looking for hacks. You guys look for fundamentals. And I think that's the issue with this thing right here. This I'm holding up my cell phone if you're listening to this on Spotify is you're you're looking for hacks and fancy things that some weird guru is giving you, but just fundamentals, baby. Fun. Support your glutathione with clean protein, real minerals. Use smart precursors like NAC. Use glutathione subq only. Manage your stress like your life faking depends on it, by the way, because it does. And reduce your toxic load. This isn't wellness. This is genuine warfare in your system. It's a very silent biochemical war against the oxidative stress that is rusting you from the inside out. Glutathione, like I said, it's not a supplement, you guys. It is a weapon that you need to have in your arsenal, and you should be arming the hell out of yourself. Anyway, I hope you guys got something out of this. I gotta go.