Hey, smashers. It's an awesome day. Guess what? Wednesday. Hey, you got to check this out before I go any further. You know, we got like stars in this place. That's how cool this is. Right there. That's Kyle Z. Dude won a palooa first place. I told him he'd do it. He knew he'd do it. And that that's that's Travis Newman. That guy sir the sole. I mean just a badass dude. And over there well that's Kathy. She's just a badass. So we got all kinds of cool stuff going on here. Seriously, if you guys don't follow those two dudes though, listen. Uh Kyle Zay is probably one of the most badass athletes and one of the coolest dudes you'll ever meet. So uh give him a follow. He's he's a good guy and he knows his stuff and he posts some really sick workouts. Check out some of the water palooa stuff he did. annihilated some of those workouts. Um, you guys asked me about wrist pain. Somebody called it uh bulletproof wrists. Hey, I'm not going to take that name. That's not me. That's those guys over at Active Life RX. They know their stuff. Sean and uh and Jeremy, those guys are legit. So, they have a cool program for it. Um, but what I'm going to do is I'm going to talk about stabilizing the wrist, fixing the the uh the wrist problems, and uh and something that you guys probably didn't think of that a lot of wrist mechanics come from how the shoulder moves. So remember, if the wrist is, this is a horsepower transfer joint. So you're going to grab the bar, you're going to do everything you do that the arm does based on how the mechanics of the hand and the wrist do. So we want to make sure the hand and the wrist are super super strong, super stable, and and work the way they're supposed to. There's two rows of of four bones in here, eight little bones that allow you to do something called circumduct with the uh the wrist. We want to make sure the grip strength is super strong, that the wrist is really stable, that we don't have any carpal tunnel. So, I'm g show you to clear that out. And we're gonna we're going to look at how um with the wrist mechanics, if you have good good uh flexion and extension, right? The shoulder won't get uh won't start dumping slack in, but if your wrist moves like a piece of rebar, your body's going to wind up dumping that shoulder forward to accommodate for a bad wrist position. So, if you're in an overhead position and you're in like like you're you're in your snatch position, right, and you have the bar, what's going to happen is if your wrist has bad mechanics, you're going to roll forward in an effort to recover some of that that that rigid position to recover some of that slack you need to get into the position. Same thing with doing uh muscle-ups, ring dips, even dips on a matador. It doesn't matter. Wrist mechanics are super critical. So, check this out. This is super super legit. I'm going to show you something that probably most people don't show you. They don't even go over. And it's this easy. You're going to do something called adduction and adduction of the fingers, right? So, it's not rubbing your eye like I just did. But there's muscles in your hand called the palmer and the dorsal interosi. The the palmer interosi adduct and the dorsal abduct. So, remember ab add adduction abduction. We're going to add to the body, take away from the body, right? So, super easy. What you're going to do is you're take your hand. You're going to do this for 30 seconds. This is so easy. God, it's like I'm posting this and I'm like, this is so easy. You guys are going to sit at your desk and do this. Look like you're karate chopping the desk. So, all you're going to do is you're going to flare and close. Flare and close. And you can see this trailing pinky comes in real slow. That means this is a little weaker, right? That means the uh the palmer interosi on this side is a little weaker. So, if we switch sides, it's probably a little faster there. Still a little weak. You can see that, right? So, that tells me I need to do this more often. So, all you're going to do is take the hand. Super easy. 30 seconds. Open. Close. Open. Close. Now, what you're not doing is watch my hand. You're not doing this. This is what I'm going to see a lot of people sending me videos of. Is this what you're supposed to do? No. Keep the hands super super rigid. Like you're just going to karate chop the air. So, open, close, open, close. 30 seconds, not 2 minutes. If you make it for 2 minutes, that's pretty badass. That's number one. Number two is we're going to clear out those eight little bones in the wrist by recovering that extension of the wrist. So, you're going to take a band. Yeah, this is a heavy band. You're going to That sounds funny. Sounds like I'm talking about rock and roll. So, you're going to bring this all the way over here. It's like Quiet Riot, Skid Row, Metallica, whatever you want to call it. I'm old. It's stuff I know. You're going to load up the band. Normally, I would voodoo this up, but you don't need to. It's not that critical. The band is going to distract the bones, kind of pull them into place the way they're supposed to. They fit together like a puzzle. You're going to clamp down on the wrist, and then you're just going to pull it all the way over. Normally, I would really scour around. I'm just going to find a hot spot where that wrist really kind of feels like like right there. It's a little grizzly, a little tight. I'm going to clamp the hand down and then I'm just going to force it past that range of motion a little bit and just hang out while the heel of the hand stays there. So, I'm just finding spots and when I find a hot spot, I just camp out. How long? Yeah, 2 minutes. You know it. That's number two. Number three, you're going to grab a sprinkler box. You don't need a sprinkler box for this one. You can use whatever you want. But you're going to take a peanut. This is a peanut. We just want to peel away some of the the flexors and the extensors. So, you're just going to lay on this hand. Yeah. I'm going to move the camera again. This is for Jessica Fitz Gibbons because she always tells me I move the camera. So, that's for you, Jess. Good. That's another cool friend of mine, by the way, Jack. Jessica, she's pretty badass athlete to say the least. Hockey player, fighter, CrossFit games athlete, all kinds of cool stuff. So, you're going to trap the the blade of the forearm in here, right? So, we have the radius and the ulna. So, we're going to trap the allna in there, and we're just going to seessaw back and forth. All the way down, grinding all the way down to the wrist. And you're just going to take it, peel away all that tissue. That's number three. There's two more. I know there's a lot of stuff. This one's kind of cool and it's probably missed by a lot of people, but this works on wrist stability and strength of the wrist. You're going to take a kettle bell. You're going to rest it front rack like this. You're going to bring it up on the shoulder and you're just going to hold it like that. So, I'm going to get into a better position so you can see exactly what the hell I'm doing. So, we'll do it standing. See if we can bust this out without dropping the camera. So, all you're going to do is you're going to bring this up front and you're going to hold it. So, now I'm rigid here. This kettle bell is here and I'm hanging out. So, I'm totally parallel to the floor. How long do we hang out? Yeah, 2 minutes. This one's going to get ugly. You're going to want to dump forward. You're going to feel the shoulder and the wrist. That's what number four number or five. Last one's the funky one. You can call it that if you want. And we're going to take, you can see I got a ball. I got a band. It's like a mobility party. You're going to grab the band. Load up the wrist. And all that has to happen is you can see I'm going to open up the shoulders. So, I'm going to wind this up into external rotation. And I'm just going to let the band. You can see it's pulling open the shoulder. And I'm going to do this one at a time. How long do we chill? Yeah. Chill for how long? Two. You know the routine. When you're done, roll out of this and call it a day. That's it. That's wrist maintenance. Bet you didn't think that shoulder was going to get involved. Hey, I'm Trev. Smash works. Another awesome day. I'll check you guys out tomorrow.