What's up, smashers? It's an awesome day. Guess what? I got about like 9 minutes to shoot a video. So, I figured I would just blow in here like uh super turbo lightning if that's a thing. And if it's not a thing, hashtag itinvented. I just talked to Kyle about the difference between hashtags and ats. learned a whole bunch. He's a lot smarter than I am with this whole Instagram social media thing. I got uh just so you know, listen, that right there is fire medic Brian. He's a badass. A bonafide badass. I'm just going to say that right now. And he's doing homework. Yes, that is a dog in the background, by the way. That would be Kyle's dog. He's doing the figure four banded, which I don't know, some bald guy with a scruffy face kind of put together. You might know him. Looks a lot like me. So, anyway, uh we're going to be talking about hip mobility, getting into the bottom of a squat, and how about this? saving your low back. You want to have an awesome low back, a low back that lasts you, oh, I don't know, 90, 100 years, fix your hips. It's just that easy. Fix your hips. So, I literally walked in here and just started grabbing pieces of equipment. So, I I have a J hook in my hand, which is my uh makeshift camera stand. So, we'll see if we can pull this off without having a dog knock my shizz over. That noise you hear, by the way, is a fan the size of a windmill. It's like right there. See if I can pull this off. You guys are used to my videos. Looks like I have Parkinson's disease. Everything's all shaky. Good. All right. So, we're going to go like that. Look at that. CrossFit hands and it's 3D. Okay. All right. So, we're going to open up the hips. You want to be able to sink into that bottom of a squat. The problem is most people are missing internal rotation, external rotation, and the ability to allow the torso to sink down below the knees while keeping their feet flat on the floor. So, what I mean is you should be able to get your feet nice. Now, I'm jacked up my hips, so this is awful for me, but you should be able to get into the bottom of a squat and have those knees up by your ears and not have a problem. Now, if you can't do that and you end up coming up on your toes, it's cuz your body's looking for a place to feed slack in to the system. So, I'm going to show you how to open up those hips, sink down to the back of that squat. This one's abysmal, but it's super effective. So, you're going to take a heavy band. Now, when you're doing this, I want you to make sure the feet are turned out. So, let me move the camera a little bit. But, this is a pretty banging mobility. It's pretty legit. It's one of those ungodly ones that you kind of don't want to do. You're going to climb into a bend and I want you to load it up with, I don't know, 8 900 lb of foot-lbs of torque. So, you're going to turn your feet out like this, okay? And the dog's going to get out of the way. Shove the animal out of the way. And if you look, the band is distracting me. I'm going to get as wide as I can with my feet. So, that's all I got. You're going to flatten out your spine and then you're just going to let it drag you back and you're going to hang out like this for how long? 2 minutes. And this right now, I'm telling you, is giving me the sweats. It sucks that bad. When you come out of this, push forward and then come out. Make sure those feet are turned out. So, it's like a a frog stretch, right? Straddle stretch, whatever you want to call it. I don't know the names. I'm not a yoga guy. I never claimed to be, but I do know that this stuff works. That's number one. Number two is super easy. You're going to go against Reggie. So, the hamstrings, what happens is, and the reason I'm bringing this one up, the hamstrings get really short and tight, and they drag the pelvis into what's called a posterior tilt. Well, the problem is when you drop into a squat, it gives you a butt wing, but it gives it super early. So, you wind up tucking the pelvis, shearing up that lumbar spine, blowing out your low back, all because your hips aren't working the way they're supposed to. Then the ball that uh the the head of the femur sitting in that acetabulum winds up, excuse me, winds up riding up on the front of the joint, grinding that labum into baby powder. So, you don't want to do that. So, you're going to find this this easiest way to stretch the hamstrings without getting all fancy and funky. And if you do this in a doorway in a restaurant, they're probably going to look at you a little funny. But if you do, send me the picture cuz I think that's funny as hell. So, you're going to get beside the rig. All you're going to do, this is my nice Mark of the Bad Butcher right here. This is from doing some gnarly funky deadlifts. So, you're going to straighten out this leg. I don't want it bent. Start with it bent just so you kind of get comfortable. This is locked against the rib. All I'm going to do is take this leg, straighten it out. You should be able to hang out here without any problem. If this is a problem, your hamstrings are already preloaded. They're jacking up your hip mechanics. So, you're going to hang out like this for how long? 2 minutes. Both legs straight. That's number two. Number three. So, you got the rectus forous runs off the AIS. It crosses the knee, crosses the hip, and attaches on that tibial tuberosity. Then you got the iliacis in here and the soaz in here. We've talked about this a ton of times. Super important because to unload those, remember the uh the soaz does a little bit of internal rotation. So if it's super short and tight, it's torquing those femurss inward. It's causing your knees to collapse, giving you a vgus knee, nvicular fault, all kinds of really bad stuff, super bad mechanics. Next thing you know, you're 45 and your knees and your low back are shot. Your hips are all ground out into nothing. So unload the hips. about the low back. That's why you don't see a lot of low back decay in third world country. Doubt me, Google it. Siri, don't ask Siri. I'm going to take that out. Siri got me lost. Siri's a liar. So, let me move the camera because you're going to see the ultimate ineffective stretches. I don't know what I got on the bottom. Oh, that's the green of the box. I was looking at that trying to figure out what the hell it was. Let's take this Bump it up just a little bit. Super important, super overlooked, super underutilized. Overexploit this stretch. These three, if you do these three, just telling you right now, unloading that rectus forest, peeling away the iliacis, the soaz, you'll probably virtually eliminate a lot of your low back issues and take any decay that you're about to have and slam dance it into the next zip code. So, you're just going to take this, find a super funky position, take your knee fully bent as per k take the shin as perpendicular to the floor as possible. Take the foot, tuck it off to one side so you can bring yourself all the way back. Then just hang out here. What I don't want to see is this. This is not a good couch stretch. So, when people go, "Look at how much mobility I have." Yeah, I got spies everywhere. He knows it. Trust me. I'll I'll know. I'm watching. Bob's watching. So, you're going to take your glutes, your butt, squeeze your butt as hard as you can, suck your belly button into your spine, and then just hang out here for how long? Two. That's it, baby. That's how you unload the hips. That's how you get rid of low back issues. Heck, that's how you get rid of low back pain. Clear this stuff all out. You'll unload all that shear on that lumbar spine. You'll get rid of that hyperextension, that hyperordic curve, so you don't walk around looking like Beyonce. And that's it. Low back, hip. Awesome days. It's all wrapped up into one. TGIm, right? Hey, I'm Tread Smashworks.