That's wild. So again, Sunday, I always do a webinar on Sundays. A lot of fun. I I like them and I get to meet a whole bunch of new people, help as many people as I can, and if people want to join my mastermind, they join my mastermind, my mentorship. And if not, I hope they leave with something in their pocket that helps them. But I I started thinking about some of the questions that I get even even on social media. One of the questions I get most often is the lack of trust in they're all based on the lack of trust in the medical model and rightfully so. If you look at the way the the world is set up, especially in North America, the medical system and this is coming from a guy that's a doctor and and it's you have to you have to look at the medical world and understand that it is it is subscriptionbased and people get really mad and they start defending it, but it's not wrong. The question you should ask is would you rather be healthy or sick? Would it's the same thing. Would you rather be rich or poor? Would you rather be strong or weak? Would you rather have a great marriage or a crappy marriage? They're always the same. We have to start with the ugly truth that nobody really wants to say out loud. And that is that the medical sub the medical system, it doesn't care if you get better. It doesn't. It cares if you keep paying. Like for example, if you look at my cure program, it's 100 days. It's $100,000. You walk in with whatever problem you have. I don't care what it is. whatever health problem, including everything else, psychological, physical, it doesn't matter what it is. And when you come out the other side, it's gone. You don't have to keep paying me. You don't have to have some subscription model. You don't have to keep taking monthly things. That's not how it works because otherwise I didn't do my job. And before somebody says, "What about type 2 diabetes? They're going to be on insulin forever." No, they're not. Type 2 diabetes is self-created 100% of the time. I could do this with so many diseases. And like metabolic dysfunction is the and I'll get into it in this is the basis of almost every disease that a human being has. The medical world doesn't want you to know that. That's coming from somebody who is in the medical world. Me. I'm the doctor. So I actually know what I'm talking about, but I come out here because I actually give a crap. And and the model cares that you keep paying. And that's not a conspiracy. I I'm just tired of another tinfoil hat conspiracy. Do you like paying every month for healthcare? Do you like paying every month for insurance that you never use? Do you like paying for pills that you wish you didn't have to take that are managing a prop? No, you don't. You don't. You want to have a better life. And most of you guys are going, "Yeah, but there's they're so good at what they do." No, they don't. It's a guy with a white coat, white coat, and a god complex that's sitting here telling you that what you have is a chemical problem. It's not. For the most part, it's not. I'm not saying emergency care. Emergency care saved my life. But healthcare, I've yet to meet a doctor other than myself and a handful of people less than I can count on one hand that are actually actually interested in your health. I come out here and I give you all this stuff for free. You decide whether or not you want to give me money. I don't sit there and say, "I'll give you the answer if you give me money. If you want to be my my client or my patient, absolutely, you're going to pay me." I I mean, I had one dude literally followed me around on Instagram, kept asking me, "I need your help. I'll gladly pay you." And then I told him, "Here, here's how much it's going to cost." And then he ghosts. Well, don't everybody wants to help until the bill comes. So there I am very transparent. My cure pro my cure program has two options. 100 days 100,000 25 days 25,000. That's it. I take care of everything that needs to be taken care of. You're not going to get handheld, not all kinds of coaching calls. It's not a coaching program. This is a how to fix your health and here are the solutions and this is exactly what you do. When you come out of the other side, you don't need me anymore. That means I did my job, which is the whole point. I want you to have a better life. And people that have problems, health problems that they've been told are going to be forever or that are unccurable, call me. Call me. The worst thing I can do is say I can't help you. What's the best thing? That a 100 days later you don't have any problems that they told you were going to have to live with for the rest of your damn life? Are you kidding me? Not if I can help it. So, the medical world cares that they keep you paying. I'll probably get in all kinds of trouble for saying this. I don't care. My job is to make sure you're healthy. So when people get mad and go, "Listen to this guy. This guy actually cares. I'm not pitching anything. Call me. Don't call me. Be sick. Keep paying your insurance premiums. That that's up to you." Or you call me and go, "This guy, I am a walking example of what happens if you listen to me." So you choose. Remember 4 years ago, I had a lung pulled out and a tumor and I was in a wheelchair at 150 just over 150 lbs with an oxygen machine keeping me alive. Here I am now four years later almost to the day actually four years later healthy, athletic, strong, incredible marriage to the same woman for over two decades. Build not one, not two, multiple companies and helping as many people as possible coming out here and giving you guys the answers. I don't know how to build a business. I'll show you cuz I've done it. Four years ago, I had nothing. I mean, I was broke broke, lost a house, got conned out of a well over a million dollars by some dude that trashed the house that like I built that for my wife, bled through our savings to keep my family alive, and we had to struggle through all kinds of stuff to get to where we are. But when I say I know what I'm talking about, this isn't a rags to rich's story. This is AI want everybody to win story. And I think the issue becomes the cynicism and the skepticism by most people because they've been burned by some instab or some guru that says they're going to make you a ton of money. you join my mentorship to make a bunch of money, I'll get you to a million dollars a year if you listen to what I tell you to do. Just most people won't. It's the same people that go, I'd like to lose 40 pounds. And a year later, they still haven't lost the 40 lbs. It's not the program for the most part. It's because you're not doing what's required. And the issue becomes most people blame the program, the trainer, the person, the doctor, the CEO, the boss instead of who they see in the mirror. And that's the world right now. And so until you're willing to change your opinion and your perspective, you're going to keep looking for the next thing that's going to do the work for you, which includes your health. I know people, they will get a hysterctomy because they can't be bothered to take the time to fix their health, thinking that the hysterctomy is going to solve their pmenopause or their menopause symptoms by removing the tissue that produces the hormones. Make it make sense. I'll just get a hysterctomy. It's easier. I've heard at least a dozen women say that to me. That's insane. That's like saying, "My foot hurts and it's just easier. Just cut it off." But you're sold a bill of goods that says it's easier. I'll just get on the patch afterwards. What are you out of your mind? If you can fix the machine, that's You know, you're designed to never get sick, right? You're taught that you're supposed to get sick. You're designed to never get sick. You're designed to never get sick, never have any real health problems because your immune system has every antibbody ever to every antigen you can ever be exposed to. The only way that it affects you is if your immune system is weak. You have metabolic dysfunction and chronic inflammation. And those result usually in a catastrophic result in your health, sometimes death. Medical world cares that you keep paying. And I am part of that medical world. So understand when I say this, it's because part of me is embarrassed at being part of that world. I just don't do that anymore. I'm going to fix your problem. So that's why I said that's what the cure program is. And people go, "What if other people need help? I give you stuff out here for free every day." What if somebody can't afford the 25,000 or the 100,000? Then I'm not for you. And that's okay, too. If someone wants to work with me and they need to be my client, there's there's your entry point. You want to join my mentorship, there's another entry point. But those are up to you. I don't need to prove my worth anymore because I show up every day and I show you my worth cuz I give you the answers to help you. I want you to win. You have to decide what you want to do with it. It's not, like I said, it's not some conspiracy tinfoil hat stuff about how they want you to keep paying. That is literally how the business model works. You're not a patient. You are a consumer on auto renew. They don't want you dead. Dead people don't make payments and they definitely don't want you healthy because healthy people stop paying. They want you stuck right in the middle, just sick enough to need them and just functional enough to keep working and paying the premiums. That is not health care. That is chronic illness management with a loyalty program. And the sad part is they've convinced most of you guys that this is normal. Step back for a second and look at your life and go, "Hey, wait a minute. What is really going on with my health and what am I paying for?" Just start there. Because the subscription model of sickness is not helping you be healthy. It's not fixing your problem. Walk into any doctor's office and it's the same ritual every time. Step one, describe your symptoms. Step two, blood work scans and maybe some questionnaire. Step three, here are all your prescriptions. You think you got a solution? What you got was an enrollment. Drugs are jackhammers. They force your body to do things that they're not that that they aren't designed to do. Like type 2 diabetes. You don't have a metformin problem. You don't have a humalogue pump problem. You don't have an insulin problem. You have an insulin sensitivity issue. Same with PCOS. That is an insulin sensitivity issue. It is not polycystic ovarian syndrome. It is a insulin sensitivity. That is the fire that needs to be put out. But when's the last time you heard that? You didn't. You have been onboarded into the medical Netflix model. It's this monthly recurring revenue revenue stream designed as to or disguised as care. Listen, I went into a doctor's office one time. They told me I had high blood pressure. First of all, are you high? And second of all, you know what they told me? Stop eating so much salt. Are you freaking nuts? Most people don't eat enough salt. You guys need to listen to Stan Efing. He talks all about that stuff. That guy, he's not That guy's smart. He explains all about how we're undereating salt. I could go into it, but that's another podcast. But he's right. He's right. Salt the [\h__\h] out of your food. Having too much salt doesn't give you hypertension. What nonsense is that? Like if people understood like take time to understand your own physiology and you'll be blown away at how many lies you expose about what people are telling you to take. Never mind the supplement interest or even the peptide, the sarm, the serum, the secretog industry. All of that. It's just as bad. And I own a company that deals with those things. Except I make damn sure and if before somebody goes, "Oh, what makes yours different?" Because I'm your doctor every time because if a product or something, a service or a secret or anything like that isn't going to help you, I'm not going to let you get it cuz I won't keep it. I had somebody go, "Tell me how you don't stock nasal I forget what it was. BPC57, I think, and don't quote me on that." He goes, "Clearly tell me you don't, you know, clearly you don't stock nasal spray BPC-157." And I think that's what it was. And I said, "You're right." cuz he goes, "I've used nasal. It works." No, it doesn't. It's not possible. And I've explained the physiology so many times. I could do it backwards in my head. So many I I could probably have like everybody that's heard me talk about it. You guys could go forwards and backwards on it because it just doesn't work. It's not possible. Physiology is on my side. So unless somebody has different physiology than everybody else that's been designed by God, you got nothing. That's like saying gravity doesn't work for you, but it works for everybody else. Not optional. Just so we're clear. But he went, "Tell me you don't carry nasal without telling me you don't carry nasal spray." And I'm like, "I don't carry it because it doesn't work." And I don't carry crap that doesn't work. Selling it and actually knowing that it works are two totally different things. I will only do the second one. It's going to work in anything I do. Even my mentorship, I don't have I don't accept everybody because I care. And I know that's foreign to so many people because people just want to go I just want all the money. I make a lot of money because I help a lot of people, not because I onboard everybody. And it goes back to sell me this pen. First question, do you need a freaking pen? If the answer is no, I'm not selling you the pen. I don't sell things to people that they don't need. I'm not a doctor to people that don't need a doctor. It's it's that simple. So, when I say you've been onboarded to the medical Netflix model, it is. And it is disguised as care. Except instead of binge watching seasons of Game of Thrones or whatever, you're binge watching refills or you're binge swallowing, binge injecting or whatever it is. So, instead of I don't know what it is, 15 bucks a month, you're on three, four, $500 worth of meds and tests, follow-up appointments, you guys have been conditioned to think that you need all kinds of labs, all kinds of genetic testing, and all kinds of follow-up appointments. How does that make sense? It doesn't. The genius and the evil is that it never ends. Solve a problem once, and you get paid once. Manage a problem forever, and you get paid forever. We call it a treatment plan. They call it customer retention. And it's normalized. Maybe you guys will hear this and get all pissed off and go, "Well, listen to this guy." Maybe you guys will hear it and you'll open up your freaking eyes. Like your uncle's on blood pressure meds, your aunt's on cholesterol meds, your neighbor's on anti-depressants. So when your doctor says, "Well, at your age, it's time we started you on something," you think, "Well, yeah, I guess this is just how it works." No, that's not how it works. That's how it pays. Here's where the scam gets just honestly really gross, man. Most of what we call disease is not random. It is the predictable breakdown of systems that you can measure and you can fix and you ultimately can reverse. I mean just look at physiology. Just talk about physiology for a second. Not Instagram, InstaGuru, Tik Tok knowledge, wellness. I'm talking actual biology. Actual like look at meta. What did I say? I talked about metabolic dysfunction. It's the the precursor to just about every every problem on the planet. It is not some screwed up Gary Brea genetic testing problem. That guy is so full of crap. What's weird is I've said go live with me and I've still never seen the challenge because I'll set your skull on fire if you're if you're Gary. I don't deal with people that lie to patients. Say take this stuff. It's going to magically cure your problem. Here's my my secret vest and my magic sprinkle powder and my cold plunge that I magically have stock in. I care if people are healthy. The byproduct is it's Zig Ziggler. You can have anything in life you want provided you help enough other people get what they want. I won't sell you something you don't need. You shouldn't buy something you don't need either. Like your metabolism is not just calories in, calories out. It's this, oh, it just you can tell it drives me crazy. Metabolic dysfunction really bugs me cuz it's preventable. Your your metabolism is this finely tuned hormonal orchestra. Grein, leptin, insulin, cortisol, thyroid hormones, all of this. There's so much going on. All of this conducting this symphony of storage and repair and energy use and procurement, all of this. And and when you become, look at insulin resistance, right? When you become insulin resistant, for example, that symphony turns into a middle school band recital that nobody has ever touched an instrument before. It's chaotic and loud and it's incredibly embarrassing and all the parents are like, "Oh, look at little Tommy. He's so good even though he sucks." Because your body stores more fat, especially visceral fat, which is the toxic kind that wraps around your organs and causes you to die. Your cells stop taking up glucose efficiently, so blood sugar skyrockets. High insulin suppresses fat burning, just so you know. Not only that, it increases inflammatory response and it disregulates all your sex hormones. And I saw some dude today where I'm like, I don't care. PhD, you could take that and shove it up your ass. Tzepide is not what everybody should be on. Not even close. It doesn't even cross the bloodb brain barrier. Never mind all this. It doesn't repair hippocample function. It doesn't address insulin sensitivity whatsoever. It doesn't manage leptin or dopamine. Like, I could go on and on. And yet people, this guy went, you should be on Tzepite. I don't want to say his name. Pissed me off though when I saw it. Even my wife went who is this idiot followers? Oh yeah, Tzepide. Are you kidding me? If you had to be on one read a true tide, not Tzepide. They're not even in the same league. The reason he said Tzepide, I will tell you right now because it is approved by a three-letter agency and somewhere in that entire conversation, he is protecting his own tiny little ball sack. That's the Yes, I'm a doctor. I'm just rude and in your face because I'm going to tell you the truth. It bugs me when I see people that have any notoriety abuse it to take advantage of somebody by saying something like that. Tride tide. Dude, one of you guys need to send him this clip and go ahead. Go toeto- toe with me anytime. Tide or or even worse a glue tide. No way. Tide hands down because of in and I went over it yesterday, so I'm not going to get into that on this podcast, but I explain it very very clearly from a physiological standpoint. Never mind neuroimmunology, neurology, human biology, endocrinology. I explained it from toe to toe. You look at your metabolic dysfunction and this is the root of obesity. This this issue with glucose, right? insulin resistance is the catastrophe that most people are wrestling with and they're told that it needs to be managed. It is type 2 diabetes, heart disease, even Alzheimer's, which by the way, read a true tide is working. It was mitigating. Oh yeah, and I have to put this statement in here now because otherwise people lose their freaking mind, which is this isn't meant to diagnose, treat, prescribe, advise, and it's only hypothetical and experimental and educational. Now that we got that out of the way, we cool. I mean, they're calling Alzheimer's type 3 diabetes for a reason. But what does the system do? Instead of restoring insulin, the medical system, instead of restoring insulin sensitivity with resistance training, uh, sleep, nutrition, that's right. God forbid regenerative medicine and the real kind, not the instab bro kind, like what I just said, read a true tide among I I mean, I did a whole post on or a whole podcast on how to resolve type two diabetes so it doesn't exist. So you don't have any symptoms or any labs, which means you don't have any problem. But instead, what they do is they throw metformin at you and maybe add a GLP-1, right? Garbage and send you on your way. That's worked for precisely zero people. And the people that say it has worked are either lying or just ignorant or they want your money. Look at hormonal decline. I mean, let's get this straight. Really, just processes. Testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, uh, thyroid hormones. These aren't optional extras in your physiology. These are these are master regulators of your metabolism, your mood, your brain function, recovery, and even all the risk tolerance that you have. Yes, it penetrates that as well. Low testosterone in men, you lose muscle, you lose bone density, you lose drive, motivation, and even the competitive edge that makes you want to push in life. Cool. Sign me up. Low estrogen in women, bone loss, accelerated aging, skin thinning, mood instability, metabolic slowdown to almost virtual shutdown. You don't just get old, you lose hormonal signaling that kept you young. But instead of replacing or I hate this word, but I'll use it anyway. Optimizing the the hormones. I'm trying to think of another word to use cuz I really can't stand that cuz I Oh, they're not optimized like me. See this one Insta bro IFBB guy. You know why these dads can't keep up to me? Because they're not optimized. You're a [\h__\h] I'm a product of the 80s. I don't care what I say. But instead of replacing or getting the system to do what it's supposed to do, the medical system hands you SSRIs for the mood, statins for the cholesterol and sleep meds for the insomnia. Pmenopause, anybody knows it's going through that or menopause. The sleep is a disaster. It's naps involved by bathroom breaks. They manage the wreckage of low hormones instead of turning the damn system back on. Always a choice. Chronic inflammation is the like one of the precursors to cancer. Chronic inflammation. Inflammation is very necessary, absolutely critical for healing. However, it's supposed to be a short-term repair response. But in modern life right now, it's stuck in the switched on skinny pedal smash to the floor position. Processed food wrecks your gut lining. Chemically enhanced food wrecks your gut lining. Toxins overload your liver and your kidneys. Chronic stress keeps your cortisol level through the roof, which keeps inflammation high. It's designed to keep you sick. This inflammation ages you faster. It clogs your arteries. It damages neurons. again which goes back to uh neuroinflammatory issues which are addressed by reatride not tzepide. It bugs me that he said that and it destroys your joints chronic inflammation. The response to so the result of chronic inflammation is scar tissue. The response to scar tissue is chronic inflammation. So it becomes this ugly cycle and the medical response to this is nsaides to mask pain. My dad died taking 16 to 18 Tylenol a day because some [\h__\h] doctor told him to do that. I mean, yes, he drank alcohol as well, but that wasn't the final straw because he was in pain and nobody helped him. So, the medical response is to fire and says, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to mask the pain. They give you biologics to suppress the immune system and zero effort to fix why your body is even inflamed in the first place. So, you can cover it all up. You can make all the problems go away. I used the example the other day where I said, I can anesthetize your hand, put it on a hot element, put it over a Bunson burner. You're not going to feel it. You're going to smell the hand burning. Are you doing damage? Yes. Here's the pattern. Every one of these root causes can be addressed. It can be reversed probably 95% of the time or at least massively improved. But if they fix the cause, they lose the customer. So instead, they manage the symptoms forever. It's not broken. The system before people go, "Well, the system's broken, but it's the best one we have." No, no, it's not broken. It's designed like this. Arma has zero incentive to cure anybody. A cured patient is worthless. It's worthless. A managed patient patient is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars in a lifetime. And hospitals, they make money per procedure, per visit, keeping you healthy, keeps you out of the system. Well, that's bad for business. You don't have a customer. And I'm not saying hospitals are bad. I'm saying hospitals that keep you keep them in business are bad. Keeping you sick. And insurance companies, they only care about whether you get sick this year. Prevention that pays off in 10 years is not their problem. They don't care. They care about this year. I I use this plumber analogy. your sink is leaking and a good plumber fixes it once and then checks out. A bad plumber charges you 200 bucks a month to maintain it so it almost stops leaking but not quite. Everybody listening to this would call that fraud. In medicine, that's called continuity of care. We keep patients on recurring revenue systems. Yeah, but that doesn't make them recurringly healthy. Real health care is solve and release solution host bye-bye. You walk in with a problem. That's why I talked about the cure program. I'm going to disrupt the whole place. But you walk in with a problem. We find the cause. We fix the cause. We teach you how to keep it fixed. You leave stronger than when you came in. You're welcome. Listen, just so you know what that means, you should all take notes on this. That means restoring metabolic function, which means improve insulin sensitivity through increased muscle mass, nutrition, sometimes targeted peptides and SARMs and serms and secrets. They all reset the signaling because those are all how your body communicates. Rebuilding mitochondrial efficiency so your body can actually produce the energy and use the energy correctly. Optimizing and repairing and fixing how your hormones function. So testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, thyroid, they're all tuned for proper function, not just hormonal normal ranges that are designed for the already sick population. Eliminating eliminating chronic inflammation. And so repair the gut lining, remove inflammatory foods, detoxify your environment and the toxins that you're breathing, washing and taking and rubbing all over your body that keep your immune system in constant overdrive. Oh, there's more. Davo tissue regeneration. Use regenerative tools and peptides and treatments to repair cartilage, tendons, nerves, vessels, skins, endothelial cells, TB and BPC right out of the gate. Stop masking pain. Start restoring structure. That's a great way to start. But people don't do that. They manage it. How about sleep architecture? Fix the ser circadian rhythm so your recovery becomes automatic because all of that healing happens in delta sleep. Stop sedating the system and actually start fixing the system, repairing the system. You are the system is what I'm talking about right now. Real health care is measured in function that's restored, not diseases managed. Listen, this is what everybody can't stand and it's the truth. People have are so turned off by the truth right now because it forces them to look at their own demons that they've been carrying. The monkey on their back that they just it's heavier and heavier and they're like, "Not me though. That's not me. It doesn't happen like that for me." Yes, it does. Your health is your business. Your business. It's nobody else's responsibility. It's yours. You outsource it, which is why you lose it. The system is not designed to make you healthy. It's designed to make you compliant. If you want real health, you have to build it. Nobody else is going to build it for you, you guys. Like that. I mean, we're talking as a doctor. This frustrates me is that means lifting weights to protect muscle mass like it is your retirement fund that you're investing in because it is. Eating to actually regulate your hormones and blood sugar, not just stuffing calories in because the package says it's good for you. Sleep like the recovery is a full-time job and it's doing it because a monster is not recovery. A Red Bull is not recovery. Throwing back some collagen in a drink definitely not recovery cuz it's garbage. And then removing toxins before they become lifelong liabilities and that turn into disabilities. Remember what I said, a pegalated product is going to cause problems because it's essentially like putting plastic in your system. And I'm not talking about the microplastics. They pegleate things to make them stain your system longer so they can resist the metabolic boot camp that you your body puts everything through. Never mind first pass degradation. They pegalate it. Alpha alkalated 17 molecules. There's so many things they do to make it stay in your system longer. Why? If your body's trying to get rid of it, you sure as hell shouldn't keep it there. You cannot delegate health. You cannot subscribe to some vitality. You can't, man. And the moment that you accept managing a problem as the standard, your standard, you just took your pen and signed a lifetime contract with the most profitable subscription service in history. And I don't know, let that stick. Listen, managing managing your sickness, managing your disease, managing your problems keeps them paid. Solving it gives you freedom. All of it. One is healthcare and the other is business. Right now, business is booming for them. Just so you're aware. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.