All right, guys. Good evening. Trev Smash Works. We got a whole bunch of fun going on here. We got Fran today and there's a bunch of people rowing right here warming up. Some of them are doing it, some of them aren't. This is a killer workout. If you haven't done Fran, try it. Try and get sub 3 minutes. It's gnarly. So, we've been getting some people talking about some hip issues, some hip pain. So, that's what we're going to address today. Some uh hip impingement. Now, if you know how the hip works, there's a whole bunch of muscles that cross that hip joint. And we use these hips for uh for violent hip extension in all of our Olympic lifts. So, that's really important to understand because yeah, I'm just getting comfortable. Um what happens is we have that really explosive hip extension. That's what drives the bar up to allow us to punch out into the snatches into the top of the queen, even through kipsson and muscle ups, uh, butterfly, all those movements involve a lot of violent hip extension. Uh, Glassman said actually that if you have explosive hip extension, you pretty much master any sport. So, it's the truth. So, we need to make sure those hips are functioning right. And the problem is if you look at me right now, you can't see the bottom of my leg, but if my leg is like this and I'm sitting at a desk and I'm typing and I'm on the mouse and I'm texting, look how short these hip flexors are. What happens is it takes 2 minutes to make a tissue change. So if we're shortening up the soaz, the iliacis, the rectus down through here and then the hamstrings, the semimebrosis, semiendinosis, biceps, morris, the adductors in here, all four of them, we're getting those all short and crispy. The problem is the hips aren't going to work the way they're supposed to. But then we got the QL in the back and we've got the rectus abdominis in the front, the obliques, the only small muscles in here, transversalis, longus, all these things start to glue down and tack down. That fascia doesn't let them uh doesn't let them work. And what they end up doing to make it really simple is two things. The hip s tends to sit. So if this is the pubic symphysis right here in the front, the ouch bone that we hit when we do snatches, it's going to sit really, really, really far forward. We're going to get that anterior pelvic tilt and we're going to wind up sitting like this with that back really arched like that cuz a soaz is pulling remember L2 to L5. It's going to yank on that femur and it's going to pull those lumbar vertebrae like this. And the other thing it's going to do is it's going to pull a hip out of the uh out of position in the joint capsule itself. So that head of the femur isn't going to sit right in the acetabulum. So what happens is if it's sitting outside, it's a ball and socket joint. If it's sitting on the outside of that acetabulum, it's going to be grinding away in there. It's not going to have that nice roll slide glide the way it's designed and it's going to start to mushroom out and get all beat up and get all calcified. And then that joint capsule starts to calcify and that restricts a lot of movement. Hip problems, we see it all the time. Hip problems are super common. Nothing you want. So, we're going I'm going to show you how to take that hip and blow it out of the back pocket and seat it in the back of that uh in the back of that joint capsule. And then we're going to take a kettle bell. We're going to floss out the soass. We're going to do all kinds of fun stuff. So, we're going to do something called a basic pelvic balance. You'll find all your hot spots. I guarantee it. And you're going to be like, "Holy moly, Travis." Ouch. They hurt, but they work. I promise you this. We're going to sit in the hot spot in the uh pelvic balance stations. 2 minutes of station. So, I'll tell you that. I love the yelling in the background. Craig Howard's the one teaching the class today. Guy won 2013 CrossFit Game. So, he's a stud. Good friend of mine. Love this guy. So anyway, first thing we're going to do is we're going to trap the hip with a green band. Use a heavy band and we're going to trap it. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to see if I can bring this a little closer. I know my camera skills are phenomenal. I'm like Stephen Spielberg with my camera. Don't laugh. All right. So what we're going to take anchor it on the bottom of the rig. Put your leg all the way through. for guys. Watch all your stuff. And then all you're going to do is you're going to pull away from the leg. You're going to take this leg. So, I'm going to do it this way. You're going to take this leg and you're just going to lay into basically a pigeon. Okay? Get into that pigeon position. And then all you're going to do is lay it down. Just hang out like that. But I want about 80 to 100 lbs of tension on that band. That's going to pull the hips into the back portion of the socket so it sits really tight in that acetabulum. And then you're just going to hang out like this for how long? Two minutes. All right, that's number one. Number two is don't get out of the band yet. We're going to go sideways. We're going to do the same thing. You can see the band is right here. We're doing the same thing. We're going to take this leg. We're going to put it behind us. So, we're going to take this one. We're going to drop it up underneath like this. And then we're going to pull away. And this one. Oh god, this one's funky. This one gets in all those little crispy bits and then get all the way down on the bottom. Just hang out like this for another 2 minutes. Okay, that's going to pull that hip. You should feel it pushing right out where the back pocket in a pair of jeans would be. It's going to shove that head of the femur out into the back. Okay, that's number two. That's going to help really sink that um femur, that femoral head in the acetabulum, right in the back where it's supposed to be. Those are the two that you're going to use in the band. Okay. Number three is we're going to put you into pelvic balance. So, we're going to take this. Don't worry, you're coming with me. Come on over here. All right. See if we can do this right here. Good. So, my hand is in the way. So, what you're going to do is you can see me. You're going to take a band. Blue or green is fine. You're going to wrap it around. You're going to throw one around each knee. Good. So now what we're doing, use a heavier band than this. I'm just using this for a demo. It's going to be shoving the head of the femur into the back of the socket and it's going to push the knees apart. You're going to do three stations. Okay. All right. So, you can see me, so that's good. You're going to bring your butt and low back all the way on the floor. I know I'm being a really contortionist right now, cranking my head like this. You're going to make sure your feet are only turned out about 5°. Your butt's as close to the wall as possible. And then you're just going to let those knees fall out. Okay? You're going to hang out like this. 2 minutes. That's number one. Number two is I'm going to pull away. Remember, this is the pelvic balance. You're going to pull away. Take one leg. Make sure it's at 90° to the wall. So, butts away from the wall. Low back's flat against the wall. You're going to take this and you're going to cross it over. And then you're going to sink right back down into the floor. So, you're going to just camp out like this. Do not push on this knee. Don't push on the knee. I'm watching. Okay. No pain face on this one. Well, maybe a little pain face. Get your hand here. Hang out like this. 2 minutes. Okay. Then you're going to take this, help yourself off. So, you're going to lift your butt. And then you're going to do the same thing on the other side. Okay. When you're done, unhook the band. Watch out. Don't get snapped by the band. It'll hurt. Okay. So, that's the pelvic balance. Remember, it's 2 minutes in each station. So, 2 minutes up against the wall, 2 minutes on the right, 2 minutes on the left. Hands represent the knees, in case you guys are wondering what I'm doing with the fancy jazz hands. Okay, do that entire thing two two times if you can. So, that's 12 minutes of of mobilization already. Now, I'm going to grab a kettle bell. I'm going to floss out the soaz. This is a little funky. So, you're going to find the belly button. You're going to go an inch lateral to the belly button. Okay? You're going to take the horn of the kettle bell. In case you guys are wondering, that's the handle. So, you're going to take this portion right here and you're going to let that sink right in here. You're going to use this as a 44. Try and use a 53, 60, even a 70 or an 88. And you're going to bend both your knees. You're going to camp out like this. Give it about 15 to 20 seconds just to sink into that soaz. And all you're going to do, make sure both knees are bent because it disengages the pelvis. Super important. Make sure both knees are bent. Lift your head back. The only reason I'm holding my head up like this is so I can see you guys. Okay, you're going to remember the femur does not track this way. It tracks out and wide. So if you think come out and wide, I can come a lot higher. Then like this, I'm banging into the top of the acetabulum and I'm hitting the cattle bell. So you're going to come out like this. Skate along here. What up? Two. So we're going to do 15 of these. Super stud athlete. 15 of these. And then you're going to move it all the way to the other side. 15 of these. Same thing. Okay. That's going to floss out that soaz. Dump your kettle bell. Roll it off the side. Whatever you need to do. All right. Let me grab this. So, we've got pulling on the back of the rig. Hey, that's going to pull that uh Let me get up a little higher. That's going to pull that hip into the back portion of the socket. Both sides. Remember, pull it all the way towards the back. Pull it out towards the side. Both of them hang out for two minutes. Get on the wall. Do that pelvic balance and then grab the kettle bell. Smash out that soaz. There's a couple more things we can do, but we'll stick with this. Otherwise, it's going to be like a half hour video. We'll do some more tomorrow. Hey, I'm Trev. Smash works. Unglue those hips. Get them working the way they're supposed to. Have a great night. I'll see you guys tomorrow.