Hey, good morning you guys. Smash works. Another frosty morning. Got to dawn the beanie. It's cold. We're going to go over some uh some TFL, some hip impingement stuff. And uh and then of course down the front of the quad. I know last time we did the uh we did the back of the leg, the uh the whole posterior compartment of the uh of the upper leg. We're going to do some of the anterior stuff, but I've had I have a really good friend of mine, Ricky. He's got uh he's got some anterior hip issues, and specifically it's TFL, and I'll explain what I'm talking about. That TFL is a a medial rotator and and an abductor. So, I mean, it's going to bring the leg away from the body, but we use that thing all the time. So, it's got this huge band, and I know I'm running my hand down my own leg, and you can't even see it. It's got this huge band of tissue right here, right? That IT band that fans out and attaches on the lateral side of the knee. But the problem is is it's going to affect the knee. It's going to affect how the hip functions and it gets glued down to everything in the front of the hip. So when it gets really really sore, like for example Ricky, he's a jiu-jitsu guy. He rolls all the time. So when guys like like Ricky or myself, when we roll and we do jiu-jitsu and we're rolling around on the mat, this takes a lot of abuse. Now take explosive movements in CrossFit and think about how that's going to get abused as well because we're torquing out our knees, right? when we drop into the bottom of just about any motion and we're firing these muscles on and off, on and off, on and off. So, I'm going to have show you how to get on this and peel it away. Then, we're going to get on a voodoo band. We're going to wrap up that rectus some more so we can tack it down and we're going to grind the hell out of it. Oh, you guys aren't going to like this at all. But hey, happy day before Thanksgiving, right? This is a gobble gobble mobility day. And don't make fun of me. Just get it done. Uh so first thing we're going to do is we're going to pull out a a hip impingement because a lot of times that that um head the head of the femur the femoral head doesn't sit in that uh that acetabulum properly. So you miss all that roll slide glide. So when you get into that joint properly you get all that movement but the cool part is is that when you recover all that movement you start hitting better numbers because nothing hurts and nothing pinches and you don't get all these safety spasms that I call in your body. Um safety spasm is basically the body does a self splint. So it fires all those muscles as hard as possible to protect an area because it has a mechanical insufficiency. So if it's structurally or mechanically not working right, the body fires all the muscles to protect that area so you can't move it nearly as efficiently. The problem is guys like you and I and all of you out there, I know you've done it. We go, I can just fight through this. Just one more rep. I can just I thought it would go away. We do this all the time. So first thing we're going to do is we're going to take a band and I'm going to show you what to do and what not to do. All right? because I see this a lot. So, we're going to get in here. We're going to step in the band. Okay, we're going to bring this leg back. All we're going to do is come forward here. Now, I know I'm blocking it. Bad camera skills. I know. Listen, that's okay. Like I always say, Stephen Spielberg and me, we're like this, right? So, I want you to load up this band. Now, the problem is I see a lot of people doing this. They get their their hand on the band and then they push it down. But look what I'm doing. I'm tilting that pelvis forward. So, don't do that. It's just that easy. Okay? And what you're going to do is you're going to squeeze your glutes. So this is as high in the crease of the butt as possible. Use a good solid band. Get like 80 to 100 pounds of tension on that band. Good hard squeeze in the glutes. Let that open up in here. And let it pull that pelvis forward at the bottom. And then just turn a little bit this way. You're going to feel it in the pocket here. You'll feel it on that TFL. You'll feel it on that soaz. You feel it deep in that iliacis because you're rocking back on that pelvis. You'll even feel it on the front of the leg. Hang out like this for how long again? Two minutes. Yeah, that's right. Two minutes. All right, that's number one. Number two is let's go ahead and stretch out that TFL. I know I keep turning my head to the uh to the camera. Hey, it's like 5 in the morning now. We're going to move this weight. I have a 45 here. Why don't I just do this? We'll make it easy. Yeah. Yeah, I know. We're moving the camera around. So, we're going to do this. So, we take the band. We're going to do the opposite side. Okay. So, all we're going to do is we're going to loop our leg through here. See my size 11 and a half's right there getting in the way. Good. We're going to do this. Now, if you can see, I'll get out of the way. There's a 45 here. So, let me do this just so there's a little bit of a better camera angle so you can see what the hell I'm doing. We're going to load up. So, you can see I'm loading up the band and we're going to lock our leg behind this and we're going to let it just pull us across. Holy moly. We're gonna let it just pull across the body. What I want you to do is engage it a little bit. Give it a little fire and then let it crank all the way over. Turn your body just a little bit. And you'll feel that TFL. You'll feel a lot even at that high hip. But get some tension on there. But the reason I have the 45 there is you don't have to worry about holding it. So I'm locked out behind that 45. And just crank away. How long do we stay? Yeah, 2 minutes. You guys got it. Come on. You know that. But when you come out, you might have to walk it off. All right, here comes the fun one. All right, I'm going to tell you this right off the bat. I'm sorry. This is going to hurt good. What What do people's parents say? This is going to hurt me a lot more than hurts you. Except it is going to hurt me a lot more. So, what you're going to do is you can see I've got a barbell right there. Okay? And I've got some fractionals here. This five actually they're not fractions. are 5 lb weights. You can see on the far side over there, I've got a 45. I've got another one here. So, the bar can't go any further. Now, that TFL is right in here. I guarantee if you took your thumb and you drove it in there, it would suck. So, don't do that. We're going to do it with a barbell instead. And all you're going to do is you're going to lay on this thing. I'm going to shove that 45 out of the way. Let's turn this just a little bit. So, we're going to peel away this TFL. We're just going to take this and smash the holy crap out of it. So, you're going to lay on this. Watch the twig and giggleberries. Get on that. Take the other leg and fan it out. So, I'll flip sides so you can see. So, I have this leg out so it gives me support and I'm on that hip. Stay away from that asis. Okay, that anterior superior spine. It's a bone right here. So, I'm going to turn the leg out like this, and I'm going to find that hot spot on the front of the hip. I'm going to raise myself up. Oh, god. Seriously, this is terrible. And then all I'm going to do is I'm just going to grind back and forth. And I'm going to roll back and forth. I'm going to go ahead and bring that leg up. And I'm going to work my way just down. You're only moving about 3 or 4 inches. Oh god, that's horrendous. So, leg up for support. Prop yourself up on the elbow. Keep the 45s here so the bar doesn't move anywhere. I know right now there's a bench in the way, but trust me, there's a 45 here, okay? Just so the bar doesn't roll and then just grind away on that high hip. Oh, that's number three. Number four is we're going to hit that rectus force. We're going to peel this right off the bone. You're not going to like it, but we're going to do it with the voodoo band. So, take the voodoo band. My buddy Jesse uh Berdick, he showed me this. He says, "You know what? Just wind up the voodoo band all the time before you do it, and you get a much tighter wrap." So, we're going to do this right over the pants cuz I'm not taking my pants off for you guys. Good. We're going to go up as high as possible. Okay. We're going to come all the way around. Cinch this up good and tight. So, what we're doing is we're tacking down this muscle, all the tissue, as a matter of fact, of the anterior and posterior leg and the lateral portion of the leg. Put it this way. You're tacking down the entire leg and it Oh god, this is for 5 in the morning. This is freaking tight. Good. So, we're going to come all the way. Remember, tuck your thumb in there. Come all the way around. Tuck that in. All right. So, now I'm tack down. Now, you're going to get that. This barbell is going to sit right on the front of this. So you have this line running right down here. Okay. It's like a big piece of beef jerky. Well, you This line is that rectus forous. So you're going to get on it. Everybody say hi to Ricky in the background. Good. Um and we're going to get that tacked down with the barbell. Same thing. We're going to use the same barbell. We wrapped it up with the voodoo band. So now we've clamped it down. We're going to peel it off that muscle and get it moving the way it's supposed to. Except this time when you lay on this, come all the way across. Get on that voodoo band. Holy moly. Oh god, this is awful. What I'm going to do, just so you can actually see how crappy this is. Let's move you this way just a little bit. We'll show you the pain face. I'm okay. I'm not shy. I got no inhibitions. Here's the pain face. Oh god. We're going to get on this. Just like that. We're tacked down. And all we're going to do is we're just going to grind away. Go on the inside. Same thing. Ninja kick. And all the way on the outside. We're going to do this entire thing. And you're going to work your way all the way down the leg. Okay? And then when you're done, you're going to want to take this thing and get it the hell off of you because I'll tell you, it hurts. So about 3 minutes is all you want to do. But grind away all the way down this. If you need to remove the voodoo band, move it all the way down to here. So you'll peel away that rectus away from all the rest of the quads. Get on that anterior hip, that TFL. Reset that hip, and then stretch out that TFL with a band against the bottom of the ring. Hey, happy day before Thanksgiving, you guys. It's Trev Smash Works. I'll see you guys tomorrow.