Hey guys, good morning. It's Trevor from Smashworks. Welcome. Um, we're going to be talking about hip impingement today. Uh, yesterday I was in here about noon or so and I was working on uh Whitney, Whitney Huser, and uh, she was having some real issues with her hip. Uh, a lot of tightness on one side. Couldn't get the low back to clear out. couldn't get the hip to clear out. She couldn't figure it out. So, I started going over some uh some mobility drills with her and what I did was we found out that she's got a hip impingement and uh and so we went ahead and cleared it out and I didn't have my phone with me otherwise I would have videoed the whole thing. It was really great. So, we're going to go over it today except I'm going to be going over it with myself and we're going to talk about how to clear out that impingement because what happens is I know that was like a roller coaster ride that big spin. Um anyway, so what happens is when you when you look at the hip, so it's designed it's designed to come up past 90. So technically you should be here. Okay. What happens is when you get an impingement instead of recovering that motion this way and increasing that or decreasing this angle here so you can get closer. What happens is when you're coming forward the hip flexors engage. So primarily the soaz which is attached on the uh on the front portion of the lumbar spine, the last four bones. So what happens is it's going to translate you forward. So it's going to do this and that's going to help you recover into that motion. Except the problem is that's not how your body is designed. Your body's just trying to take you through that range of motion uh and get you into the position any way it can. So it's feeding slack into the system. We went over that if you have an area that's stuck below and above are going to make up for that uh that tight area, that fixated area. And when those sliding surfaces aren't working the way they're supposed to, your body looks for a way. It hunts for a way. It actually feeds slack into the motor somewhere, anywhere it can. So in this case, if the hip is impinched, the knee downstream is going to suffer. The ankle's going to suffer because you're going to cave in the knee. You're going to drop the foot and you're going to translate that lumbar spine forward. So you're going to put a lot of shear force on that lumbar spine. So all the muscles in the lumbar spine, never mind the disc, they're going to become inflamed. They're going to get irritated. They're going to start causing excruciating low back pain. that has kind of a a really difficult diagnosis because it's hard to find. So, clear out the hip impingement and a lot of times that low back pain goes away because all of a sudden now you get this movement instead of this translation movement. And I realize I'm doing it on my knee, but it's the same thing when you're when you're standing and you need to bring that leg up. You need to be able to decrease this angle without that translation of that lumbar spine because this in an overhead position is really bad because it's going to put a lot of strain on that low back. So, we're going to go ahead and clear that out. Besides, you just look funky. Um, even if we're wearing tight Lulu's, it doesn't matter. Still look funky if you're standing like this. So, first thing we're gonna do is we're just going to distract that hip capsule. And it's so easy. So, you can see I got a green band right here. What we're going to do is we're going to take an ab mat, going to throw that under the leg, and all we're going to do, and I realize I do this a lot. We're going to take the camera and angle it down just a little bit. There you go. So, what we're going to do is we're going to take this, loop it around the foot, stick your heel in it, cross it over top, and then all I'm going to do now, come this way, is I'm I'm just going to take this and I'm going to just distract that leg. So, I'm going to pull it as far as I'm comfortable. Doesn't matter. Just make sure you can hold that position. And then I'm just going to turn it in and out. What I'm not going to do is resist it. If you can see here, I'm giving it a pull. Let it let it distract that leg. You can lay down if you want and just let it distract. Good. All you're going to do is turn that back and forth. Hang out like that for about 2 minutes. Really distract that joint. That's the first thing you want to do. I was going to use this to uh to sit on, but we don't even need it. So, that's the first one. Now, the second one is you have to decide whether you have what's called an anterior or posterior uh pelvic tilt. And the way it works, and Pete made fun of me for going to get props like a bench or a bucket in the last video. Well, I just did it again. So, you have to think of your pelvis as a bucket full of water. And when it's anterior pelvic tilt, it's spilling water out of the front. And when it's posterior pelvic tilt, spilling water out of the back. So, but what that looks like is if I'm like this and I have an anterior pelvic tilt, I'm doing this. If I have a posterior pelvic tilt, I'm doing this. So, you have to figure out which one it is. And it's real easy. Just put your hands on your hips and stand. If your hands are down like this, well, it's anterior. Other way around, it's posterior. It's just that simple. And you'll feel it. So, we're going to clear out both of those. And it's really, really easy. So, the way it works, grab a green band. You want something pretty heavy. Grab a green band. Slide your leg in. And all you're going to do is you're going to pull away. Get a good distraction in there. And you're just going to pull your leg. You can leave this one bent. That's okay. But you're just going to pull this leg up as hard as you can. Hunt around. Go ahead and find some spots, all those fugly corners. You know what I say? If it hurts, that's the spot you want to hang out in. So, we're going to do that. This is going to distract the joint, and it's going to pull it into the uh portion of the joint so it allows proper range of motion. So, it approximates into the posterior portion of the joint. And you're going to hang out here for as long as you can. 2 minutes. So easy, right? Isn't this stuff freaking fun? We do this cuz this is all stuff you can do on your own. Don't need to get surgery. You don't need to get all kinds of treatment. Just clear out the impingement and the hip works the way it's supposed to. Now for the other way, what you're going to do is you're going to take this easy, step in, and you're just going to turn around. Nice. And if you look here, what you're going to do is make sure this leg's here. The band is around that leg that's sitting in the back. You're going to squeeze the butt and you're just going to let that pelvis the the underside of the pelvis tilt this way. So, you're actually inducing a posterior pelvic tilt. This is going to clear out that anterior pelvic tilt. So, bucket of water is pouring forward. This is going to help clear it out and you're just going to camp out here for as long as you can. You're going to feel this in that soaz muscle muscle deep inside the hip and you might even feel it down a little bit in the rectus for uh this is something that you're really going to have to do. This is a really common one. I see this a lot. and just camp out like this for two minutes. So, that's how you clear out hip impingement. That's a super easy way to do it. I know. Really short video today. Um, got to love the workout in the background. Super fun. Um, so we're going to distract the joint, pull that hip out of the capsule or out of the joint just a little bit out of the socket and then turn it and move it around. Kind of knocks the rust off that. Or we're going to clear out an anterior posterior pelvic tilt. Bucket of water forward, bucket of water backwards. you decide which one and then just pick the movement you're going to do. I would do the distraction on everything and then I would decide which way I need to uh pull that um acetab or the uh femoral head that's sitting in the acetabulum to decide how it's going to sit in that joint so it sits properly so you can get that roll slide glide the joint can move around the way it is because when we're dropping into the bottom of our movements and we have to get into this position if we have a hip impingement right now already I'm going to wind up translating forward and I'm going to come up on my feet because I'm trying to find um I'm trying to find slack in the system and I can't. So, we've seen people, they overhead squat like this. Well, they have this nice upright torso. Except, look at this. Hip is impinged, knees aren't even right, and I'm up on my toes. You can't sustain this, and it's just going to wind up doing damage. Uh, so clear out all that stuff distraction front or back with the posterior anterior pelvic tilt. I'm Trevor from Smash Works. Hey, I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have a great day. All right. Then do one