Hey, good morning guys. We got some cool stuff for you today. Trev Smash Works, you know the routine. And uh one day I'm not going to say it, you guys are going to be all confused. Um we're going to be talking about formoral nerve enttrapment. I got a bunch of guys from you or I got a bunch of messages from you guys on Instagram. Um thank you by the way. keep sending me stuff. I'll gladly uh I'll gladly answer your questions as best I can, throw out a video for you and get you guys all cleared out um to save you a trip to uh to the doctor. But femoral nerve enttrapment, super uncomfortable, really painful, causes like numbness down the leg, pain up in the side of the hip. I'll get up here. So, I realize I always too damn close to this camera. So, we're going to have pain up inside the hip, pain down the leg, pain in the knee, numbness, tingling. You can get pain back here. That nerve travels all over the place. the branches or the branch that comes off the uh the uh the spine passes through the iliacis and the soaz. So, it's got to pass right through those muscles and then get to all the structures of the leg and and the hip and the lower leg and and into all the all the tissues and everything that's down below the waist. So the problem is is that when it gets stuck in that tissue, imagine a pair of scissors and the nerves sitting between the scissors and those scissors clamping down on that nerve or or a set of pliers clamping down on that nerve that can't go anywhere and it's going to choke off that nerve. It's going to cause a ton of pain, a ton of discomfort and then your body's going to react by causing inflammation, swelling, dysfunction, turning off the ability to get where I'm going with this, right? It basically turns into a whole mess of really, really bad. So I'm going to show you how to get rid of that. There's lots of ways lots of things you can that you can call this and uh you can tell it's early in the morning. I haven't had my coffee yet. I'm all but um what happens is the best thing you can do is you can call it oral nerve flossing. You can call it uh you know release nerve release entrapment release. It doesn't matter. What you're basically doing is you're freeing up the body to do what it's supposed to do. So first thing we're going to do is we're going to peel it away from that ilio soaz complex. So the ilio soaz remember iliacis and soaz smashed together. Sorry about the chalk. did a workout this morning covered in shock. Um, and then we're going to peel away that rectus forous. Now, the other thing is that rectus forous runs right down the front of the leg comes off the asis. So, the anterior superior iliac spine goes all the way basically to this tibial tuberosity and it's a hip flexor and a knee ex and a lower leg extensor, a knee extensor. So, the problem is is that it's also going to affect that hip. And when we're talking about the iliacis and the soaz, now the ilas um go or the iliacis goes all the way from the L2 to L5, so the lumbar vertebrae all the way to the inside of the femur. But the iliacis comes off the front of the pelvis. So now that remember, they do the a lot of the same things. That iliacis comes off the pelvis. So if the pelvis isn't working right, doesn't matter what we do because that's going to affect everything else. So we need to peel away that rectus forus too. I know that's a lot of fancy terms. Basically, the muscle in the front on the outside of the body is affecting the muscles on the front in the inside of the body. That simple. Um, let's make it simple. I'm too many fancy terms. So, we're going to use a peanut, trap the belly of that rectus in there, and then we're just going to saw it. Just peel it open. We're going to rip it apart like celery. Um, one of my friends said that she laughed and said it was hilarious that I used the word celery because, uh, it's like peeling it apart. So, that's what we're going to do. So, first thing we're going to do is we're going to actually load it up. So remember, we want to put what's called a little bit of a load on the muscles. So we have to activate everything so things turn off because it's called reciprocal inhibition. One works, the other one uh turns off. It's just that easy. So one side works, the other side turns off. So what you see here is I got a band. Let's dump this down here just a little bit. I know, mad camera skills, right? Mad camera skills. Ah, there we go. So check it out. I've got this band here. Okay, we're going to do a little bit of uh little bit of fancy footwork here. We're going to face this way. What we're going to do is we're going to take the band. So, I want you to watch my foot. We're going to take the band, put it around the foot. We're going to loop it. So, let me get out of the way here. So, we're going to put my foot in the band. Okay, foot's in the band. We're going to loop it around. Then, we're going to turn the foot and we're going to get it all the way around. So now I've wrapped my foot completely in the band. It's actually made a loop around my leg. So you can see that. And then I'm going to turn around. So now my music's freaking awesome in the morning. By the way, there's two ways we're going to do this. One with the baseball and the pad and one without. We're facing the rig. So I've got a good firm loop here with a band loaded up. It's double looped around here. So it can't go anywhere. It can't roll up my leg. Well, at least not that much. So if it does it on camera, I'm sorry. So now we're going to what we're going to do is we're going to make sure we keep that band. See it does roll up the leg and we're just going to take the knee and we're going to do this. So you can see I've loaded it up. So now this band twang it's like a guitar string. Okay. Now we're going to load up that iliacis and that soaz. I haven't even used this yet. Notice I'm still clutching the peanut. So we've got the band loaded up and all we're going to do is prop ourselves up like this. And we're just going to lightly contract and relax that rectus forous while squeezing your glutes. So if you look, look at my butt. You guys love it when I say that. So get yourself up like this. Your the band is got you can load up the band as much as you want just by pulling away from the rig. So load up the band. The band is forcing your leg into flexion. Prop yourself up so it loads up that rect that iliacis and that zoaz. And then just gloss back and forth. Okay. You know what helps? Touch your chin. So you tuck your chin. Go ahead and loosen that up. That's number one. Number two, take the ab mat, toss it under here. Take a baseball, big old softball. Craig Howard softball. Thanks, Craig. And you're going to put it right in the pocket right beside the belly button. So go out about an inch to the side of the belly button. And then just Oh. That's horrible. Holy moly. So, you're going to put that baseball in there. So, baseball in here an inch to the side of the belly button on the ab mat. Roll on it and then just take it through ranges of motion and just peel apart that rectus or that iliacis and that soaz. I can't even talk straight. It hurts so bad. That iliacis and that soaz. freeing up that femoral nerve. All right, I got to get the hell off this thing. That's number two. Get this thing out of here. Number three is it's like I just want to lay here on the baseball. It's almost that comfortable. It hurts that bad. You can tell I need to floss a little bit, huh? So, you're going to take the peanut. You're going to roll on your side. You're going to put the peanut that rectus runs right down the center of the leg. It's that piece of beef jerky that you feel not supposed to be there. You're going to take that. Oh god, that hurts. This is abysmal. Now the peanuts on that reckless remorse. You can see it there trapping the uh entire belly of the muscle. And then you're just going to crank down away on it. Use the baseball as a prop for your head because it hurts that bad. And just floss away. Grind that thing into supplitude. I used the word yesterday. It's a word. Webster's a bridge. Check. It'll be out courtesy of Trevor. And just grind away on. You're going to work your way all the way down. So, just keep moving that peanut all the way down. Keep that leg loaded with that band. This way. It keeps tension on that leg and it forces you. And don't let this thing snap all over the place. It forces you to keep that leg loaded. All right. And when you're done, get the hell out of this fan because this freaking hurts. All right. So, what that's going to do is that's going to free up everything in here. Here, let me move the camera again so you guys aren't Oh, camera mishap. So, you guys aren't staring at my uh my feet. Okay. So, what that's going to do, that's going to open up the pocket. It's going to allow that nerve to pass through that tissue properly and uh and control all those structures. Take all that pain away. Honestly, get all that discomfort away. Get that numbness uh gone and take away that knee pain, that thigh pain, that hip pain, especially when you're driving or a lot of you guys that sit uh for your job or drive or tend to just sit anyway. Don't sit, get up, move. You know the rule, right? Movement is your friend. Emotion comes from motion. So, to feel good, you got to move. You can write that down. Um anyway, so that's how you free up that femoral nerve. This one's for you. You know the one. This is Trav Smash Works. Talk to you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.