So, I changed up my schedule because I started looking at the amount of time I had to do the things I wanted to do versus the amount of time I had to do the things that I had to do. And it got me thinking, you know what, I I mean, I'm 52 and I love spending time with my wife and kids. So I started going over things that listen these are boxes I have to check for my my business and for our life and for the required things right one of the most common questions I get from people is how I'm overwhelmed how how do you manage your time and you know I used to do these big seminars and coaching seminars and consulting seminars and you know I I mean I've had 4,000 people in a room and I've had four people in a room it doesn't matter but I realized something in talking to all these people and even now helping people with the cure program and doing consulting and helping people grow their businesses and branding and and all the things that that we do. You don't you can't manage time. You can't and I've talked about this before, but not at the not in the level that I'm going to tell you right now. This is the problem. If you're feeling overwhelmed, you want to watch this. Like, just give me however long this takes. Maybe I come out here with no script and I just light it up. So, I have some I have six lines right here written on a piece of paper. That's all I got. Yeah. But a lot of this stuff, it's just God talking and I just let it go. But I want you to understand something. I have the same whatever 86,400 seconds that you have. I I think that's about right. 1 day, 24. We have the same and it is this I said it today in my in my Spartan live coach call that time is a purely human construct. And and it's not here to get metaphysical or phil philosophical or anything like that. This is to understand that the problem isn't what you have to do and the problem isn't how many hours you have in the day or the commute time or it's none of that. The problem is what you're leveraging and what you're not. You're not out of time. You're not. And I've had I've had clients I can remember one in particular. She was always complaining about how little time she had and how overwhelmed she was and how stressed out she was and how, you know, frustrated she was. But the problem isn't the time. The problem was always the same. And I tried to explain it. It was just like trying to have a conversation with a rock. And some people don't want to admit it because they don't want to look at themselves. They want to look at everything around themselves, which I'm going to tell you right now, if that's what you're going to do, this is not going to help you at all. And you're going to think there's some weird little time management tool or that when something gets done, you'll have more time. But you won't. You'll just fill that slot with something else. And I've done this. There is, like I said, I get up 5, 5:30, give or take, and I'm running till 10:00, 11:00, sometimes 12:00 at night, sometimes longer because my wife made a good observation. There's always more work. And I I mean, I know that, but it's even the things that I need to get done that fit in that neat little box that I talk about where I take my three tasks that I have to do or four, whatever it is, usually it's three, sometimes it's four that I pull from my list that I've created that are all the action steps to get me everything that's at the end of that list. Right? It's like a to-do list, but not quite. It's a very specifically designed one or precisely designed one. I I explained how to do this in my webinar, but there's always more because I can go like there's you're never going to have a day where you go, "Okay, finally. I've done all the work." And I think that's what a lot of you guys are looking at. So, you're trying to get someplace, but you're throwing a bunch of crap in the way and a bunch of garbage in the way that keeps you from getting to the place that you're so desperately chasing, which is why you're frustrated cuz you're moving, but you're not getting anywhere. Like, you're not out of time. You're not You're bleeding it out everywhere. and I'll prove it and I'll help you find it so you don't have to sit there and go, "Well, it's not my you don't understand my circumstances." I don't care about your damn circumstances. I've had to play catch-up with my life for the last four years for the previous 48. I got to move a 100 times faster than somebody who started at 21 and I built a pretty good life prior and then I lost everything. And amidst all of this are nothing but battles and obstacles and enemies and opponents and that this is how life works. So, you have to either accept the fact that you're on a mission to constantly become stronger and more efficient and more proficient at mitigating stress and tolerating and carrying the load and slaying the Goliath that's in front of you. You have a shield and a sword. Do something about it and moving on and keep doing things that only move the needle in the direction that you want to go. Or you can sit there and go, "Well, I just don't have time." And complain about it and stare at it as if it is your enemy. But then if if the life that you're in right now and the time you're struggling with is the enemy, then you are your own enemy. Because a lot of you guys, listen to me. every time, every single day when you wake up, you wake up, like I said in my talk today, it's like you you just somebody slit your corateed artery except it's your it's your time artery and you're just pumping out all that blood that time and it's just pooling on the ground and it's just soaking towels and you don't do anything about instead of grabbing something to stop the leak, you scroll Instagram or Tik Tok or you shuffle papers or you do YouTube research or you reorganize the to-do list that you have the 10th time just to be more efficient and then You wonder why you feel overwhelmed and why you never catch up. Are you kidding me? You're not buried under too much stress. You're not. Your ability to withstand stress is what's going to define your success. If you can't take the stress, you are not cut out to be victorious because stress and victory are married. You're buried under the [\h__\h] that you've stuffed all around the real work. You're busy being busy. And honestly, you guys, busy is the most pathetic form of self-sabotage because you are forced to endure all of the pain of working and none of the reward for the work and you don't even know where your time is going. Have you ever bothered to sit because you think you will quickly validate superficially, yeah, you don't understand though. I have to do this, this, this, this, this. Yeah, but they take 10 times longer and you put a bunch of filler in the way and those really aren't moving the needle and you try and classify them as musts when they're shoulds. Most things that you have to do in your life, they don't take nearly as long as you pretend they do. Email takes 5 minutes and before you start go, I have like a 100 emails. Then hire somebody because then you're at a point where you have too many emails to respond to and they're soaking up your day. There's a solution. The phone call that you need to make. Stop talking about their life and their dog and what they're doing on the weekend, what's Labor Day and all the things. 3 minutes. Shut up. The meeting, the staff, all that stuff. You don't need to have 1-hour staff meetings. 5 minutes at the most. And you guys take an hour. we have to have this uh 90-minute meeting. It's mandatory to do what? Shut up. If you can't figure out what to do, you shouldn't be leading. Cuz maybe you just suck at leading and it takes you that long to get the point across. But you make it this Broadway production of things that you have to do. You need the right playlist and you need your latte and your magic little coffee, whatever it is. You need to clear and clean your desk because it screws with your energy and you need to set the mood for an hour and then you like 4 hours later you still haven't started. And if this triggers you, then I'm talking about you again. Stop getting mad. If you're listening to this, stop getting buttthurt about the truth and actually do something about it. Because here's the thing, the tasks are never the problem. They aren't. I don't care what you have to do and how long the list is of crap you have to get done. The task is never the problem. The problem is with all the empty space that you wrapped around it. That's the gap and that's where your life is going right now to just swirl the drain and disappear. Like if you're honest, you're not working. You know what you're doing is you're you're laring. You're like those knuckleheads in the park that pretend they're still they live in Middle Earth. They're hanging out Lord of the Rings. You're cosplaying somebody who likes to work, who's actually getting things done. You're dragging out the pregame because the actual work is making you incredibly uncomfortable. So instead of doing it, you just avoid it. Your brain loves the game. I mean, it logs the feeling. This is wild. This is neurology again. That's why I get off on this stuff. It's wild. Your brain logs the feeling of time spent doing garbage and stamps it as hard work, which is why you end your day exhausted, but empty-handed. You've got nothing. It's like calling yourself productive because you open and close the laptop 10 times. That would be like a chef saying, "I'm a chef because I open and close the refrigerator door, but I'm not doing anything." You didn't cook anything. That's what you guys are doing. You open your phone with the intent to do something, and the next thing you know, you're going down the Instagram drain. Or you open up your laptop to do some work. That work turns into YouTube, checking your email, cleaning your email. You got to clean the inbox. Yeah, but it's not hurting anybody. Who cares? And man, I I mean, I could get pretty ugly. I mean, we've built this culture that confuses movement with progress. Some of you guys, you defend it like it is the second coming. I mean, you know, you guys know who you are. Bragging about your 12-hour days and talk about how hard you're grinding. You've got the sweat and the stress, the bags under your eyes. But if I ask any of you guys what's moved forward, you're going to give me a big fat goose egg. Nothing. It's the treadmill effect. Easiest way to explain it. By the way, if you're on a treadmill and you say you ran 10 miles today on a treadmill, no, you didn't. The treadmill ran 10 mi. You moved your legs and you didn't carry your weight. Go out and run 10 miles out on the concrete before you start getting it like you guys in your technicalities. Savior. Well, that's really bad for your knees, bro. And I got these specials. Shut up. Shut up. I'm just I'm done. I'm tired with you guys and your validations, your whiny little bitching. Don't listen to me then. But if you get in my comments and start dropping, I'll just turn them off and not give a crap. I don't care. But if you think your treadmill like you're running 10 miles on the treadmill, go out and run 10 miles. Let me know if it feels exactly the same. Not a chance. The treadmill ran it. You ran about 2 and 1/2. But that's the issue. You guys in your treadmill effect with your life. You're sweating and you're tired and you're wrecked. And then you brag about how hard you ran, but you didn't move. You never went anywhere. Where'd you go? Running is outside. What if you could go outside? Shut up again. Stop justifying. It's an example. It's a metaphor. You [\h__\h] Like you guys and your complaints. Most people are hamsters bragging about the wheel mileage they've put on. Nobody cares. I don't know if you figured this out, but the wheel doesn't go anywhere and you stay on it and brag about how hard you ran on it. That is busy noise and it is why you stay stuck. If it all you have to do is look at your life, man. You guys, it feels like you're doing something but it feels safe and it gives you this script when somebody goes, "Hey, you doing any work?" You can fall back on your little treadmill, your little hamster wheel, going nowhere, and say, "You don't understand how hard I'm working, how hard this is. I'm grinding all the time, bro. I'm working harder than you." Yeah, but the roofers next door are working harder than I am right now physically. But in one day, I earn what they earn in a year because I'm not just working hard. I'm working incredibly smart. Before you go, work hard, work smart. Save it. If you can't match me, you can't advise me. You guys should apply that same principle to your life. Well, I understand you're just working hard at getting nowhere. That's what you're doing. You're polishing the freaking brass on the Titanic, defending all the effort that produces precisely squat. And you get mad about coach. You guys get pissed off. You're going to get my comments and just light up because of that. You don't understand. Some of us have things to do. We have families to take care of. We have yards. We have chores. We have car repairs. And I have all this stuff to do. I have paperwork. I can't afford people like you. I have the same freaking problems. And I started with nothing missing a lung four years ago. What's your excuse? That's the problem is you guys want special treatment for your circumstances, but your circumstances really aren't that big of a deal. You make them a big deal. I mean, really, you you should be asking why why do I feel why can't I catch up then? Why? It's not because you don't have time. I'll help you. I'll tell you exactly why. It's because you hand your time over to absolutely nothing. And just so you know, nothing never pays you a dime. It never pays you back. You sit down at a desk and two hours vanish. What happened, man? I don't know. 10 minutes of real output. That's what it is. That's what happened. Because the rest, you guys play inbox roulette. You research, which you disguise with YouTube, and you have snack breaks and conversation and text messages to your sweetie and victory laps for doing something and probably slide a trip down Instagram lane just to see what's there. But you've accomp 10 minutes of work. That's your overwhelm. It's not too much work. It's too much nothing. And if you get mad about it, it's because I just tapped you on the forehead. And here's the sick joke. This is the worst. because you felt busy. Your brain logs this as effort. It's your neuroplasticity. You are re you are training your brain to go this is work. And then when you get nowhere, your brain goes, you're still an idiot. You're working this hard and you're getting nowhere. But now you're validating your own failure as proof of how hard you're working. That's why you can't catch up because you're defending the very behavior that keeps you behind. I come out here because I really want you to win because I've gone through this and yet for some reason people go, "Well, yeah, but it's different." Are you kidding me? There is nothing different about your life and mine other than I started earlier than you and I stayed with it and I looked at every mistake and I went, "Nope." And I just started checking boxes of mistakes I was making and going, "Take this out. Fix this. Solve this. Get rid of this. Burn this to the ground. Do more of this." Whatever it is. It's like the balance thing. You guys in your frigin balance. I saw a post. Dude, if this was you and you're listening to this and you know who you are, I don't know what to say to you, man. when you started trashing Hormosi for breaking a Guinness Book record, for selling the most in the shortest period of time, and you went and you trashed him and his wife for working too hard and go, they have no value, no balance, no purpose. But you have time to make a post about their life and you think you have purpose and value. Dude, if I was your kids, I'd be embarrassed of my dad because dad is acting like a toddler talking about another grown man and how they work too hard and they're not connected and present with their life. I love working. I mean, I really do. It's not some weird hole I'm trying to fill in my life. I really like working because it just I like it. My wife is the most fidious son of a [\h__\h] She works hard. My wife is so badass. I love Brandy so much and she is such a gangster. We learn from each other all the time. I've Man, I I can't It would take me a year to explain the cool things that I've become because of how hard my wife pushes me and how much she makes me hold the standard. And she'll say the same thing about me. What What could possibly be wrong with a marriage like that where on top of it, we are insanely intimate and beautifully connected and love each other so much and treat our kids like they're going to be leaders. So we raise them as such. It doesn't matter. It is always us against them. We are always on the same team. How could this be bad? And yet Bozo who is dogging on Hermosy whose wife left him. How do you have any time to make crap comments about anybody else? You need to fix your own life. That's you need to look at that. And if that's you and if you're in the same situation, get your head out of your ass and actually start doing things properly to organize your life. You don't need balance. Balance is the most ridiculous phrase in the world. Social media loves telling you to find balance. Balance your work. Balance your rest. balance your mental health. Balance is just a polite way, just so you know, of saying mediocre. Balance means you can dabble in everything without being exceptional at anything. Balance is it's cultural anesthesia. It numbs the pain of not going anywhere, no progress. Because the truth, balance isn't going to save you. In fact, balance is the hindrance that's going to keep you stuck. Leverage is the only antidote to anything you want to do. You need to understand that. Leverage means asking one single question. Does this action multiply multiply my progress or does it just keep me moving going nowhere? Leverage is I'll explain even what it is. Leverage is one unit of time producing 10, 15, 20, 100 units of a result. Balance is one unit of time producing one unit of noise. That's why two people can both work 10 hours. One ends up with 10 grand and the other ends up with 10 million. Same hours, different leverage. And the guy that made 10 grand is like, "I'm killing it." And some people are going to hear this and go, "Well, dude, I would totally love to earn 10 grand. I would, too. I'd rather have 10 million." Balance feels noble. Leverage feels unfair. That's the issue. That's why most people choose balance because they'd rather feel moral than make progress. But for what? You're costing yourself the very thing you claim to be chasing because you need to validate where you are about how busy and how frustrated and how overwhelmed you are. Now, sometimes you just need a break, bro. People just need a break. It's not all about work. That's why I'm ahead of you. Ask yourself, where are you bleeding? If you were going to triage yourself, somebody comes in, it's you and all the red soaked nonsense all over them. That's time. Look at yourself. Look at yourself. Look at your damn self. That's time. All the soaked red stains all over your body. Look at it. Triage yourself. Where do you always wish you had more time? Where do you never catch up? Where do you say, "I'm working so hard, Spartan." Listen, Dr. Trevor, I'm working so hard. Those are your crime scenes. Those are the issues. Those are the injuries. And then listen, here's the truth. Nine out of 10 times, they're not full of hard work. They're full of fake work. It's like sharpening pencils for hours instead of just writing the freaking essay. It's when somebody calls you out and then you scream and get pissed off and angry and fire back a volley of defense going, "You don't know how hard I worked at sharpening these pencils." Yeah, but [\h__\h] you didn't write the essay that was required. Congratulations. You've got a bunch of sharp pencils. No essay. You know what you get? F. That's your life. You've got a bunch of sharp pencils, bunch of sharp spreadsheets, Google Docs, whatever you want to call it, sharp meetings, no results, nothing. If you can look at your life and you see that you have the problem, which means you can solve it. I just gave you the solution. You can stop listening right now and go, "Done. I'm going to go do that." Except the worst part about all of this is society goes, "Yeah, you did it. Bravo." They clap for you. They cheer you on. They we glorify busyness and flex calendars like they are bank accounts with ones and 20 zeros after it. Brag about hours instead of outcomes. It is cosplay. I said it before. This is like I nuts. It's like productivity theater. It makes no sense. I would go nuts if I went I got to the end of my day and I did nothing. But I'm busy and exhausted and sweaty. What did you get? Nothing. It looks the same. Congratulate me. Are you high? Results don't care how many hours you've logged. Nobody gets rich from sweat. Nobody. They get rich from leverage. They get fit from leverage. They fix their marriage from leverage, not from sweat or hours. When somebody says, "You don't understand how hard I'm working." This phrase drives me crazy. You're right. Because hard work that doesn't produce anything isn't visible. It's worthless. It's not that you're running out of time, you guys. It's that you're running out of excuses. I'm Oh, it stresses me out. This makes me tired when I come out here. Sometimes I get in on this and I just like even my wife is like, "Do you just go nuts sometimes?" I'm like, "Oh, you have no idea, son of a [\h__\h] These people drive me crazy because they keep making the same excuses and wondering why their life is never advancing. It's because you're filling your life with a hamster wheel." And you run full throttle like you're sprinting for as long as you possibly can till you just about puke. And then you go, "Why am I not going anywhere?" Cuz you're still in a cage. You're not doing any real work. The stack of papers in front of you, it's all blank. you need to write the essay and you and I've been sharpening pencils like a [\h__\h] for the last 10 10 20 hours. You don't understand and you're sweaty and somebody looks and goes, "Yeah, but you got two things done, Jack and [\h__\h] And Jack's left town. That's your life. That's why you're overwhelmed." Listen, you don't need more hours in your day, you guys. I'd hope I had more hours. If I just had more hours like you, I have the same amount of time. And you sure as hell don't need balance. You need you need leverage, man. Like what you don't need if you're waiting for me to go, "Okay, what's the productivity hack?" You tell me. Spartan, I know you got it, man. And you got it cuz you got sh you got your [\h__\h] dialed in. I don't have a productivity hack. I have leverage. You need to stop just spurting blood time hemorrhaging it into busy noise. Listen, I said it at the beginning. Every morning you wake up 86,400 seconds. I think that's right. And it doesn't matter. It's not meant to sound cute. But by night, by the same hour, whatever that is before somebody gets technical again, you guys in your arguments, they're gone. They're gone. You can't bank them. No roll over, no refund, no let me get back to you. Let me do it tomorrow. In fact, when you say tomorrow, here's what you're doing. Just so we're clear, when you go, listen, I know I got all this stuff to do. I got it, Spartan. I know you have. You're right. You're totally right. I have these things to do today. I got to take care of this, this, and this, but I'll do it tomorrow. So, let me get this straight. You make up excuses why you can't do something today when you have more time than tomorrow. Can we agree that tomorrow you have less time than today? The answer is yes. Because regardless of whether or not you know that you're going to die, regardless of whether or not you know when you're going to die, you're going to die. Agreed. Yes. But that means that today you have more time than tomorrow. But tomorrow when you have less time, which means it's going to invariably cost more money, more energy, and less likely to be successful. You're going to do it then when you have less and it's harder. When you can't even get yourself to do it today, are you out of your mind? No, you're not. You're making excuses. But for some reason, you're so delusional, you think tomorrow is going to make it easier. And that's the trap. That's the trap. You just go, I'm going to do it tomorrow, but tomorrow never happens because every tomorrow it's even harder. And you know it when you get to tomorrow, but today, tomorrow sounds fantastic. Holy [\h__\h] does this make my head spin instead of just going, I got to do it right now. Just do it now. Whatever it is, do it now. Stop listening to this. Turn this off. Pause it. Whatever it is, turn it off and go do whatever it is you need to do. You'll get further faster. I mean, the only question with all of those seconds that you have every single day is did you trade them for something or did you hand them to nothing? Winners don't have any more time than you. I have no more time than you. I just I just stopped mistaking all this motion for progress. It's like the guy that goes to the gym for 3 hours and hasn't changed for 10 years and he's complaining about how it's his genetics. No, it's that you actually only worked out for 7 and 1/2 minutes. The rest of the time you're putting your coffee on various machines, wiping sweat off your head, and having conversations with girls that are never going to say yes. Listen, stop getting pissed off about it and actually do something about your life. You blame your boss and your time and your schedule, but the issue is the person that is walking around doing the blaming. And before you start validating why some people work out really hard and they just don't get anywhere, wrong. People that don't know how to train and shove garbage like birthday cake in a cup called a Starbucks into their bar hole every day and need an hour to go get coffee and come back. Those people don't succeed. that they think a magic little pre-workout and some unicorn powder is going to make them fit. Wrong. Because the people that bleed effort and output in the direction that moves the needle always win because they keep going in a way that makes it just completely it's impossible to not succeed. And all they're doing if you aren't doing that is outlasting you. You don't listen. You stop defending the noise. That's what winners do. You stop mistaking movement for results. you leverage and then cut, slice ruthlessly in your schedule, in your life. And that's that's how winners move forward while you're still sitting here spinning that little hamster wheel proud of how fast it's turning. Look at me. Look what I did. And go go. I don't know what to tell you. Stop saying you don't have time. Stop saying you're overwhelmed. Stop bragging about your hamster wheel treadmill mileage where you are still in the same damn place. You're not out of time. You're not overwhelmed. And you're not short on schedule. You're not short on minutes of your day. You're bleeding out all those minutes and seconds into nothing, validating that there's something, but yet your results tell different story. The math ain't math, son. And until you admit that, you're going to keep dying the same death every freaking day. And you're going to die busy and overwhelmed and frustrated and most likely obese and broke, but with a perfectly curated Google calendar. It's your move. I got to go. Never miss.