I just finished my Monday Q&A campfire call. It's so much fun. I love this call because it's like having me as your one-on-one coach one day a week. And the investment, the financial investment is significant less. If you're not part of it, you should be. It's not a mastermind that it's my unbreakable mastermind. If you think that this is some sales pitch, yeah, it is. You should join because if you've ever wanted to do one-on-one with me, but you just can't foot the bill, it's the closest thing you'll ever get to it, and it's for a fraction of the cost. Just message Unbreakable on Instagram, and I'll get you hooked up. Anyway, let's get to work starting right now. I think a lot of people need to process where they are in their own life because I'm about to tell you exactly how to take control of your life. The one that's spun out of control that every time you look in the mirror, you can't stand. You're trying to figure out how to make the money, fix the relationship, get the fitness, get off your cholesterol medication, save your your marriage, get the new house, get the new car, move, grow past a million dollars a year, whatever it is. And the issue isn't the goals, it's the questions you're asking yourself. Like right now, your life right now is a direct result of three questions that you have been asking and answering all day, every day. Since for as long as you could comprehend things in your life, whether you realize it or not, that's exactly what's happening. And the problem is that you aren't answering them like a leader. You're answer like a warrior, like a soldier, right? You're answering them like AI hesitate to use the word civilian, but that's where it is. More like a slave to comfort. It's like beard hair, a mouth. You're answering the three questions like someone who's outsourced his entire personality and psychology to social media validation. And you're calling that awareness. Except here's what's real. You guys aren't broken. Your life's not broken. Your marriage isn't broken. Your business isn't broken. Most of you aren't broken at all. You're bored. You're just bored. You're not lost. You're addicted to all of the things that help you feel not lost that produce nothing. You've trained your mind to only focus on a certain thing and it's always the wrong thing because a lot of you guys I see it right now and all the stuff you guys are posting and talking about. Great. But is it affecting your life directly right now? What are you talking about it for? What are you on social media for? Just to run your mouth and gossip because that's usually what it is. You give meaning to nonsense and you make sure that the emotions that you constantly shove into your psychology sedate you. And then you wonder why you are depressed and tired and anxious and frustrated and weak and broke and alone and rubbing one out every night by yourself in the dark. You're not depressed. You're not anxious. You're not unlucky. You're not genetically predisposed to fail. You have no discipline and no focus because of the answers you're giving yourself to the questions you're asking. And the moment you understand, and if you say, "I've heard this already." Yeah. But the moment you actually do it, you transform your entire life. Because the quality of your life, I will say this so many times until it sinks in. The quality of your life is predicated on only two things. That the quality of questions that you ask yourself every day, non-stop, 24/7, 365, and the quality of conversations you have in your head every day. I'm not here to motivate you. Somebody said, "Oh, I love it. You just get me so motivated." I don't want to be motivating. I want to drag your soft, chubby, validating, procrastinating, overthinking out of autopilot and force you to look in the mirror for real, not with filters and everything else over top of it. Because until you master the focus that you have and where that is and all of the things that come as a result of that focus, the meanings that you give, whatever it is you're looking at and all your patterns of action and your emotional patterns because of that, you are not living, you are reacting. Except reacting is costing you because when somebody says something to you on Instagram, you get mad. When somebody posts something on Tik Tok, you get mad. I go into the comments sections just to see the clown show and all you idiots getting angry behind a glass screen while your own life is burning down while you tell somebody else how to live theirs. The problem isn't what the problems are. Follow me on this. The problem is that everybody is giving you advice on how to solve problems and none of them have solved them for themselves. There is a reason why so many men just spiral downward. They think that they are living based on logic and discipline and strategy and they'll go to war. They will defend it. No, I'm super logical. I'm hyper disciplined, more disciplined than you, bro. I have a strategy. No, the reality is you are living based on focus. And the issue is you have no idea what you're focused on. You have no idea what your focus is even aimed at. The human brain is incapable of absorbing everything at once. And that's what you guys are trying to do. So instead, it is this lying, distracting, validating, procrastinating, filtered, deletion, generalization, distortion machine. That's what it does. That is the software. That is the operating system that is running since the day you come out of mine. It has to because otherwise you you start having overlap of s senses, right? You're like a sinthet, right? Where you just have colors have smells and sounds have pictures and numbers play songs and sensations and things like that and your senses overlap and you get overwhelmed. Your brain goes crazy because the sheer volume of, listen to me, the sheer volume of sensory input you're receiving would fry your central nervous system if you had to consciously process all of it. It's like when Superman all of the sudden could hear everything and he realized, oh my god, and he had to learn how to turn it off. Your nervous system is doing that for you and you guys are helping it go the wrong direction by trying to focus on everything or just on the dumb things. And then you say like you logically defend nonsense. You don't understand. Free Palestine. You're an anti-semite. What about the illegals? This is the president that we should have had. You guys focus on a bunch of nonsense, but none of it has changed your life directly. It just gives you something to gossip and argue about where you feel important in the moment, but you haven't done anything. How about you just focus on your own damn life and actually do something about where you are? Because if it had to process the real information, the stuff that you should be looking at, it would hurt. So in order to protect you and this tidal wave of information, you have a filter. It's like cognitive sniper scope. It's all right. The hole keeps moving and that's all you just see what's going through that hole or what you can see through that hole. You have a whole wall in front of you and the whole world is on the other side of that, but you're only allowed to see through this hole. That's the reticular activating system of your brain. That's how neurology works. And you aim it with what you're focused on where that hole goes and what you get to see. You are the one that's sitting in front of this giant crazy sniper scope choosing what your target is. And all you're doing is aiming at lowv value targets. and you wonder why your life sucks. You aim it with your focus and you're the one that's in control. You choose what you pay attention to. Which means if you choose what you pay attention to, you also choose how you feel. And if you say that's not true, you're lying. And you're trying to justify where you are. I'll prove it. Focus on the most horrible thing that's ever happened in your life. Do it right now. Go. 3 2 1 go. Focus on it. You'll start to feel sad and upset, angry, bitter, whatever. Focus on the best thing that's ever happened to you. Focus on the best thing that's happened to you all week. Let's go. 3 2 1 go. You'll feel happy, excited, elated, positive. You choose how you feel by choosing what you focus on because I just got you to focus on two different things. And if you go, "It didn't work, bro. That's your problem. It does work. You just don't want to. You're the guy that does this. Doesn't work for me, bro." Okay? And you're defending why your life sucks and you think you won. That's what people do. You argue to defend why it doesn't work for you, but it's worked for everybody else. And then you comb through Reddit and Kora and YouTube and Google and you look for all these validations to support why the solution won't work for your specific condition. So you have to stay where you are. Your life is unchangeable. And you call that a victory. I call that ignorance. And again, you are choosing to focus on that and how your circumstances are unchangeable. Focus determines outcome and the outcome is a result of your feelings. Focus equals emotion. That's why when somebody says Tom is talking behind your back, you get upset and then a couple more people say it and you're not just upset, angry, furious, but not because it's true. Did you hear Tom? And if you go, "No, he's talking behind my back." Okay, but do you have any proof of that? Or you just have your three drunken buddies that are still trying to figure out how to get past the last level of Call of Duty. You're mad because it's your focus. I told you before, your brain only cares about reps. It has no good or bad. It only cares about the reps. And you're putting in reps into the wrong direction. You're putting your focus into something repeatedly that makes you upset and you're complaining why your life feels like you're always upset. It cares what you focus on which makes it relevant because what you focus on becomes relevant to your brain. So if you focus on anger, bitterness, being taken advantage of, you feel betrayed. If you focus on strength, power, positive intent, you feel all those things, lack and loss and victimhood and validations, excuses, and procrastination, then you live in poverty. Even if you're rich, what you focus on determines your feelings. So you can have everything in the world, but what you're feeling is going to be your life. So the question isn't what's happening. The question is, what am I looking at right now? through my psychology. What I'm not talking about just physically. What are you looking at right now with your psychology? There are three default patterns that people always fall into. This is psychology 101. They look at all the things they can't control and then they obsess on those things because there is a psychological safety that comes with that because it allows you to absolve yourself of all the things that you could change. You go I can't change all that thing. Makes you upset and miserable. But what it does is takes away your accountability too. So you do it. It's intentional. You So you focus on what you can't control. You look at your past. I should have said this. I should have done that. If I would have only done this. Listen, if I would have put 10 bucks in Bitcoin in 2009, I would have a billion dollars, give or take. I didn't. But I can focus on that all I want. It's not going to help anything. You can't unring the bell. So what are you doing? And then people focus on what's missing. But dude, if I just had that thing, I don't have it, so I can't. So all is what's missing, what you can't control. And you look behind you all the time and you wonder why your life doesn't work because you are choosing to look at things that make sure that it doesn't work. You are choosing this when you walk into a room. Listen, do you look at what's missing or what's working? Because if you look at it with your business, right? When your business hits that wall, and it will, that's okay. you can get through it because I've done it. So have many other people far more successful than I am. But when your business hits this wall, do you look at what you can influence and effect? Or do you obsess on what you just can't reach? Look at your marriage. Look at your relationships. When it gets a little tight, you guys are conflicted. Do you think about the opportunity in the present? Or do you relive something that happened three years ago and then make sure you confront Yeah, I'm still mad about what you did 10 years ago. Why? Just so you can relive that? Cuz it reminds me to stay angry. Cuz that gives me power. No, it keeps you distant. So that means the person screwing up that marriage is whoever's doing. Because if there's someone that wants to communicate and someone that's holding a grudge from 12 years ago, the fault is on the person for staying with the person that keeps hanging on to things from 12 years ago. You didn't think I was going to say it. Divorce that [\h__\h] If they aren't letting go and you can't help them do it, it's not your responsibility to make them do it. If you can't go, hey, today is today. then you need to go answer yourself honestly. Is that how you're looking at your life? Because if your focus is broken, your entire life, you're delusional. Your entire life is an illusion. And you are going to feel the pain and the discomfort and the effects of cuts and scrapes and broken bones and travesties and tragedies and catastrophes that you've never experienced. They've never happened. My life is filled with all kinds of horrible things that have never transpired, so I never look at them. You guys are living them. You You could be handed the most perfect life. A lot of you guys, we're talking all the money, like Musk money, right? All the power to just control an entire country, legacy, legend, life, the next 20 generations, and you will still find a way to screw it up if your meaning and your direction and your focus are. And most of you guys are doing that. It's like somebody hands you a briefcase with a million dollars and you go, "Yeah, but it's not two million." What in the [\h__\h] is wrong with you? Because after your question of what are you focused on, the next one is what am I? What's the meaning I'm giving you? Listen, Victor Frankle, a man's search for meaning, spent time in a Nazi concentration camp, not a good place. And he found a way to give it meaning and purpose. And what most people are going to do is go, "Yeah, but I'm not Frankle." He wasn't Frankle until he did that. You have to make the decision on what you're going to do because when you go, "What does this mean?" I have a follow-up question to that. I keep asking, "Yeah, but what else can this mean? What else can this mean? What else can this mean?" And I keep asking that question until I get to an answer that I can't change. That's the one. It's like AAM's razor. You go through everything. Whatever's left, no matter how improbable, is the truth. So the second question is, what does this mean? You got dumped. Okay. Is that the end of your life, your confidence, your self-worth, your credibility with yourself? Is that what happens? Or is that day one of having self-respect enough to have walked away long time ago? So the next time you won't make that mistake and you remember everything you did, so you just don't do it again. You don't remember the pain of the relationship. You go, "Okay, now I know what not to do, but I also know what to do. I learned my lesson." Most people screw that up. So, they stay in a marriage or they just keep repeating the same marriage with five different people and they go, "I keep picking bad ones." The common denominator is you lose a deal, somebody doesn't buy your product or service. Nobody's punishing you. Why did you lose the deal? I don't know. I just suck at sales. So, now you know what to fix. I don't believe in my product. Now, you know what to sell. Something else. When you don't get what you want, is that a rejection or is that a parry and a redirection? You have to decide because if you can cling to all these negative meanings all the time and complain about your life, but the common denominator isn't the meanings and the circumstances. The common denominator is you in those circumstances. Most people pick the meaning that allows them the opportunity to stay a weak little [\h__\h] And why? Because being strong is expensive. Being strong is expensive. Being accountable is expensive. Being responsible is expensive. Being disciplined is expensive. Being a victim is it's at the Dollar Tree. Like, it's a discount. As a matter of fact, right now it's trendy on social media to be a be a victim, right? Social media when you're a victim. Oh, hey everybody. You're so brave. I saw you make that crying video. You're a pansy. Nobody cares about your divorce. Nobody cares about how sick you were. Nobody cares about your failing marriage or your business that isn't working. You know what they care about? Their own [\h__\h] number one. And when people go, you should have some empathy. No, you are taught that you should have empathy and care about everything. You got to be real tight with the [\h__\h] you give because you're giving them out to everybody else but not to yourself. And you're wondering why your life is burning to the ground. You're running out of time. Victimhood is on a discount. And it is so glorified, right? It's celebrated and it's easy. Like when something bad happens, the weak men and women say, "Life's unfair. That's why I'm not making money. That's why my business failed. That's why my marriage failed. God hates me. The system is rigged. I can't do this. Everything's against me. If I would have done this 5 years ago, it would have been better." You know what the strong man or woman says? Game on. Bring it. That's all you got? And then we go to work. Listen, when you feel sad, it's a signal. When you feel anxious, it's a signal. That's your nervous system telling you that your focus and your meaning aren't aligned. And I'm not talking about alignment and your chakras and vibrational frequency. I'm saying that you are giving the wrong meaning to the wrong feeling. Don't go to therapy to cope with lies. How about you just rip the lies out of you and replace them with something more powerful and meaningful? You want to dominate the life that you're in right now. Really, you want to move through heartbreak and poverty and being broke and bankruptcy and loss and catastrophe and betrayal and chaos and keep winning. Then you have got to master one thing. Nothing in your life has meaning until you assign it. You nothing can make you feel anything without your permission. So choose wisely. Your move, bro. Because the meaning you give it determines the next question, which is I'll get to that in a second because that's what you do, right? And most people don't want to admit you're not your emotions, but emotions are running most of your lives. Knee-jerk reaction. So, I saw it on my webinar yesterday. I gave all the answers on how to do something, the steps, the playbook, and then invited people to make the next take the next logical step, which was join the mastermind. And everybody ghosts and shuts up except for Molly. She crushed it. But the reason I'm saying that is because when it's when the responsibility and the accountability and the decision to upgrade yourself is shown to you and then volied to you. Most people go, "I'll do it later. I can't do it yet. I will, bro. Just not right now." And they never do, thinking that tomorrow they're going to have more time. You have less time, less energy, and less resources to do it. So you are basing your decisions off of emotions, not the result you want. If you base your decisions always off of the result that you are heading towards and what you want to achieve, your emotions have no say in the conversation. But you guys, your emotions are running your [\h__\h] life. When you feel sad, you stop. You're tired, so you skip. You lay down. You dick around on TV, play video games. When you're afraid, you just stall out. You clam up and freeze. Then you wonder why you're stuck. every moment of your life you are answering the question the third one that I was telling you and that is what am I going to do and I've had a hard time with this plenty of times in my life just not for the last four years because the answer to what am I going to do is controlled by how you feel logical man you're not no matter you guys are all like I govern my whole life by logic you're the most illogical person in the world if you say it because you don't your emot emotional. What do they say about sales? They buy an emotion and back it up logic, not the other way around. You justify your behavior with logic, but your behavior is initiated and controlled by your feelings. What controls feelings? Where you're looking and what you're telling yourself that means. Two different people can see a handshake if they're from two different cultures. That handshake has a radically different meaning. You give someone the finger and they don't know what it means. It's just you, a dude sticking his finger up. You do it to somebody that apparently thinks that a finger sticking up is life or death and they need to come and freak out. That's a meaning from them. To you, it's just you do this. It's just a finger. It is just a finger. You give the meaning. So your whole damn life is this operating system. You focus on what's missing. Then you assign a meaning to it that your life is a catastrophe and you're never going to win and it's everybody else's fault. And if this didn't happen and that didn't happen, you'd be further ahead. And then you feel hopeless and helpless. And then what do you do? Nothing. Nothing. You eat, you work out, you do busy work, you complain, you whine about your life, you blame everything else, you whatever. You do the dumbest things on earth. You binge, you scroll, you hide. You don't need motivation. You need an emotional enema. That means you need to have the grit to override the emotion that you feel with the action. that's required the action you need which means doing the thing and we all know this doing the thing especially when you're in the suck but I don't need to tell you that you know that means you have to have the guts to change the story but it's the story in your head your story around you is caused by the meaning you give it Jesus died on a cross for all our sins what was his story forgive them father, for they know not what they do. But you're telling yourself lies to keep yourself stuck. The guy knew where he was going from the beginning. And he still did it. You have to have the guts, the balls to change your story in your head while your entire world burns down around you because nobody is coming to save you from yourself. You think they are, but they're not. You want them to, but they won't. You already know what to do. I think the problem is you haven't been desperate enough or disgusted enough to do it. Maybe until now. Well, yeah, it's intense, huh? Like I maybe we just pull back a little so your brain doesn't explode from all the hardcore savage testosterone flying around on this podcast. Maybe I'm'll be the first to say it. The world doesn't need more men telling you how to fix yourself because most of the men telling you that haven't fixed themselves. But I'm giving you tools to actually do it. Like your life, it ain't complicated. You are just using the wrong operating system and wondering why the machine keeps crashing. You focus on what's missing rather. You give it some tragic catastrophic meaning. You feel like absolute crap and then you go why am I always miserable? That's like microwaving a boot and wondering why your soup tastes like a boot. It's like [\h__\h] your pants and changing your shirt. You ever been in a relationship where in the beginning you would do anything for that person? Really, anything. You'll get up at night, you'll do anything they want in the bedroom. You'll cook for them. You'll take them somewhere. You'll massage them when they're upset. You'll let them sleep on your arm even though your arm's falling asleep. You'll bring them home, whatever food you can find, and you'll show up with flowers and little gifts and give them a month of birthday celebrations at the beginning for no reason whatsoever, just because you want to. And then 5 years into the marriage, your husband asks you something, your wife asks you something, and you just about rip their head off. They ask you if you could move the car, change the oil, wash this, do that, move this, build this, whatever. and you tear a hole in them like she just asked you to donate a kidney. The relationship didn't change. You guys are keeping score. Now it's a competition. Listen, if you did things at the end that you did at the beginning and you treated everybody the same, your relationship wouldn't end. What changed when that happens in your relationship? I guarantee you a lot of you guys just went, "Shit, that's what I'm doing." It wasn't her. It wasn't him. It wasn't the love. All that's still there. You buried it under all the meaning and focus that you have. You stopped you stopped looking at them as someone that you want to take care of, you want to love, you want to make sure is happy, that you just want to protect, and you started using a yard stick. You put checks in boxes and started keeping score. We did this position when we had sex yesterday. I don't that was the one you wanted. I don't want to do that anymore. So, we got to do this one. otherwise I'm not going to have sex. That's why you're miserable. It's the same reason why millionaires still eat a bullet, why billionaires get depressed and take handfuls of pills and lock themselves in a box for their entire life. Because they're making the same stupid mistakes, just with bigger numbers. You want to fix it, have Look at what you have. Look at what you have. And don't compare. I don't mean like I'm doing better than Susie down the street. Look at what you have right now. I have this. I have clean, cold ice water in a thermal flask. I'm wearing a $40,000 Rolex. I get to hold a firearm and carry whatever I want here in Texas. I have a cell phone. I have an amazing wife that I absolutely adore inside. I have two incredible kids. I could go on and on. I have a powerful juggernaut of a body. I could sit here instead and go, "Yeah, but my water's not as cold as I wanted to, and it's not the gun I really wanted." And you know what? Yeah, but it's not a P attack and but this isn't the house I really want and but my wife is always doing this and my kids never listen. What you focus on determines your life. So focus on what you [\h__\h] have and then assign a meaning to your life that makes you look towards that target, that kingdom that you put on the horizon that you want. You just keep telling yourself it's too hard, too far away, and it's just not going to happen. Maybe act like somebody that you would respect instead of asking other people to respect you. Why don't you just be respectful of yourself? Other people will respect you. And for the love of God, stop making life harder than it needs to be. Life is already hard. Like right now, your life is sculpted by the same [\h__\h] questions. And you might reword them and come at them differently. It doesn't matter. You're still doing it. Where am I looking? How is it making me feel? What am I doing as a result of that? and you're not answering them once and then running through your day. It is non-stop, 24/7, 365, even in your sleep. So maybe answer them like somebody who's not planning to waste the next decade sleepwalking around their own life. What are you focused on? What are you looking at? Really, this is the blueprint right here. You want to change your entire life. This is where you have to go. I am committed to zeroing out my financial, my bank account, my money account, my time account, and my energy account. I will put every dollar I've got, every ounce of energy I've got, every bit of myself, every minute of my day into getting to that target because who I become along the way is exactly who I need to be in order to create everything else and it gives me purpose and meaning. So, what are you focused on? You looking at what's good, what's awesome, where you can go, what you're capable of, or you looking at all the things that suck in your life? You looking at what you can control? Are you looking at everything that you're like, I can't control any of this. I don't know what's going on in the Middle East. I don't know what's going on in LA. No, you can't. You can't control it. So, what the [\h__\h] are you thinking about it for? Because everybody else says you should. Is it affecting your life directly? No. Stop thinking about it. You looking at what you control or what you can't. You looking at what you can do tomorrow, what you can do right now as soon as you stop listening to this podcast, or are you looking at all the things that you missed? Oh, I didn't do that thing though. That's the first thing. Where are you looking then? And then what is what does all that mean for you? So, you had a fight with your wife or your kid is upset or your dog ate part of the furniture. Well, what meaning are you giving it? Is it a curse or a calling? you looking at something as a you're just getting punished and beat up and everything is against you and the world hates you and you're being ostracized and ridiculed or those all the people that are the low life low frequency people at the bottom that are never going to do what you're capable of doing because they just won't do it and eventually they're going to be a dot in your rearview mirror. You listening to the noise of the and the rabble of the peasants or you looking at the calling of the kings? Is it the end or the beginning? Where are you looking? You look at something and my life is over. Then it's over. Comes down to the third question is what are you going to do? What are you going to do? You post about it. Let me make a teary video about it. Let me tell you, I can't get my big ass into these seats because they won't change the rides and I ate myself into 400 lb. It's the fault of the food manufacturers. My boss wouldn't listen to me when I needed a bigger office chair. And now I fell and I hurt my bum. You're 400 lb. You're shaped like a bean bag. You did it to yourself. You weren't born like that. I pity your mom. If you were, God, her vagina would be destroyed. You blame everybody else. Victimhood. Like I said, it's on sale. So, you going to post about it? Complain about it. Talk to all your soft little wimpy friends. Call your mommy. Mommy, nobody likes me. You going to quit? Pivot. Reduce your goals. That's my favorite one. People go, "You know what I realized after this catastrophe happened? Wow. After my wife left and took the kids and [\h__\h] me over financially because I'm such a loser, I realized I really don't want to be successful. I need to be more present in my life and I'm I need to be like, "You're doing great. I don't have those lofty goals. Those were silly." Is that what you're going to do? Cuz your brain knows you're lying. So do all your friends. And if your friends cheer you on, that's a great thing to do. They're not your friends. Are you going to get up? You going to take the hit? Tyson's going to give you one and you're going to be like, "Wow, that rung my bell." You going to get back up, bite his ear for a change? You going to get back in the fight? Cuz all of that is up to you. Where are you looking? You going to cry about it or use it as fuel? And then you're going to take some action towards whatever it is you want to do. That's the bottom line. Because every day, every hour, every second, those questions are either building you, turning you into the juggernaut and taking you another step towards everything that you want, or they are constantly handing you a bigger shovel to dig a deeper hole. You choose. Because if you don't, listen to me, the rest of the world is going to choose for you, and you're going to blame everything around you. And that's how average and mediocre people die. fully aware of what they wanted, knowing damn well all they had to do was try, but never admitting it. I gotta go. Never miss.