You know, I get a lot of messages from you guys asking me for help. And number one, I'm honored that you trust me with your health. And number two is I'm disgusted in the current health care system. It's it's embarrassing. So, I'm going to give you some solutions today, but I I want you to know something. You guys, whoever's listening to this, the health care system, the way it stands right now, I'm going to disrupt the whole [\h__\h] thing. You guys deserve to be healthy. I've gone through hell. You've watched me. I've brought you with me every single time I've gone through anything. Not one time, four times with cancer. You guys hung with me when I lost a lung. So, for everybody that's been here for 10, 11 years since I've been showing up on social media through everything, wins and losses, I don't care. I appreciate you. Thank you. I'm going to [\h__\h] [\h__\h] up in the health care system. You guys deserve better. Maybe I'm just one guy, a tenacious son of a [\h__\h] I got a lot of messages recently about leaky gut. And I think a lot of times people don't really understand how devastating that is to your entire body systemically. But even just go back a little further. You ever notice how everybody's sick? Like now everybody's sick. Everybody's sick. I'm tired. I'm bloated. I got a headache. I have high blood pressure. I have diabetes. I can't focus. I'm depressed. And what do the doctors do? I'm a doctor. And this is embarrassing for me to say about the medical profession. What do doctors hand you? Option A, another pill. Option B, little pat on the head, like I said yesterday, and it's all in your head. It'll go away. Maybe just drink a little more water. Meanwhile, the actual problem is staring them right in the face. It's their gut. It's their gut. If you don't understand how vital your gut is, think about pouring motor oil into your gas tank in your regular internal combustion engine, not a diesel, and how well that's going to work out. Never mind, you know, pour paint thinner, I don't know, lawn fertilizer. Put something in there that's not supposed to be there and let me know what happens. And and I'm not talking like their gut, like the fake six-pack filtered BS that people are posting on Instagram right now. Like, how crazy is that that there is a filter? This is real. This is all me, baby. You know what's wild is people have filters to do that. Listen, you fat bastard. How about you just get off the couch, get out of your living room, and go for a walk. I'll help you out one mile 16 to 17 minute pace every day for the rest of your life. Liberating. It'll change your life. It'll change your world. Everything will be You'll make more money guaranteed cuz you'll think better. You'll sleep better. You'll have better sex. You'll be healthier. You'll be Oh god, I can't even get on this. I don't care about the 10,000 steps. That's a bunch of BS. I'm just talking about being a strong, durable, rugged human being. Like, think about it. I'm like, when I say the gut, I mean the real gut wall. It is one microscopic sheet of cells. That's it. That separates the sewer of the outside world from the sanctum of your bloodstream. And that wall in most of you, just so you know, it looks like it's been peppered with a scatter gun. Like a shot a 12- gauge shotgun. Just blah blah. Just Swiss cheese. It's a disaster. Looks like a [\h__\h] colander. That's leak. That's leaky gut. Just so you know, it's this force multiplier in the wrong direction. It's like a silent amplifier behind half of the misery that you guys keep complaining about, but never want to actually really fix. Listen here, here's the blunt reality about leaky gut. Your gut is supposed to be Fort Knox. It's supposed to be locked up so tight. One cell layer thick. That's it. I just had this conversation with my wife. One cell. That's how thick it is. That's it. That is a paper thin barrier made of epithelial cells that are glued together by tight junctions. Think of them as this is almost embarrassing because they're not really that secure. That'd be like the TSA of your body. It's not really because they're a disaster. Clottins, occludins, Z1 proteins. They decide who gets in and who gets a body cavity search right in front of everybody, right? Like when those junctions are sealed, trains pass through and garbage stays out. When they get all loose popping, all of a sudden you've got LPS, ipopolyaccharides, right? which are bacterial endotoxins from uh well the bacteria living in your gut that aren't supposed to be there gram negative bacteria they sneak into your bloodstream and once they're in your immune system goes bananas it hits the nuclear option because it doesn't know what to do with those toxins that's what's making you sick it's not the leaky gut itself it's the result of the leaky gut but you still have to fix fix the leaky gut that that massive immune response that happens when you start having these leaks into your bloodstream that's chronic inflammation and chronic inflammation is the background music of modern disease. I mean, we're talking heart disease, lung disease, diabetes, autoimmunity, Alzheimer's, all of that. None of that's aging. That is your gut wall tanking. And what's wild is it's really not that complicated to fix. I'm going to tell you all the bunky things that people are doing to fix it that are selling you their unicorn powder and their little fairy dust. Stop it. Stop listening to these people. Stop it. Really, stop it. I'll come to your house. I'll make you do burpees until you die. Stop. Listen, let me let me give you a physiology lesson just so cuz I want you guys to have this information. I wish somebody would have taught me this without me having to go through decades of school. So, I'm trying to give you the most simple version and turn you all into medical doctors. How about that? You just have all the information. So, when you walk into something and they say, "You need this pill. You need this shot. You need this surgery. You need whatever." You actually have the information to go, "No, I don't." And they go, "Yes, Mr. Jones, you really do." And you go, "Actually, no, I don't. And here's why." And when you open your mouth and the answers come out, the doctor goes like this. Holy crap, they actually know. And now they're the idiot for trying to get you to do something that's going to harm you. Physiology, just watch how the dominoes fall. Let me explain this. Junctions loosen, right? And there's a multitude of reasons. I'll explain those for a second. Toxins leak into the system, uh, the vascular system. Immune system floods something called a cytoine, TNF alpha, IL 6, IL1 beta. There there's a couple. And then now you get this systemwide 10 alarm fire. All the problems show up because here's the nuclear fallout from that autoimmune problem. So gluten fragments slip through, right? We already know where this is going. Immune cells get confused and mistake your thyroid for a friaking bagel. You know what? You have Hashimoto's. A metabolic dysfunction. Lipopolyaccharides. I'm just going to call it LPS. It's easier. LPS interferes with insulin receptor signaling. Well, that's diabetes that's loading up in slow motion. Neurologically, cytoines cross the bloodb brain barrier. Now you've got brain fog, depression, anxiety, all kinds of problems where you can't even hold a thought in your head for about five minutes. Inflammation literally rewires neurotransmitters. nutrition collapse. So now you have damaged epithelial cells that can't absorb iron, magnesium, D, B, just to name a few and now you're exhausted and you're popping supplements that you get from some instab bro and you are still running on empty. See the issue is leaky gut doesn't just stay in your gut. It's it's like taking my 911 and poking a hole in the oil pan. I don't just have an oil leak. My entire engine's going to seize and it's going to cost me a lot of money. Except when it happens to your body, the the money it's costing you isn't money. It's your life. And I have to touch on this cuz I saw some video the other day. One of you guys sent it to me. So, whoever it was, I don't remember offh hand. I'd love to give you credit, whoever you are. I just don't remember. So, my apologies. I get about 5,000 messages a day and I really do try and answer every one of them. Don't be pissed off if I don't because you know what? I do have a little bit of a life outside of all this despite how much content I crank out. It was somebody some bald dude crying about how TRT causes leaky gut. Like, come on, man. Like, testosterone is out there punching holes in your intestines. That doesn't even make sense physiologically. Let me help you out. Your gut is not drywall. I can't sit there with a ballpin hammer and start smashing it. And that ballpin hammer is testosterone. That's not how it works. Like I said, single cell layer thick epithelial cells stitched together with proteins. That's all that decides what gets through. Testosterone lowers inflammation. It doesn't raise it. It actually shuts down something called NFCappa B. This is the nuclear fire alarm that cranks out cytoines, TNF alpha, and it cranks up IL10, which is the immune system's chill pill. That's what's happening with testosterone. So, so far, we've already checked a box that says not causing leaky gut. That shift that the way that works, that shift in the reduction of inflammation, that tightens up the gut barrier. It doesn't loosen it up. So, your gut and brain, I don't there's something called a Vegas nerve, right? Cranial nerve 10. It's always talking your brain and your gut. They're having communication 24/7, 365, whether you're awake or you're asleep. Stress lights cortisol on fire. Cortisol is like a can open. It pries open the gut, all all the the junctions and and the space between the cells. Testosterone actually buffers cortisol and keeps your gut brain axis stable. Your gut is designed to function well. Testosterone helps it function better. Never mind the fact that your gut lining replaces itself every 3 to 5 days. that turnover. So, follow me. If you're replacing cells, and we already know that testosterone helps you recover. I love these guys that came into my feed saying that testosterone isn't just a recovery tool. That's exactly what testosterone is, actually. It helps you recover faster, better, and more efficiently. All the mechanisms of action don't matter. It is still a recovery tool. Yet, people are going to argue. I'm sure you'll get in here and argue with all your wonderful physiology that you get from chat GPT. You don't know. I do. I'm trying to help you. So testosterone drives protein synthesis and regeneration, right? Which means, and if you're turning over cells, and it requires protein synthesis to do that. And testosterone does that, it's cranking up IGF-1. IGF-1 and cellular repair driven by testosterone, which means TRT helps your leaky gut seal, not not get worse. Low testosterone, the state you were in before TRT, if that's what you're on, cuz that's what this guy said, TRT is causing your leaky gut. You need all these crazy peptides. No, you don't. Not because of that. If you have leak leaky gut, it is not from TRT. Put me in front of this guy. I will set his skull on fire. This is if you look at low TRT, that's what's linked to high visceral fat, inflammation, dispiosis, uh increased gut permeability. TRT doesn't cause the leak. That's the patch that keeps you from falling apart. I just had to touch on this because I started thinking about leaky gut and that's not even the problem. It's it's the stamp that this guy's saying, whoever it was that goes, how do you know you know nothing about physiology by saying that? You sound like a muppet. Listen, how about we just cut the crap? Leaky gut isn't caused by test or peptides or the internet's favorite scapegoat of the week or whatever nonsense, whatever food it is, Skittles, I don't know, whatever. Let me explain what actually hammers your gut. It's not coffee either, as I'm drinking a whole bunch. Alcohol. Alcohol demolishes your gut. So, ethanol dissolves those tight junction proteins. A weekend binge, your gut lining looks like it was pressure washed with a shotgun. Like, it looks bad. Alcohol is really hard on your system. It's a poison. NSAID's probably one of the worst ones. So, ibuprofen, aspirin, buffer, tylen, all that stuff. NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, they block prostaglandins that protect the mucosal lining, which means the same thing that you take for the gut pain punches new holes in your gut wall. Stress, I said that before. Cortisol floods. So now your vag nerve tone tanks, right? The junctions open up because that's what's preventing it. Chronic stress is going to come in and essentially make your gut leak. Excuse me. Like a busted old pipe in a really old house. And junk food. Junk food's terrible. It's right up there with NSAIDs. Sugar bombs, seed oils, and before somebody goes, "I heard seed oils aren't bad. I read this peer-reviewed study." You know, I'll help you out with peer-reviewed research, by the way. I read all the time. And I mean, I read a book every 3 4 days, five at the most, depending on what I have going on in my life. And I listen to a ton of audible books, real books, but seed oils just made me think of research. and research. Look who funded it. Look to see if it is a correlative study, which means this happens when this happens, therefore this causes this. And that's not true. Like if I started sneezing when I drank this cup of coffee, then you could make a research study that says drinking coffee causes sneezing. Except that's not true. It just happened that they occurred at the same time and would make a mess all over my microphone and my screen. So, we're talking sugar, seed oils, catastrophic, highly processed foods. you get the wrong bacteria starting to bloom in your microbiome. So now endo endotoxins, right, the lipopolyaccharides, they spill into your bloodstream and your immune system, that's where I went with the Hashimoto's, right? Now your immune system thinks that your thyroid, I'm just using it as an example because that's one very real example, thinks it's a a piece of toast or a bagel or some pasta and it attacks it and now you have Hashimoto's, which is not it's an autoimmune problem, but not really an autoimmune problem. There's more to it than that, which is why the standard method of treating Hashimoto's is very ineffective. Then opens up a whole new can of worms where you have a bunch of other systemic problems. And the last one is obesity. Listen, you fat bastard. I'm I have no sympathy for it. Body positivity is the dumbest thing on earth as a label for somebody that is obese. I don't care if you say you have a hard time losing weight and you don't understand my addiction. Number one, food is not it does not follow neurologically being an addictive substance. It's not. The problem is your psychology. It is not the food. If I had this one lady who this would send a carb addict into a tail spin. There is no such thing. There's no such thing. We could get into the neurology of it, but I'm going to burn your skull, so you're not going to like it. The point is is that you cannot get addicted to food. It doesn't have a withdrawal symptom. It has a withdrawal psychology where you just go, "Oh, I have to have my pizza or my cheesecake or cookies or you, I don't know, triple shot white mocha, whatever nonsense you guys put in your bar hole." But obesity and leaky gut, that's the perfect marriage. Visceral belly fat secretes lipopolysaccharides 24/7. So you're not just overweight, you're a walking septic tank. If you look at how a lot of this is treated, it makes me want to simp these supplements, but they're very expensive supplements, so they're better. No, they're not. They have better marketing. The difference between a $5 vitamin C and I'm sure it exists, a $500 vitamin C from some weird magic orange that's up on a Himalayan mountain. Nothing. Nothing. I I don't care who says it. It doesn't matter what InstaGuru says it. Show me the blood work and the results. Swap them out. Give them to the same entire population and see if anybody has a different result. Not anecdotal, real results. You won't. You won't. It makes that's what makes me want to slap most of the supplement industry across the mouth because they're lying to people and taking money. It's just as bad as the pharmaceutical industry. If you look at probiotics, for example, which is always the go-to for people, right? I have a leaky gut. Probiotics percent, just so you know, 99% of those probiotics die in the stomach acid before they ever reach your colon. And those survivors that kind of trickle through, they don't reseal your junctions, man. They don't. Or collagen powders. I've seen people go, "It's collagen. I just need more collagen." Oh, congratulations. You know what? just bought overpriced jell-o that your gut lining is going to still look like a paintball target. I don't know how else to break it to you other than just telling you the truth. It's easy. I come from a time where it just this is the truth. This is the problem. Here's the solution. Now, people go, "Well, can't you give me a six-year protocol that I can think about for a year?" You can. You're just going to feel like hammer dog crap for that whole time. The gut health powders that I've seen for 80, 90, 100, two, three, 400 bucks. They sprinkle a little llutamine in, maybe some aloe, and probably some turmeric. It's like this fairy dust blend that makes a nice, beautiful label, but it doesn't fix a barrier failure. That's like saying thinking about a gun is going to solve the problem when you go hunting and you pull out a catalog. No, you need the gun. You need the right gun. All of this is like patching a ship with with a Spongebob band-aid. Doesn't matter how organic the label says or how gluten-free it is, it won't hold any water. The boat's still going down. And I think the issue is that so many people grasp on to solutions because they haven't given any. And I get that, which is why keep on messaging me. I'll keep helping you as best as I can. But you get presented with solutions. You don't know who to trust or who to believe anymore. Valid. Absolutely valid. And usually, unfortunately, the best marketing wins in those scenarios and people get burned. I mean, yeah, you should. I honestly think you should get all your peptides and research chemicals from Elite. I do, but that's because I know the owner and I'm not coming out here as a giant infomercial. So, while we're on that, let me explain. You want to repair the leaky gut? I'll give you exactly what you need. You need tools that speak the body's language, by the way. Not collagen powders or weird probiotics or some sav that you run on the out rub on the outside of your stomach or drinking your own urine. Dude, some of you guys are weird. I don't care if you think drinking aged urine is healthy. It's not. Uh, your body's getting rid of your urine for a reason. Let me let me just put that out there. Your body doesn't go, "Huh, maybe I should recycle this." That you're not a Fman from Dune where you're recycling all your stuff back into your system. Yeah, if you know, you know. You need tools that tell your cells to work. And by work, I mean close the holes, kill the fire, and rebuild the wall. Those are the three things that need to occur. If anybody gives you a more complicated explanation than them than that, send them to me. I will set their skull on fire with real physiological facts. That's what peptides do. I'll even give you the top three. You only need three. You can get complicated. You can take all kinds of other stuff, but that's it. This is it. If you come at me with like, "Well, what about this? What about this?" I'm giving you the answer. So, shut up and do it so you don't have problems and you go and enjoy your life. But then stop hammering your gut with garbage. Like, if you're on seven different medications, part of that's the problem. Most medications are causing problems and you create this endless cycle of chasing symptomatology. I mean, that's another podcast, but you guys need to look at what you're putting in your body and question if it's helping or hurting. So, BPC57, this is the ultimate rebuilding peptide. I can't speak highly enough about this. Everybody's heard of it. No, orals don't work ever, ever, ever, ever. It is impossible. They enter boot camp when they go into your gut. It is not possible. You cannot take this chain of amino acids and throw it to into a chemical hydrochloric acid that is designed to disintegrate proteins and turn them into chum. You can't. I don't I'm going to get somebody that's like, "Well, orals worked for me, bro." No, they didn't. You are just so ignorant that and and you suffer from self-hypnosis that you have a placebo effect. Great if it actually fixed the problem. Show me your blood work and you're going to be very disappointed. So if you look at BPC57, it comes from gastric juices, body protective compound, right? It belongs in your gut. Don't be squirting it in your mouth. Don't. What it's going to do is it's going to upregulate um some of the proteins, right? The claw and z1 proteins, stuff like that, which are going to reseal the zipper. Think of your cells in your gut as a zipper. The tighter they are, the more they they keep what's in and what needs to be out out. And it decides what goes in and out. Remember the TSA example, right? Uh, it's going to stimulate VEGF and angioenesis. So, better blood flow, faster repair, and it's proven. Before somebody goes, is there any proof? Yes, it's proven to heal NSAIDE induced gut lesions in every animal study I've ever read. The reason that people don't use it is because they're either scared of needles or they think it's going to cause cancer. Well, it doesn't cause cancer. If you're scared of needles, quit being a [\h__\h] I don't know what to tell you. You've had more painful things happen to you. I can't count the number of times. When you were learning to walk, it hurt worse than any insulin needle. And this isn't kombucha. You guys drinking your kombucha? Great. GT Dave. Awesome. All the way. Woohoo. That will not fix leaky gut. If anything, it's going to give you diarrhea. I got nothing against kombucha. I think it's great. I just It's not fixing your leaky gut. I don't care who sells it, who says it. I don't care what influencer comedian of the hour who thinks they know everything is going to say. It's not going to work. And then there's KPV. I talked about this yesterday with the Wolverine Protocol, the new the close K. Man, if you can't afford the ultimate Wolverine, which doesn't even make sense to me because people will borrow money to go on a vacation, but they won't do it to fix the machine that allows them to go on the vacation or earn the money to pay for the vacation. Make it make sense. Like I said, I I love you guys, but you guys are you guys are weird. You guys will spend two grand on a home stereo system and a television, but you won't spend 500 bucks or a,000 bucks on a protocol that's going to actually fix the problems that you have. make it make sense and then complain and then go, "Well, my co-ay covers this, so can I go over there?" I used to get people all the time, "Well, this isn't in my network, so I'm going to go somewhere else." Yeah, but I know what I'm doing. I know, and I'd really like to come see you, but that one's you're not covered, so I'm going to have to go to that doctor instead. So, now, let me get this straight. Insurance companies are dictating where you go get your health. Are you high? Whose body is it? Just leave it at that. So, KPV is like the ultimate fire department for your body. It It's a fragment of alpha melanocyt stimulating hormone. Alpha MSH just it's a fragment of that, right? But it blocks what remember what I talked about NF cappa B cells nuclear factor cappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells if you really need to know what it is cuz I said you really don't but I'll just tell you anyway. This is essentially like like the nuclear fire alarm for cytoines. Cytoines are bad and it shuts down TNF alpha IL6 IL1 beta like flipping off a light switch. So it's shutting down the inflammatory processes that are causing all the problems. not good inflammatory processes, chronic systemic inflammatory processes that are making you sick. It protects against colitis, IBD, yeah, all this stuff that people are giving you crazy drugs for that have side effects that are going to kill you. If your gut lining is on fire, PPV is the extinguisher. It's that simple. If I can make it as easy as possible for you guys to understand. I just want you to understand the physiology behind it so you actually know what you're doing. TB-500. I love this. I take it all the time. I had somebody go, "Oh, no wonder. No wonder you can train like you do." Yeah, because I function. You know what's great? My 16-year-old son doesn't take anything and he trains just like me. Do you know why? Because he's functioning like a 16-year-old. I'm 52. Why would you not want to function like a 16-year-old? Really process that. That's the logic people have. Well, I'm going to suffer and get all beat up, but at least I'm authentic. You go ahead and be authentic. I'm still authentic cuz I'm using signals that tell my body to do what it's designed to do the way it's designed to do it. I'm getting all getting rid of all the static and the interference that have been screwing up my system over time for the last 30, 40 years. I'm going to go and do things that make me as savagely robust as possible so I can do all the things I want to do with the people I love. So I can create the environment that I want to for my family. So I can be strong and healthy and protect my family and be around for my [\h__\h] family. So I can build a business and give them all the things they want that they deserve. Because I love spoiling my wife so much, not to make her love me, because she loves the hell out of me and I love spoiling her. I love teaching my kids lessons about building business and like I don't get it. You guys just some of you guys in the in the comments. Well, you take TV500. If I did that, I could do that, too. No, you couldn't. No, you couldn't. I'll say it as egotistically as possible. You couldn't keep up with me on my worst day when I started this with an oxygen tank hooked up to me on your best day because you don't have the psychology that I do to do it when it sucks. Anyway, that that's I could go off on this all day cuz it pisses me off. But TB-500 causes actin polymerization, right? It it mobilizes actin so cells can migrate and patch the problems. It's systemic, but it works very well. It stimulates angioenesis just like BPC-157 and reduces fibrosis so you don't get all kinds of issues. Never mind the fact that TB-500 heals cardiac damage. Athletes heart gone with TB-500 gone. Why would you not want to do that? If you know what athletes heart is, you know it's a bad thing. It's the only muscle in your body that you do not want to grow. Put it that way. Athletes heart means a section of your heart grows. It It's a another conversation for another day. And TB-500 isn't even gut specific, which is what makes it even better. It speeds up healing across your entire body. This is like the the lead on the project that runs around working 24/7. Just it's like a robot. It never needs a break. None of these are oral. Just so you know, because here, I'll just give you the blueprint cuz it's easier. BPC57 is going to rebuild the lining, right? The the gut lining. KPV is going to shut down that fire and TB-500 is going to crank up the speed of the repair. That's the blueprint. It's exactly what I said at the beginning. These are the things you need to solve. So, you have to look at what's solving it and actually get the information about what is going to solve it and then just apply that. Not well indirectly in a roundabout sort of way. If I go, you know, through Little Rock, Arkansas and then come back, I can get to California from Texas. Why would you ever do that? Just drive straight there. So, just keep that in mind. You want to get there as fast as possible so you can enjoy the rest of your damn time. You're healthy and strong. Nobody likes being sick. I don't care how tough you think you are. I'm as tough and gritty as they get. I hate being sick. I hate feeling like crap. I hate hurting. And I still hurt all the time. You know why? I'll say it again. Cuz I'm 52 and I'm missing a lung and I don't have an off switch. Why would I? If I can do more, I'm going to do more. Like I mean 4:30 today on a Saturday. I'd rather be inside with Brandy and my kids. But I'm out here helping you because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] You stack these three peptides together, like if you do this stuff, it fixes your problems, not the gut problem, all the other subsequent problems that have occurred because of the gut problem. You're not patching holes. You're rebuilding this fortress and shutting down the fire and you're running construction crews in your system 24/7. That's how you fix leaky gut. That right there, that's it. Don't get fancy. Complexity kills my buddy Bedros. I I've talked about him so many times. Bedros [\h__\h] And if you don't know who he is, you need to look him up. because that is one of the few guys that I have insane amounts of respect for. Brad Lee is another one. Tons of respect for these guys. Andy Fcella, love these guys because of who they are and what they actually bring to the table. No matter what you think, but the reason I'm saying it is Bedro said to me a long time ago, complexity kills everything. Here is your simple solution. It works 100% of the time. Honestly, here this is the problem I have with everything I'm telling you. Most people don't want to fix the cause. They want some magic little powder that they can sprinkle into their Starbucks latte and then pretend they're healthy. Which is exactly why supplement companies are so rich and you're still tired, inflamed, pissed off, bloated, and thinking there's magic somewhere about it. What's in this coffee? I'm lit. Listen, leaky gut gets fixed by cutting out the booze, not lowering it. Cut it out. Kill the stress. Well, how do I do that? Fix your damn psychology. Stop having negative selft talk. The quality of your life is predicated on two things. The quality of questions you ask yourself on a daily basis and the quality of conversation you have in your own head. Fix those. You're in control. Stress is not in you. It's not in the environment. It is your perception to physical or psychological threat. The end. Get it handled. Grow up. Drop the junk food. Get rid of the sugar, the processed food, all the crap. And when needed, deploy the only tools that actually work. Peptides. Can you do this without it? No. I don't believe it. Once you're once you've got that kind of damage, no. and taking proton pump inhibitors to shut down stomach acid. Worst thing you can probably do in your body. You have hydrochloric acid in your gut. Ridiculous amount of reasons. You take away your body's ability to do something, you shut down its ability to do whatever is required in your entire like your homeostasis goes right to hell. Everything else outside of what I just told you, no booze, no stress, killing the junk food and the garbage you put in your bark hole, dumb supplements, all that stuff, and actually putting the right peptides into your system. All systemic belly, VPC, TB-500, and KPV right here. That's it. Don't squirt anything in your mouth. How does it reach the gut? Because it does. It's systemic. It hits the bloodstream. Everything else outside of that, marketing noise. Marketing noise. Leaky gut is the amplifier behind your fatigue, your brain fog, your forgetfulness, your bloat, your autoimmune garbage, your metabolic decline. And the raw truth is this. Like it or not, if your gut wall is compromised, nothing in your health is going to work ever. Or I don't care how much how many things you do, you're treating the result, not the cause. Your supplements won't work. Your hormones aren't going to work. your diet's not going to work because the gateway to your bloodstream is wide open and the enemy is inside already just beating the hell out of you. You don't fix that with kombucha or probiotics or whatever other nonsense that you you fix it with real physiology and science. BPC-157, KPV and TB-500, rebuild the wall, shut off the fire, and crank up the healing. It's not complicated. I think the idea is that if it's new, people bulk at it because they go, "Well, yeah, but I I just I didn't see an an ad about it. Is this approved? I heard it's still in trial stages. If that is you, we're not going to get along. So, you probably just don't want to listen to me cuz I'm going to say you're insane and you clearly want people that don't want that don't have your health or life or anything else in their best interest to sell you products and services. Knock yourself out. Like the reason my mentorship I'm number one fussy. Number two is it's a big deal to join my me mentorship. I'm not your Insta G guru coach. is because number one, I built the thing and got really good and made a bunch of money building the thing and doing the thing before I told anybody else how to do the thing. I didn't come out and become wealthy by teaching people how to be wealthy. I became I my my wife says that all the time. She's like, "You you had a 7 figureure business before it was trendy, before anybody talked about it. It just was something you did." But my mentorship is worth it. That's not me blowing sunshine up your ass. It's me saying, "I've done this many, many times because I know what I'm doing. But I'm also not going to sit here and market the hell out of you and go, you should join my stuff. Join my mentorship." Great. Don't. That's on you. Keep buying goofy programs and thinking it's going to be done for you. That's fine. But my mentorship, and this isn't a plug on it. It's just the fact that I know what I'm doing. It'll fix your health. It'll fix your money. I don't care where you are in your business. I'll help you grow. You have to listen to what I tell you to do. You have a health problem, pretty good chance that we can fix it inside. You have a relationship or a psychology problem, yeah, I'm going to fix all that, too. It's not a workout program before somebody goes, "Do I get your training?" Hell, you don't. You're not going to like it anyway and you're not going to do it. If you want it, I'll post it. But every time I post my training, I always get the same the same 70% Instbo people that show up and go, "There's no way you can do that." And then I post my entire video and the flip side goes, "Well, that's why you're always hurting and injured." Stop trying to please these idiots. And if you're one of those idiots, I don't care about your opinion. I know what I'm doing works. I think the best thing people could do if you have a real health issue and you're and you're ready to actually move forward on it, you're not going to go, "Well, I just want to see like what do you have available?" I have a cure program. It's an acronym. There are only two variations of it. One is $100,000. One is $25,000. $25,000 25 days. $100,000 100 days. It's not complicated. There's no promo code or discount cuz this isn't for people that want things that are cheaper or easier. This is for people that go, "I'm tired of being sick and having problems. Help me. I don't care what you got. We're going to solve the [\h__\h] out of it. But I have one non-negotiable rule. You do every single thing I tell you. There's no handholding, no endless check-in calls, no nonsense like that. This is how it should be. I don't want you to rely on me. I want to teach you how to have your system back mentally, physically, like psychologically, financially, health, whatever. If you're in my mentorship and if it's with the cure program, I want you to actually have your body under control so you can go out and do all the things you want to do instead of going, I don't know if I can do it. I better rely on this doctor or that doctor or these supplements or that. Oh, if I teach you to be addicted to me, then I am no better than any other doctor out there or pharmaceutical company out there. I don't want you to rely on me. I want to teach you how to never need me. That's the best thing I can do. 100 days, day 101. I don't want to see your ass anymore unless the problem is catastrophic and it takes longer. But I've never seen it. I've never seen it. I've seen people anything from cancer, ankylosing spinalitis, asthma, type two diabetes. I've seen it all. I've done this for a long time. But I'm also fussy with who I take. If you're not ready to move on everything I tell you to do, don't even ask me about it. Don't send me a message. Don't send me an email. Go, well, so can you tell me a little more about it? I just did. We solve your health problem. You do everything I tell you to do. You come out the other side. You don't need me anymore. The end. I'm the walking billboard for it. And again, not an arrogant statement. It's egotistical, but even then, it's not. It's a resume because I've actually done it and I've shown it from start to finish. My health sucked four years ago. Bad. And I got out of healthcare space because I got tired of everybody trying to sell [\h__\h] I'm like, I don't even want to talk about this anymore because there's so many lies and so many people pedalling nonsense and garbage or Insta Bros going, "Trust me, I'm an expert." Trust me, bro science doesn't help a damn thing. But there's lots of it. IFBB Pro card holders that tell you how expert they are. People that live in Huntington Beach who think they're so good at peptides that couldn't explain their difference between their ass and their elbow. I will go toe-to-toe with all of these guys. People selling vests and magic drops that they put in their water every morning. It doesn't matter. If you want results, then you talk to the people that go, I'm going to bleed to get you the results. And people that are fussy, not people that take everybody. You know what's a good sign of a rookie that doesn't really care about you? They take everybody. They don't take the people that need the help. They take anybody with a check. Not me, man. You can't buy me. If I can't help you and you're not going to listen to me, you can write me a check for a million dollars. I will turn you down. Test the theory if you want because I I actually give a [\h__\h] about people, which is what makes me a very good doctor. But at the same time, it pisses people off cuz they go, "What's the easiest, shortest way to do this? I only have one way to do this. Whatever it is, I have the successful way. It's not complicated. Do this. How do I make money? Do this. How do I fix my marriage? Do this. How do I fix my health and my fitness? Do this predicated on all of the repair work you need to do on your system which involves whatever eating better, changing what you stop smoking, stop drinking, fixing everything with peptides and serves and serves and research and stuff that you need to do because so you have to look at that. So if you want my help, send me a message that says I want in on the cure program. I'm going to ask you four very basic questions. What is the problem you're trying to solve for real? Don't hold anything back. Tell me. I don't care what it is. I need to know because if you don't tell me the truth, I can't help you. Number two is, what have you tried so far that hasn't worked? Number three is, do you want a patch or do you want it fixed? And number four is if this is a good fit. Are you ready to move on this right now? Because that last one determines whether or not I even respond. Yes, it matters because I'm not in the business of wasting time, but neither are you. So, you have to go, do I want to be healthy and a juggernaut? Then we do it. If you go, I'm not sure. I like taking these little Skittles flavored medications and hoping that my life gets better. That's okay. I I'm not going to condemn anybody for it. But then you can't sit there and complain about being unhealthy. So here here's the deal. You don't fix your life with a magic drink or some protein powder. You fix everything in your health by actually knowing what the levers are that you have to pull in order to repair the problem, not patch the problem, not make a bunch of noise. It's like you have squeaky brakes and you just crank up the stereo. The brakes are still shot. I actually turn down the stereo and I listen to see where all the noise is. Then I just fix all the things causing the noise. You know, it's like the story that guy walks through the factory. They call somebody, something's not working in the factory. Huge multi-billion dollar factory. Call the expert. The expert comes, walks around for 3 hours with a clipboard, iPad, making notes and everything. Walks up to a gauge, taps the gauge, and says, "Fix the machine attached to that gauge and all your problems will go away." You go, "Absolutely awesome. Thank you so much. Send me the bill." The next day, he sends a bill, a million dollars. And the guy, the owner of the company, freaks out and he goes, "You better send me an itemized receipt that says,"Wh is it that you were here for three hours and that's a million dollars cuz I ain't paying you." And he goes, "Yeah, no problem." Sends him an email that shows him the breakdown. Walking around 3 hours, 10 grand. Knowing which gauge to look at and what machine to fix, $990,000. Who you are asking and who you are getting your information from matters, but you better be ready to pay the price to fix your problem. Cuz if you're looking for the cheapest, you don't want the solution. You want a bargain. I don't do bargains because I want people to have a great life because my reputation's on the line. But you should be the same. So the next time somebody tells you that their entire life physically, right, physiologically is falling apart, they're tired, they're anxious, and if this is you, they're inflamed, they're forgetful, they can't sleep, their period is a disaster, they're beyond permenopausal or menopausal, they can't get rid of fat, they can't put on muscle, guy, girl, it doesn't matter. They're having all kinds of problems. Ask one question. If it's you, look in the mirror. The question you ask is, "How's how's your gut?" Well, and if you go, "How am I going to know?" I just gave you the tools to figure it out. Pretty much guaranteed that there's a problem. You with me? Because if that if that wall is leaking and you don't need a year's worth of treatment, you need 100 days. Or you can start with this protocol that I just gave you. If if your wall is leaking, your gut wall is leaking, your whole body is on fire. It's burning to the ground. And until you fix that, it's what I said yesterday. It was my favorite. My wife laughed her ass off when I said this. It's like you're rearranging furniture in a house that's on fire thinking that that's going to put the fire out. Never going to happen. Anyway, hope that helps. I got to go. Never miss.