And you know, I started thinking about something when um Sorry, I'm fixing my watch. It's one of my favorite watches, right? It's this Rolex Submariner. It's just I just really like it's like a timeless classic. I I just It's my favorite watch. I got a bunch of watches and I just really like it. It's my favorite. It kind of goes with everything, right? Including my beard. Anyway, this isn't about a watch. This is about one single thing that I'm going to take for the rest of my life. And I've talked about a few of these, but there's a reason. See, I think here here in lies the issue people will take. Follow me on this. statins. They'll take blood thinners. They'll take like I mean one of warin is rat poison man and it's not some that's just old. No, it's true. It'll kill you. They'll take aspirin every day depleting their glutathione in their liver on a daily basis. The number one antioxidant that they need in their body. Like I could do this all day. But when you go you have to you should take this peptide every day or a couple of times a week or once a week or whatever it is. Isn't that kind of like the same thing as taking the drug? No. Cuz peptides aren't drugs and drugs aren't peptides. Drugs hurt people for the most part unless they're saving a life and they still do it in a way that hurts somebody. And peptides are a signal speaking the language that your body already speaks in order to make your body do the things it already knows how to do better. Gives you A-50 50x ROI. Why would you not want to do that? It it's just a bizarre con concept. I mean, I I don't understand. But I started thinking about this and I thought, you know what? Maybe I should just start giving you guys information on all the individual things that I take and that I do and all the individual things that will help you in a way to live the same life. And it's if you take it as egotistical, that's your problem, not mine. But the same life as me where I feel strong, I feel healthy, my injuries heal fast, I run around like Wolverine, and I've gone through some serious [\h__\h] Remember, I'm missing a cylinder. One of my lungs is gone. And I I mean, I came out four years ago. I was in a wheelchair. Not by choice. So, I give you this stuff cuz I want you to have the information. That's it. So, I'm I'm going to rip through this quick cuz it's Sunday and I want to go hang out with my wife and kids. I say that a lot, but it's Sunday. I really like hanging out with my family on Sunday. We got church. We got all kinds of stuff. So, it's good. But I want you to listen to something. Your body is the most I'm going to talk about TB-500, by the way, because you guys are what are you talking about? TB-500. Your body is the most sophisticated piece of machinery on the planet. Barnum Steb and his Apple creations have nothing nothing on human biology. Nothing. But it's also the body is also one of the most poorly maintained. You guys, we treat our cars better. We change the oil and get tune-ups and change the tires and wash them and polish them. But our own biology run that into the ground on bad food, crap sleep, and endless stress and then wonder why it breaks. And when it breaks, the solutions are pretty damn pathetic. Pill for the pain, surgery to cut out the problem. It's like trying to fix a the world's greatest supercomput with a sledgehammer. Make it make sense. It doesn't. And so I want you to understand there's a way to do this where you don't have to worry about stuff like this, but also a way to make you much more resilient and more robust to be able to take a pounding and not fall apart. Because the problem isn't your body. The problem is that you're trying to read them the repair manual in a language that you don't understand. So I'm going to try my best right now. Actually, I won't try my best. I'm going to do this. Translate the most important page you've got in this entire manual. It's the chapter on TV500. It's not a steroid. It's not a drug. It is your body's I don't know. It's like me in a company, the CEO of cellular repair. So when you understand how to use it, just follow me. When you understand how to use it, you don't just fix problems, you upgrade your entire biological operating system, which is how you need to look at everything. Is what I am taking, listen, this is important. Okay. So, what I am taking, what I'm injecting, what I am swallowing, what I'm rubbing on me, is it upgrading my operating system or is it muting the noise while my operating system continually declines. See, where is what I'm doing taking me should be your question. Because if it is just making symptoms go away, that's not necessarily the right answer. Yeah, I get it. You want to be out of pain, but if it's out of pain at the expense of longevity, and I mean real, like all of a sudden you shorten your life by 30 years, what are you doing? My dad died at 67 taking handfuls of Tylenol. Was it helping with the pain? Yeah, until he was dead. 67, man. Get that in your head, you guys. Listen to me. So, here, let's get real biological. I'm going to try and fly through this. So, remember, I just came off my webinar. We had a 100 people that capped out on So, for all of you people, if you came to my webinar today, I am upgrading my audience size because I capped out at 100 people and I had a just a slew of people trying to get in. I couldn't let you in because I didn't even know, to be honest, that that Zoom had a limit. So, I was at 100. So, next week I want to do 500. So, I'm going to just up it to a,000. I want to fill it every time. I have a giant 160in screen right there on that wall. My goal is a little headset and I stand there and I tell all of you guys how to do everything. All of it. Make money, fix your marriage, fix your health, all your peptide questions and your your health questions and solve all the problems that doctors keep shuffling you around to other people for. All the questions that you wish you had answers for that for 9 months, 10 months, a year, two years you've been waiting to get in with a specialist that nobody seems to be able to help you. All of those things, I want to answer the whole damn thing. All of it. Cuz I want to just give you the answers so you have it and then you decide what you do with it. Okay? The problem isn't information, it's application. Just remember that. So, like I was saying, we're going to get biological. What the hell is TB5? It's a question you should probably ask. And if you don't know, great. A lot of people think they do, but they don't. So, at the molecular level, it's this chain of amino acids. We already know these about peptides there. It's a language that your body speaks, right? It's like the specific dialect of Latin that only your body understands, right? Sorry, I got this I got this hair from my when you have a mustache. I've had this happen. It curls up in your nose. Drives me nuts. But big deal, right? It's just a str a string of amino acids. So what? So is a piece of chicken, some steak, whatever, chickpeas. But the physiology is where the magic happens in all of this, you guys. Your cells have a skeleton and it's called the cytokeleton and its main component is a protein called actin. Bear with me because this is important. Actin is the scaffolding. It gives your cells their shape, their strength, their ability to move, their ability to function. EB500 is the the executor, the foreman of the actin crew, the construction crew. If you watch Man with a Plan, it is like Actton it or TV500 is Adam Burns and all the people that work for him like LOL and his brother. If you watch the show, if you don't, this makes no sense. They're the the construction crew. They're the ones that do the job and the work while he directs where everything needs to be done. Otherwise, it's just a pile of boards and concrete. Doesn't look like a building. So, it holds this reserve pool of actin building blocks called Gactin monomers on standby. when you get injured like a torn muscle, a cut, inflammation, even getting sick. You have a flu, you have a cough, you have a the all these issues really, sore throat, this all comes into play. That's why you need to understand why I'm telling you this. EB500 doesn't just send a memo. It gets on a bullhorn and it starts screaming the alarm and it releases those little actin blocks, right, the Gactin monomers to the exact site of the damage. It knows where to send them and how to send them there as fast as possible where they they snap together into these strong filaments called factin. And they start rebuilding the structure immediately, instantly. The second you get injured, bam, it starts right away. This isn't some weird you have to wait till you get to the hospital foreign chemical reaction. This is you operating at 100% capacity. That's why this is pretty badass, but its genius is in how many different angles this this hits the problem. This peptide, man, it's like it's like patent. It's just this master strategist. It upregulates something called an integrin, the communication ports that are on all your cells. So, they can talk to each other and organize the repair effort like a very welltrained, well curated team, very well put together. They all know each other, right? So, it promotes angioenesis, which is the growth of new blood vessels, very much like BPC7. I'll get to that in a second. It does that in order to flood the area with oxygen and nutrients and extract all the toxins and metabolic waste out of that area. So, it's making this exchange modulates inflammation, turns your immune system from this chaotic, destructive mob into very precise, very effective, very efficient cleanup crew. So, TB-500, I said this yesterday or I think when I was talking about copper where I said it's like a a band-aid on a bullet wound, right? That that's the most dumb thing. And a lot of these, listen, a lot of you medical doctors are doing that and you know it. You know, I I come off on you guys real hard because I I give a [\h__\h] about mankind. You care about flexing your degree to everybody. You care about telling everybody how how I don't know. You work in the greatest facility, state-of-the-art. You have a wellness clinic. You have a longevity clinic. You want to prescribe some garbage. I don't know. But I don't understand why you do it. Above all, do no harm. Above all, do no harm. So, you don't put a band-aid on a bullet. I I think you guys are embarrassing you doctors. You're hurting people and you're doing it for profit. And you're not even doing it for much profit. I know people that sell internet courses that make more than most doctors and they go, "Well, they don't help people." Neither do most doctors. I'll fully say 99% of the doctors out there are an embarrassment to the medical profession. The AMA is a disaster. Big pharma is a train wreck. Everything is managed decline. And they have convinced you guys, I've said this before, they've convinced you guys that is normal and that's the way it should be. Are you [\h__\h] high? That is not normal. Like my son is sick right now. It's making me crazy because I I have never missed Touchwood. I have never missed on a diagnosis in decades of being a doctor. I've never missed it because I take it personally. That's why. And that's the hardest part about being an exceptional doctor is you take it personally. I laid in bed at night last night. I didn't sleep at all cuz it bothers me when my my children are sick. It bothers me when my wife is sick. I don't take it lightly cuz then I sit there and I go, "How do I come up with a solution?" And if you go, "Well, that's not healthy. You shouldn't do that." That's how I treat everybody that I consult with, too. Every patient I've had. That's why I've seen over a million patients. That's why people that consult with me pay the money they pay because they know I'm going to give them everything I've got. That's why in my webinar I was I stayed an extra half hour. I'm not getting paid for it because I I care. So you guys that go out there and preach about how much you care, nobody cares till you show them. Talking about how many prescriptions you can write, you can go to hell. I got nothing for you. How big your wellness center is, how your fancy your equipment is, you go right to hell. How about how many people you have successfully helped? How how many people you have extricated from their problems, not given a drug to hide it. That's where TB-500 comes in. Doesn't put a band-aid on a bullet wound, man. It orchestrates the entire healing symphony from cellular level all the way up. All the way up to the top, man. All the way up. So, here, listen. What does this mean for you? Because that's the question you should probably be asking. It means you increase the power of your own biology by taking the governor off. You remove the limitation. And if any of you start talking about how well the limitations are put there by God. No, the limitations are put there by mankind screwing up human biology with their poisons and their toxins and what you drink, what you wear, what you eat, what you breathe, what you rub on you, what you shower in, what you bathe in, what you swim in, what is in the air, what is in the things you touch, what is inside this, what kind of foods you have. Like all of it, those are the limitations. You've been made limitless. If you think you've been convinced, indoctrinated to think that you were born with limits and a Tylenol deficiency and an antibiotic deficiency, not. You're born limitless and you have been imposed. You've had limits imposed upon you. And you need to understand that because if you don't understand that first, you're going to constantly look for ways to discount what you don't understand in order to do the things you do understand but don't really understand. But the dogma that you've been force-fed that you now believe instead of contest. This this incre this this harnesses all the horsepower of your biology. That's why when people go, "Well, you're cheating." I'm not cheating. I'm telling my body to do exactly what it does. When I was a kid, everybody I knew was fit. It was just normal. Like 90% of my dad's friends were fit. My mom was skinny. The food was normal. And we didn't have a lot of money at all, but we still ate real food. So, the reason I'm telling you, my parents made me work and there was things to do. And we had consequences of action and the water was clean and you know this is all this stuff that you guys have to understand that it's been so many years that it's like how do you boil a frog one degree at a time right until it's 212. So this removes the limitations. Think of your natural healing speed as you guys remember you go to Target or Walmart or whatever say Target and they had that little envelope on the wall for AOL dialup, right? And get that CD and you put it in. It was like herpes. had just ruined your computer and you never got rid of it and there was no antivirus that would work that right but you'd sit there and it would give you this dialup internet connection that you thought was the greatest but now you're like wa this is slow as hell that's great it works right the dialup works so this is this is your natural healing speed follow me it works but it's dialup it's slow as hell minor injury takes weeks like I'm looking at my son he's sick he's been sick for a couple of weeks it bothers me but I'm now throwing everything I've got at him as if he is a just all I see is him as a almost 17-year-old patient. That is all I see him as. And it is absolutely my duty, my obligation to make sure everything in him is working at 100% capacity so he heals up as fast as possible cuz I'm not going to heal him. The cells inside, his own biology is going to heal him. I'm just going to get all the [\h__\h] out of the way and I'm going to make sure his biology isn't running at 20%. Make sure it's running at 100 and he could destroy whatever is trying to make my son sick cuz it bothers me. Seeing your children hurt and suffer is one of the hardest things a parent can do. And I don't mean hurt because I got knocked around on the field or they did something in their sport. I mean sick and feeling helpless. It's a terrible feeling as a parent. I love my children very much. And I love my wife very much. And seeing any of those three struggle is hard for me. It's one of my it's like my kryptonite. So if somebody's out to get me, there you go. Now that's my cryp my it's my kryptonite. But if you also do that, you're going to have a bad day cuz you're going to go up against me. It's not challenging somebody to a fight or whatever you jackasses think. It's just telling you, I got God behind me and I'm a force of nature. I'll protect my family. But think about this. Instead of taking weeks and weeks and weeks to heal from an infection, let's say, or a cut or stitches or anything like that, like I told you, look at my wrist. Look at this. This is nuts. This was I don't know what it was a week ago, something like that. And this is I mean, it's it's like I can crank on it. Look at this. There was a video where I was like I probably look ridiculous cuz I'm stretching. I was like, "Oh, it's so hard." Like I can just everything I've got doesn't hurt cuz it's healed. It's not masked. I didn't take a bunch of hydrocodone. Like, oh, I'm high as a kite, but I can't feel a thing, but it's still damaged. No, it's solved. TB-500 upgrades your biology to whatever is faster than fiber optic. Just like you recover faster, you train harder more frequently, everything works better, you accumulate less micro damage over time, which is going to cause, it's part of the cause of that low-grade systemic inflammation, which is the cause of probably 99% of all diseases. You're not adding a new feature, you guys. you're unlocking the the premium version of the software that you were born with. This is the difference between surviving your life and just owning the hell out of your life. So, let me let me get specific so you actually understand. I'll give you some examples so you can see what I'm talking about because it's not theoretical. Like there I'll give you 10, 15, 20, 25 different ways that this single peptide solves real world damage. I mean, this is the value of what TB-500 is and why I take this every 5 days. I will take and there was I I made a poster video a little while back where I said I'm gonna take I do it for six weeks. I changed I'm doing it every five days and I'm going to do five milligrams every 5 days. Oh, by the way, I have to say this because otherwise somebody's going to freak out. Some weird agency. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, advise, prescribe, triage, diagnose, whatever it is. Give medical advice despite what I do, which is weird as hell. This is purely theoretical, hypothetical, entertaining, educational, and all just manufactured stories for like pop-up books with coloring areas. That's what it is. If you know, you know, cuz it pisses me off that I have to say that. But this is the real live like benefit of TB-500 and how effective this is. So, look at and I these are all things that I've actually dealt with. So, let me let me pop some of these off. Achilles rupture. I've dealt with these with people. Achilles tendon rupture accelerates tennis proliferation and collagen alignments. It it'll turn a careerending injury into a career building like just a comeback story. That's how easily you have to that's how bad that's how good this is. And that's just one thing. Rotator cuff tears, any of those four muscles regenerates a complex weave of tendons and ligaments in the shoulder, right? The shoulder is so complex because it's not really attached to anything. It's just the the scapula floating around on the back of the rib cage. So, it gets you back to whatever you want to do, whether it's push-ups or under the bar, swinging from something, or just having a life where you can actually put your arm overhead. Muscle strains. Holy moly, this works so well. Repairs torn myofibbrals and cuts inflammation down by 90% gone. It cuts your recovery time in down to 10%. You just you get to go back in the gym and make all your progress. You don't lose all your stuff and you're not in pain. Surgical wounds, I've seen posttop stuff with this stuff. Boosts epithelial cell migration. So, closes you up faster. It stitches up your right fibroblast go in there. The epithelial cells go in there and start closing everything up. Reduces infection risk because your skin is the ultimate barrier. So it gets you out of the hospital where all the sick gross people are. Gets you back into the world and into your damn life. Modulates cytoines and the protects your cartilage. So cytoines the inflammatory kind, right? TNF alpha IL6. And it doesn't just manage pain. It helps actually rebuild the joint. You pair this up with AODD9604 and like heavyweight hyaluronic acid. Holy [\h__\h] you're going to get the condraittes to do their job and make cartilage on a bone on bone joint. People go, "That's not possible." That's fine. Then don't do it and go back to getting a knee replacement. That then do that. I don't know what to tell you. I'm not here to convince you or prove anything to you. Your job is to prove it to yourself. My job isn't to prove it to you because if I have to prove it to you, you're always going to find a way to undermine it so you feel better about the knowledge you don't have, but the indoctrination that you do. Rheumatoid arthritis, this is an autoimmune issue, right? So helps regulate the autoimmune attack. Preserves all the function of the joint and the tissue. It takes your suffering and reduces it to zero. Coral abrasions. I've seen this repairs the surface of your eye. Coral abrasions. The cornea right here. It repairs the surface of your freaking eye. It like light speed protects the vision that you so desperately want to use all the time. Myocardial infarction. This is the one. An MI, a heart attack. This is like left anterior descending is the widowmaker, right? like that goes, you're out. This is the big one. So, you need to follow me on this. Heart muscle doesn't regenerate after a heart attack. Heart muscle scars until TB-500 kicks through the door. It promotes cardiomyas migration and survival. It solves the fibrodic problem in your heart and eliminates it. Athletes heart reduces thickening of the wall. Athletes heart will make bad things happen to you. How about that? You don't want a nice big giant heart. You want a strong heart. They're not the same. It's one of the only TB-500 is one of the only things shown to actually to actually cause the heart muscle to repair itself. This is not about recovery you guys with an MI. This is resurrection and another chance because you don't have to remember when you have a heart problem all of a sudden you have the SA node pumping like with the signals you have the perkingi fibers and the bundle of hiss and they all have to have this conduction wash over the heart with the voltage gated calcium channels. And what ends up happening is when you have a fibrodic issue, the the signal can't go there. So it jacks up the rest of the signal as well because now you have a static point. Now the heart, you get AIB, VTAC, all these issues show up that shouldn't be there. Welcome to TB-500. It's not an answer to AIB. But if you have it, this isn't going to be a start. Peripheral neuropathy, I've get I've got so many messages about this. Supports the repair of the nerves, insulating sheath, the myelin sheath. So it restores feeling, it restores function, it gets rid of that numbness and weird tingling like you feel your arm's always asleep. stress fractures. I see this all the time, too. It um enhances osteoblast activity. So, the bones build and repair faster and stronger. So, not a callus, they just become more dense, right? Whether it's cortical or tbacular bone, inflammatory bowel disease, god, Crohn's, inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis. This repairs the damaged gut lining, the mucosal barrier in your gut. Fixes the leaky pipe that poisons your entire system because of the LPS that leaks into the bloodstream from what do I always call it, right? The sewer plant, the your digestive system. Spinal cord injuries. I've seen this, too. I'm just literally like anything I can come up with. Reduces scar tissue and promotes neural repair. You do understand this one here and I've seen some pretty wild research. This is this is hope where there was none. But how many of your doctors have said we need to bomb you with TB-500 and BPC-157 for example, KPV? They haven't. They haven't. I'm going to tell you right now, this is why 99% of the health care you need to either get private healthcare and if you go, I can't afford it, then find a way to make more money or get the hell out of this country and do it somewhere else because they do not want you healthy here. They want you subscribed. Makes me angry. Well, I'm burning the whole system down. severe burns, speeds up skin regeneration. This is a lifesaver because when you have third degree burns, you don't feel it because it burns the nerves, but you die. Horrible. Diabetic ulcers. Stimulates new blood vessel growth in dead. Say it again. Do you hear me? In dead tissue. This saves limbs. This saves limbs because that's what diabetic ulcers do. Make you lose limbs. Perodontal disease, right? Regenerates gum tissue and the ligaments that hold your teeth in place. Saves your smile. By the way, you should be protecting your teeth. stop getting root canals and getting teeth extracted. Andreogenic alopecia. Yeah, this is something about your right hair loss. So, this wakes up the dormant hair follicules. It's not just it's not just vanity, you guys. This is a sign of systemic health. When things when teeth fall out, when hair falls out, we've been taught to go that's normal and it's just how you are when you're old. But why do you see somebody with long white hair and a full set of choppers and someone who doesn't have that? It's based on what their system is doing. Your outward appearance is a 100% indication of your inward function, your internal function. It's shown on the outside. The whole our grandparents used says you are what you eat. Fact. Fact. Hypertrophic scarving. It improves the collagen alignment. So it turns ugly dysfunctional screwed up scars into clean strong tissue. Exercise. So DOMS, right? Exercise induced muscle damage, delayed onset muscle soreness, right? slashes the inflammation and the soreness to 20%. At least, if not less, so you can train harder. You can train more often. And you're not doing it because you don't feel it because you took a Tylenol or some Oxycontton or Percoet or whatever it is you stick in your pie hole. But you can do it because the tissue is actually healing at the speed it's supposed to. That's why kids don't get sore and adults do. And if you go, "No, no, adults get sore because they lift more." You need to go play with my son then and let me know how that works out for you because he plays hard and he just doesn't get sore. Why? Because he's 16 and a half. Age related degeneration. This counters the natural decline in your body's own TB-500 production. It maintains skin thickness, hair function, organ health, vitality as you age, even ligament laxity. I've seen this like crazy when your bones and ligaments get all goofy, right? It strengthens all the connective tissue throughout your entire body. Improves joint stability. prevents future injuries because if your joint is lax and loose, it's very susceptible to damage because it's relying now on muscle to hold it in place. And if you are like a bag of water and you don't have any muscle on you, you are a walking liability to yourself and everybody else around you. Follow me because here's where everybody else just went. I get this question from a lot of you, so I'm just going to answer it real quick. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it. What about cancer? What I know what you're thinking. Oh, what about cancer? What about cancer, Doc? If it promotes growth, it's got to promote cancer, too, because that's what they told us. Okay? They can go right to hell. They're lying. Absolutely not. The things that promote cancer come from your doctor's office, not from me, not from the information I give you. This is where you have to move past the fear and look into the data only. The fear is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of biology. Cancer is this chaotic, disorganized, parasitic growth. TB-500 promotes structured, organized, and healthy growth. If you in 2003, this is fun. 2003, I know this very well. In the journal of cancer research, let me repeat that. Cancer research found that TB-500 actually inhibits they use thymus and beta 4. TB-500 is the active fragment. It's the same thing. It's just they isolated the piece. So it's the same actually inhibits tumor metastasis. So just to replay that it helps healthy functioning tissue out compete and surround cancer cells. The research is as black and white as it gets. TB-500 supports your body's innate anti-cancer mechanisms by promoting order, not chaos. It does not make you sick at all. It does not give you cancer. It is not possible. So, here's the deal. Okay. Well, how do you use it then? Where do I sign up, doc? It's not just when you hurt. That is amateur playing this game. The halflife is about a week. Your body's own production of this miracle worker declines with age. Though a weekly long-term protocol isn't about getting superpowers and turning yourself into Wolverine, it's about maintaining the biological resilience you had when you were 25, at 45, 55, 75, 85. It's preventative maintenance. You do it for your [\h__\h] car. You guys will change the oil in your Mustang, your truck. Change it in your Porsche or your Ferrari or whatever it is you're driving. You'll get the best insurance policy you can get. You'll change the tires. You'll wash it and wax it. But you won't do that for your body for a fraction of the price. This is the smartest insurance policy that you will ever buy in your entire life. But listen here. I'm I'm going to I'm going to blow this wide open for you just because it's fun. This is where you go from good to absolutely legendary. You don't win a war with one soldier, right? You don't. That only happens in the movies. Rambo is not a one-man army in the real world. The true exponential power is in stacking this properly to make you much more resilient. You want to build a fortress. You want a synergistic biological command chain that addresses then 99% of the crap that the modern world just keeps throwing at you. This isn't a supplement cabinet. This is a very strategic, very wellput together, very well-curated blueprint to keep you resilient. So, I'm going to go through this line by line and then I'm going in the house. Step one, you have to nuke the source of your inflammation. Read a true tide. If you're like, "Forget it. I'm out." Then get off my podcast because you don't want to be healthy. This isn't this isn't a weight loss peptide. It's not. This is a metabolic research switch. It is a longevity peptide. It quiets the inflammatory signals screaming from your fat cells, specifically your adiposytes along with your fat chubby ass and face. You clear the battlefield so you can actually do it. So you need to handle this. Second one, you armor plate the entire energy system. SS31. This goes, this stuff's awesome. This goes straight into your mitochondria and stabilizes the inner membrane. Right? Remember cardipin, less oxidative damage, more clean ATP production. Methylene blue is its marriage. It's its dance partner. This turbocharges the etc the electron transport chain in your brain and your body neurological and the rest of your system. So it bypasses the traffic jam and it goes right from cytochrome or from complex one to cytochrome C. So it get you keep just 20 to 30% increase sometimes 40% increase in ATP production. Why would you not want that? Because now suddenly you have the energy that you that you need like your budget is like a Fortune 500 company. It's just nothing. It's empty. You just throw spend as much money as you want because you have the energy. You have to optimize the fuel delivery system because now you have the fuel. You're getting rid of the inflammation. So M C this is the mitochondrial peptide that makes your cells very exquisitely sensitive to insulin again the way you're supposed to because insulin resistance is it will kill you. insulin sensitivity is paramount. So all of that clean energy that you're now creating gets delivered to the tissues that need it. The construction site is fully funded and it's completely powered. You following me so far? That's why you have to understand physiology and human biology in a way that allows you to build something to put together. So you guys have a much more robust system instead of going, I did this, it made me skinny. Great. But the problem is you look like a melted candle and you function like a 1943 lawn mower. You just function like a bag of crap. Now you have to rebuild it. Now you rebuild this entire thing, right? This is where TB-500 comes in. This is the general contractor, like I explained, directs the entire actin cytokeleton rebuild from the ground up. And then you throw in BPC57. I told you I was going to talk about this because this is the ultimate healing peptide. It's like the elite crew that comes in. It's not just healing micro tears. It's sealing up the leaks in your gut lining. Stops the endotoxins from flooding your bloodstream and causing all this systemic inflammation, right, with LPS that's leaking in from the bacterial fragments. It doesn't allow them through the tight junctions anymore. This is the ultimate plumber fixing the leak that's poisoning the entire house. Add in GHK-Cu. Told you I wasn't done. Copper. This is the one that brings all It's the trucks. It's just all these giant dump trucks bringing all the raw materials in. It shows up and dumps just actual building supplies. Collagen, elastin, glycosaminoglycans. It's not just giving orders to rebuild. It's providing all of the supplies to do the rebuild. Listen to me. I'm trying to help you guys. I really am. This stack reatrine blue MC TB-500 BPC-157 GHK-Cu. If you go to all these things I don't want to take needles all the time. Yes, they all have to be injectable. Anything oral in that stack is going to work precisely zero. Zero biological availability. None. None. I don't care who you are. I don't care what you say. I don't care what [\h__\h] research paper you show me. Show me the blood work. I will show you a liar because you won't have blood work to supply it to back it. This isn't a list of supplements. This isn't a vitamin cabinet. This is a single very well integrated system. You are you are systematically addressing metabolic chaos and mitochondrial dysfunction in your system. neurological fatigue, systemic inflammation, the structural damage that you've been layering on yourself, and all the gut permeability problems all at the same damn time. You are not recovering. You are not healing. You are upgrading your human biology and the operating system to a version that is resistant to the decay of current modern life. Please understand, we are at a tipping point in our world right now. For thousands of years, medicine was about treating sickness. But the future of health is about capitalizing on your own personal performance. It's about moving from defense to offense and letting your body do its damn job. Because what's going on right now is it's slowly being degraded by all of the things that are being put into you that you don't even know about that everybody talks about and you disagree with and go there's no way. But yet the numbers don't lie. It's not about longevity. People live longer, but they live longer but live worse. Lifespan, yes. Health span, no. You need them both to be at peak capacity. You should be 100 years old crushing until you're just done. This isn't about cheating nature. Some of you guys are about right. Oh, you're cheating nature, then. Okay, fine. That'll cheat the [\h__\h] out of nature. But that's not what you're doing. It's about cooperating with what nature gave you at the highest level inside you. It's about actually understanding the the language of yourselves and speaking that language to give them the and then giving them the tools to be able to express their full and honestly pretty damn unbelievable potential. Listen, the the the power to be stronger and healthier and more resilient than you've ever [\h__\h] imagined is not in a pill at a pharmacy or a surgical intervention or some magic injection that is not a peptide, some vaccination or whatever else you're taking. It's already inside you. It's already inside you. And I literally just show I here. This is how you turn the key. I gave you the key. It fits in the ignition. Turn it. Hit the button. Whatever it is, it's your move. You do what you got to do. But I just gave you the answers. I gotta go.