What is up, guys? Listen, so today I'm like I'm trying to sit here. If you see me doing weird things with my right hand, it's because like this hand opens and closes really well. I think if I tried to do that with my right hand, I just hurt so bad. I don't know what I did. Like I was feeling my wrist earlier just before I I got on this podcast. And I mean, it's hot, swollen, it's red, it's just pissed off. You can see the inflammatory response is massive. But I hit it with a milligram of BPC. Two 2.5 milligrams of TB-500. And I'm going to Oh, yeah. You can see it on the top, too. It's really swollen. I'm going to take another 5 milligrams as soon as I get off and knock down that inflammation. Do some KPV and really take care of that cytoine storm. I mean, inflammation is good. Uncontrolled inflammation is bad, right? I talked about that yesterday in the BPC podcast. But so BPC I take forever and you know that I take that every day and I'm always going to take that every day. But thymus beta TB-500 to be more specific because thymus beta 4 and TB-500 are not the same. Thymson beta 4 is the entire thing. TB-500 is the cliffnotes critical instruction packet that it should have. And I'll explain that in a minute. So I'm going to go over TB-500 and explain everything. I think what I'm going to do and and give me your feedback and if you say yeah great. If not and don't do it in the YouTube comments cuz here I'll help you. All of you guys getting in the YouTube comments chattering about whatever the [\h__\h] you're talking about. I have read none of them. None. Zero. I mean zero. I haven't read a YouTube comment for months and I I have no intention to. So if you come on there and [\h__\h] talk, you can. I've never seen it cuz I don't care. And so that's what's funny to me is when you guys get in there, you're like, "Haha, I told him." No, you didn't. I never saw it. And to everybody that comes in and says, "I love this guy. Thank you for your stuff." Thank you very much. I love you for that. That really matters to me. That's why I do this, to give you the information. And the only idiots and imbeciles that don't say that are the ones that are idiots and imbeciles because I'm poking holes in their dogma that they've been subscribing to for the last I don't know how many years cuz they're stupid. So hey, here's your sign. If that's what you don't like it, don't listen. That's even funnier part is when they stay and they listen to whole thing, get all pissed off. Hey Num nuts, you listened. You listen to this bald doctor with a beard tell you all about what you're doing is wrong and how to fix it. You know, that's the thing. Like I don't just tell you if you're doing something dumb. I say, "Here, you're doing something dumb, but here's the solution." I don't know. I I don't know how you could get mad at that, but hey, again, here's your sign. Can't fix stupid, I guess. But I believe like TB-500 is, man, this stuff is next level. TB-500 is great. I will take it off and on yet again. It is a forever peptide. I have a few of these and I have a list and my list is evolving a little bit, just so you guys know, because I've gotten messages from you going, "Well, wait, your last list said this." Yeah, but as things as I remember, I am my own guinea pig, right? I don't I don't take Listen, there is nothing I would ever give you that I would not take myself ever. I mean, unless it's specifically for a female and well, which case I have outdoor plumbing, so that doesn't work well. But outside of that, no, because then I'm a fraud. I'm not going to do that. And that's where a lot of every drug company is full of [\h__\h] They're a fraud. And I'm disrupting the whole thing. I don't care. I'm going to burn it all down. Including all of you doctors in your longevity clinics, your wellness clinics selling prepackaged two-year plans that you get people tested, genetic testing, and washing their blood and weird [\h__\h] that you guys do when we have populated this planet long before you. And if you go, "Well, we've done it before peptides." Correct. Except you know what peptides are? The signals inside your damn body. It's not a plasma washing station or a, you know, whatever else people do that have to suck all kinds of toxins out of your body and go, "Look at all this sludge. I don't believe any of that. I just don't think it's all full of crap. I think there's so many other things that can be done that your body knows what to do as long as you give it the instructions. And I think the problem is we are living in a world where the instructions are being screwed up. The operating system is being filled with static. And the people that know the science well enough aren't working on our side. They're working against us. And that's I'm just going to toe with them. Man, you want to dance? Let's [\h__\h] dance. You guys, it's you can go and argue about NASA. It's about the same. Your science is that full of holes and weak. Don't get into my comments about, oh, you're just another flat earth guy. No, that's not what I said. I just said it doesn't matter what I think about that, by the way. It just matters that a lot of the science that we think you do understand that science, even what I'm talking about, the point is that science is to disprove what was proven and to prove something that has not yet been proved. Like, you guys don't understand. So, you want something that is as concrete as concrete? The Bible. I love it that the world is catching up with the word, by the way. And if you don't like that I said that, you can happily go [\h__\h] off because I'm not changing my belief system because you don't like it. You can move on. Not me, man. Me and God, we're tight. He's my boy. So understand or I guess I'm his, huh? But you guys listen to me. TB-500. You guys have been sold a lie. You guys really have. And not about TB-500. Just this comfortable reassuring lie about your own physiology. It's the lie that your body has this peak and then after a certain age, after certain injuries, after things happen, you are on permanent disability and a slow, rapidly increasing speed decline. You're told to manage arthritis. You're told to accept slowing your heart and your metabolism and you're told to live with chronic pain, right? All of these things you guys are told by people that wear white coats that have god complexes that tell you that you should do what they tell you to do instead of you doing what you know you should be doing. See, there was a time in your life when you knew what to do. And when you questioned what everybody else told you to do, you were told you're an idiot. You were ostracized or made fun of or rebuked or whatever it was you were, you learned in school to believe, not to learn. Remember, you should learn how to learn and you should spend your life learning, not learning how to believe. Like, ask yourself, why do you believe all the things you believe? Instead of challenging me, challenge yourself. Look in the mirror. Look at the man in the [\h__\h] mirror. Challenge that person. Why do I believe this? I do this all the time. Why do I believe this? Why? Why? Hey, listen, Spartan. Why? Why do I believe this, man? which is why I take so much pride in what I do and go hard into the paint about giving you guys information that's real and fact-based and based on your physiology and based on I've seen over a million patients in my lifetime as a doc. A million. I'm going to tell you some people might hear that number and just go, I don't know. Isn't that like an Instagram following? A million patients. Most doctors don't even come close. And I guarantee you all of you guys with your fancy little clinics and your [\h__\h] that you guys try and sell people and your magic white label supplements that aren't really yours. Yeah, those. Well, I know everybody can find this out. First of all, you're selling crap. And second of all, you're selling crap. And third, you're crap. But all of that, you haven't seen even close to the number of patients or clients that I've been through. So, let me help you. I'm doing this to give you information, not to challenge you so you feel dumb. I'm giving you information so you can get better at what you do. God, if you guys get mad at people correcting where you're at, you guys must have sucked at school. And if you go, "Well, we come in here and challenge you and try and correct you." No, you guys argue to be right because your science sucks. You are still stuck in ninth grade biology. I'm doing this to help you cuz I care. So, I'm going to call out the [\h__\h] on the managed decline yet again and that living with chronic pain is all normal. No, it's not. No, it's not. Just let that hang for a sec. Just really put that in your head for a second. Like for the last at least, I don't know 50 years, we've been treating the human body like it's this simple machine. It's you oil the squeaky joints and patch some leaky pipes, vascular system, right? When the engine starts to knock, you just turn down the RPMs and slow down the heart and take like beta blockers or whatever it is and hope that the machine lasts, not for you, for them so they can make more money out of you. We have become mechanics of degradation for profit. We're not machines, man. We're biological. We're biological electrochemical miracles. We're walking talking beautiful symphonies of communication and all of that commun communication 100% of the time based on peptides. The key to re rewriting your health isn't in managing decline. It's not. It's in I hate using this word, but it's true. It's hacking the body's own instruction manual, the peptides. So, let me explain probably I think honestly the single most powerful peptide. It's definitely the most misunderstood and probably the most badass peptide I I think you could ever use. And you'll you'll understand why is is 2B500. It's amazing. And I can see I I I can already feel the energy. You guys are like, "Oh, wait a minute. That's for athletes. That's a performance-enhancer. Why Why is it banned? Isn't that a performance-enhancing drug?" And the real ones listening to this know that TB-500 is not a drug. It is a message. You guys have got to learn the distinction between a drug and a peptide. They're not the same. Not even in the same realm. That that's like comparing a car and a pencil. They're not the same. That's how different these are. And it listen, it is a s it's a it's a message your body is TB-500 is so desperate to hear and so hungry for especially if you've pushed yourself or injured yourself, right? Pushed this machine your body or injured this body or simply lived long enough for some of the signal to get a little what did I say at the beginning? static and fuzzy. So, let me explain something because there's two versions of this and most people mix them up and then they use them interchangeably and neither one of those are okay. TB-500 versus thymus and beta 4. They're not the same. They're not even close to the same. So, let me just chop through this confusion so you understand it before we go any further. TB-500 and thymus and beta 4 used interchangeably is science illiteracy at its finest. And before you get mad, listen to why I'm telling you that they're not the same, but not for the reasons that people think. Thymosin beta 4 is the fulllength 43 amino acid protein. And it's the entire complex message. It's like the complete unabbridged version of like a a JK Rawlings book like any of her Harry Potter books, right? Or War in Peace. Use something a little more timeless, right? Although I think Rawlings is probably going to go down in in history for sure. She wrote some bangers. Like it or not, she's a talented author. She's got so much skill. I have a lot of respect for what she does to come up with ideas like that before you guys get all weird in my comments and start going off on the true nature of this podcast. But it's like you have the the full unabbridged version of war and peace. And if you've read it, right, the crumbling Roman Empire was beset with strife. That's like the first line of the entire book. And understand that it's actually a really good book. I've read it twice, but it's a longass book. So TB-500, remember this. Just stay with me on the war in peace. Man, this wrist is really pissed. Like even using like it's like I'm Italian. You'd think I'd talk with my hands. Not Italian. My last name is Bachmire. Like there's nothing Italian about that. It's not like my last name was Fusili or something, right? Patenza. I grew up one of my best friends when I was growing up. His name was Vince Patenza. Just a good dude, man. [\h__\h] This guy was a good dude. Smart. Real smart guy. And his dad, Pasquali, another very intelligent man. Short story. Listen to this. I I'll tell you this cuz it's important. Sixth grade education. Moved from the old country, Italy to Canada. Started barely speaking a lick of English, sweeping floors, the hair off the floors at a barber shop until gradually he became the barber. And then he became the barber of the shop. And I don't know exactly if he bought it or opened his own, but next thing you know, I mean, they got to have 30 locations by now. He used to have to go to car dealerships to beg for them to even let him sit in a car. And now they beg him to take the car for the weekend. I'm going to tell you, I learned a lot from just watching what the Patenzas did. Him and his brother Danny. I learned a lot. He doesn't even know this. I mean, if he ever hears this, I have no idea. I haven't talked to him in years. But I learned a lot from watching his family, from watching. And I did I didn't apply it until he got a lot older because I just made some juvenile stupid decisions. But how to run business and how to manage people. So just take that. I mean look at it. He pushed and pushed till next thing you knew his parents are a millionaire. Vince is a millionaire. Danny's a millionaire because they work very hard at becoming this and they know how to run a business. And that's effective. That's a life skill that I think his dad Pasquali taught down or passed down to Vincent Danny that no college can ever give you ever. and he went to college I think one year his dad was like you go to college make sure that's what you don't want to do so I have a lot of respect for people that do that because they build fantastic lives because they worked for it but anyway to come back war in peace it's talking with my hands right this jacked up wrist of mine that I've got it's TB-500 is a specific fragment of that protein the the thymusin beta 4 it's this short powerful sequence of just a handful 17 amino acids think of it as the best chapter that gives all the information, the most critical chapter in War and Peace. It's the one that contains the entire plot's essence, right? The character revelations, the core message, everything going on in the story. You could just read that chapter and understand the whole damn book, right? But here's why this matters. Bioavailability and stability. This is a big deal because full thymus and beta 4 molecule is large and very fragile. So when you inject it, yes, oral does not work ever, ever. So, if you're going to get in my comments and start talking about orals, just ball up your fist, punch yourself in the face repeatedly until you black out because it's not true. So, when you inject it, your body has to work to break it down to figure out how to use it and where to allocate things. TV500 is slick, man. This thing is slick and it's stable and small. It's fast. It's like my 911 versus my Chevy diesel, right? It's like a like it just it's like a like a my buddy AF, right? He's a special forces guy, like a a green beret/ ranger/ sniper. This guy's a badass son of a [\h__\h] versus the entire army. There's nothing wrong with the power behind the army, but AF can get in behind enemy lines with very little resistance and execute the mission with probably devast he's retired now, but devastating efficiency. It's not he's it's like AF isn't a lesser version. He's the refined hyperefficient version of the most active part of the army. Right? So understand the that this is the lesser version. and the more refined, more incredibly elite efficient version of the most active part of the molecule. You with me? And if you look at the research, the fragment is the active site responsible for the primary healing mechanisms of the entire message that this thing brings. So it specifically does a couple of things. Actin binding, cell migration, which are very important. So when you use TB-500, you're delivering this concentrated dose of the exact message that you want to send. A staticky broken message where you have to piece together the message. It takes a lot of work. It can be done, but it's a lot of TB-500 takes away that all of that just gives you this nice tight message without all the extra biological noise. Right? So if the body is because I mean the message is a little it's got specificity, but let me explain what it So if the body is a city, let's say cuz it's the easiest example. I could say car, but a lot of people don't understand cars. Everybody understands a city. So if your body is a city and TB-500 is the emergency broadcast system, right? The EBS, the urban planner, and it's like your body is a city and TB-500 is this is why it's so revolutionary. It's why it's so badass is it's the emergency broadcast system. It's the urban planner. It's the construction crew. It's the engineer. It's the power company. It's all of that rolled into one single machine. So, let me break down the the physiology and the neurology behind this. So, your cells are constantly talking, right? They're always having conversations. They use proteins and peptides as their language. That's their Latin of communication. So, when you get injured or when tissue is damaged, the cells in that area send out these signals. They're basically like, "Help, help, help." You know, I've fallen and I can't get up. And they're squeezing their medical alert bracelet. Send in builder. Send in help. Send in somebody to kick down the door and help me off the floor. And I'm not making fun of fun of anybody if they're like my grandma had that happen. Shut up. Learn how to take a joke, right? Send in all the materials. It says all of that. It basically send the troops. TB-500 amplifies that signal. It upregulates the production of key protein proteins and compounds. And then it tells your cells a couple of different things. Four things to be very specific. First thing it says is move. You need to move cell migration. So TB-500 has this very profound effect on actin, which is a fundamental protein in your cellular cytokeleton. It tells cells, particularly meenymal stem cells and endothelial cells, which are the ones that line your blood vessels. Oh, let me get to TB-500. How badass this is for the cardiovascular system. But it says to these cells to get up and move to the site of damage. It's the ultimate carpool to the construction site signal. That's the first thing. The second thing it says is you need to grow like right now angioenesis, which is also a BP. That's why these work so well, right? BPC and TB-500. It orders the creation of new vessels. No, it does not cause cancer. angioenesis. No healing ever in the history of your body, your physiology can ever occur without a very robust blood supply bringing in nutrients and carrying away all the waste, the metabolic waste that's occurring. So TB-500 is the is like the foreman that ensures that the supply lines are open wide and expanded and doing all the job on going both directions. The third thing it says is you need to stay alive. It says don't die. Just don't [\h__\h] die. Whatever you do, anti-apoptosis. So, it sends this very strong anti-apoptitic signal. Means it tells the damaged cells that are on the verge of their programmed cell death, which is what apoptosis is. Just sit tight, man. Sit tight. You're in a mash unit. Hawkeye Pierce is coming. He's going to help you. He's going to save your chest, right? Help is coming. It reduces the amount of cell death following an injury, which is important because if you don't have to make it, you can repair it. It's much better. So, it preserves the tissue scaffolding for rebuilding. That's why this is important. And the fourth thing it does is it does what we all love. It shuts down the inflammation. It reduces it. It's massively anti-inflammatory to the point where I may have told the story before, but my low back went so hot one time where I couldn't even like even tucking my head to tie my or to cinch up my belt was brutal. And I took TB-500. This is probably 2 years ago, maybe 3 years ago. And I was in the shower with Brandy and I bend down to wash my foot. And I'm washing my foot. I'm all bent over just washing my foot. Pull my foot up. wash it up, put it back down. And I went, "Holy shit." And I said, "Babe, look at this." And she goes, "I just saw you do that." She goes, "Your back doesn't hurt anymore." I go, "No, gone." And that was in 2 hours. Just shut down the inflammation. Now, I'll be very transparent. Did it come back? Yeah, about 30% when the system started to take advantage of what it was doing. But then I took the other 2.5 milligs the next day, and by the next day, it was gone. Everything was gone. So, it dials down the inflammatory cytoine storm that while, like I said, uncontrolled inflammation is the problem. controlled inflammation is necessary. So, it's initially necessary. The problem is it it'll cause a whole lot of collateral damage if it just rages burning. It's like that tire fire from the Simpsons, right? Just keeps on going. So, it brings order to chaos. As I'm saying that, I almost sounded like the W, right? That's some bad [\h__\h] But this isn't theoretical. 2012 uh 2012, there was a study in the Journal of Molecular and Cellular Cardiology that showed this beautifully. To be honest, I just read the study the other day. researchers, I hate saying this, but it's the truth. They induced myocardial inffections, heart attacks in mice. And one group received TB-500. The result, the TB-500 group showed a mass I mean dramatic increase in the migration of endothelial progenitor cells to the damaged heart to the tissue significantly improving blood vessel formation and the massive reduction in like a stark reduction in the size of the scar tissue, the fibrosis because of the MI. That's always the problem, right? Is you're taught to live with it. The message got through and the heart listened. How bad like listen to what I'm saying. If you've had any trauma to your heart, you need to listen to what I'm saying, right? Listen to me. So, it reverses the quote unquote what you're told is irreversible because the the most groundbreaking powerful application of TB-500 is the heart, not systemic injury or inflammation or angioenesis the way you think it modern medicine has virtually no answers for a damaged myocardium. None. Cardiologists will go toe-to-toe against you on this. I guarantee it. You should happily tell them to [\h__\h] off. It is your body. I want you guys to all no matter what I say, no matter what some white code says, I don't care. It is your body. You are the pilot. You are the engineer. You are the person that runs this entire [\h__\h] thing. You are the captain of your ship. Don't you ever listen to somebody tell you to do something when everything inside you screams, "Don't do it." Listen to me. So, if I'm giving you information, you're like, "I don't really agree with it." I don't care. You're not going to hurt my feelings. I know what I'm telling you works. I'm not the I was taught to believe this. I know this works cuz I understand the physiology behind it. Which is why you need to stop listening to the InstaDocs trying to fill their wellness practices and the the NPs and the FNPs and the FUK's and the XYZ's and all the people with their acronyms that are trying to scalp you for money instead of going like do you understand just let me let me just kind of digress for a second. my personal stack that I take for myself that I told you guys about from cover to cover. And some of you guys would, well, no wonder you're Well, [\h__\h] Why would I not make sure my body is running at 100%. You knucklehead. Why would I not do that? It's stupid to think you're being authentic because you're not doing anything. No, what you're being is ignorant to what's available to you to solve all the problems that you're complaining about. But it's going to less than a,000 bucks. And if you go, well, you're rich. It's easy for you. You know, first of all, I wasn't. I had to get to where I am by brutal work and long days. And I put in more 16- hour days in a year than most people do in their entire life. But that's not it. A,000 bucks, you guys will spend more than that on your Beamer payment or spoiling your Steepford wife while you get fatter and weaker and goofier. I'm not saying don't spoil her wife. I spoil the [\h__\h] out of my wife. I love spoiling my wife. She's very hard to spoil because she loves her life. She's like, I don't really need it. Like my wife is [\h__\h] awesome. But at the same time, I was spoiling the hell out of her. Like she wanted that Gwagon. I went, "Right, let's just go buy it. Cash." Bam. The guy was, "Holy [\h__\h] you really did pay cash." In the future, lease, just so I know, just so you guys know, lease stuff. It's better. Just lease it through your business. But that's a whole other conversation in my in my business um my business consulting. But anyway, the point is is that if you guys it's a,000 bucks. You guys will spend $1,000 on booze and going out on a Friday night and dinners that you probably shouldn't go out trying to impress people that don't give a [\h__\h] about you or on rims for your car or a paint job that you don't really need or a new car you probably don't need yet instead of taking care of the machine that allows you to do everything because you've been taught that what is seen by other people matters more than what you see yourself. You're nuts. What you see in yourself matters more than anything else. If I am unhealthy but everybody else looks at me and goes, "Oh, that guy's awesome." I don't care. I'm a liar. I'm not going to do that. I'm a liar to myself. I'm a liar to God. I'm a liar to my family. [\h__\h] no. So maybe you guys go like it's a thousand bucks. You guys spend so much. I don't care if you buy it from me. I don't give buy from Elite Biogenics, like I said, or don't. And if you go, where do I get it? Elite Biogenics. Duh. I've said this so many times. But if not, then don't. Right? You want to join and and learn how to do all this stuff so you don't have to rely on me? Join the black card. What do I get with it? If you send me a message and ask me a bunch of questions about the black card, I got a couple of emails from you people and you're like, "Can I just get a little more information of the about the black card?" Here, I'll say it again because I am not answering any more questions about it cuz it's ridiculous. If you go, "Well, it's a big investment." To who? To who? To whom? It's not. If you go, "Well, $6,000 is a lot of money." To whom? It's not a lot of money to people that are broke. It's just it's not relative. You need to stop thinking that way about money. That's why you're suffering financially. Four years ago, I was broke. Remember, I had nothing. I never once looked at six grand as a lot of money. I looked at six grand as something I need to be able to get to a place that I can afford to throw down anytime I want. That's the difference. It's a mindset. And then you put together the machine. But the point is at six grand, 144 live calls a year. This sounds like a pitch, but it's not. It's just answering questions. So if you fast forward through this, you're an idiot. If you send me a message, you're entitled and I'm not going to let you in. I don't need your money. My family's still going to eat tonight. I do this because I want to help people. So 144 live calls a year. Every Monday is a Q&A call. of those 144 52 calls every Monday is at 5 Dallas. I live just east of Dallas Central time every and I stay on the call for as long as it takes till everybody's qu questions are answered. It might take 2 and 1/2 hours. It might take an hour and a half. I might be there three hours. If you don't have patience, don't join. You get a private community where you can interact with me. I 24 to 48 hours is the timeline for me to respond to comments. Why? Because I take it seriously. And two, I have things to do with my life. you are going to pay me significantly more than $6,000 to work one-on-one with me. My one-on-one fee is $150,000 for the year. I'm transparent about all my fees. The cure program, which means you get to work one-on-one with me for 25 days, it's $5,000. One-on-one with me for 100 days, and this isn't business. This is your health, your life. If you want 100 days, it is $100,000. If you want the full year, it's 150. So, the biggest bargain, if you go listen to this guy say bargain, then I'm not for you. You know, the people that I have the least amount of trouble with and the most the least aggravation with are the people that spend the most because I tell them what to do and they do it and they go, "Thanks." I got a message from somebody today. This guy's Rodney. He's a a great one-on-one client. I love this guy to death. I gave him some advice to help somebody in his family. And you know what he said? "Thanks, brother. You're the best. That's an awesome dude." And not because of what he said, but because he listens to everything I tell him. I have a lot of respect for this guy. The guy's got A-50 plus million dollar company. And if you go, "Well, not all of us have that." That's right. I'm not for everybody. And that's okay, too. Don't get mad about it. Get better. Then I am for you or you can bypass and go to somebody even better. I just don't think there is somebody yet. And not as far as I can see in the future. Might be somebody that tries to out market me, but they're never going to they're never going to have the ability that I I'm a one of a kind. That God put me on this planet to help people. And four years ago, I realized exactly what he put me here for. I always knew something. I just was going in the wrong direction. I'm here to save as many of you as I can and help you have the best life possible and help you all the way up and that matters to me. But 144 live calls. Saturday at 10:00, Sunday at 10:00, Saturday is psychology, limiting beliefs, and all of you need it before you go. I don't really need that. You're the one that needs it the most. Sunday is business and the business is not included in the black card. It's included in the unbreakable membership, which is a whole other membership. It don't doesn't matter. Uh, so if you're in the black card and you got into the business, oh man, somebody Amber, my CA, my executive assistant, is going to snipe you out, pull you out of that real quick cuz I take it seriously. I have hard lines in my business and you get access to the entire resource library where there's all these protocols I've done for patients that actually work for clients that actually work. I'll answer your questions. I'll build stuff for you. I'll help you. I'll answer things about all the stuff you want to ask about dosing and everything like that. Yes. So, if you don't think that's worth six grand or you're like, I just want I just want to know how much MC to take. I'm not for you. Go on Reddit, go on Quora and deal with those bozos that literally invent [\h__\h] and then claim to be experts. Do that. Find some dude that sits there doesn't know how to wear his pants properly and tell you that he's I'm all jacked and I know all about peptides, bro. I don't I'm just not that guy. So, if you want to join and it's a one-year, I'm not going to give you your money back. If you go I want a refund. I'll tell you to go [\h__\h] yourself. You're ridiculous. One year. And when these are all gone, I still Okay, so I don't remember how many I had left because I sold a hundred. They all sold out like in 2 weeks and then I released another 25 and I wasn't talking about it that much. But I think there's only three or four left and it's not a urgency thing for pitching. I just really don't think there's a lot left because people buy these cuz it works. Because I'm actually real. I'm not selling you some weird voodoo InstaGuru program and when they're gone it's 25 grand to buy in and two grand a month to maintain. You can quit anytime but I don't think you're going to want to. You shouldn't. But the point is to get an answer from a doc. I have docs in my group and they're like, "This would take 9 months, 10 months, a year to get an answer from somebody to get to this level of an answer." You get it on a Monday call with me or you get it in the community with me. You choose. Anyway, if you want it, go to Instagram, type in the word black card, or send an email to Amber. Don't send it to Smashworks. She's just going to answer you there, too. I don't even answer that email anymore. I don't answer any of my emails. So, if you send emails going, "Hey, doc, can I get some?" I've never seen it. It goes to Amber Kane. She is my executive assistant. and then she decides whether or not I get the emailer. I haven't answered an email in a year at least. Why? Because half of the emails, 3/4 of the emails I shouldn't answer. They're nonsense things. So, if you're going to ask me a bunch of things going, "Hey man, I just need some help with this or I just need some help with that." Black card one-on-one. Sending me an email will not get you an answer. I'm going to promise you that because I give so much of myself of every day to help you guys out and give you all this stuff for free. I'm not getting into the emails and going any further than that. And I have every right to say that. So, if you go, "Oh, this guy's arrogant." No, I have faith and belief and selfworth. So, if you need it, stick a crowbar in your wallet, pull out $1,997, go to the link at the bottom of this and click it and pay the money and join the group. And if not, that's okay. Keep spending your life looking for coupon codes and discounts and affiliate links and all the other stuff. I don't know what to tell you. I wouldn't even I would jump at this if I was on the other side of this equation cuz I've shown that I know what I'm talking about. So, let me come back. So, anyway, there you go. There's your that's what you get. So if you go, "Well, what else? Can you look at labs? Can you look at look at X-rays?" No. Not unless you are going to do one-on-one with me cuz I don't have time for that. And you don't want me to rush through that stuff. I want to be and I'm very very fussy about one-on-one. Like I only take a very small fraction of people that that ask me for one-on-one because I want to be able to give you real answers. I don't rush. This isn't a a client factory where I crank and my one-on-one fee is going to go up. You want to know what my goal is? $1 million for one-on-one with me because I only want those people that keep getting help from shyer doctors. Here's why you think it's about the money. It's not. Because those shills and [\h__\h] doctors who act arrogant who don't really know how to help people. I want people that are they keep paying these idiots that have the best marketing and have some flashy hair and goofy knowledge and a bunch of fancy science words, but they've never helped a single person. I want to put those guys in the dirt and I want the people that are using them to call me because I want to be able to help these people because I know damn well like I know for a fact Bruce Willis, Dwayne Johnson, all these people I can help all day long because that's what I do. Because when you know I I had somebody tell me something. They said there's three types of doctors. The ones that read the books, the ones that read the books and know the information, the ones that read the books and know the information and feel what the patient feels. And he said the third one is almost non-existent. And when he was talking to me, it was Bruce Willis's best friend, Stephen. And he said, "You're that doc, man. You're that doc. I know I'm that doc." And you think that's a wild thing or it's really great. The problem is I take the pain home with me. So when people hurt, I feel it. And I'm very transparent. I have a very difficult time separating my life from a client's life sometimes because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] that much. Like it'll keep me awake at night if something's wrong because I so deeply care. And maybe you're like, "Well, you're just gritty and edgy." That's because I care that much. I just don't have time to waste it. Neither do you. So, if you want to join, then join. If you don't, then don't. Then just keep listening to YouTubetubes. I don't know what to tell you. But let me get back to the the cardiovascular cuz this the heart is so amazing. It'll damage. Listen to me. Modern medicine, modern medicine has no answer. I don't care what they try and tell you. There's no drug, no drug, no drug, no drug ever. No stem cells, no nothing for a damaged myocardium. If you have a heart attack, the dead tissue turns into this fibrootic, useless scar, the standard of care is to hope that the rest of your heart can compensate. That is a pathetic, disgusting surrender, you guys. I have no tolerance. TB-500 doesn't surrender, man. It don't surrender. That's what it is. So, it solves the problem. It fixes fibrootic tissue in the mioardium. Find me anything else that does that. your conduction, perkingi fibers, the bundle of H, the SA node, everything that everything that causes the the heart to beat. Voltage gated calcium channels, everything all functions because of it being healed up because of the signals that TB-500 causes. Listen to me. That's how badass this is. Athletes heart, man, some of you guys don't even know what athletes heart is. Athletes heart is not something it's it is not something to brag about. If you go, I have an athletes heart, you're an idiot. I'm not talking Mr. Ed with a giant heart. Exercise induced cardiac remodeling is what it should be. It's a perfect example of how well this works. But when you train intensely for years, your heart muscle enlarges just like any other muscle. But unlike a bicep or a quad or glutes or whatever, it it's not good. Enlarging your heart's not good. The heart walls thicken and then the chambers can enlarge and over time this leads to fibrotic tissue deposits, the stiff non-conductive scar tissue within the muscle itself. So it disrupt here's why disrupts the the heart's electrical signaling. So it leads to arhythmias, reduces the heart's efficiency. It's like a ticking time bomb for elite athletes. And honestly, some of you dedicated fitness people that just train really hard. Even you CrossFit guys. And I got I mean CrossFit I think is the most ridiculous thing in the world. But that's just me. It's you guys are weird. I'm not saying because you guys are weird the way you think. I'm like you guys will eat your own. You guys come up with weird [\h__\h] just to be like look at how athletic you aren't the fittest in the world. Find me a tight end, running back. Those guys are insane. Put every CrossFitter to shame. Don't get mad about it. Just accept it. TB-500 is the only peptide on the planet that addresses this myioardial issue. And here's the pharmacocinetics of it because otherwise somebody's going to challenge this. So if you want to fix fibrosis, TB-500 down I'll go right line by line through this. It downregulates the expression of pro firotic genes and upregulates enzymes like matrix metalloproteinas, MMPPS. They this breaks down the the excess collagen that makes up the the crappy fibrodic scar tissue. It literally tells the body to dissolve the bad scar and replace it with functional contractile heart muscle. 2010 they did a study in circulation. And it showed that TB-500 treatment following an MI, mocardial inffection in mice resulted in this this most significant decrease in collagen deposition they'd ever seen and improvement in left ventricular function. So it didn't just listen, it didn't just slow the damage, it reversed it. Follow me cuz remember what I said at the very beginning, manage decline. You just have to accept that it's going to get worse. No, it doesn't. It doesn't. That's not how this works. You are taught and indoctrinated this ridiculous dogma that that's how you're that's not it at all. And some of you guys, you're stupid idiosyncrasies that you come up with. Like listen to me. It didn't slow the damage. TB-500. You should take this just for cardiovascular health hypothetically. Oh yeah, I forgot to say my thing, right? This isn't meant to treat, cure, diagnose, triage, advise, prescribe, whatever else. This is purely hypothetical, educational, entertaining. In fact, this is this is like watching Fast and the Furious. It's purely made up. That's all it is. I don't know if you know, you know. So, it reversed the cardiovascular damage, the cardiac damage. Never mind signal conduction. The heart beats in coordinated rhythmic pulses thanks to very special, it's when I was talking about voltage gated calcium channels. The heart's the only place these specialized conductive tissue fibrosis disrupts this. Like if you had a phone and you just have static on the phone. So by clearing the fibrosis the and promoting the health of the conductive cells B5 restores fixes if you want me to use a better word clean efficient electrical pulses electrical signaling that cascade and wash over the heart. This is why it solves arrhythmias in massive ways. And if you have an arrhythmia this isn't the only answer. There's significantly more to it because you might have a renal problem which can contribute it. Right? Then there's a renan angotensin pathway like that whole thing. There's so many things that come into play with an arhythmia before you're like I have an arhythmia. I'm going to take it. Whoa, whoa, whoa. What kind is it? And what's going on and what's causing it? Do you have any other issues and do you have there's so many things? So don't jump on that bandwagon thinking that's just talk to me if that's it. But the implication of this is staggering. like we're looking into a future where in my opinion the heart attack scar right and it's very easy to see is no longer a life sentence of disability it's just a temporary condition that can be healed my opinion so let me get into some practicalities this is why we separate the or this is how we separate I guess the marketers from the people that understand the science behind this you cannot micro dose TB-500 you can't and I see this a lot I saw people with blends and I'll get to that in a second you can't do it you can't do any of this stuff like You put copper with anything and that copper ion just demolishes every [\h__\h] peptide. It literally turns it into slag. It's garbage. The idea is a fantasy born from a misunderstanding of its mechanism. TB-500 effects are dose dependent. The signaling cascade that it initiates requires a certain threshold of concentration to be effective. Same thing like I talked about Red and True Tide and you guys like I micro dose all the time. Micro dose is 0.1 milligrams or less every day. Garbage. Cannot do it. It's impossible. You're pouring, you're you're draining a or you're trying to fill a bathtub with a thimble and the drain is wide open. It's not possible. You'll never ever reach the critical mass required to make it work. It's not possible. So, I don't care what you try and say. Your physiology is on my side. But a micro dose of TB-500 is like whispering into a hurricane. It's like my wife talking to me and she's in the other building whispering. It's a lost message. I'll never hear it. The research from the cardiac studies to tendon healing models uses a dose to create like massive doses to create a a pharmacological effect. Typical effective dose, just so you know, pathetically for your kangaroo that's injured or has cardiovascular issues is 5 to 10 milligrams every 5 to seven days. Not 500 micrograms mixed in a convenient vial because you don't like to be poked three times. You only want to be poked once. Then don't do peptides. You know what peptides involve? A lot of injections. That's it. Peptides, injections, that's it. If you go, well, can I can I do it sublingual? What about none of this? None of this. If it is not injected into the fat, it is not going to work. Blends are a scam. You will see pro products that claim to have TB-500, BPC, and GHKU in a s single vial. This is scientifically illiterate and stupid and chemically impossible. I'll even tell you why. They have different stability profiles. These peptides have a different optimal pH level and chemical stabilizers. So, mixing them into one solution guarantees that at least one of them, at least one of them, if not all of them, will degrade incredibly rapidly. BPC, by the way, 157 incredibly fragile. So fragile. If you go, if you buy from a reputable place, let's say you buy it from Elite and then you say it doesn't work and you shook the vial, that's why it doesn't work. The fragments are, you just literally dismember it. You did vivisection inside a vial. They have different rec with blends, they have different reconstitution requirements, whether copper or TB or B because you see this glow stack all the time. [\h__\h] you cannot put them in the same vial. If I see any of you idiots, there's this one doctor out here, this bodybuilding guy, this doc, he talks about blending it all in the same bottle. I I caught a post the other day and I was like, "Dude, that doesn't even make sense. You don't understand anything you're talking about because they require different types of bacteria water or acetic acid solutions for stability. It can't work from just purely a science from chemistry standpoint. They even have different think receptor targets, different half- livives. So, they work in entirely different pathways and have different durations of action. So putting them in, think about this. You put them in together is like trying to play a symphony, a metal album, listen to a Tony Robbins CD, listen to Joe Rogan podcast while having a conversation with Howard Stern, all at the same volume at the same [\h__\h] time. You get noise, nothing harmonious whatsoever. You just get a bunch of nonsense that makes you irritated. To use them together effectively, they have to be reconstituted separately and injected at different sites and different times, especially copper. If you are taking GHK-Cu with anything, you're screwing up. And you can get mad at me. You can get my comments. You can go, I do it all the time. Well, then you're a muppet. I don't know what to tell you. Just please listen to me. I don't come out here to to make you feel dumb. You feel dumb on your own. If you do, that's on you. It has nothing to me to do with me. I'm giving you the answers so you can go [\h__\h] You guys are just so you dig your heels and I go, "But I've been doing it this way cuz Insta bro over there or Dr. white coat over there or that that guy has way more followers than you or they were on Oprah or whatever the [\h__\h] it is or they're the doctor for so and so. That doesn't mean anything to me. Number one, I don't fanboy over anything. And number two is I know I'm probably smarter than they are and I'm coming out here for free to help you. So whatever the question I get a lot is, can you use TB-500 indefinitely? And the answer is absolutely, but you have to pulse it. The body responds to signals, but it can adapt to a constant signal very very quickly. So a smarter approach is to use it. It's how I use it. focus cycles 4 to 6, 6 to 8 weeks. I usually stick around 6 and then take 4 weeks off. This allows you to get that really powerful stimul that healing stimulus and then let the body integrate all the changes that you just cris. Remember, you're you're creating change in your physiology. So, for lifelong cardiovascular and tissue health, the pulsing protocol is by far superior to continuous use or just one-off treatments whenever it hurts. That's ridiculous. Don't do that. That doesn't even make sense. I got to hit this cancer thing, by the way, because it's been going through my head cuz somebody I they put a message or a um not a message, it was in my questions when I said ask me anything. And one of them was like, "It's blowing up all over Facebook right now." No, it wasn't. I just took a quick look. No, it wasn't. You're a twit if you said that. If it's you, you're just a twit. You're trying to get me to jump all over your question, and I'm not, but I'm answering it indirectly because a lot of other people have the same question. Yes, my eye is itchy. Allergies sometimes get you out here in Texas. TB-500 does not cause cancer. Fear-mongering tactic is to suggest that anything promoting cell growth causes cancer. It's got possibility of causing cancer. You know what else can cause cancer? Holding this cup, wearing this watch, breathing this air. This this is a gross oversimplification. TB-500 promotes regulated organized cell growth and healing. It is the exact opposite of the chaotic metastatic growth of cancer. In fact, just follow me. Research shows the opposite. Doesn't cause, it actually turns it off. Let me explain. 2011, there was a study in the Annals of Plastic Surgery looked at TB-500 and cancer specifically. And here's what the researchers found that while TB-500 promotes healing of normal tissues, it actually inhibits the migration and evasion of breast cancer cells. The peptide is smart. It promotes health and order, not chaos. It's not a growth hormone. It's a healing signal. So, even look at what it can fix, man. Like, this stuff's insane. I talked about heart damage, right? So it's the only thing that actively can reverse fibroic scar tissue in cardiovascular or in cardiac muscle. Kidney damage. So acute kidney injury, right? The kidneys are highly vascular organs. TB-500 powerful angioenic. So what it does is it never mind anti-inflammatory. So it shuts down inflammation, makes a new it it upregulates vascular perfusion. Kidney eskemia is one of the biggest problems with kidney disease. So it protects against the tissue death and pro promotes this functional recovery by doing what what I just said. cranking up the blood flow and reducing the inflammatory damage. So if you remember what I said about systemic inflammation, it's one of the most problematic disease-causing things, low-grade systemic inflammation. Solve that and you wind up solving probably 95% of the disease models out there. Tendon and ligament catastrophe. So I'm talking like Achilles rupture, rotator cuff tears, any of the four muscles because the rotator cuff is not a muscle. is four muscles, the sits muscles, cranks up the healing of these incredibly slow healing tissues because ligaments and tendons are largely almost avascular. They have a shitty blood supply. So, it brings in the necessary cells and builds them in a much more strong organized collagen like the the collagen matrix becomes much more strong and organized than the body would naturally where it lays it down half-hazardly. Like I said, spaghetti the other day, nervous system injuries. Oh, this is a good one. Peripheral neuropathy. They this and I this I just thought of this because I talked to a patient about this. TB-500 promotes the growth and guidance of neurites which are the projections from nerve cells. So it helps with the repair of damaged nerves. It's anti-inflammatory actions going to calm down the neuropathic pain signals. All of the things that come married to this, it helps mitigate non-healing wounds, right? So if you have things like diabetic ulcers, I'm not talking decid ulcers from laying it like bed sores, but I mean diabetic ulcers. So it supercharges like cranks up just spools up like crazy. It just blows my mind how hard how well it does this. The angioenesis and cell migration which is why it's the same mechanism. I'm just showing you the things that it solves by the way. So it can finally close the wounds that have been stagnant for months or even years so you reduce the risk of infection. The worst is amputation cuz they just don't close up. There's so many things that can go wrong that you can solve. I don't know. I think maybe you guys are looking for something easy in which case this isn't going to be answered. If you're looking for something that works, this works. When you pair TB-500 with its ultimate partner, which is BPC-157, the effect is synergistic. It's not just additive. So BPC-157 is the ultimate healer, right? I told you of everything in your body systemically. It works on different receptors and primarily the VEGF pathway to create this massive surge in blood flow. But when you marry it with TB-500 is what directs the traffic to the injured site. So you're creating nothing but roads. TB-500 goes, "Here's all of the stuff that needs to get to where it needs to go. Let me direct it to the shortest, most empty freeway that you've got." BP BP5157 ensures that those supply trucks, right, are filled with all the stuff. And TB says, "Here's where you go." They're the most powerful healing stack known to man. I think I mean, there's a couple of things you would add depending on what it is, depending on PEG, MGF, and GHKC and KPV and things like that. But I, you know, I wasn't going to do this because I'm It's date night and honestly, it is uh 5:30. I want to go hang out with my sexy ass wife. God, she's so hot. She's I just think about it. Makes my body do funny things. 52, man. That woman gets She's not 52. She's 46. But holy [\h__\h] she's hot in every way. Psychologically, emotionally, physically, like just everything about her just makes me crazy. I just want to squeeze her and be around her all the time. and just sometimes do incredibly filthy things with her, which is so much fun because we trust each other. That's how you have a great sex life, by the way, on a pivot. Just trust each other completely. If you don't, your sex life's going to suck. So, here I'll give you, how about this? I will give you a simple and effective lifelong heart and vascular health protocol just to help you. This is more about prevention and capitalizing on what your body does and than mitigating something that's already happened. But, let me help you. TB-500. I'll just listen. I don't this is just purely off script right like I have a script right I got this keyboard sitting here but TB-500 twice per week for 6 weeks it focuses on like systemic healing and fibrosis prevention cycle off for 6 weeks repeat there's your TB-500 cycle BPC57 500 micrograms I said yesterday I take a milligram every day you can do 250 to 500 micrograms every day do it every day ongoing vascular endothelial health systemic anti-inflam anti-inflammatory problems you could just take this for the rest of your life and you Good. I said that yesterday. GHK-Cu. Now, this is where it gets interesting because I I've usually told people 200 to or 300 to 500 micrograms, but I'm going to tell you 2 to three milligrams daily is significantly better. Most people can't tolerate it cuz it stings. Yes, it's blue. Just mix it in. Dilute it more. More vials, more dilution. That's it. Just might be a larger pin, that's all. But this is the master regulator of gene expression. So, it pushes your DNA towards a more youthful, healthy expression pattern. So, connective tissue, skin, wrinkles, face, all you women worried about it. Overall systemic rejuvenation tissue. It just makes it work better. M C, right? So, where are we? TB-500, BPC, HKCU. Let's see. I'm going to give you five, not four. I lied. I'll just cuz I'm going to add a bonus in here. You guys, it's going to blow your mind when I tell you what the last one is. So, Mod C 5 milligrams. You could do this once per week. I like taking it every other day. 2.5 to 5 milligrams. If you go, "Well, that's really expensive." I don't know. So's the dumb truck that you drive that you don't need. The pavement princess that's never seen mud. So, I don't know what to tell you. This is a mitochondrial derived peptide. It's like changing the batteries out of your cells and putting in nuclear reactors instead. It crank, never mind insulin sensitivity. It cranks up energy production, ATP. It goes off the charts, which is all fundamental for cardiovascular health. So, this thing inside here, your ticker stays ticking. The last one I would put into this, Redat Tide, baby, all day long. This is like the heavyweight champ for metabolic health. the effects on weight loss and lipid profile improvement remove it just removes all the primary stressors from your cardiovascular system completely. You get a healthy weight so you're not fat. Fat is not okay. Big is not beautiful. It's gross and it's hard on your system. Your b your biology wants to give you the finger all [\h__\h] day if you're overweight. Gives you clean blood vessels so they're not filled with velcro and it gives you a foundation that everything else is built on. So there you go. Now you've got it. It addresses the system from every single point that I could think of just off the top of my head. I think right now if you look at your life and you look at what you're doing and you look at how healthy you are where you have all these problems and you've been accepting managed decline, that's on you. You don't have to listen to a damn thing I say. Or you can sit here and go, "Son of a [\h__\h] this guy actually makes sense. Maybe I should take my health a little more seriously because here's what's going to happen. I'm going to tell you right now from experience." When you're laying in a hospital bed and you have been told catastrophic things or you feel the presence of God and you go, "Man, I'm not going to make it." And you send your wife a text message, which I did. You've heard the story where I said, "I'm not going to make the morning." And I really did. I was the most I even even talking about it bothers me because I really didn't think I was going to make the mark. I thought I was going to die. I thought I was going to leave my wife and do you have no idea how much I love that woman. Like I love her so much and I I just want to do everything with her and I didn't want to miss out on any of that. So, you can accept this narrative of inevitable decline and manage decay and think that that's how you're supposed to be because some jack wagon in a white coat and the CDC says that these are the same people that fill you with poisons and toxins and exyitotoxins and problems and stab you with vaccinations. That's fine. Or you can just pick up the tools of modern [\h__\h] science and become the architect of your own damn vitality. TB-500 is more than just a peptide, you guys. It is it is like a it's like a declaration of war on the idea that our best years are back there behind us. They're not, man. It's the proof that your body already has the knowledge and the wisdom to do the things that it's designed to do. You just and it's we're just beginning to understand this. I'm not talking this foofoo woo stuff where it's like all you do is innate intelligence and get some magic adjustment. That's [\h__\h] What I'm saying is that if you give it the tools to do the work and you take everything out of the way, that combination makes you pretty much a juggernaut. And that like if you have the right key, you can unlock everything. And that's what this is. This is a key. We're talking health, strength, resilience. That is was pretty much stuff that they said you would never have because it makes them more money. So I I think this maybe maybe I'll leave this. Stop managing your decline, man. How about you just tell your body what you want it to do instead of asking and praying and hoping it doesn't do what you don't want it to do? I don't know. Hope you got something out of that. I got to go. It's date night.