You know me and my cup of coffee 15. I'm trying to get these podcasts out earlier, but I've had some static with YouTube lately. It was setting up my podcast to put it out and all of a sudden it switched from public to private on its own. It did that to me twice. So, if you guys have been seeing that, let me know. I think it's the fact that I'm spitting out the truth. But, you know, I've been going pretty fancy in some of the stuff I've been talking about. So, today I decided I'm going to talk about something a little different that I honestly think everybody should be on. I don't care what's going on in your life. I don't care if you've got menopause, if you've got cardiovascular issues, if you're short, tall, if you're obese, if you're on retatride, if you're trying to solve an injury problem, if you have dementia, I don't care if you've got a cardiovascular, you know, damage. It doesn't matter. EC157, this is a forever peptide. I take I I upped it. I take one milligram every day and I'm going to do that forever. I'm never going to stop. And let me explain. You guys have been sold a bill of goods that you're and you're you're drowning in this. I had a friend of mine. It was all he wanted to do is drink these stupid green powders and these weird things that didn't do anything. But that's where you guys are right now with with longevity. You want the ultimate longevity peptide. I've talked about a few. Miy Redatride are some of the top of the list. But I'm telling you, BPC overall, I think it knocks the rest of them out. Let me explain why. Because the more I think about it, the more I think, why would you not take this? And and there are a whole bunch of forever peptides that I I'm taking and I'm never going to stop ever. So if you want to go, well, no wonder you're so fit. Yeah, [\h__\h] Why wouldn't I be? The logic that some of you guys come up with where you go, well, you're cheating. Of course, it's easy for you to be fit. Not everybody can afford it. Not everybody can do it. Not everybody likes getting needles. Not every I take the oral version and it works for me. Okay, none of those are viable excuses. just want to stay where you are because it allows you to get sympathy and you can sit on your ass and everybody goes, "Oh, yeah, but it's just part of getting older." No, it's not. I'm 52. I got one lung. How am I kicking your ass all day? I'm giving you the answer so you can get out and kick ass and take names all day long. If you've seen They Live, I'm here to kick ass and chew bubble gum and I'm all out of bubble gum. Like that's literally how you have to live your life because you're sold this this bill of goods of like I powders and proprietary blends and whatever the hell Dave Asprey is shilling this [\h__\h] week. It's not biohacking you guys. It is it is intellectual bankruptcy wrapped in a kale wrapper to make it look all pretty that you guys just shell out so much. It is expensive confetti. That's what it is. And you guys are the sucker that's throwing the parade. You guys are just like blasting them all over social media about how great they are and none of it works. In fact, the placebo effect is so powerful and if you go, "Well, if it's a placebo, but it works, then it really works." No, it doesn't. Believing an injury is healed and actually having the injury healed are not the same. So, just get that through your head. You guys need something that's going to actually solve the problem. There is one signal, remember, peptides are a signal. There's one signal that cuts through all of this noise and all the BS that you see on social media so fundamentally that understanding it and applying it is like finding the ultimate cheat code to the universe that runs your body. Not the overall, just the one that runs your body. BPC57. Because if you listen to what I'm about to say for the next, I don't know, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50 minutes, however long I decide to go, I think pretty much your entire world view is going to change, especially uh towards the medical world because all of you longevity doctors, you wellness clinic doctors, you guys are a bunch of conmen, dude. They don't need to come see you. They don't need to buy your fancy crap. They don't need to get endless lab tests. They don't. And if that's who you are, I don't care what degree you have. Get the hell out of here, man. You guys are conning people. I listen, I've been a doctor for well over two decades. And I give this stuff away so people are healthy. You want to see me, come see me when there's a real problem or you need knowledge. But you don't need to rely on me for the rest of your life. That's a that's the most ridiculous health model on the planet. BPC57 will change so many things in your life. And you have to understand that if you aren't doing the things to make yourself into a juggernaut, you have officially and permanently wasted the most valuable asset that you've got here on this planet. Your [\h__\h] time. Listen, I've been inches from death. I come out here because I don't want that to happen to you. Then this isn't a sales pitch. This is a like cellular warfare and I'm giving you all the tools so you can wipe out the enemy. And the enemy is all the problems in your body. BPC-157 body protection compound. It's a 15 amino uh 15 amino acid peptide. It sounds all fancy. It's not. It is. It is just you. It is. It is genetic code written into your own damn DNA. It's expressed in the gastric juices of your stomach. Your stomach. And listen, before you go, well, yeah, that's why you can take it orally. No, you can't. That's the great irony. You go ahead, take it orally. I'm going to tell you, if you get in my comments and you start yapping about how oral works for you, I want you to come to my house so I can put you on the mat, put you to sleep, and then punch you in the face. That is the most ridiculous thing in the world to say. If you understand physiology and if you understand gastroenterology, it does not work. Endocrinology, biochemistry, all of it. The how your liver works, how it doesn't work. You guys are you aggravate me sometimes. You have to understand you have the most perfectly engineered master repair molecule at your back and call and most of you guys aren't using it. We didn't invent this stuff. We just had the audacity to isolate it and the brains to actually put it together and use it. And guess where you never see it? Big pharma or wellness clinics for the most part because I want to sell you giant concoctions or have you on semiglutide or tzepide because they can't get rid of true tide but I can. Yeah, where you at now? Listen, if you look at your body, most compounds are when you ingest them, when you inject them, when you rub them on, whatever it is, they're kind of a onetrick pony. It's a key that just, if you can see my hands, it's like a key that fits into one lock. BPC57 is the damn master locksmith. It unlocks everything. It doesn't just interact with one pathway. It walks into the control room of your entire and your entire endocrine and repair system and just starts flipping switches with this calm precision of a neurosurgeon that's just never had caffeine and as steady as it gets, right? And it's its effects are pleotropic. It's a $10 word that basically means it does in a dozen incredible things all at the same time. Is that enough? Otherwise, you guys are going to be like, "Oh, where'd you get that word?" Toilet paper. Word of the day, toilet paper. I just keep looking at the toilet paper and learning words. And the thing is, all of these switches that it's flicking on, they all make each other better. And this isn't bro science. It is medical school lecture on amphetamines. So, listen to me. That's what I'm trying to give you guys is the understanding of what I have in my head so you have it in your head. So you can go ahead and make actual real world decisions without having to worry that some bro science or some insta doctor. Listen, you can call me that if you want, but that's not what I am because I'm not hawking anything. Even if I do go, you should buy at Elite Biogenics. Don't. Okay. No, I'm not going to die. You should join my black card. What is it? 144 live calls a year. I give you answers. I help you with things. I solve problems. No, I don't look at your [\h__\h] X-rays or your lab work. You want that? Hire me oneon-one. But I give you answers for every other problem you have. And you have direct access to me in the community for the whole damn week, every week, for an entire year. Six grand. No. I mean, you guys are going to spend that on the dumbest things in the world anyway. Probably a PlayStation and a big TV. Maybe rims for your 1997 Accord with an offset that makes them stick out like this, but they're white walls and they got spinners. Like, I don't know what you guys do, but you spend money on stupid things. There are five things that BPC-157 does. And yes, I'm starting to get punchy because I'm starting to see people not paying attention and complaining about how they're not getting any results, but they're not doing anything in their life in general. Not to me, just in general. We'll do something about it. Angioenesis. Let's just get right into it because otherwise I'm going to start and might have an aneurysm cuz today has been an incredibly long day. You can't build a city without roads. Agreed. You can't heal tissue without a blood supply. Agreed. All right. So, the instant you get injured, here's what happens. The area that that gets injured goes hypoxic. Basically, what that means is no oxygen. Hypoxia triggers a protein called hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha. It's it's like a director. When it gets activated, it runs into the cell's nucleus and it starts flipping on genes for VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor. I've talked about this a bunch of times. VEGF is the guy that shows up with the bulldozers and extra crew and more hammers and more shovels and front end loaders and asphalt and stones and dump trucks and everything to build all the roads. The roads are your vascular system. BPC-157 takes all of these guys and pumps them full of Red Bull and monsters in a healthy way and supercharges this HIF-1 alpha and VEGF axis. But here's the magic. It doesn't just build random chaotic vessels like in some pathological tumor. Yeah, see you guys start talking about how it causes cancer. Impossible. I'm going to address that in a second. It builds these very organized and very intelligent and fully functional circulatory structures, infrastructures in your system that are designed to sprawling planned suburb. So now you have the roads that are built. Now you need some buildings. So now you have transforming growth factor beta 1. TGF beta 1 is like it's like an engineer or a or an architect. It lands on a fibrolast which is a little fat lazy construction cell that's just sitting there and it slaps it across the head and it wakes it up which triggers this phosphorilation cascade of proteins called SMAD. The SMAD comp it doesn't matter what it is because otherwise it's I'm going to be here all day talking about this stuff. But SMAD complex then storms the nucleus and starts screaming the blueprints for the foundation for everything to build on. Type 1 collagen, type three collagen, fibonnectin, elastin. This is the structural version of steel and concrete and rebar of your entire body. BPC-157 is the ultimate TGF beta 1 agonist. It turns every single fibroblast into this hyperefficient collagen puking machine. This is how you don't just get a scar, you get a rebuild that's stronger than the original spot. So even if you have a bone problem, because yes, it works on osteoblasts as well, you don't just get a bone callus underneath if you break your radius or your ulna. that becomes so hyper strong that your chance of breaking that entire arm goes almost down to zero. The rest of your body follows suit, by the way. Now you've got these roads and you've got these buildings. Now you need to get the traffic flowing through down all the streets, right? So nit nitric oxide is pretty much the ultimate vaso diilator. We know about this stuff. It's the traffic light that they this like BPC57 hits the button and they just all turn green. BPC-157 cranks up the production of endothelial nitric oxide synthes takes largginine and turns it into nitric oxide. That nitric oxide floods into smooth muscle of all your blood vessels and activates an enzyme called guanoly which produces cyclic GMP. Now cyclic GMP tells the blood vessels to relax. I could probably use some of that cuz sometimes I'm pretty amped up. It says open up the floodgates and let it all flow through. So the result is this. So think about this. You're building new roads. You're putting up new structures and repairing structures. And now you need the fuel and the oxygen and the nutrition to get there and the the toxins and the waste to get away. Right? So opens up the pipes. So the result when this happens, this nitric oxide flush happens is you get this tidal wave of this tsunami of blood flow, this hyperemic deluge that washes in all kinds of nutrients and carts out all the metabolic garbage that's there from all the repairs. Hemodnamic power washing is what it's doing to your system. Blood-based, right? So, if you think for a second, this is where people screw this up, which is why I take this every day. If you think this is just for muscles and joints, you're going to struggle because your brain is not off limits. In fact, your brain is where it does the most work. BPC-157 crosses the bloodb brain barrier and it waltses into your CNS, your central nervous system, just starts throwing raves, parties, just big ragers in the living room, and it upregulates something called GHR. Let me explain what that means. makes your brain cells exponentially more sensitive to growth hormone and IGF-1 that's already circulating your body. So even if you did nothing else, you didn't take CJC, you didn't take, you didn't take or anything, this still makes it more sensitive to the stuff that you're already producing. So this enhances neurite outgrowth synaptogenesis and it acts like a shield against exytotoxic brain damage which we are bombarded by exytotoxins. what we breathe, what we drink, what we put on our skin, what we shower in, all of the problems that we have that you guys aren't paying attention to. But it does this by stabilizing calcium levels. It's not a neurotropic. So it's not like fennel paracetam hydraide, oxyracetam, anoraset, alpha gpc, those are much more neurotropic. Even methylene blue is a pretty potent neurotropic, but this is a neurological rehab in a vial. That's what BPC-157 is. And the last thing it does is it handles inflammation. This is where it gets kind of fun because inflammation isn't the enemy, you guys. You don't need to ice up or anything like that. Uncontrolled inflammation is the problem. It's the difference between a controlled demolition and 3M island going full nuclear and melting down. BPC-1 doesn't suppress the immune response. It negotiates with it. It has a little conversation with it. It tells the pro-inflammatory tissue destroying cytoines like TNF alpha and IL6 which I mention all the time to just stand the hell down. And it does it by usually blocking the signaling pathway they use all the time which is NFCappa B which is NFCappa B. But at the same time here's what's cool. At the same time it promotes anti-inflammatory healing and pro-resolution cytoines like IL10. So this shifts the entire tissue environment from a state of utter chaos like watching 300 and it's the other guys and they're just a mess while Leonitis is keeping it tight into this organized reconstruction. It's a biological peace treaty maybe if that's the easiest way to understand it. But it makes the system work better and it makes it work in a very controlled way. Now here's let me explain what this fixes because it's pretty much everything. I'm just going to run through some basics because everybody asks, "Okay, so what does it work on? It doesn't work on this. It doesn't work on that. It works on everything. Leaky gut, it doesn't soothe and make your gut feel better like some weird crappy ant acid. It orders the expression. It orders the express upregulation of tight junction proteins and physically reseals the mucosal barriers. It literally just slams the door shut so you don't have lipopolysaccharides for example, the bacterial fragments leaking into your bloodstream from the sewer department or the the sewage plant in your which is your stomach. ulcers gives absolute cyto protection from an ulcer. Combine that with aggressive angioenesis and and collagen deposition to fill the hole and you start solving the problem with gastroinduinal ulcers. It's like biological plaster cast for your stomach, tendons, ligaments, connective tissue. It activates tennis and fibroblasts. It forces them to lay down this very instead of being all halfhazard so it looks like spaghetti. This very organized and extremely robust set of collagen fibbrals. So it doesn't heal a tear. it it's like taking high tensile cable and making it even stronger, right? So, it increases the tensile strength of the of the tissue. Bone fractures like I was saying osteoblasts cranks up osteoblast activity and pair that with an insane angiogenic response and you goes back to the callus right I just happen to use your radius your but it goes back to this callus which becomes this supercharged high-speed rate of repair callus that has a much stronger mineralization so it becomes like a wolverine bone. How about liver protection? Man, if I would have known about this 13 years ago the way I do, maybe my dad would still be alive because it it offers insane liver protection. Slashes oxidative stress, boosts glutathione, which is what your body uses. It comes out of the liver, especially when you guys take NSA, it's like their chicklets or like their Skittles. And it tells pro- fibrootic pathways to pound sand while stimulating the pathocytes to regenerate. It's like a detox for your detox organ, I guess. Sorry, I laugh at my own jokes. You laugh at anatomy and physiology jokes when you understand anatomy and physiology. I guess that's kind of retarding, but it's still funny. I don't care. Your pancreas works wonders on your pancreas. Protects pancreatic beta cells from cytoine induced suicide and reduces the um reduces a ton of stress. It's like a bodyguard for the little insulin factory called your pancreas. Brain injury. So, traumatic brain injury, any kind of brain injury to be honest. It enhances neurotrophic support. It combats what I said before because we're surrounded by all these exyitotoxins. It combats exytotoxicity. It modulates neuroinflammation. It's this helmet armor would be a better way of explaining it. Plus a shock absorber so it can take the beating for all of your neurons. Pair this with GHK-Cu copper have you have neuronal armor that is almost impenetrable. Skin wounds you get a gash in yourself. This fires up angioenesis fibroplasia re-epitheliization in this perfect wonderfully spelled out healing process that's running like a timelapse camera. just flies through it. You'll heal so much faster. Arthritis knocks down that battery acid factory in all the joints. It turns the cytoine scripts in your joints from destructive to constructive. Remember where I said IL is 10 versus IL 6. And it sets you up to save your cartilage from being dissolved by your own immune system. So things like seriatic arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and you can get the hell off of epathetically methtrixate, which is a chemotherapeutic drug. What are you taking that stuff for anyway? Talk about a ridiculous offlabel thing that oh it shuts down flare-ups. How about you fix the problem instead of just trying to fix the symptom? Cardiovascular uh the heart not as good as TB-500 cuz the half-life of clamos beta 4 is fleeting. So TB-500 the synthetic version. Amazing. It's the only thing on the planet that'll heal the myioardium and yet they'll tell you it doesn't. But yet here comes TB-500 every time solving heart problems all damn day. But BPC-157 protects against eskeeia reperusion injuries because it causes that remember the nitric oxide right the enos it causes this massive vasoddilation and anti-apoptitic effects in cardiac muscle heart muscle it's like a defibrillator for your cardiomyioytes it just this has so many incredible things to do and yet people I don't know if I should take it and I already know why cuz you guys are going to go well what about the cancer so how about I address this big giant idiotic stupid C-word elephant in the room. Cancer is not It doesn't cause cancer. Listen, the fear-mongering around BPC57, quite honestly, I think the greatest exhibition of scientific illiteracy that I have ever seen. It's not possible. It's based on on taking in vitro data, like just so you understand the way the study works. It's based on taking in vitro data from 2019, a study specifically in 2019 that showed that it stimulated endothelial cell growth in a petri dish, little dish with some juice in it to keep you alive, and applying it to the profoundly complex reality of a living damn organism. How is that even the same? It's not. But you guys run all over that and go, I'm never taking that cause. No wonder you've had cancer four times. Yeah, had I done this, I probably would never have had it. Listen, that that's the equivalent of saying because water makes a seed sprout in a cup, a hurricane is good for agriculture. It's [\h__\h] moronic. Some of the things you guys come up with are so idiotic. I just I looked one of you guys sent me some pictures of the nonsense going on with reatride in Reddit where people are stacking semiglutide, trazepatide, and fractional dosing and then taking reatide and then going back to trespide going all over the board. I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] you guys all need to take a physiology and an endocrinology class because there are not words to begin to describe how stupid some of you guys are acting." Stop trying to pretend you're an expert because chat chat GPT makes you feel like an expert. You're not. It's okay. There's so much [\h__\h] I don't know. I don't lose sleep over it. I ask people who know, but in this realm, I'm the king because I know what I'm talking about so I can help you. So, think about this about the cancer thing in vivo reality. Okay. The actual truth shows the opposite. The totality of evidence points to anti-tumor genenic effects. The mechanism is blatantly obvious. It promotes ecarterine expression. Ecarterin is a glue that holds the epithelial cells together. Just follow me on this. So, promotes ecarterine growth. And since that's the glue holding the cells together, cancer metastasizes. You ready for this? This is where it gets fun. Cancer metastasizes when it loses this glue. BPC reinforces it. It's anti-tastatic. It counteracts pathological vascular permeability while it builds this very organized healthy vascule. It prevents the leaky chaotic vessels that tumors actually rely on. That's two things already. Peer-reviewed studies have proven this time and time again that it counteracts tumor cexia and directly impairs the growth of carcinoma cells especially in colorectal cancer. By the way, interesting BPC, made in the gut, colarctal cancer, prominent cancer. They shove a camera up your ass, saying that they're looking for polyps. But yet, any single proctologologist who is worth their salt and genuine and actually gives a [\h__\h] about human beings and not in it because they're following mainstream medicine that's causing more death than life. They'll tell you not to get a colonoscopy. Listen, you guys, please listen to me. This is a guy that's been through cancer for real. Cancer fear-mongering isn't just wrong. It's physiologically and fundamentally, and to be honest, embarrassingly backwards. It is a ghost story told by people who probably failed high school biology to scare people who failed critical thinking. A system in homeostatic balance, which is exactly what BPC promotes, is the natural predator. It is the apex predator of the chaotic, disregulated state of cancer. Just let that land for a second. Please let that land. Stop getting in my comments and bitching about stuff like a bunch of girls. This is what longevity looks like. What I'm explaining right now where you can take one thing every day and if you go, what's really expensive? I never smoke and I don't really know what it costs to smoke. I'm sure it's expensive as hell, but let's say a package of cigarettes is 10 bucks. I'm guessing. I really have no idea. I could just look it up, I guess. But let's say it's 10 bucks and you smoke a half a pack to a pack a day. And I I've known people that smoke more than a pack a day. But let's say you smoke a half a pack to a pack a day. And let's say that costs you five to 10 bucks a day. How much money are you spending every year? How much is a vile BPC-157? How much is your life worth? You guys wait until a catastrophe happens and then you jump all over everything. You send me messages or anybody else and desperate and they like desperate please for help. And I want to help. Like I'll bleed for you guys. I don't think you guys understand that. But I will bleed for people that want the help. I won't give the time a day for somebody that acts like a like a condescending [\h__\h] in my comments. I'll just tell you to go [\h__\h] yourself. I have no tolerance for ignorance. None. But what I do know is that if I tell you something, it's going to help you. But when I tell you you're being an idiot waiting, it's because it's the truth and because I care, not because I want to call you an idiot. Listen to me. The data against cancer and how BPC mitigates cancer is overwhelming. So angioenesis doesn't cause cancer. It doesn't feed tumors. They rely on those leaky disastrous haphazard vascular infestation. That's what cancer relies on. This is organized exactly what your body needs. And it doesn't go to tumor cells. It goes to repair the damage and kill the tumor cell. This is about longevity, right? It's not about adding some toxic berry from the Amazon. It's about amplifying the most powerful and innate repair system that you have in your own damn body and flicking it on with a switch. And the switch is BPC57. It's the ultimate in working with your biology instead of against it. You guys, the the data isn't isn't promising on this stuff. This is a very old peptide. It's conclusive. These mechanisms, all the things that I talked about, they're not theoretical. They're they're very documented. They're peer-reviewed and proven. This is nothing short of a paradigm shift in regenerative medicine and all these longevity clinics and wellness clinics and regenerative specialists giving you hyperbaric chambers and IVs filled with all kinds of weird [\h__\h] pulling things out of your blood if they would just start here. They wouldn't need to do any of that stuff and it would cost you very little. But then how could they charge you all this money? Listen, you have the answer. I mean, you really want to go further on this weekend. You want receipts? How about this? the unvarnished published data that eviscerates the cancer fear-mongering before you guys freak out. Okay, how about this? Currency is evidence, not emotions. So, I will lay it all out for you to play it out. The claim that BPC-157 is protumor is intellectual negligence. The actual published literature published, you can look all these up, tells a starkly different story. I'll tell you citations. I will even give you citations. So on counteracting tumor caxia, so this isn't a minor point. When you're caxic, you it's this horrific wasting syndrome. It's this loss of muscle and fat and metabolic tissue that kills a lot of people going through cancer because they have organ shutdown. Not and the organ shutdown comes from chemotherapy. But it's not starvation. It is metabolic hijacking by the tumor sucking up all your nutrients. And that's where people it's got to be the angioenesis then. It's BPC. I would never want to fuel it. It's not going to listen the seinal work comes from a 2017 study published in the journal of physiology and pharmarmacology researchers who it's the very researchers in fact that discovered BPC but here's what the title is just so you know the effect of pentadcaeptide BPC57 on regression of abdominal aortic aneurysm and bologn amputation in diabetic rats. Now listen, it might sound like it doesn't have anything to do. Stay with me. In this model, they induced a catastrophic state of pathology, right? So now these So listen, the rats had severe diabetes, an abdominal abdominal aortic aneurysm, which is a a bursting blood vessel, and they were faced with limb necrosis and amputation. This is a systemic inflammatory and catabolic hellscape, perfect analog for the metabolic chaos at theexia. Now, you following me? But the results weren't subtle. Not at all. BPCT treated rats showed you. Ready? This is the best part. Complete reversal of the wasting process. Complete. They stopped catabolizing their own damn tissue. Normalization of blood glucose levels. Breaking the diabetic metabolic dysfunction that fuels cexia. Now, do you see why I'm explaining this stuff to you? I want you guys to understand that gave such robust healing of the aneurysm and prevention of limit amputation that they had to stop the experiment. The mechanism BPC1 countered systemic inflammatory cytoine storms specifically modulating TNF alpha and IL6 which is exactly what I talked about. Why wouldn't I take this every single day for the rest of my life? Why wouldn't you? Why wouldn't you? It restored anabolic pathways. It didn't just slow the wasting. It reversed it. The body shifted from a state of breakdown to a state of repair because of what they gave it. To claim this molecule promotes a wasting syndrome after this evidence is not just wrong, it's a [\h__\h] lie. It's I could do this all day. You want more? Let's dance. Okay. How about this? Directly impairing carcinoma cell growth. Let's talk about the big one that I was just talking about before. Colorful cancer. You got me lit now. Get some coffee. 32 minutes in 2021 in the in a study in the journal of biio medicines. This is the title. The promising peptide BPC-157 as a potential therapy therapy for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. And should I get a drum roll? Color rectal [\h__\h] cancer. The study moved from animal models to human colarctal carcinoma cell lines. So follow me on this. Findings were unequivocal. BBC 157 significantly suppressed the proliferation of human colarctal cancer cells. It doesn't matter what they are in a dose dependent manner which means more BPC more cancer death. Should I say that again? Okay. You took more BPC the proliferation of colorctal cancer cells went down. It induced massive cell arrest. It stopped the cancer, which means it stopped the cancer cells from dividing. Hit the pause button on the replication machinery. Do you know how cheap this peptide is? Even if you're like, "Dude, it might be cheap for you, but it's not for us." Cool. Do you know how expensive chemotherapy is? It cost you your [\h__\h] life. Grow up. It promoted apoptosis, which is programmed cell death, but in cancer cells, not in your own. It didn't stall them. It activated their self-destruct sequence. How? BBC157's potent modulation of a very specific signaling pathway. this pathway that is notoriously hyperactive and disregulated in over 90% of colorectal cancers. BPC brought this chaotic signaling back online and into homeostasis. Let me be very crystal clear about this you guys. In a controlled laboratory setting on actual human cancer cells, BPC57 acted as a chemotherapeutic agent. It stopped growth and killed the [\h__\h] cells in colorectal cancer. Why are you guys waiting to take this? Why are you guys waiting to not flood your body with this compound that will save your [\h__\h] life and prevent things from happening? Why? I don't understand. The narrative that this molecule is dangerous because it might stimulate growth is built out of a handful of out of the context petri dish observations. The counternarrative that it is powerfully protective and anti-tumoric is built on decades of invivo and in vitro research across multiple disease models from cexia to direct carcinoma suppression. The evidence isn't hiding you guys. It's published. It's everywhere. The fear is not based on science. It's based on a superficial, panicked misreading of it by people who cannot comprehend data who run around and parrot headlines on Reddit thinking they're [\h__\h] experts when they couldn't stand beside a sixth grader who took their first science class. Please understand EPC57 is the more I I do this 35 minutes in, the more I'm like, you guys should be taking this every single day for the rest of your life just like me. But that's on you. That's on you. I'm never going to stop. My wife is never going to stop. And when my children are old enough, they're never going to stop. Why? Because I want them around. I want them to be healthy. And that's what this is. It is literally health in a bottle. It's not a hack. It's not some signal that makes you a little more jacked and a little more fit. It makes you healthy and power. It turns you into a [\h__\h] juggernaut. You know, jury isn't out. Verdict's in. And it absolves BPC57 completely. Research proves it. But you know how hard it is to find that research? Not very. Most people just aren't willing to look for it. Anyway, that's why I take BPC57 every day. Hope you got something out of this, man. I really hope you do. I got to go.