A lot of you guys, you talk about how bad your life is or how you have something and you are surrounded by solutions, but you don't like the fact that you have a solution because you really don't want the solution. You're defending a prison that you built. Like, I have an online mentorship where I build millionaires and it's not the Insta Guru [\h__\h] that we see out there. I actually do this and I'm very good at it. And I even just showed a company that I'm in the process of building that is started from scratch. And that's not what this is about. I just want to help you guys. But it started from scratch a month ago and it's on track to be a $10 million business inside one year. And I guarantee you it'll be a billion dollar business inside three. And people hear these numbers and they go, "Oh, sure. Here we go." I don't care what you think. I came on a call yesterday and I showed all the people and all the help that I'm giving and all the the revenue coming in because of that and we're on our way. We're already on track to do 3 million. This is from scratch and I'm sharing all the information about how I do this with my group. If you're So I have a solution, but if you go why I don't know how to make money, join my me my mentorship. I I don't know how to fix my health. Join my mentorship. I just solved type two diabetes cured. Herpes simplex one cured. Eczema cured. Vertigo cured. Cervical disc bulge. Herniated nucleus pulposis of the cervical spine cured. Partially torn tricep cured. Weight problems cured. I could do this all day. I have so many of these things that I've done. Old military injuries from a guy in the in the group cured. And I'm not saying it with any arrogance. I'm saying it because I come out here to help you. And most of you guys don't really want the help. You don't. Which is funny to me. Which is why I have a barrier to entry for my mentorship. It's five grand. Yeah. See, some of you guys heard that and went, I thought it was 1,500. Not anymore. It is now five grand for a year. And that's still on sale because one year now is 50 grand. So it's 90% off if you come in. And there's no pitch in this. join. Keep going through the life that you open your eyes every day and you see a movie you can't stand and keep sitting there watching it going, "It'll get better if I watch it long enough." Knock yourself out. That part doesn't matter to me. I'm not trying to convince you to join something I have. I'm going, I have the answers and I've actually shown up and done it because I know what I'm doing cuz I want you to help and you have problems that you need the solution to. But here's the proof whether or not you actually want the solution. You need it, but whether or not you want it is up to you if you're doing the things that are required in that solution. Because if you're not, you don't want the solution. You want something easier or you want permission. Like, and I think this struggle with this because you want to have a better life, but you're fighting to stay where you are. Like, let me ask a question and and answer with brutal honesty, not the version that you rehearse for social media. If you want a better life, why you s why? Why are you fighting so hard to defend the life that you claim to hate, that you wish were different? Make it make sense. You talk about wanting more and you post these stupid motivational quotes. You dabble in personal development. You read a chapter of a book, listen to 10 minutes of a podcast. You listen to maybe 10 minutes of mine. I see what you guys watch. No, I don't want to listen. If you don't like my delivery, I also don't care. I'm not changing to meet your low standards. You can come up right. You say you're ready. You say I'm I'm going to do it. You won't. You've had enough. But the second somebody points to the exact thing that is getting in your damn way and holding you back. You back up and retreat like a coward defending your little crumbling castle, the one that you built with your excuses and lies. It's laughable. I struggle with it because do you enjoy running out of money before you run out of month? Do you? Of course you don't. But you get mad if someone like me goes, "Last month we did $1.1 million." And you go, "Oh, listen to this [\h__\h] Prove it. I want to see it. There's no way he wouldn't be doing this. He Listen, I don't need to prove to you. You need to prove to you. You're so busy asking everybody else to prove their position, but you've never done anything to validate and prove yours other than the one you're in validating to stay there, talking about how hard it is to change, and your situation is dis it's completely different than anybody else's. Liar. Do you enjoy running out of money before you run out of month? And listen, you think $32,000 a year and you're like, "Yeah, so some people don't want to be rich." Liar. You want the freedom. Everybody says that until the bill shows up for someone they love and care about and they can't pay it. You don't want to run out of money before you run out of month and it haunts you. It bothers you. Do you enjoy being overweight, sitting on this this cocktail of prescriptions just to function? Just so you know, your health is not in desperate need of more medication. It's in desperate need of accountability and damn responsibility. So, do you enjoy being overweight? Sitting on all those prescriptions that you take that some doctor said you got to take this just to function? No, you don't. You don't like that either. And don't pretend that you do. Do you do you like do you enjoy going home every night laying like having sex with yourself every night laying in bed alone night after night after night staring at your phone pretending that you're working on yourself and you're getting connected and you have a safe space while you're actually just distracting yourself from the ache of the isolation that you have created. No, you hate it. You damn well hate it. You know it you resent every second of it. And yet here you are still defending it. Why? Stop getting mad and defending the castle that you can't stand living in. You're still making excuses, still latching on to labels like they're these these medals of honor instead of these chains that are making they're dysfunction. You still think that depression makes your feeling I'm not even going to say depression. The feeling of being depressed makes you special. You weaponize your anxiety as if it absolves you from all responsibilities in your life. Let me say this very clearly. You don't hate your life enough yet. Because if you did, you would burn the whole damn thing to the ground and rebuild it from scratch. But instead, what do you do? Every time somebody hands you a proven blueprint for freedom, for strength, for wealth, you get offended. And this is and then you fight. You actually resist the solution. You defend the very hell that you claim to want to escape. And then just to add insult to injury, you go back inside and start complaining again for where you live. You ever stop and ask yourself why? I mean, superficially, you're stupid. But do you ever really stop and ask yourself why? Like you aren't willing to spend every dime you've got escaping the prison that you keep fighting to you keep wishing you would escape. You keep distracting yourself from, but you are fighting to stay in, but you won't spend every dime to get out of that. You I'll tell you why you aren't doing anything. I'll tell you. Because change requires more than just simple desire. It demands, it requires death. The death of your current weak, powerless identity. And this isn't some Insta Guru BS. I've been where you are. Most people are so in love with the story of their suffering that they'd rather die with it than live without it. Listen, your identity is so tightly wound around your misery that the moment somebody threatens to solve your problem. You feel like you're being attacked. It makes me laugh. And I have no no sympathy for you whatsoever when you go, "I'm depressed." No, you're not. No, you're not. You're undisiplined. I'm anxious. No, you're not. You're spun out of control. I'm stuck. You are addicted to all the comfort that you keep going back inside and hanging out with. You're clinging to the very chains that are choking the life out of you and you're calling it self-awareness. You have been sold a lie that naming your problem is the same thing as solving it. It's not. And all you've done is give yourself a hall pass to stay exactly where you are while demanding applause for your vulnerability. You're so brave. You're not brave. You're gay. Vulnerability without action. It's just it's weakness in a nicer outfit. It's better dressed. You You know what's terrifying about this? You don't actually want to change. And you want a gold star for making complaints. You want a medal for complaining. And the world hands it to you. You want a reward. This is the best part. You want to be called brave. And you want a reward for acknowledging your pain, but you don't want to walk through it. You want sympathy for being a victim. You don't want to accept the truth, though. You're not a victim. You're a volunteer. Nobody forced you here. There's no lock on the cage. None. You choose it. You just don't like that. So, you need something to blame. You don't understand my circumstances. I don't care about your circumstances. I've had bad circumstances. I bet they trump yours. Well, we're not all the same. You're right. If we were out on the Serengeti, you'd get eaten. I wouldn't. Nobody forced you here, man. Nobody's There's no lock on the door of the prison that you are sitting in. You built it and then you reinforce it by adding bars every day and that makes you mad because you don't like you cannot accept that that's the solution. It has to be a medical problem. I need a diagnosis. I need a label. You feed it with your habits and your thoughts and your avoidance and all your blame and your tribe of that recruited you of equally delusional NPCs who clap when you admit how broken you are as long as you never try and fix it. Okay, good. Stay there. Because see, here's why. The moment you take any real accountability, and I'm talking like that gut level, stare in the mirror, cold, it is all on me level of accountability. Something breaks. And what breaks is that lie and that illusion that anybody else is responsible for your damn condition. And that's what scares you. Listen, it doesn't matter if somebody drove over your dog and you weren't driving the car. It's still your responsibility to fix it. Are you going to wait around for the hit and run to come back and say sorry and give you some kind of financial reparation for Rover getting smoked by an F250? I don't have sympathy for that. Yeah, I love dogs, by the way. I don't have sympathy for you volunteering to stay there and then using a label to go this is why I can't do anything in my life. Because if if you admit that this is all your fault, then nobody's coming to save you. And if nobody's coming to save you, you have to do the work. And that's where most people fold. I'll tell you what a therapist isn't going to tell you. No, no therapist, no influencer, sure as hell, no pill pusher is going to say accountability. That's your freedom. You want a better life? Kill the version of you that created this one. Then you know what happens? Listen. You know what happens when you stop defending your limitations? When you when you stop just explaining your failures like they were so out of control and you couldn't do anything about it. When you stop lying to people and telling them how hard everything is and you actually start showing them how hard you're willing to fight to get out, not to stay. You get all that power back that you keep complaining about not having. When you get all that power back, that's when everything changes. You stop needing permission. I don't need your permission to do what I'm doing. Just so you know, folks, I'll never need your permission. You think I care about your opinions of me, that I need your permission to post on social media or make a podcast or go out and do something for my family, for my life, for myself. I don't. That's where you guys screw up. What if they don't like me? What if they don't accept me? Good. Because 90% of the people that say that don't even like or accept themselves. So, when you get your power back, you stop needing all that permission, all that approval. You stop waiting for motivation to just show up. Stop searching your cell phone for something that's going to just get you in the mood. You become a person who walks in a room and people feel that shift in energy like they got just just got hit by a truck. Not because you're loud, not because you have that puffed up chest fake confidence BS, but because you are a living, breathing example of what it means to engineer and then dominate your own mind. And for most of you guys, that scares you. See, people think domination is about control over others. It's not. The most dangerous man is the one who is in absolute control of themselves. And you know what makes a person uncontrollable? He doesn't defend his weaknesses. He uses them as weapons. And I think you guys are really missing the point. You cannot be controlled if you use everything that you're afraid of and everything that isn't powerful yet as a weapon. Look, you're not where you want to be. Okay, great. That's fine. That's honest. You guys get weird about it and go, "Yeah, but I don't want to tell anybody that because I'm admitting I'm a failure, so I'm going to defend it." People would rather defend where they are to be right instead of do what's right. But if you're still here next year, listen, if you are still look at your life last year, just go a year from now. If your life, by the way, today looks the same as it did this time last year, you're failing. What if I like my life, but you don't? And you already know that cuz otherwise you wouldn't have said that. But if you're still here in this exact spot next year defending the same lies and blaming the same people and situations and clinging to that same label and diagnosis and throlling scrolling through the same Instagram healing advice, which does nothing, by the way, except codle all the delusion that you're living in. That's on you. You know why it's so easy to stay broken? Because it's tolerated. Because everybody around here tolerates it. In fact, it's not tolerated, it's celebrated. You think this culture, let me try that again. You think this culture celebrates your pain because it cares. Ha, it celebrates it because it's profitable. It's a money machine. Your identity crisis, anxiety, depression, confusion, overwhelm, frustration that fuels entire industries, man. big pharma, therapy mills, trauma culture, this soft healing influencers who charge $9.97 for a journaling course and how to sit in front of a sound bowl and light a scented candle. They don't want you to win. I said it before. They want you compliant. They want you high functioning enough to show up at your job and obedient enough to never question why your life feels like a damn prison. You want to wake up, then stop defending your prison like it's a castle. If there were no applause for your dysfunction, listen, if there was no applause, nothing. Nobody clapped when you admitted how much you hate your life and went, "You're so brave." But if instead all you got was silence, harsh truth, abrasive answer, just in a in a mirror, you'd stop pretending it's your fault. Or you'd stop pretending it's not your fault. The reason you're still here is because it's acceptable. If society punished weakness with reality instead of pacifying it with the pseudo compassion, you wouldn't stay weak. But here's the twist. Reality doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your feelings. It only listens and respects your actions. You don't like that. You think I'm being cruel by going, "I have no empathy, no sympathy." First of all, 99% of you guys that listen to me when I went went, "I'm not listening to the doctors. I'm going to get up. I'm going to walk around." I told you I had a lady go enjoy your short wind sucking life. When I said that the jab was the worst thing I would ever do, I would never do that to myself. And all she did was get into a heated argument with me. I guarantee you that woman's not alive anymore because she made a dumb decision based on defending something that was completely inaccurate that caused her demise. But you think I'm being cruel with going, I don't have sympathy for your decisions that are making you feel overwhelmed. I'm being kind. The truth is the highest form of kindness. In case you haven't figured that out yet, when you you finally stop defending the mediocrity that you live in and you start fighting for your future, for oxygen, you're going to see something you've never felt before. Hope that doesn't fade. Drive that never goes away. Because all of that built on action, that's what's unbreakable. Listen, make it practical. If your solution to pain is a pill and the problem returns as soon as the pill wears off, you don't have a medical issue. You have a behavioral issue. You don't need to be medicated. You need to be reconstructed. Doesn't happen in comfy chairs and denting your couch and binge watching Netflix. It happens when it hurts and you do the hard things that you keep running away from because you're told you shouldn't have to feel any pain. You shouldn't have to suffer and you should always be happy. You want to change? Stop lying. Stop lying. Stop lying about how bad it is and why you're still here. Stop lying about how your situation is different. It's not different. You're not special in your suffering. You're not. What you are is typical in your avoidance, though. You're doing it just like everybody else. Until you stop defending where you are, you're never going to reach where you're meant to be and where you want to be because it's not possible because you're fighting to stay in a place that you wish were different. That's cognitive dissonance. And I get it. It's easier to play the game of you don't understand. It's easier to weaponize that story that you keep running around telling everybody and then to just rewrite the damn thing. But that is cowardice and it's not even wearing a disguise anymore. You want to escape this life, the Matrix? Get ready to fight then. And the first person that you're going to have to fight is the person you see in the mirror because he's a liar. He's the one keeping you here. It's not your boss or your trauma or your ex or your childhood or your mommy or your daddy or anything like that. It's not your circumstances. It's not your situation. It's not your neighbor. It's not anything that's going on. It's not your missing finger, your missing toe or your missing lung. It is you. It is you. So the question becomes, how bad do you want out? How bad do you want out? Because if you don't walk that path, then you lose the story. Because listen, every time I'll tell you what I mean. Every time a better path is placed in front of you, you spit on it. How bad do you want help, man? Because you get presented with solutions every day. I come out here and hand you a solution. I can't believe some of you dumb [\h__\h] actually go, I'm going to rate this with a thumbs down. That tells me your quality of character. I have never rated anything negatively in my life ever. I just don't rate it. Every time somebody goes, "Here's how you become successful." I saw it on a webinar yesterday. I went, "Here's how you do it." And then I proved it and I went, "Here's the solution. You should join my mentorship." Sometimes there's a ton of people. Sometimes it's like yesterday crickets. And what some somebody's going to Well, maybe you just suck at sales. Maybe you suck at being honest. I don't care if I'm bad at sales. I'll get better. But the only way you can get better if you suck at being honest is telling the truth. And you're not willing to do that because then it puts the accountabil accountability on you. So every time that solution is given to you, you spit on it. You piss all over it. You set it on fire. Blame. Why? Because it's what I was about to say. Because when you when you walk if not even when you know if you walk that path that blueprint you lose your story. You lose all your excuses. You lose that community of equally broken mediocre average empty sold vacuous people who've been validating your stagnation. And that is scary isn't it? You know what's worse? waking up 10 years from now and realizing you defended the life that you hated long enough to make it permanent. So if you're still breathing, then you got time. You just keep thinking that you have enough time. The world isn't waiting for you to figure it out. Just so you know, it's going to keep on spinning. You're going to die and it's going to keep on spinning. Generations are going to go by, keep on spinning. Other people are going to keep on winning. People are going to win long after me. And the version of you that could have been great will die inside of the shell of somebody who wouldn't stop defending the worst version of their damn self. Stop guarding your self-destruction like it's something sacred. Burn it to the ground. For the love of God, fight for the person you are supposed to become. Everything that you want, just so you know, you see a car go by and you're like, "Oh, it must be nice." Shut up and do something to earn it. You see a beautiful house, pretentious. That tells me you want it. Not everything's about money. No, it's about the freedom that money gives and the good you can do with it once you have it. Well, I've tried some of these things. I got burned before. Then you didn't do it or you listened to the wrong person. Both are possible. The first one's more likely. You just didn't do it. When it gets hard, good. That's how you have to look at it. Good. That's how you know you're going the right direction. Because easy is where you come from. You already know how to do that. Hard is where you change. That's where you are forged. That's when you become the person that you keep whining about not being because it's too hard. So get up and get honest and get to work. I don't know what to say, but stop defending where you are going, "It's my depression. It's my anxiety. It's my boss." It is none of that. Because if you hated it, if Listen, I'll go back to the beginning. Here's the solution to depression. This guy's not a psychiatrist. He doesn't know what he's talking about. What a liar. He doesn't know how horrible it is. No, I know how much you're addicted to that label. I know that that solution is going to take away your ability to blame what you have and absolve yourself from doing any damn work. So now you have an excuse to stay in that [\h__\h] bucket you call a life and blame that for if I wasn't so depressed, I could do it. If I didn't have anxiety, I could do it. Now, if you had a spine, you could do it. Never ever defend a prison that you were born to escape. I got to go. Never miss.