Hey guys, what's up? It's Tra Smash Works. Just to let you know, we got uh Yeah, see that's Kyle. Kyle Zaya. He's a uh badass games athlete, good friend, and uh dude, hella strong guy. Hey, we're going to be talking about shoulder stability. I know I go just put my big fat meat hand in front of the camera. Never said I was. Yeah, I did. Actually, I said to George Lucas finds me for advice for camera skills. But we're looking at shoulder stability. The problem with the shoulder is it's such a mobile joint that uh remember you have that roll, slide, glide in the shoulder to allow for all those funky awesome positions, but you sacrifice stability for mobility. So, as you have all those, remember the the rotators that come on, basically keep that shoulder attached, and then you're surrounded by that big chunk of steak, the deltoid, and then you have the lats that come in there, the pec that comes in there, the pec minor that comes up on that corocoid. Now, at the brakes, that corocoid is a big deal because what happens is it's this little bony hook and the pec major or pec minor rather attaches onto that corocoid. So does the tendon of the bicep, by the way. So we need to address all that because what starts to happen is that corocoid through uh something called um the bone remodeling right bone remodels according to stress uh pisoelectric effect wolf's law all that stuff that bone starts to crank forward like this. Now I realize in slow motion that's going to look really funny. So makes me think of that guy when I crush your head right. So what happens is as that corocoid comes forward, you wind up getting closer and closer to an impingement and then getting overhead becomes one of these. You wind up pulling the shoulder up like this and your overhead position is out front like this. Or you wind up dumping forward to get into uh any overhead position like an overhead uh squat or a squat snatch where you need to do this because you can't wind up that joint capsule the way it's supposed to. Remember the shoulder joint is stable when Yeah, that's right. When the fibers are wound up, it's like I waited for you guys to answer. But when the fibers are all wound up, that joint's super stable. So, I'm going to show you three things. We're going to peel away the tricep. See, the tricep long head specifically attaches to the um to the scapula and it's going to affect the ability of that scapula to get up and overhead because it's going to allow that scapula to accommodate approximate into that overhead position. So, you turn that cup of that joint up so you can get that shoulder up. Remember, this is a normal position. I had a guy tell me one time, I I won't tell you what the doctors, but the doctor says, "Yeah, we're not designed to go overhead." That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. I will go on record saying that. That is a funk statement. It is not the truth. We are designed to go overhead. This is normal. That's why our shoulders do this. So, I'm going to show you how to peel away that long head of that tricep so we can get this a front rack position, right? Good front rack. And b, we can get overhead and that long head of that tricep doesn't inhibit that. Number two, we're going to stabilize that uh that shoulder in a really really nice externally rotated position. And number three, we need to get that super neglected muscle, serrus anterior, right? It's the boxer's muscle, right? Protraction, retraction. Mike Tyson, right, throws that wicked right hook. And uh as you're throwing that right hook, that scapula has to protract to force that scapula around as the pec contracts as well to slam that fist into the side of the head when he catches you. Or maybe he bites you here. one of the two that either way he's going to do something right. So, first thing we got to do is we got to unglue that tricep. Remember, we uh strip away tissue before we work on stability. It's super important you do it in that order. So, it's really easy. Just grab a band. Get a pretty heavy band. God, the amount of jokes that could have just come out there is incredible. You're going to wind it up and then you're going to grab on here and you're just going to bring your elbow all the way up against the rig. So, wind up the band. The band's at about maybe mid thigh height. And then you're just going to hang out like this. Two minutes. Those minutes. That's my spanglish for the day. Should we just hang out? That's going to open up that long head of that tricep. Peel it away from that electron in the back and then that uh that scapula um infogenoid tubacle I believe uh from the uh from the scapula as well. So it's going to change the um the movement of that scapula and allow for that overhead position. That's number one. Number two. Oh yeah, this is a good one. So number two is now see if we can get this all the way. We can do left side, we can do right side. Doesn't really matter, but we're going to put the kettle bell behind us. So kettle bell is right here behind us. Arm is going to go out like this. You're going to take the kettle bell and I'm going to show you. So the kettle bell is right here. So, I'm just going to rest it on me for now. I want the kettle bell on the floor when you start this, but this is just for video's sake, right? So, all you're going to do is you're going to take the kettle bell. You're going to hold it up. You're going to put the arm out like this. And how about we change this so we can actually see the video. I'm going to move way over here. We're going to take You're going to take your kettle bell. You're going to wind it up. Arms out like this. You're going to drop the foot all the way over to the other side. And then you're just going to push yourself up. So you're going to hang out like this. But I want you to look at the kettle bell. You're going to hang out like this for how long? As long as you humanly can. Ideally 2 3 minutes. This is the kettle bell arm bar. This is the simple version. There's like nine different versions of this. This arm here is to stabilize you. Leg stabilizes you. So you're just concentrating on holding the shoulder up. So this is how you stay nice and upright like this for ever. Okay, that's number two. Number three is just flip over. Super easy. We're going to protract and retract the scapula so we can strengthen up that serrus anterior. Serrus anterior, those little bumpy superhero muscles that people have under here that they draw in the comics or they put on suits when you're Batman in that superher movie. All you're going to do is you're going to get on your stomach like this. It's just gangster, huh? And then you just hang out like this. So you're basically in a plank except you're this way. So it takes out the ability to do a real push-up. And then you're just going to squeeze your scapula together. So, squeeze your shoulder blades together and then push them away. Just protract and retract the scapula. Two sets of 15. Get that working. That's going to stabilize that shoulder. That's going to help a ton of the overhead position, but it's going to get rid of a lot of shoulder aches and pains and all kinds of issues that you got going on because you're actually telling that joint to stabilize the way it's supposed to and to move the way it's supposed to. As far as the acromon goes and bending it back into place, that's next time. Hey, I'm Trev Smashworks. I see you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.