insulin resistance does not keep you from losing weight at all. Like the only reason I'm even doing this podcast episode is because so many people are going, "I'm insulin resistant, so caloric deficit doesn't work on me. I need something else. I have PCOS, hypothyroidism, menopause, my grandpa's genetics, my family chronically stores." or whatever story you guys come up with, you're not metabolically broken. So that's why I decided I'm just going to knock this out real quick, give you guys the facts, and then you decide what to do with it. I come out here and I get like I listen to a podcast that Brea said where he was talking about how you're missing this key nutrient, this key supplement, or maybe it was some stupid genetic marker that he was testing for. All of it's a lie. All of it's a lie. You guys just don't like the truth. You're not metabolically broken. You're not. You're just emotionally attached to your excuses. You're not stuck. Your body's not defective. Your endocrine system's not defective. Your CNS, your PNS, peripheral and central nervous system, they're not broken. You're stuck because you guys have built an entire damn identity around being hormonally special just so you don't have to do the uncomfortable work that gets results. like I am lean and athletic. I still wake up sore. I hurt. I ache. Things get in my way. I don't want to train. All of the things. I am a scrawny kid. When I was growing up, if you found pictures of me when I was little, I looked like this pencil. I just didn't want to stay that way. So metabolically, in order for me to put on weight, I had to eat a ton more, eat a surplus, physics, and train in order to force adaptation of my body. That's it. The inverse is also true. You guys complicate it all the time. I'll say it again. The show alone, the show Survivor, Ashvitz. Oh, I'm sure somebody's going to be like, you shouldn't say that. Get the [\h__\h] out of here. I'm using it as an example. When you guys go, I'm insulin resistant and that's why I can't lose weight. No, you're insulin resistant because of how you live, how you eat, how you sleep, and how you think, and you still can lose weight. Just so we're clear, you've confused slightly more challenge with impossible because somebody told you it is. You've confused being in discomfort, being uncomfortable with unfair. So now you want pillows and complacency and validation and comfort to rewrite science. It doesn't work like that. Listen, I'm I love you enough to tell you the truth. Cuz your body, whether you like it or not, still obeys the laws of thermodynamics. Fat loss is not personal. It's not emotional. It's physics. Period. It bugs me cuz you guys fall for the dumbest [\h__\h] I mean, here is raw science. First law of thermodynamics says energy cannot be created or destroyed. It can only be transferred or transformed. Period. So unless you're going to challenge that, be my guest. You're going to be wrong. You know what that means? Your body, your physiology doesn't get a vote at all. It doesn't get to opt out of physics because your hormones are out of balance or you're not connected to your inner child that plays by the same rules as a car, as a nuclear reactor, as a [\h__\h] toaster. If you eat more energy than you burn, you store it. If you burn more energy than you eat, you lose it. Every single pound of fat that you've ever gained or lost has followed that rule. And yet for some reason human beings keep searching for the next thing to help you burn fat. And by the way, if you go, well, what about semiglutrous epide? What about all those? Those make you burn fat. No, they don't. Not really. Yes, the glucagon aspect hitting that agonist. Yes, that tells your body to use fat as fuel, but it doesn't specifically burn fat. It's not how it works. It makes what you do matter. So you 10x 50x the results for your hamster or your kangaroo or whatever it is you're using it for in your research study. insulin resistance doesn't rewrite the rule of thermodynamics. It doesn't. PCOS, you guys, I got I have probably about 30 messages from people going, "Well, this doesn't work for me because I have PCOS." This is exactly what you need. If you're wondering why I'm using PCOS, polycystic ovarian syndrome, because it is notoriously connected to being insulin resistant, doesn't come with a rewritten first law of thermodynamics, though. Don't get mad. You guys get angry when someone calls you out, but that's because it takes away your excuses. It doesn't take away the facts. And then somebody like me comes. See, you guys cling. You guys just try and like pillow up the [\h__\h] out of these guys that come out and go take this magic supplement, these pills, get this test. It shows that you are genetically predisposed to be a fat [\h__\h] No, it doesn't. What it does is it gives that person 1, two, 300 bucks for a test to tell you what's wrong with you so you can hold up your this is what's wrong with me card and why it's okay for me to be overweight. Again, I'm telling you this because I care. Nobody wants to be fat. Nobody wants to be scrawny. Nobody wants to be weak. Nobody wants to be broke. Nobody wants to be alone. Nobody wants this stuff. And you guys get out and like it's the second coming because somebody gave you the thumbs up and a card that says it's okay. Here's your condition. Here's your label. This is why you can't. And it is your get out of jail free card for the work. Like your thyroid. I hear this. Thyroid and menopause are the two heaviest hitters. I can't lose weight because of my thyroid. I can't lose weight because of menopause. [\h__\h] You don't like the discomfort and somebody told you it was supposed to be easy. The problem is you want fat loss to feel fair. The same reason why you want becoming a millionaire to feel fair. But if you want to become a millionaire, you have to conduct yourself the way a millionaire does. And then you have to bring that into existence. The same thing applies to your fitness. You want to become fit and lean and strong and feel healthy and be healthy, you have to conduct yourself the way somebody who is fit and lean and strong will conduct themselves. Which means not popping off sleeves of Oreos and running an excuse train on everybody that's going to listen. You You guys want to eat crap and live soft and scroll endlessly to find support and get recruited by these ass clowns that go, "If you take this magic supplement, it's going to change your genetics and you're going to melt fat like this." None of that's real. You guys want to skip sleep, dodge exercise because apparently that's bad for you. and Harvard appar allegedly approved that men with dad bods are much more desirable not to any woman who's fit. No, they're not. Are you nuts? Are you high? My wife is so fit and so [\h__\h] sexy. Oh god, my wife is so Oh, it just hurts me looking at my wife. She's so hot. Oh, she is so insanely hot. And I could stare at her all day, 20 years, and I can't walk by her without just losing my [\h__\h] mind cuz I think she is the sexiest sexiest woman alive. Like, I just want to grab her and just everything with her. How great is that? I desire my wife because I'm in love with my wife, but she's also fit as hell. She just smoked the [\h__\h] out of our son today in a workout where even Pierce goes, "Holy I went,"Mom's fast, man. You poked the bear, man. He was shit-talking yesterday." And Brandy went, "Okay, I'll play that game." She has another gear. She will literally go dark. Not like all you queers that talk about, "I'm going dark. Let me tell you how dark I am. I'm dark." Why are you talking about it then? Shut up. If you're so dark, shut your mouth. come back in a year and let everybody go, "Holy crap, the guy's Batman." You can't go dark and then tell everybody about how dark you are. You're not dark. I don't know if you figured that out yet. This drives me nuts. But he trash talkalked Brandy in a fun way. He's competitive and he's good. But she just kept checking out on him like just nonstop in the workout. And he goes, "I can't keep up." I go, "She's fast, man." He goes, "Yeah, she is. I started out ahead of her, and now she is a round and a half ahead of me." And I go, "You're never going to catch her. Not because I don't think you can, but because she's not going to let you. She'll die before she lets you win." That's the gear she has, which I think is bad. I've learned a lot of things from my wife. Some of it is that next gear. But you guys, you want fat loss to feel fair. You want becoming a millionaire to feel fair. You want all the things you want in your life to feel fair. So, you look for support groups and then you let yourself get recruited by these queer groups that go, "It's okay. Put your phone in a box and I'm so good at what I do. I'm going to unleash the beast and tell you how to do it." All these dumb things that these Insta guru coaches talk about. If their life was so great, they wouldn't sit there with a face up against the camera telling you how great they are. I just show you what I'm capable of. You decide. I get more messages from you guys going, "Holy [\h__\h] you are a machine." Psychologically, physically good, because I earn it. But I'm not running around going, "Look how great I am. Look how great I am. Look at me. Look at me. I'm so great. I'm so great. I'm going to go full crazy and show you exactly what I'm capable of." blah blah. I mean, you can see I'm a product of the 80s just from doing that. But your body's not listening to your feelings. You think you can do all of these things and then fall back on an excuse talking about how hard you're working and how little progress you're getting. And like I said, you eat like crap, sleep like crap, function like crap, think like crap, and you think you should still be shredded. and diced up because you feel like you're working really hard, but your body is not listening to your feelings. It's math. Math always works. Listen, if physics actually gave a crap about your mood, then I'd still be 22 years old and in some hot tub somewhere. But here we are. I don't know if you get that. Your slow metabolism isn't slowing your progress. Your story about your slow metabolism is. How many fat turtles have you seen? They all look the same. Pretty slow metabolism. What about an elephant? They all look like an elephant. Correct. Oh, no. Fatter than the other. You guys find arguments for everything. How about we define the dragon before we slay it? Because I think that's part of the problem is you guys have no real definition. insulin is a hormone that allows glucose, sugar, to enter the cell for energy. You with me so far? There's your physiology. There's your endocrinology. When you eat, insulin is released from the pancreas and it says, "Hey cells, open up. I got some fuel for you." But if you guys have been like, follow me. If you've been eating excessively for years, especially processed shitty food, the cells start saying, "I'm good, man. and we're full and then they stop responding to insulin. That's insulin resistance. Most of you guys don't even know what it is because nobody's taken the time to actually explain it. You know how you can tell somebody doesn't know [\h__\h] about what they're talking about because they use all kinds of fancy terms, fancy words, and crazy concepts to make you not understand them because they don't understand. If you can bring it down to a second or third grade level, I'm sure you've heard that before and you know your stuff. Well, I promise you I know my stuff. So, here's what happens though because of that. Now, your body pumps out even more insulin, right? Because it needs more to get those little doors to open, right? Imagine insulin comes, knocks on the door on the cell, and the insulin goes, "Oh, that's the key." Well, now it needs way more to get those doors to open, which means now you have more insulin in your blood, higher sugar in your blood, more fat storage, more hunger. It's an ugly cycle. You see, I'm not doubting your discomfort. I'm not doubting how bad it feels and how uncomfortable it tell people, listen, if you're going to do something hypothetically, this isn't a true tide commercial, but I'm telling you, if there is no other hypothetical peptide on Earth to do research with than that one, if you get what I'm saying without me saying it bluntly. But here's what insulin resistance is not. It's not a fat loss force field. It's not this dome that protects you from losing fat. It doesn't block the laws of energy. Doesn't cancel out thermodynamics at all. At all. And it sure as hell isn't trapping you in a body that you can't change. You're in charge of that. It just makes it harder. It makes it harder. It makes the fight a little like the fight's just a little steeper, right? You got to climb a little bit. It's an uglier angle, you know? It demands just more discipline. So what? So what? You guys all walk. And I promise you the discipline when you were a toddler, when you were folding yourself in half and banging off every piece of furniture in your house until you walked was higher than whatever you have now. And you guys look at toddlers and go, "They're so cute. They got more discipline than you because they are relentless. They are ruthless little termites. They just never stop because they have discipline to keep going. But you think because it's hard that gives you a pass. You think that the first person to fight through some dysfunction win? Look at facts because you guys start talking about feelings all the time and that's where your focus is. But that has nothing to do with this. Math doesn't care about your feelings. Physics doesn't care about your feelings. Your physiology doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your feelings. Look at the facts. Type 2 diabetics taking insulin daily still lose weight in clinical studies when they're in a caloric deficit. Women with PCOS, notoriously having insulin resistance whose hormones fight them every step of the way. They lose weight in a deficit. Hypothyroid patients, even with sluggish, slow ass metabolic rate, lose fat when they eat less than they burn. The end. Because physics doesn't change just because your story does. You guys think your story changes the laws of physics. You're going to have to go toe-to-toe with God on that one. You're going to lose. Because when someone says, "I've tried everything and nothing works." Here's what that means. This is what I hear. They track for three days and quit. They eat clean but snack all the time. Like they're eating bags of veggie straws because some Winston guru said, "You could eat as many of these as you want." What they probably heard was veggie straws. What the guru probably said was vegetables. They train hard once a week at best and then overestimate the output. Oh, I see that a lot. A lot of you guys tell me how hard you train and then I invite you to do one of my workouts and you tell me it's not possible. But yet, here I am doing it every day at 52 with one lung. And a lot of times you guys underestimate your calories, but here's the number that I've heard. 30 to 50% underestimate. And you guys still claim a deficit. Come on, man. There is a difference between being in a calorie deficit and thinking you're in a calorie deficit. Thinking doesn't drive fat loss. I don't know if you figured that out. Doing does. So, how about if just bring this full circle because I could do this all day because it drives me nuts. Sometimes I talked to my buddy Sean and I said, "You know, I guess I'm still in the healthcare game, even though I don't want to be." Just so we're clear, I can't stand being in the healthcare game. Why? Because everybody out there is a [\h__\h] liar. Everybody is a drug pushing [\h__\h] liar that goes against facts that actually work and they fund research studies to go, "No, no, no, no, no. That doesn't work anymore. This works. No, it doesn't. I know I'm right. doesn't matter. People are always looking for something easier, thinking that it's going to work while it's actually destroying their health and their psychology and their life and their finances and their marriage and like everything because they want easier so bad that they'll literally sell their soul for it. So, I can't stand being in healthcare. And the problem is, you know what my buddy Sean said? He goes, "Dude, you're so good at this. It's like your calling. You just know how to convey information and have authority doing it and you know your stuff. I know I know my stuff. It's not an arrogant statement. Nobody's better than me at this. I just don't like the other side of the equation, which is all the liars going, "But my situation is different." No, it's not. You want accountability from a real doctor or from a real consultant or a real coach, whatever you want to call me. That's what I do. You want accountability? I'll stand on you until you get the results. The problem is you go, "Why, wait, wait. I don't want accountability. I want something easier." Is there a cream? Something I can shove up my [\h__\h] Something I can drop into my eye? Maybe something I can lick that's going to make me stronger, lose weight, get lean, probably make me taller, make me look like uh Brad Pitt if I'm a dude, you know? Make me look I don't know what you guys are looking at. Girls now. I have no idea. Cameron Diaz, I don't know. She's pretty. Like I have no idea what you guys are looking at cuz the paradigm has become so screwed and convoluted where men think they're women and women think they're men. I don't know what the [\h__\h] is going on in this world right now even that. So that's why I have very little desire to get into healthcare. But here I am still telling you guys information. Why? Because I just can't stop giving a [\h__\h] about you guys. So let me I know what you're thinking because even talk and only because I brought a true tide into the conversation. You guys go what about what about Red True Tide? So let me explain. It's not a magic pill. It's not. It is I said it before triple agonist which means it activates three separate receptors, right? Three different receptors. GLP-1 which is hunger control. Just look at it this way. Hunger control. Turn the switch on or off. GIP which supports insulin sensitivity on or off. And now we know what insulin sensitivity is, right? Glucagon promotes fat burning. On or off. That's it. Don't over complicate it with these weird Oh, these affiliates, these bodybuilders with their stupid affiliate links that know nothing about what they're talking about. These are the same knuckleheads that go take orals. Show me the blood work that shows your blood level on an oral is equal or even remotely close. And we're talking 10% bioavailability versus 90% bioavailability with a subq. You do not have any blood work to show that because it doesn't exist. the end. And if for some reason you manage to get a little bioavailability out of it, you had to modify that molecule so severely that it becomes insanely hepattoxic. Think the level of anadrol 50 back in the day that was so hepattoxic because they have to make it or even Dballs, Diana balls. You had to make them an alpha alkalated 17 molecule just to be subject because they're all subject to first pass degradation by the liver to make it through the liver without getting completely decimated. So you actually have something in your system. That's what these orals are doing. They put a coating on them. They reconfigure the molecule so it still kind of does what it does but it beats the [\h__\h] out of your system. But hey, who cares, right? You guys are nuts when you have something perfectly well suited to turn a switch on. No suppression, no drug, no nothing. It is just turning a switch on and making something work 10 to 50 times better. Curbs appetite, improves insulin response, helps shift your body into fat burning mode faster. Hypothetically, wink wink. But it works better when you do the work. It allows you to stay in the deficit longer without feeling like death. Like I said, you don't have to white knuckle your day every day thinking, "Oh my god, I can't handle this. I last the last meal I had was me looking at a picture of a salad. What it does, it makes the grind more manageable. So, you can just keep playing the game until you win because you forget you're even playing the game. It just becomes that more becomes that automatic. It's like I said before, it's a leverage, not shortcut. Multiplies effort, doesn't replace it, none of that stuff. So, if you're still, listen, if you're still skipping workouts and eating like a toddler at a birthday party and you're still blaming your metabolism, don't bother wasting Reddit. I'll just tell you that right now. This is a hypothetical high performance tool. [\h__\h] I hate the things I have to say to to make sure that I don't violate anything. It is a hypothetical high performance tool, not a babysitter for your cravings. It doesn't cancel out cookies, Karen. Like I think that's the problem is you're like, "Oh, can I eat all the cookies I want?" No. Listen, Susie, it's not going to cancel out the carrot cake and the muffins that you eat all day. It just keeps you from eating seven of them. Like, you want to fix insulin resistance here. I'll give you the playbook so it's not that complicated. Don't expect any of this to be cute cuz I'm just annoyed. Lose fat. Excess fat equals more resistance. Lose it and your insulin just starts working again. That's physiology. build muscle, which means pick up heavy things and put them down. No, you will not get bulky. My wife is 120 pounds, 5 foot2, looks like a fitness model, and she is sexy as [\h__\h] And she squats 245 for reps. She ain't bulky, kids. She's fit. Build muscle. Pick up weights. If you're not picking up weights, you're doing it wrong. Muscle uses glucose. It's like a furnace. The more you have, the more insulin sensitive you become. Well, that's what you want, by the way, right? You want to be sensitive to this thing. Move more. Walk after me. You want to know what's really great? Just go for a walk right after a meal. It literally bypasses insulin and just shoves glucose right into the cell. That's it. Walk after meals. Lift, train, run, bike, aine, row. Don't sit all day and blame your damn pancreas. Pancreas is what produces. Before we go any further, make protein your priority. I already told you what the diet is that you should have. Your body weight times one in pounds gives you a number. I'm 200. 200 g. I do 1.5. So 300 gram for me of protein every day. I eat x amount of calories every day. So the difference between the protein calories and the maximum number of calories that I'm allowed to have per day, that's free rate. Yeah. I don't think it's the smartest thing to smash buckets of, you know, fried chicken and hammer just bags of cookies and donuts that you get at a gas station. Those white powdered pieces of [\h__\h] that you eat that you can leave on a shelf for 3 years. I think that highly processed stuff is what causes insulin resistance. I said it at the beginning. But if you're in a caloric deficit, doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I could prove that I'll eat a carrot cake every day and still be jacked and shredded. I ate probably a dozen cookies that my wife made this morning. I ate them after my fast at 2:00. So, prioritize protein. It builds muscle. Throw some fiber in there. You don't have to have a ton. They're all weird about it right now, but it controls blood sugar. So, it's a good idea to have both keep you full and mitigate insulin spikes. Sleep is a tough one because I know it's difficult to fix your metabolic rate when you're sleeping very little, especially if you're sleeping very little and you're living off of caffeine, Red Bulls, and Tik Tok. But at the same time, I only sleep four to five hours a night. I've been this way my entire life. And you guys have never seen me running low on energy ever. This is just how I'm wired. But if you have to struggle to get through your day, you're not sleeping. You have to. So get some rest otherwise whole cortisol, insulin sensitivity or resistance, all that stuff comes into play. So just keep that mind the solution isn't found in the extremes that you guys are it's in the repeated application of the right which you a lot of you guys struggle with. You guys struggle with doing the right thing. So you keep looking for the next Huberman Labs, Brea, whatever other [\h__\h] up person that's going to come out. Listen, I don't have a lot of respect for people that lie about healthcare and create this giant following of people they've recruited that they think all of the sudden their word violates the laws of the human body and physics. Not true. But what I do know is you don't reverse dysfunction rather by waiting. You have to do the boring consistent. I don't like to do this. It's uncomfortable because you're taught that you should never be uncomfortable. You should always be uncomfortable, man. That's how you reverse dysfunction. You don't do it by sitting there waiting for it to show up. You reverse it by acting consistently. You just keep doing the same thing, especially when your emotions tell you not to. I know. Listen, I hated training. I still a lot of times don't like training, but I do it because I like the results of trading. You have to look at what you want and what I said at the beginning. You want the results of being thin, muscular, strong, powerful, being a millionaire, having a great marriage, having fantastic sex, being a leader, being a strong father, a strong mother, all those things. You want to be those things, then conduct yourself as that person would. You don't stand in front of the fireplace and go, "Give me heat and then I'll give you wood." Which is how a lot of you guys have been trained to think. That's the hypnosis of social conditioning. And you guys are screwing yourself up because you think that you should it's you demand that the results should show up and then you'll do the work. Which is why you are blaming your pancreas and insulin resistance for being fat. No. Look in the mirror, negotiate with your boss. Because listen, bottom line, insulin resistance is real. I never said it wasn't, but it doesn't cancel out the rules. It makes you face them with a little more discipline. That's all you've got to do. Laws of physics aren't suspended because you're tired. The laws of thermodynamics, they don't vanish because you're pissed off, frustrated, angry, and feel you should have better results. You're not special. I love you so much, but you're not special. But you can be exceptional if you just stop [\h__\h] lying to yourself. If you're not losing fat, it is not because your body's broken. It's not because your hormones are out of whack. It's not because of any label or condition somebody's giving you. It's because your execution is broken. Well, can something like reach true tide help? Yes, absolutely. However, tracking and knowing how much you should eat, instant help. Lifting, instant help. But nothing helps if you aren't willing to look yourself in the eye in the mirror and go, "Yeah, it's my damn fault. Take responsibility." Like, if it was me, I'd look in the mirror and go, "Spartan, it's your [\h__\h] fault that you are fat, bro, and alone." I am not fat, nor am I broke, nor am I alone because I take responsibility for my actions. This isn't about motivation. I'm not trying to motivate you. I'm giving you the truth. Might be raw, might be gritty, but I'm honest about it. This is math. It is just pure math. This is about biology submitting to physics every single time. You guys got to stop chasing hacks. Stop googling your way out of discomfort and acting like you I hear this all the time like, "I've tried everything, bro." No, you haven't. No, you haven't. You haven't tried the one thing that works. Getting uncomfortable. You say you've tried everything when you've avoided the only thing that works. To be honest, sustained, disciplined, uncomfortable consistency over and over again until you get the results you want. You don't fix insulin resistance before losing fat, which is you guys are convinced that that's how it's going to be. And that's what I saw in this post. This is what triggered all this. your questions, which I want to answer, and some stupid video I saw where I already said who it was, goes, "It's because of this nutrient that's missing or whatever it was. I didn't even pay attention cuz it was so far-fetched. You're a liar." Sustained, disciplined, uncomfortable consistency. You do not fix insulin resistance before losing fat. You lose fat and that fixes insulin resistance. You don't break the rules. No matter how much you want to, you have to line up with. You can fight them all you want. That door says push. You pull on it all you want, baby boy. You're never getting in. That's the game. You have to line up with the rules and make them work for you. You guys get mad because somebody else figured out how to make them work for them. I play by the rules of my physiology all day, which is why I can do more than most people. I can function better than most people. and I've created a life better than most people. And I come out here and I go, "Here's how I did it." Doesn't work like that for me, though, bro. My system's different. My business is different. Yet, I have a business program, a mastermind, where I just give away everything I've done that actually has made me an incredibly large amount of money. I tell you how to treat your physiology and get jacked and fit and lean and lose weight and get strong and be able to do all the things that I can do at 52 years old. I show you exactly what I've done to make my marriage so [\h__\h] good. They should make a Netflix special about it because it's so badass. Two decades. I got enough time under my belt to know what works. Even raising kids, all of it. I don't come out here to [\h__\h] you. I come out here to give you the facts and you guys just lose your mind. You get in the comments just [\h__\h] Okay, you're not hurting my feelings. Just so we're clear. You want to be fat and broke and alone and insecure. You do you, boo. You do you. I'm gonna be over here throwing points on the board, winning while you get pissed off that I keep making a better life, showing better videos of exactly how badass this is. And I started four years ago with nothing. The game is to align with all the rules. In this case, your physiology, your endocrine system, your nervous system, all of this works to your advantage when you decide to use it to your advantage. That's the game. And honestly, most of y'all are already late. You should probably just take this video and go, I need to take notes and fix yourself. I got to go. Never miss.