All right, listen. I know I'm I'm wearing a old school Spartan Army shirt. Man, I haven't put one of these on in a while. It says Vermiss on the back. Honestly, I have AI have a whole bunch of these shirts. These are earned. People that are part of my my mentorship, they get access to these shirts. And people ask me all the time, so we'll see. Maybe if you send me a good message, I'll send you a shirt. Just give me your size. But they're pretty rad. They're comfortable. I just I was out my son was uh went to a place called uh Chapas boxing, right? Boxing gym. Old school boxing. Like this guy Pete Chapas, great boxer, 53 years old, like smooth, fast, teaching my son Pierce how to do stuff. He was so great. My son's a very, very good fighter, 16 years old, and he's been fighting since he was four. And it's not one of those manufactured, you know, comments that people, the hyper proud parents that need to give them give their kids something to be proud of first, right? the 11th place trophy parents. But Pierce is a he's an exceptional fighter. Muay Thai in jiu-jitsu. He is a dangerous kid at 16 years old. Little bugger fast too. But anyway, so I I ran out here because the day has been one of those days where you spend the day putting out fires and it's now 8:30 now. This still has to be done. I do what I say. You want to know the whole point or the the premise behind becoming extremely successful in life is just do what you say. Do what you say because everything else comes after that. And a lot of the problem comes from just not doing what you say. But that's an entirely different podcast. Today I I want to talk about sleep apnea and inflammation and the fact that we're taught that as you get older, you're supposed to become slower and weaker and softer and everything is supposed to be significantly more difficult. That's not the truth. That's not the truth. My grandparents died. They passed away in in their mid to late and my grandpa was a savage. well into his 70s, he was kicking ass and taking names. And my grandma, I've I never once woke up before, no matter what. I could come downstairs when when we'd go to Pennsylvania. And I My grandma was already downstairs cooking. 4 in the morning. It didn't matter. She was always up before everybody. Always stayed up after everybody. Always made sure everything ran smoothly. It has nothing. You're not supposed to get decrepit at 45 years old. So, here's the deal. I you know me I spend a lot of time becoming very proficient research chemicals peptides accrets yeah things sarmms peeds all this stuff the reason is because I think people need to have a source of information and when I was doing solely smash works things I became the source of information and I took that as a very high compliment because my point was to help people and it still is well now I'm doing it in a different direction I help people make an incredibly large amount of money because I've done it and I had to do it from nothing at 48 years result. That's what the mentorship is. But I also help people become just juggernauts, healthy, powerful, strong versions of themselves. And you know what? It begins with actually making decisions as the strong, powerful version of you, not the version that you are right now. So, you just think about that before people go off in the comments. And by the way, if you're that kind of person that goes off in the comments, save it. I'll just delete you. I just don't have time for it. I don't care. I don't spend any time around negative people. It's like sticky. That stuff's like gravity. It just pulls more negative people around. I just can't do it. So listen, let me let me ask you a question that most doctors aren't asking you. And most doctors I got a message from somebody 99% of the doctors out there he flattened. Yes, he doesn't know 99%. But it's a very broadful explanation or statement was that 99% of the doctors out there are a disaster. They don't have your health in mind. They don't even know how to keep you healthy anymore. They don't know how to make you healthy. and their reflex is to look up something on chat GPT or Google or figure out what pill, lotion, potion, injection, surgery they can give you to keep you a lifetime subscriber. I am undoing that. And oh, I'm telling you, my job is to help you guys as much as possible. So, that's all I'm going to do. So, let me ask you a question. And whether you're some biohacker or an athlete or a CEO or none of this matters. No doctor is asking you. Like what if I told you that the reason that you feel like and you actually are aging faster and sleeping worse and stacking fat on you all the time and you're struggling to think clearly and you you're falling apart is not just because you're it's not because you're getting older. What What if I said that? What if I said it's not? What if I said it's because the operating system running in your biology and controlling everything is corrupt. What if there was a way to hit the reset button on all of it? On all of it. Here's what's frightening. I'll give you the and I have to say this, almost forgot. None of this is to cure, diagnose, treat, advise. It's only hypothetical and experimental and educational. Why? Because in a country that is supposed to have free speech, the people with the most money make the most speech control. And then the idiots, the soft and mediocre trying to enforce the rules because there's a lot of them. Also embarrassing by the way. So if you know you, so the operating system running your biology is corrupted. So, if there was a way to hit the reset button on all of it, your entire system, your physiology, just getting a jump start on all the things that you should be doing, like, would you want to feel good at 45 years old, at 55 years old, at 65, at 75? Would you want to feel like you have nothing but nitromemethane running through your bloodstream because you don't run out of gas and you don't hurt and you don't stack on fat like there's a prize for it and you got a good night's sleep every single night? Everybody should say, "Absolutely. What do I have to do? And here's what's frightening is that I will give you the exact thing to do to change it. To get all that back, whatever your whatever situation you're in, you have to do two things. You have to cut the ties with the current medical model, not doctors, the current medical model of sickness and disease care, and you are unhealthy because of a lack of certain medications, surgeries, whatever. And you have to be willing to do the things that yeah, they're going to cost you money. They're going to cost you time. And everything inside you is probably going to go, "Oh, I don't know though because I was told stop listening to the people that tell you things are bad then when they're actually good for you." How about this? Think of all the things that you were told that are bad for you that you found out later were actually really good for you. So, if you want to hit reset on all of that, I mean, it's there's four four compounds, four peptide based, it's not peptide based, four peptides that don't just slow aging. It it reloads your entire system with original software that you're supposed to have every night. It's supposed to turn on, run a program, turn off, you wake up. But it stopped getting somewhere around your 30s, right? The signal stopped working. It got fuzzy and staticky and nothing's working because you've been inundated with medication and breathing things and drinking things and absorbing them through your skin if you don't think that your water the drinking part of your water isn't the problem. It's what you shower in. Just to give you a little insight, but going through this four peptide protocol like you guys should be lining up out the door. Yeah, you you should get it at Elite Biogenics. Why? Because I am great at this and I know what I'm doing and the face on that company is mine. You should probably look at the person giving you advice and ask, "Would I want to look like them, think like them, be like them, have their life, their money, their time, their energy, everything?" If the answer is yes, what are you waiting for? I've been a doctor for well over 25 years. So when I hear some clown with an acupuncture degree tell me who the most anecdotal BS about X, Y, and Z, and I counter it with irrefutable facts and evidence, it makes me concerned because a lot of you guys listen to those people. So here's here's what these just drives me nuts. I I could say so many things right now, but I'm 9 minutes in and honestly, I want to go inside and hang out with my wife. So, this the four peptides that I'll go over and and there's there's no setup on this. I just want you to know what you're getting into. They'll restore something called your circadian rhythm. So, your sleepwake cycle is the easiest way to explain it. They'll rebuild hypothetically, which is even dumber because I've seen advertisements for renvoke and you know like skyrizzy in these horrific chemicals that screw you up and you can just make all kinds of promises when you got pockets as deep as big farmer. Huh? Pharma, huh? Yeah. F you big pharma. I'm coming for you. Just so you know. So these four things, reset your circadian rhythm, rebuild your mitochondrial tolerance to hypoxia. Hypoxia is lack of oxygen, turning off the fire that you've got inside your body of systemic like global inflammation in your body and reversing the root cause of pretty much all modern disease, which is metabolic dysfunction and obesity. You understand that, right? That is the root cause of just about every disease right now in the modern world here in the United States, North America. Metabolic dysfunction and obesity. And they have this litany of different labels for slightly different symptoms. Oh, your your right nostril is full. That's this disease. Or stuffed. Your left nostril, that's this disease. They're both they're both plugged. That's totally different disease. That think about it. You guys need to break apart what you're being told and go, "How does this even make sense? And why am I believing you?" See, you want to see here. Listen, I'll go over the biggest scam in health. Aging that aging is some genetic punishment that you just have to accept. You know, I'm sorry, Mr. Jones, but your brain's going to get foggier. Your gut's going to get slower. You know, your hormones are just going to decline. You won't be able to get wood when you're 65. you need this little blue pill and even that's probably not going to work. And the best you can do is take a pill and lower your calories. Make sure you keep your cholesterol down and hope that you're going to survive another decade in decline. That is garbage. That's garbage. You are not aging because your genes are broken. You're aging because the inputs are like I had a conversation with this guy yesterday. I don't want to say his name. Some bodybuilding guy. And I'm like, "Dude, you're a fraud, man. I could feel it. I could feel the energy off this guy just dripping with BS, you know? I just I I can't with these influencers and their affiliate links. I'll put my name out there because I own the place and I'm not doing it for the money. I'm doing it to help humanity. But like, you're not aging because your your jeans are broken. You're not. You're I cannot stress this enough. It's like owning a Ferrari and running it on a bunch of expired cooking oil from McDonald's and blaming the engine for why it runs like crap. You guys, this isn't a medication problem. This is a systemic failure and the system for your circadian code that keeps you running. We are rhythmic energetic beings. This isn't metaphysical. It's fact. So that's that's where this all begins. Just metabolic function because that's based on your internal clock. That's what I'm getting. Circadian rhythm, internal clock, right? There's there's no fat loss, no muscle building, no healing, no longevity without deep, consistent REM anchored sleep. It's not possible because sleep is the gateway drug to youth. But most of you guys aren't sleeping. You're sedating. They're not the same. Listen, I don't care if you get eight hours of sleep or six or four or 12, whatever. What I care about is that you're getting the sleep required to put your system back together. And any But I'll tell you, bring it. Bring me the smoke. Any of you imbeciles go out there and say that you need eight hours of sleep. That's what they say. The experts say, what experts? Thomas Edison, because he's the one that came up with that idea. 8 hours of sleep, 8 hours of work, 8 hours of downtime recreation. Why? Because it eats up the day. You do not need 8 hours of sleep every single night. You do not. In fact, you should break up your sleep into smaller chunks. You'll function better. Why? Because that's how you're designed. But most people are sedating. You're taking melatonin that doesn't work. You're using these garbage blue light filters and aura rings pretending to fix the problem that you haven't even diagnosed properly. And you're you're trying to solve a software problem with hardware hacks. So, please listen to me. And everybody after this, by the way, should be running to elite and going, "How do I get it? How do I solve this problem?" Why wouldn't you? You guys will wait three months for an appointment with a doctor that gives ex like two shits about you to prescribe a drug that's going to cause more problems to degrade your system even more instead of going I'm going to do this thing to solve all my problems which tells me exactly who you are if that's you and that is that you would rather keep the label because it allows you to stay sedated and it allows you to stay lazy because if you accept anything that is proven to work which is why a lot of people oh I don't know it's not approved it doesn't do this I heard this I read this guy sent me a Wikipedia media page today going, "Well, why don't you tell them about the cancer? Are you high? Are you high?" Cancer. Cancer is man-made. Number one. And number two is the treatment of cancer is designed to end you very quickly. And when people die of cancer, 97% that's a big number, by the way, verifiable by the way, proven, verifiable. 97% of the people that die listed as dying from cancer do not die from cancer. They die of organ failure from the treatment. I have to put the last last bit in bit in because some of you guys are going to go yeah organ failure failure because of the cancer. Get out of here. It is not. It's from the treatment. You don't have a hardware problem. You have a software and a signaling problem. Fix the signal and the hardware takes care of itself. So here, listen, I'll lay it. There's something called DIP, right? DSIP, delta sleep inducing uh peptide. Dip is not a sedative. It doesn't lock you out of your own personality in life like ambient or some new over-the-counter zombie formula that they give you. Like I saw Zquil. If you guys haven't figured it out yet, Zquil is benadryil. That's it. I'll let you figure that one. Rename it. Makes you tired. So DIP, what it does is it gently reminds your hypothalamus how to regulate your sleep wake cycles like when you were eight, you just had this perfect circadian rhythm. It's not a hammer like most drugs, right? I said they're just like a sledgehammer. This is a key like a programming key. Dip, it works. Okay, let's get a little fancy. Buck buckle up. I'm going to go through some physiology and some endocrinology. really quick, but and just some anatomy. So, DIP works directly in something called the super kayazmic nucleus, the SCN. That's the master clock of your brain. So, it resets the the cascade of hormonal rhythms that govern everything from cortisol to testosterone to leptin, right? So, when you pair Dip with epitoolon, right? So, now we have something that's working with the master clock and now we have a pitilon. That's why these four go together that works on the pineal gland. It's essentially a pineal gland resets reset switch. You're not fixing sleep. You're restoring time. You're leveraging your time to work the way it's designed. A pitilon stimulates a pineal gland to release something called melatonin, but it releases it endogenously inside you. You don't have to take it as a pill on time, right time, right target, in rhythm, and in the right dosage. You have the pharmacy all the time inside you. This isn't about locking you out so you fall asleep. It's about turning back on the body's ability to decide when it's time to rest and when it's time to repair. And this isn't an argument about coffee or anything like that. But it gets better. Let me go a little deeper cuz I wasn't going to talk about this, but epitoons control and power. It doesn't just stop with this with the pineal gland. This this is also it works to repair telomeres, right? Remember when I said that a cell replicates, the DNA replicates, but the telomeirs get chopped off a little bit every time, right? I said it's like the aglet on a shoelace. So, it increases something called timmerase, which is the enzyme that protects your telomeirs. For any of you guys that don't speak science, that's okay. Like I said, it's just the cap on the end of your DNA. It just keeps your DNA from unraveling. That's the easiest way to explain it. Anyway, they protect your DNA from the shorter the telomeres, the faster you age. So, they were looking, just to quote research because I don't want to offend some three-letter agency, epitoon treated mice live 40% longer. So, you can take handfuls of supplements and run to your local Insta coach and insta guru and some yo-yo bodybuilder that wants to sell you something that's probably not going to work cuz they're calling it oral. And they say orals work. No, they don't. But these mice didn't just live longer, they lived better. No disease, no cancer, no metabolic collapse. Where do I sign up? That should be your question. This isn't a this isn't a supplement. It's a systemic reboot. So now you marry DIP and epitoolon and they don't just help you sleep. They reactivate your biological repair clock. So when you talk about longevity, we're not talking about surviving. That's how they've trained people to think. I just have to cling to this life as long as I can till I go. I'm talking about returning to the life that you should be in. Everyone thinks that they're tired from working too much. I hear this a lot. And I get it in my messages. I'm just burned out. I'm working too much. I hear people walking around. You're not tired because of your workload. You're tired because your mitochondria are gasping for oxygen. Inflammation causes mitochondrial dysfunction. It actually causes more than that. Mitochondrial dysfunction, endothelial damage, and poor oxygen perfusion to to tissues. So, nothing's working right. That's That's like trying to run your entire house on del batteries that came out of a flashlight from 1985. It's just not going to work. So, here's how you fix that. If you remember what I talked about with BPC57, this is like a this is like a fire extinguisher/repair unit. It goes in and cleans up everything and makes it work properly, especially for endothelial cells. So, this isn't just a gut healing peptide or part of a Wolverine stack that I came up with. It does something that no pharmaceutical can ever touch. It promotes something called angiogenesis. Bam. That's what you want. It literally builds new blood vessels. This stuff just geeks me out because it's so freaking amazing. Think about that. If your brain is foggy and your gut doesn't work right, it's sluggish and sloppy. Your heart is going to be stressed. Your performance is weak. It's not because you're lazy. It's because you have no blood flow. It's like choking off the fuel line. BPC rebuilds the capillary networks in oxygend deprived tissue. It reverses the reverses the eskeemic damage from low oxygen environments. Eskeemic damage is damage from no oxygen. Tissue starts to die. That's what hypoxia is. It's your body starving for oxygen but at the cellular level. When you pair a pitilon, DIP and BPC15 that becomes the ultimate repair crew for your body and and it's the one that comes in after all the lights are finally out. What it does is it heals micro tears in the gut lining. Restores serotonin in the entic nervous system. Serotonin is primarily produced in the gut. That's what I'm saying. And it balances the microbiome. So if you hear people talking about it now, you know what they're saying, which just so you know is the single greatest driver of inflammatory processes in the body when that's not working. Chronic inflammation is accelerated aging. And BPC is how you turn it off. You want better thinking, better workouts, better hormone profiles, better life, get the inflammation out. Well, we're not done. I told you there's four. The real elephant in the room is what every doctor dances around because they don't want to offend anybody. It's obesity. Fat is not a cosmetic problem. You might think so, but it's not. It's a metabolic one. You don't just gain weight, you lose hormonal function. Vis Let's just so follow me. Follow the physiology behind this. Visceral fat blocks insulin, strangles mitochondria. It releases inflammatory cytoines, right? And hijacks your leptin signaling so you never feel full. So you just keep eating and eating and stacking and stacking and building more insulin resistance and becoming worse and worse and next thing you know you are just on fire and dysfunctional. And the entire supplement industry has been lying to you. Fat burners do not work. Stimulates don't work. You don't need a new workout split or a 36-hour fast or 72-hour fast or all the bunk that people are selling you or any oral peptide that they say is going to work. You need metabolic reprogramming and you need leverage to do that. You need to repair the operating system and that's where this I've called this a weapon so many times because it is retatride. This is the ultimate trifecta because it's not just a GLP-1 agonist like semaglutide. It is a triple agonist. GLP-1 GIP and glucagon and glucagon. These guys, listen, if you are someone out there right now that are trying to sell the idea that semiglutide and tzepide don't cause muscle wasting, go live with me. Oh, you'll regret it, but go live with me. Show me. Put them on a dexa scan. Semaglutide and tzepide, 30% at most of your tissue lost is fat. That leaves 70% of stuff that you needed that your body got rid of. You do not lose fat on those two like everybody sells the idea that they sell you on. You lose tissue because it's missing the one critical step. Glucagon. This is why retatide is so great. It's not fat loss by suppression. It's fat loss by restoration. It's not choking life out of you. It's pumping life back into you. Here, I'll explain it again. GLP-1 slows gastric emptying and increases satiety. So, it makes you feel full, right? You actually feel full for most of the time. You have to remind yourself to eat. GIP works synergistically with GLP-1 to increase insulin sensitivity and reduce fat storage. Okay, great. Checking two boxes. Except the problem is you're still not doing you're still going to burn your own tissue. Your body would prefer to burn muscle tissue than fat tissue because it's going against everything in your DNA if you do the opposite. Your body is designed to conserve. You got to flip that switch. That's what glucagon does. It activates something called lipolysis. It's your body's ability to actually burn fat, not just store it. You put this all together, this this peptide doesn't just make you eat less, it makes your cells work again. Now, do you see why I'm pairing these four together? And unlike all the other drugs and nonsense people try and sell you, Redat True Tide preserves lean muscle mass. Proven no drop off, no plateau, no dosage changes, nothing. All while accelerating fat loss. Now, they used to say 24% fat loss. Now, it's up to 30% of your body mass. That's not that's not fat loss. That's not weight loss. Rather, that's cellular reprogramming. That is completely changing your operating system. And some people are still going, I don't know, maybe I'll I'll go get, you know, a fat burner and see how that goes. So now let's stack them all together. You got DIP, epitoolon, BPC-157, right? Married to reatride. Now you get fat loss, energy, focus, real deep sleep, REM sleep, low to almost zero inflammation that is self-created, and mitochondria that can actually do the work again. You don't lose weight, you guys. You lose a disease. You want longevity, listen, I'll tell you this. You want longevity, it's not in the supplement aisle. It's not listening to Joe Bodybuilding Pro. It's not listening to Mr. Influencer or Insta Coach or whoever has an affiliate link. By the way, for all of you guys going, you have an affiliate link. I own it. So, I guess I link it to myself. Dumbass. You want energy? It is not in a coffee cup. It's not in something you buy at a gas station. And the way you heal your body is not in a pharmaceutical aisle or the surgery center. You need to restore the four foundations of how your body runs. Circadian rhythm, oxygen deficiency, inflammatory control, and metabolic integrity. Restore that and your body runs. Right. This stack is how you do it. So, let me explain it again just so you quickly get it because I've been out here for 29 minutes. I want to go inside. DIP resets your biological sleep switch. Pitilon turns on pineal melatonin and tomease, right? To repair the to keep the end caps on the DNA. BPC-157, it's like a fire extinguisher for systemic inflammation. But it also remember angioenesis. It rebuilds vascule and red a true tide. Are you kidding me? like I'm lean and shredded and part of me goes, "Man, I don't know if I should maybe I should be on red or true tide." That's how good it is because of the the longevity profile that it it gives you. It reprograms metabolism, restores insulin sensitivity, and reverses obesity at the root. You're not you're not losing fat. You're getting rid of a disease that's screwing you up. This isn't biohacking. I'm tired of that term. For those of you guys that are sitting there running your mouth about, go, "It's not approved by that three-letter agency." You're right. You're absolutely right. You know what else isn't approved? The freaking immune system. Your skin healing after a cut. Your bones fusing after they break. Your liver regenerating after all the stupid things you do. Your body doesn't need approval to do the job it's designed to do. You guys keep thinking that. It just needs the inputs it was always supposed to have. You know, people love to say this, the clock is ticking, but that's not true. The clock isn't ticking, man. You just stop listening to it. You just stop hearing it. You stop listening to the signals, paying attention to your body. You covered them up with prescriptions. You bury them under sugar and copious amounts of caffeine and stress and blue light and those stupid orange glasses and [\h__\h] The stack isn't magic. Just so you know, it's not synthetic use in a couple of vials. This is the original language of your own biology that's being spoken fluently again in you. In you, four compounds each of which you were born with the capacity to produce. You're not like find a drug that your body that you take in that your body produces. None. That's why they can be patented. You're going to try and find a way, but that's not it. You are making a bunch of synthetic things that you're taking things that are going to interrupt signals in your body to make you think that you're healthy, but you're not. Peptides don't do that. They actually send a signal to whatever it needs like the right place, the right like the right target, the right amount, the right timing, the right dosage, and then they disappear once they did their job. There's no such thing as a side effect. First of all, there's only effects. And the second thing is peptides don't have side effects because they're signals. Can you take a whole bunch of them at once? Absolutely. Because they're signals. There's no contraindications. These four compounds remind your body of what it's already meant to do, what it's already designed to do. And the convoluted thinking that people have as a result of the indoctrination of the pharmaceutical market and and and just the money is that that's not how the body works. That your body's stupid. It doesn't know what to do and it needs us to help it. Wrong. You know what I'm doing? disrupting a whole [\h__\h] thing. To wake up with real energ, get a good night, deep, deep sleep, to wake up with a ton of energy, and just because you slept so solid, you don't even move, you know, to burn fat like like a nitro dragster, just melting it off and then think without any fog and breathe normally and live biologically free. That's how you're supposed to be, by the way. You don't need to get a new label or a new sticker or a new pill. You don't need a new diet. You don't need a new life. You don't need to move. You don't need to get some new crystal that you put under your arm or some holster for your phone. You need to restore what time and toxic environments and physical and physiological trauma has taken from you. That's the that's the real longevity protocol. Fix the machine. It'll take care of the rest. You don't need 30, 40, 50 supplements and a bunch of blood tests. You need four tools. You need four tools delivered at the right time with clarity with your rhythm with precision doing what they're supposed to be doing from a source that's credible. Hello. Right here. You don't have to age or rot or decay or fall apart and pretend that that's normal because somebody in a white coat said it. Remember, the person in the white lab coat gets to go home at 5:00. You don't. You have to carry your body with you and your mind with you until God says you're done. The way you're being taught is incorrect. Your body knows damn well what to do. Give it the inputs. Fix the software. get the signaling pathways doing what they're supposed to be doing because nobody at four years old felt like hammered dog [\h__\h] You just don't remember. Give it the give your body the inputs and the signals. Inject instructions and then get the hell out of the way and watch what happens when you stop listening to the lie and you just reset the clock. I tell you right now, 100 days your entire life will be unrecognizable. But you know what people do? I don't know. I'm I'm a little What if it doesn't work? Keep taking handfuls of ambient and Advil then. Bro, you do you. Listen, I got to go. I want you guys to be healthy and strong and I want you guys to have a place to go to get all the answers right here. You have to decide whether to apply the blueprint or not. That's why I said you don't want all the solutions I have. You want my psychology about the solutions. Never miss.