You know, as I come out here, you know, it's going to be it's going to be a fun podcast when I come out here and I start laughing. I wasn't going to do this one, and I know I've said this a whole bunch, but I saw this. It just came across 4:00 on uh on Wednesday, but I just saw I can't make this up. I can't. this idiot in a cut off shirt standing in front of his store in California going we finally got this back with some Superman music playing in the background going this is what it is and then he throws the word exercise mimemetic into it and thinks I've listened to the explanations that him and his dopey friend explain about p about peptides and ser and sarms and secrets and testosterone you guys got to stop listening to these guys you know what get them to go live with me just get them to go live that's all I'll say I I'll leave it just get them to go live with me cuz I want to set their skulls on fire. I can't stand the people that come out and parrot information that have no idea what it means. Like, I just I can't. So, I'm going to talk about Slooh PB332. Listen, there's this Insta bro with his IFBB card all shredded up, doesn't know his ass from his elbow. There's these guys out here that just stand in front of their store and go, "Look what I got. It's really great." And they have no idea about physiology. These are the these are the people that tell you that that things like tessenine will take the place of aderall or that you need to wean yourself off of tzepide while taking reatride. You guys, you're going to wind up getting hurt by something that is almost impossible to cause problems except when you listen to these nipple nuts that have no idea what they're doing. It pisses me off. You can tell, but it's just so that's what this this podcast is about is about Slooh PP332 because you ever notice, let me just get right. Do you ever notice how people Oh, it makes me mad. People just want the results of hard work without doing any of the damn work like Slooh P. I'm just going to call it Slooh cuz it's easier cuz I'm not going to keep saying this word over and over again. Although, it's funny to say it cuz if you say PP332, it just sounds like you're a toddler. But like Slooh is one of the more cool. It's it's a peptide like it's not even a peptide. Like this freaking [\h__\h] called it a peptide. I can't with these people. I can't this. You cannot fix stupid. You just can't. Most that's the problem with the internet is it allows people to open their mouth and say things that have no business saying anything. If you ever catch me out here talking about legal issues or you know some kind of engineering principles or just a bunch of stuff I don't know what I'm talking about. Just slap the phone. Go dude Spartan Dr. T. You have no idea what you're talking about. Shut your bar hole. this. Oh, I know what I'm talking about. And so, I stay in my lane with this stuff. I want you. It's I'll teach you how to make money. I'll teach you how to get your psychology right. And I know more about the human body and how it functions from A to Z than anybody else I've ever met or spoken with or seen online. Bring it. I want all the smoke. Bring it. I don't care who you are. I'll go toe-to-toe with you. You'll lose. Like, people want this. Slooh is not exercise in a bottle. It's not. They said the same thing about uh GW50162. That's all exercise in a bottle. That's not how this works. Of course, it's very easy to sell stuff like that, right? But that's also why fat burners sell and detox tees exist and your favorite influencer pretends to love his or her protein gummies. Everybody wants the six-pack shortcut, but along comes this slew, right? PP332. I just got to get it out cuz it's funny. And it's effective. It's not magic, but it's pretty faking effective. like it's this molecule that makes mitochondria behave like they have been fed nothing but rocket fuel. And now the issue is this and that's kind of what it does. And I'll explain physiologically how it works because there's more to it than that. But the problem is you hear this online and every corner of the internet starts screaming it's exercise in a bottle. It's it's cardio in a pill. It's all No, it's not. It's not. This is why it pisses me off because most of these labs should never be selling anything. And most of these influencers should never open their mouth. No, wrong. It is not cardio in a pill or exercise in a pill. This isn't fat burner 2.0. This is a molecular hypers switch for for your metabolism. And most people talking about it, they don't they don't know jack about endo endocrinology. They don't know anything about physiology or even what a receptor is. They're paring these buzzwords that they've heard or I don't know, maybe they chat gpt their information and now I'm intelligent. Put them in front of me live. just I'll burn out their skulls cuz I I'll explain what it really does. And by the way, I heard this muppet say that it's oral. We have the oral version, but we finally got the injectable. If you're buying anything oral outside of a sarm or a serum or secret, it doesn't work. It is not physiologically, biochemically, it cannot work. You can argue with me. You can get in the comments and get pissed off and go, "But bro, it worked for me. I tried it oral, so clearly you're not selling it." No. No, that's not it. I'm not going to tell you to do something that's not going to work. So, if you think that it works because some instab bro told you you got results, congratulations, you had a placebo or you're believing an idiot in a tank top. The shortcut is spelled the same way every time. Wo R K. Stop looking for something that you don't have to do anything to acquire thinking that it's going to give you the results you want. So, Slooh is this this PP delta agonist. Most people I heard him say it's PP delta agonist. Tell me what that is. Tell me what that is. Just I just want to know what it is. Tell me. Explain it all to me. I just want like I I hope he's listening to this right now. Explain it to me without looking it up without without anything. Just explain it to me right now. You can't [\h__\h] dude. I'm going to just go in his feed and go go live with me right now. I mean, l give me a comment and tell somebody tell me if you want me to do something like that. I'll just call these sons of [\h__\h] out. Think of this this agonist as a software update that decides which muscle fibers like what they're going to do, right? two, one, all this stuff. Like without it, what happens is look at fast twitch and slow twitch muscle fibers, right? If you understand that, without it, the fast twitch fibers run on carbs and they burn out really quickly, right? And they make you feel like you're drowning in about 60, 90 seconds of cardio. With Slooh, here's where it gets cool. With Slooh, they act more like a slow twitch, an oxidative fiber, right? So now they burn fat. They have a much more sustained energy, and they keep that ATP, the adenazine triphosphate production, very steady. And even that part, ask him to explain that. This part's fun for me because I love calling out idiots. So, imagine you're an average guy who's jogging outside down the beach, whatever. Treadmill, take your pick. And 2 miles in, your lungs are bleeding, your legs are wobbly and filled with concrete, and you're mentally negotiating with God to stop. That's about how you feel because you're like, "This sucks. 2 miles is longer than you think, by the way." Now, imagine you drop in Slooh. Now, your mitochondria start oxidizing fat like it is their primary fuel. That's all they can use. So now you don't hit this wall. You keep going. That's what a PP delta agonist does. You want me to get into the biochemistry, I can, but I think that's probably just too complicated for this podcast. It doesn't really matter. But it's not caffeine or creatine or anything like that. This is like I realize creatine sticks on a phosphate. You know, caffeine works with adenazine. There's a lot of this stuff. Even this stuff drives me nuts when people don't know what they're talking about, but they open their mouth. Just shut up if you don't know. That just tells me you want somebody's money, not their health. I promise you this, like it or not, all I want is your health. I want you to be healthy and rich and powerful and strong and feel good inside, connected to God, have your physiology so cranked up at at god tier, like gold level that you just run and run and run at perfect function until God says, "Good work. Time to go." That's it. Which is why I come out here cuz I don't get any money from you guys. It's not like you're like, "Oh man, Spartan, thank you, Dr. Bachmire. Thank you for so much for helping me." Like I told you, the right answer, even if you don't like what I tell you, is still thank you because I'm putting the damn time in to help you [\h__\h] guys out. But the way Slooh works is it's rewriting gene expression in your muscle tissues. Yes, I'm lit today, by the way. It's it's shifting your phenotype, right? But muscle fibers, they probably don't know that either. from basically dies after 8 to 10 steps on the on stairs to runs um 26.2 kind of on autopilot while I'm having a conversation with my friend. That's how significant this is. It's wild. But break apart the physiology so you understand what the stuff does because I think what happens is if you don't understand why something does what it does, it's very easy to take it and get lost in what you think the effects are going to be and then you don't get them and then you get angry or you get disappointed or you look for something else. Meanwhile, it's either working or it's bunk. And I have to put this in here for all of you guys listening. Somebody sent me a message and I'm going to address it in my questions. As soon as I get off of this, I'm going to answer five or six questions in my stories, but it was, "Hey, I've been taking Trzepatide for it might have been Red or True Tide. I don't quote me on. It's one of the two. I think it might have been Red or True Tide actually for 5 weeks and I'm not seeing any results. When do I start seeing results?" If you've been taking Red True Tide for 5 weeks, it's bunk. I don't care where you got it. It ain't from It ain't from Elite. I promise you that. Not a chance. But I know for a fact if that's what's happening, bunk garbage. Whoever sold that to you, call them up. Get them in front of you. Punch him in the face. But here's why. If you think that's not a big deal, here's the question you should ask. What in the holy hell did you just put in your body? If it's not that, I'll just leave it at that. Let that land. So, going back to your physiology, here's here's the way this works in plain English. You have these little mitochondria, right? These little furnaces or like factories that just churn out ATP non-stop. And normally glucose is the preferred input for that, right? Fast burn. It's kind of dirty to use to be honest. It's kind of fun when you say it that way, right? But fat is like diesel, right? It's diesel fuel. It It's cleaner. It lasts longer, but it's just a lot harder to ignite. No, there's no compression inside your mitochondria. I know my engines. But what Slooh does is it forces the machinery, the the mitochondria, the little furnace, little engine to prefer fat. So more fatty acid oxidation, more oxygen efficiency, less lactate buildup. So what ends up happening is your V2 max goes up, which means more endurance without explaining it any deeper than that. Your ability to train longer, harder, goes up. Even your blood glucose stability improves. Like it's it's a pretty wild it's a pretty wild thing. This is one of the cool things. Like I geek out on stuff like that because I think it's wild. But it's all because your muscles are literally sucking in glucose and fat like it's a big giant vacuum cleaner. So you become metabolically very efficient. So imagine this. Your system works a certain way for a certain reason, but you then you start filling it with all kinds of garbage and crap that you've been scavenging from the environment for 10, 20, 30 years and the system becomes damaged and staticky and the signals aren't working right. That's why this is something that is it's like an operating system reset and upgrade all at the same time. If you look at endocrinology, insulin sensitivity improves when you're on Slooh. Lipid metabolism improves. the whole pre-diabetic hormone profile that most middle-aged men and women are walking around with flipped. It's reversed. Your body starts behaving hormonally like it belongs in like being an athlete again. That's that's how you're supposed to be. Think about when you were a child. And without any weird arguments from you people trying to justify, well, when I was a kid, I did. I don't care. When you were a child, you were athletic. Kids are just athletic. Even if you go, my little Timmy never really was athletic. Yes, he was. you screwed that up by giving him Pop-Tarts all day long and you know vegan hot dogs that you think are better for him because you read that gorillas are just vegan. Like none of this is going to help you. So I'm trying to give you the answer so you fix the problem instead of getting in the comments and arguing. So even this like look at look at your neurology. Look at your your brain. If you get steady ATP that means that you're getting steady neurotransmission because everything you remember what I said the other day your brain is hungry. It uses a 20% of the ATP used at rest is in your brain just from running and managing systems. Think about how hot your computer gets. Or your phone. I don't know if you guys ever edit your own stuff, but sometimes when I'm working on my phone, my phone gets insanely hot when I'm running a bunch of things. That's exactly what's going on. It's it's essentially using calories, my phone, on the battery. That's what your body is doing with ATP. But the pro the cool part is it's using since it's using more ATP and it's doing it more efficiently. The dopamine firing that you have inside your brain which is motivation and drive and all that stuff and yes I realize that whole yes I I hit it I can keep going that kind of thing. It's not all erratic right your serotonin balance doesn't tank. That's why mixing this with TB-500 and BPC57 is actually a really good idea because serotonin and the gut are pretty much inseparable. Cortisol doesn't spike because your blood sugar tanked. Which is why people feel mentally so much sharper on Slooh and not limitless sharper, just back to how they were. I'm focused and like when you get a lot of rest, you get the right coffee, your fuel is good, and you just feel on. That's how you feel because your brains have this constant fuel supply instead of this sugar roller coaster that you don't even know you're doing for the most part. Look at some of the food you eat. Just on a side, you'll be blown away at how much sugar is in just about everything. it. Look at listen you take a let me explain a little story. You take a group of endurance athletes and they get put on these PP delta agonists in a controlled study. This is real. Normally what happens is their lactate threshold kicks in at X intensity. It doesn't really matter. After that fatigue just cripples them. They're done. You reach something like limitations of matter. There's only so much you can do. It doesn't matter how much your brain says go. Your body goes I'm giving you the finger. You add in Slooh and the lactate buildup is delayed. so they can sustain higher workloads longer with significantly less fatigue. It's not magic. It's just biochemistry. It's just how your system is designed to work. So if you have the think about it this way, if you have the capacity to actually do this, you're not overreving it, overdriving it, or causing problems for somebody that's about to complain and go, "Well, yeah, but that's not really natural. I you know what? I'm tired of all you people going, "That's not authentic." Don't listen to me then. Go back to being a [\h__\h] I don't know what to say. I I you can only hear it so many times about somebody whining about how that's not authentic. That's not natural. Then don't do it. But don't complain and throw hate or ostracize the people that are willing to use the tools that you're not and get the results that you wish you had, but you're not getting because you are sitting behind a pane of glass complaining that what they're doing is inauthentic and you're doing it the real way, but yet you're suffering and getting nowhere. That's just stupid, you know. So you that's study number one. But study number two is so there's endurance athletes and they just get longer workloads, no fatigue, and they just run like a machine, like an athlete. That's just biochemistry. If you go the other direction and you look at a group of people that are obese, right? Their muscles are inefficient at burning fat. They're terrible. They're insulin resistant. Their mitochondria are asleep pretty much. PP delta activation flips that switch on. Now all of the sudden they're oxidizing fat. They're controlling their glucose. And they're lowering that systemic inflammation with even neuroinflammation. And if you're using something like you add in reach tide to this now their entire metabolic profile improves without changing their diet. This isn't an excuse to eat little bags of powdered donuts that you get at a gas station that can stay on a shelf for 6 years. I'm just saying this is going to help you a lot because you didn't have to change your diet. It changed your efficiency. Like I said, don't go I have to say this 100 times. Don't go. It's not permission to go eat like crap. It's just proof of how broken metabolism was the problem and how bad it was in the first place because you can see the actual change like this. So imagine that. Imagine that you stack that with somebody that actually eats right, trains right, and does all the things right, the you become almost unstoppable. But if you look at the before I even get into this, I got to I got to touch on this cuz it's just going through my head right now. I keep thinking about this guy going, "We had it in oral, but we finally got an injectable." Oral. >> Oral. >> I have to touch this because it's bugging me. Every person online selling oral oral Slooh PP332 is full of it. Full of it. Biochemically impossible. When you swallow a compound, it goes through boot camp before I mean never mind the the proteolytic enzymes, the so many things it has to do. The first pass degradation, the metabolism by the liver, that means enzymes just rip it to shreds before it even hits your bloodstream. You get this tiny little delicate molecule like this. It's not built to survive the gut and the liver gauntlet that it has to run through. Its bioavailability bioavailability is precisely zero. Zero. I don't care what somebody says. I don't care about the studies. I don't care what it says is impossible. Show me the blood work. It always goes back to me saying the same thing. Show me the blood work. I'm drinking coffee by the way, which was going to be my talk today. Actually, I had full I was ready to go Johnny gung-ho on caffeine about all these muppets that go, "Caffeine is bad for you. It delays fatigue. it. That is taking something so far out of context, by the way, saying it delays fatigue, you miss the rest of physiology, which tells me you know precisely, Jack and [\h__\h] No, that's not what caffeine does. It is the most studied compound pretty much on the planet that you put in your body. It does amazing things for you. It is not toxic or bad for you. Anyway, if if you Let me come back to this nonsense oral peptide stuff. It's the same thing. You can't take oral peptides. You can't take oral slew because the body digests them like food. Listen, that's its purpose. You guys are trying to argue about physiology going, "Well, this is in and gastroenterenterology going, "This is mine's my system's different than everybody else's." No, it's not. Stop arguing. That's like saying, "I can put water in my gas tank and it runs perfectly. I put it in my 911. I put water in. I don't need gas. I just use water." And I'm waiting for somebody to get in the comments and go, "Well, there's this guy. He's got a water engine technically." Shut up. Everybody's got to argue. Shut your mouth. Shut up. It does. It your body is designed to break all this stuff into tiny little amino acids and then by the time they reach your bloodstream, that peptide that you thought you took is gone. It is chum that you just threw into the ocean and it just got crapped out of the other end of the shark. Like, it is nothing. Oral peptides are like buying a Ferrari and then just pouring gas in the trunk and putting it in your driveway and going, "Why isn't it running? Why am I not going fast?" You're just an idiot with a car in his driveway. You're not going anywhere. That's how that's how ludicrous this would be. So listen, bro science cry crowd. I I got to talk about like I can't I can't not do this. Slooh PP is exercise in a bottle. Yeah, that's what this idiot said in front of his store today. Again, that's what prompted this entire podcast is me just getting irritated at a bozo that should have his entire business shut down and nobody should ever listen to this guy again cuz he's a muppet. It's just I can't with your dumb baseball hat and your beard. You're an idiot. You're a liar. You are a liar. You don't know anything about what you're talking about and that actually bothers me. How many of you guys would hand your car over to somebody that has no clue how to fix it and it's broken? Nobody. Nobody. What? Just because they're wearing a shirt that says mechanic on it. Show me that you know what you're talking about. Do you even know what a carburetor is? I realize cars don't take that for the most part anymore, but I'm just saying. Saying that Slooh is exercise in a bottle. That's like saying that's like saying an F-22 Raptor is basically a paper airplane because they both can fly. Yep. Got it. So if if you say it's like the guys that I had somebody compared Slooh to Carterine, right? the 50 15 16 they're not even close. Okay. Yeah, they both hit the PP or delta, but Slooh PP has a like completely different receptor affinities, different half-life, different tissue actions. If you can't tell the difference, you should not be running your mouth about pharmarmacology. How about that? How about that? I probably lost half of you guys going, "What the [\h__\h] This guy's on a rant right now." It just irritates me because I actually care about you. I want you guys to have this great, healthy, strong, amazing life from A to Z. from money to fitness to mindset to sleep to sex to all of it. Which is why I come out here. Like these knuckleheads are the same guys who said SARMs are side effect free. No side effects with SARMs. Uh-huh. Selling peptide gummies on their Instagram with a bro code. Listen, if your knowledge of endocrinology could fit in a Instagram caption, you're not qualified to talk about nuclear receptor agonists. You're not. Cuz most people don't even know what that is. So what? I don't know what a ton of things are, but what I do know, I talk about to help you. Listen, here's here's where human biology meets I think psychology. I kind of touched on this yesterday with the TRT rant. These guys going, "Oh, if I was on TRT, I'd be jacked." No, you wouldn't. No, you wouldn't. You're still going to be shaped like a bean bag sitting on your couch. Most people want a molecule to replace discipline. They want Slooh to replace, you know, bench press and squats and cardio. They want peptides to replace dieting. They want TRT to replace all their sleep and recovery and caloric intake. But the molecule doesn't change the truth. Adaptation still requires the same thing. Stimulus. No stimulus. No adaptation. Period. Ever. Slooh works the best. I'll give I'll give you the hack. This is the hack. It's like biohacking, which you guys already know is a word that just pisses me off because it's there's no such thing. Slooh works best when it's paired when it's married up with training. You put in the work and the returns. It's a force multiplier. It cranks out results in ways that you can't even imagine. That's how physiology scales, right? That's how physiology scales. That's it's like stress adaptation and recovery. That's what it's working on, right? That's what it's working with. Those are the tools or those are the outcomes you have and those are the inputs and outputs that you have to deal with. If you're too lazy to work, no count no compound is going to fix that. It goes right back to what I said about TRT yesterday. If I if you take TRT and you sit on the couch, I have a couch right over there. You sit on that couch and then I take a guy and I go, "You do all the work." And I give you both the same thing. You are just going to have one guy sitting on a couch who might recover slightly better, who is still still shaped like a bean bag or an exercise ball that was left out in the sun for too long or a melted candle. And then you're going to have one guy who actually is physically impressive. Those are the differences. If you Okay, so listen, let's look at PP Deltas again because if you take an elite cyclist for example, these guys are machines, right? And I got a buddy of mine just this he just rides hundreds of miles. It's unbelievable what this guy can do on a bike. If you if they're running a PP AR Delta agonist, they can sustain proven research 15% higher workloads for longer. So, not just 15% more work, 15% more work for a longer duration. That is a careerdefining edge. That is an outcomechanging supplement or u compound. If you look at a diabetic patient, right, in a study who shows improved insulin sensitivity, a better fasting glucose, lower triglycerides, all that stuff, right? All because their muscles finally started burning fat efficiently. I'd say that's a pretty stellar outcome. And yet, some guy on YouTube or Instagram is going to say, "Bro, you could just take this and barely train and you'll still get the results. You can just sit there and your muscles, it tricks your tricks your muscles into thinking you're working out." That's what again this you could tell he pissed me off, which is like me. I'm let letting him live rent free in my brain right now, right? Like you guys are all like, "See, you should let him do that." Well, it doesn't matter. Sometimes I have to tell you guys the truth. It tricks your body into thinking it's working out. No, it doesn't. No, it does. You could just take this and not train. Yeah, you can go back to that Ferrari again. You just leave it in your driveway. You're still the same dude. You just own a car that you really don't deserve cuz you're not doing anything for it. Slooh is not cardio or exercise in a bottle. It is not a fat burner. It is not magic. It is a metabolic switch, right? It's one that forces your body to burn fat, cranks up endurance, and stabilizes your glucose. All of those things are very important for you to have an engine and power behind the engine for a sustained amount of time. But it doesn't replace the discipline required to still do it, right? Oral doesn't work because first pass degradation metabolism just chews it up. And anyone telling you otherwise doesn't know pharmarmacology or is just plain lying to you. And if you're buying from a bro who can't explain receptor activation or gene transcription or mitochondrial biogenesis, you're not buying science. You're buying stupidity with a label and a baseball hat. So listen, here's the truth. I have a bunch of other things I got to do right now. Slooh is is a very, very powerful tool, but it's not a replacement for the sweat or the diet or the discipline or the work or all the stuff that you got to do. It's an amplifier. It's like I said, it's a force multiplier. The shortcut is still spelled the same way. And that's the part nobody online wants to tell you because they can't sell work in a bottle. So if you want to take this and I have to say this part by the way, this isn't meant to be advice or guidance or to diagnose or treat or cure or prescribe and it's just for hype. It's hypothetical and educational and purely entertainment. If you know, you know. But Slooh, if I was going to look at something like this for myself, there is zero hesitation to use this because I train. If you guys have seen me train, I train for real. I still love people that like, bro, you don't do that. I've posted my videos of how many pull-ups and squats and how long my workouts are and my volume I do. And they're like, "That's not possible." Yes, it is. Cuz I'm an example of it. I'm 52. This is normal. But if you want to take it, there are very few things that'll benefit you to this level training with your with I mean exercise, even even stripping away fat. There are very few things very few things that will benefit you to the level that Slooh will. Very few. Would I recommend it? I wouldn't even think twice about it. That's how epic it is. Anyway, hope this gives you a bunch of information and you listen to me rant. I uh appreciate you guys sticking around if you did. And if you didn't, well, you missed all the fun part. Hope it uh helps you out. Talk to you guys later. Never miss.