Man, it's just one of these days where all kinds of things it's like putting out fires, right? That's the whole day. I spent the last 5 hours trying to get automation to connect on um social media and Facebook and Instagram and it's just busting my ball. So, I hope you guys actually get this and get some information and get some things that you need and I help you out. I started thinking about because I get a lot of questions from you guys about like, "Hey, do you have anything that doesn't involve needles? Do you have anything that I could just take orally?" And I get where you're going with that. I understand that. I don't know why you're afraid of a little 29 gauge needle, but that's not my opinion. Injectable always better. Now, by the way, nothing none of this is meant to cure, diagnose, treat, scribe, triage. It's all entertainment, hypothetical, and uh educational, right? Fair. But I started thinking like, you ever notice how there there's these polarities to the fitness industry, right? Where people are obsessed with two extremes. On one end, you've got the natural only crowd, right? Eating chicken breast and broccoli and taking creatine gummies and powders and wondering why their body hasn't changed since 2016. It's true. I'm not lying and you actually know that. So, before you get all heated in my comments and buttth hurt about people that are on TRT, listen to me. The other side of that equation, you've got these pin and prey people, right? They just as much gear as they can possibly stick in their body, jabbing their ass three, four, five times a week, tanking their own testosterone production, and still looking like a bloated friaking marshmallow with a bunch of back acne. The problem is this though, it's actually sad. Both camps think they are morally superior. Both of them think that I'm doing it right. No, I'm doing it right. The naturals brag about their which is such a weird thing to say, right? Because just to be clear, testosterone still natural. You guys on your SSRI and your your Xanax, your benzoazipines and all that stuff, none of that's natural. Testosterone is just something you make. You're just taking it exogenously. SSRIs, MAOIs, proton pump inhibitors, all the crap that you guys take, none of that is natural. In fact, those are jackhammers that are coming like just like a wrecking ball and trashing your system. But that's a podcast for another time, just to be very clear. But the people that are all natural are bragging about their authenticity while flexing this embarrassing physique built by starvation and cardio treadmills and thinking that they're winning and they're just morally superior. You're not. And the pin heads are bragging about being all solid and hardcore while hiding their gyno under hoodies. Like I don't know what to tell you. Here's the issue that nobody wants to admit or even has looked at. There is a third lane, a smarter one. It's a chemistry lane. doesn't require a needle. It doesn't wreck your hormones and delivers what the natural and the non-stop gear both pretend that they're chasing. And it's it's not working. The lane is very it's sarmms. And what's wild is people go, "Oh, I heard about those. They're bad. They wreck your liver." Are you out of your mind? You take more stuff in one day that trashes your liver than any SARM is ever going to do. I'll tell you that right now. That's coming from a doctor. Just no trust me, bro. Science. It doesn't do anything that you think it does, but you know, hey, everybody's an expert. SARMMS are selective androgen receptor modulators, and it's just a boring acronym. It's all translated into something a little more easily understood. They're molecules designed to flip the anabolic switch on muscle and bone without flipping all the other switches that make your life incredibly freaking miserable. Like, we're talking prostate growth, acne explosion, hairline disintegration. I mean, I'm bald, but it's by choice now. and this estrogen bloating that people walk around just all like they look great in a sweater and nothing else. So, think of testosterone and I got nothing against TRT before you guys freak out. Think of testosterone as a shotgun. You pull the trigger and yeah, okay, you'll hit muscle, but you're also going to hit everything else in the freaking room. And SARMs, they're that guy that's taking that one shot, you know, shooter Mark Wahberg, right? I mean, I realize it's a movie before you guys. That's not real. It's not what I'm talking about. Just the sniper planning everything. Dead target. Exactly. They walk straight up to the androgen receptor in muscle and bone and they go, "Hey man, grow. Get stronger. Get your freak on." And then they walk away without touching anything else. That's all they do. That's all they That's all they talk to. Which is why they're easy and it's why they're effective and why you don't need to look like a medical waste bin full of syringes just to get results. You don't. Your bathroom doesn't need to look like that. But I went a little deeper because I wasn't even going to do this podcast. But I thought, you know, people need information and nobody's doing it right. And to be clear, I'm really [\h__\h] sick and tired of the bro science people and the I'm so authentic. I'm so righteous. I'm so noble. How about you shut the hell up. Let people live their lives. You don't have to listen to me. I'm not telling you how to live your life. I'm just tired of people going, "You're dang it wrong. You're not natural. You're inauthentic." Shut up. These are the same people that take handfuls of Advil and drink booze every Friday and Saturday complaining about their genetics and their diabetes and their hypertension and their kidney failure and their liver liver failure. That is all self-generated. And then you give them a solution. They go, "Oh, no. I heard about that stuff. I heard it's dangerous." Okay, then rush off to an early grave. You have about oh, I don't know, 4,000 weeks in your life. That's about the average. And you're [\h__\h] up 3,900 of them with sheer stupidity. So, let me explain AI hate using this word stack that pretty much covers everything because one one compound is like it's like you have a a car and you have one bolt and the bolt is holding on the part of the motor and that's all you've got, but it's not going to do anything and you can't drive the car and nobody's going to feel safe driving that damn car anyway. You're just not. Nobody cares because you don't want to hammer the gas because you're going to shear it off or you don't even have gas to hammer because everything else is missing. And the stack is like the entire car put together by the most ultimate pit crew who gives you the car and goes, "You can't break that thing, but it sure as hell is going to go fast." That everything is amplifying the other in the car, right? And so you need to look at it that way. You could look at it as an orchestra, I guess, too, right? Some guy sitting there with a violin versus the entire orchestra. And I don't mean somebody to get in my comments yet again, you sensitive [\h__\h] and go, "I like the violin." That's not what I'm talking about. Listen to the metaphor, [\h__\h] It bugs me cuz you guys are so triggerable. So, we'll use the orchestra cuz it's easier easier to understand. The orchestra is like, it's like I got bit by every mosquito outside today. It was driving me crazy. This is the orchestra. MK-677, oustine, and RAD-140. Three compounds, no needle, and every single anabolic base that is it's covered. That's the grand slam waiting to happen. So, I'll look at MK-677 first before he goes. Doesn't it doesn't it make you hungry? Doesn't it mess with your insulin? Doesn't it mess with insulin sensitivity? Yes. Yes. Yes. But it's so minimal and the end justifies the means and it's not going to cause you any problems unless you're a muppet and you just have complete disregard for your own human physiology. In this which case, cough medicine is going to screw you up because you're ignorant. So, treat these things as things that could cause harm if you do stupid things. So can a handful of D vitamins or K or A or E to be honest because they're not water soluble. So you can take too many and then you end up being dead. Yeah, I never knew that. Did you? You guys in your self-righteous nonsense behind your wall of I'm so pure but you're really not up on your soap box judging everybody else. How about you shut up because that's not the truth. MK-677 does not cause problems. What it does is give you gangster benefits and it is oral drop. It is bitter as hell. I'll just tell you that. This is the growth hormone mimetic. It binds to ghrein receptors and then tricks your pituitary gland into releasing growth hormone like it is back in like you're 16 years old and you're in high school that cascades into IGF-1, right? We know this which handles tissue repair, collagen turnover, fat mobilization, sleep, you name it, it's you turn into Wolverine with your healing. And listen, growth hormone isn't just muscle. It's connective tissue. It's tendons. It's ligaments. It's all the stuff I was listing off. cartilage, skin elasticity, bone density. It's the difference between feeling 22 and moving and moving like you're 22 and feeling and moving like you're 85. And if you go, why not just take HGH then? Because now it's exogenous and you get you get all kinds of issues. You can and it's such a if you go, well, I have a buddy that well then just go do that. Don't listen to me. But then you're back into the needle world. You see the problem with this? So don't argue. Just shut up and listen. And neurologically, never mind. MK-677 deepens your sleep. It's that deep that's that delta sleep where you actually you heal. Slow wave and REM. That's those are the exact phases where your brain consolidates memory and flushes all the waste through the the lymphatic system. And you don't just sleep. Yes, I said it with a G. You rebuild you rebuild the the entire system. The best part is like I said, it's oral. No needles, no mixing, no no nothing. No bro science, no trust me, this isn't going to work. No bacteria, static water, just couple of drops and go hit the gas. The next one would be austerine. This is like an insurance pol. This is male or female can take this one. This is an insurance policy for muscle. It's a guarantee that your muscle doesn't vanish the second you start dropping calories, which outside of some serious injectable compounds, it's very difficult to do because your body's preferred fuel source is always going to be muscle because it's easier and it reduces metabolic load because your body goes, "Okay, listen. I need to protect myself and keep myself alive. Fat's going to do that. Muscle is not going to do that. In fact, muscle is taking energy. Let's strip some of that and let's keep shuttling insulin is going to shuttle. It's a fat storage hormone, right? Let's keep shuttling calories, excuse me, into the atyposytes instead. Much much more effective for keeping us alive, but not for making you lean and jacked and strong and athletic. So, you sometimes have to help the system along. Give it a boot to the ass. Because here's what dieting actually does. Cortisol rises. Testosterone tanks, muscle gets chewed up for fuel, and you end up looking like a smaller version of the same soft muppet body that you hated before. Quit complaining. You look like a skinny little distance runner. Austerine says, "Not a chance. Not on my watch, man." Yeah. It binds androgen receptors in muscle and bone and says, "No, sorry, man. We're keeping all this tissue. You can try, but I'm not going to let you." Protein synthesis stays really high and lean mass sticks. Strength doesn't You actually stay strong. It doesn't even It doesn't collapse at all. and your metabolism doesn't nose dive. So, not only is your body not fighting you, it's actually working with you to you're not fighting against your own biology is I guess what I'm trying to say, which is why it's effective because recomposition, it's the word you need versus I'm going to get lean, I'm going to get shredded. It's losing fat while holding muscle. It's not, this is the one, it's not natural because it is really, listen to me, it is your biology's worstcase scenario. Worst case scenario, SARMs, they reprogram that code and if you go off the reprogramming it, then it's dangerous. I'm not for you because the Advil that you took yesterday, it's dangerous. Way more dangerous. And the last one is Rad 14. Oh, I like this. This one's good. This is freight train for putting on muscle. This is the strongest of the bunch by far. If Austerine is the reliable 7 series BMW, add 140. That's the Raptor. Uh, not truck, plane, jet, F-22, nothing. It binds androgen reh. Yeah, see I didn't say estrogen that time. It binds androgen receptors harder signals stronger and drives hypertrophy like a rocket. Here's the cool part, though. Unlike steroids, it doesn't aromatize to estrogen at all. So, you're not growing boobs while you're trying to grow your back or your quads where you're just trying to cover yourself in more muscle and look like Captain America. It's lean, dense, clean mass, and it even has massive neuroprotective effects. So, you're going to protect your brain. So, here's what it means. It means while your body grows, your brain actually stays sharp and works more effectively. How many compounds in history can ever claim that? Almost none. And I'm pretty sure none that most of you guys could name. And that's not an insult. Again, I have to mitigate all these things because you guys just freak out half the time. Like, you hurt my feelings. Let me let me contest you in the comments. Shut up. I come out here and help you for free. And some of you nipple nuts still run your mouth. Get off my channel. I don't like you. Here's what happens when you marry these all together. This is what the picture kind of looks like. Just so you have an idea because I have a million things to do and I have automation repair to figure out cuz nothing's working on Instagram. MK-677 handles the growth hormone and the IGF-1. Really important. So think repair crew, recovery team, sleep optimizer. It just keeps everything running the way it's designed. Oststerine keeps it locks the muscle on your frame like Fort Knox. It's just lock like it's not going anywhere. It just won't. You can run pretty lean on your caloric intake before it starts to pull anyway. It's almost impossible. That's how effective this stuff. And RAD-140 pushes the growth, the hypertrophy into overdrive while protecting your brain. Neurologically, it's giving you armor. Not to the effect of GHK-Cu copper, which is significant. That is armor for your neurons, but pretty damn close. So, three different levers, one outcome, and lean mass up, fat down, recovery just exploited, and your brain is protected. And here's the best part. Not a single frigin needle. Put a pin in this for a second. No pun intended, because the biggest here's why. The biggest excuse people have against performance chemistry is the needle. But you guys running this trippy dialogue in your head about why it's inauthentic, it's cheating, and and you shouldn't I I'm not going to do that. That's not good. It's inauthentic. It's inauthentic. You look like a hasb been that's never been, you know. Oh, I could never inject myself. I just then don't. This stack doesn't require it at all. And you get all the benefits without playing nurse in your bathroom mirror, shaking, sweating, trying to stick yourself with something smaller than any sliver you've ever gotten. It's not messy. It's not complicated. No vials, no syringes, no alcohol swab, nothing. Just oral. If you can stand a little bitterness, you're golden. Which is why SARMMS are that lane between or the actually the better lane between the never-ending pin cushions and the you're an inauthentic unless you're eating guava and pea protein and that's going to give you your muscle. Get the hell out of here. They're not about pretend. Listen, this is not about pretending natural will get you there. That's that's not what SARMs do. They're not about that. They're not about about pinning yourself like a pin cushion. So, it mitigates those two idiotic camps. They're about leveraging biology in a very precise, specific way, very easily and effectively, and honestly, very costefficiently. Like I I think you're looking maybe, yes, I own the company, but I don't know off off the top of my head, 150 bucks a month. Maybe uh if you you probably have to squeeze into two two full sets of one bottle of Austrian RAD-140 and MK-677 if you're sitting at the top of the dose cuz it's got uh maybe even then you're about 30 days cuz at 25 milligrams per ml it's got 30 mls that's 30 days I think it's about 150 bucks and I'm not telling you go buy it from my place don't buy it from elite I don't care I'm not doing this to make sure you let's market and get you all buying my [\h__\h] I'm telling you you at least have an option and if you go you have a guy that actually knows what the hell he's talking about that knows more about human biology and physiology and biochemistry than probably 99.9% of the [\h__\h] planet. Don't think because I curse I'm not intelligent. Now here's the here's the issue because this has to be said. People will clutch their little self-righteous virtue whatever beads about being cheating. God, I want to slap you in the mouth when you say that. Downing preworkout that is loaded with caffeine and yohim bean and beta-alanine and sucralose and enough food dye to turn your piss neon green and they'll say that's not authentic energy. Buddy, you've been mainlining Starbucks for a freaking decade. Don't pretend authenticity matters when your morning ritual looks like a chemistry experiment from Dunkin Donuts. Biology doesn't care about your damn feelings. It cares about molecules. I've said this endless. no amount of times. And SARMs are the molecules that turn the anabolic switch on without wrecking the rest of the the system. You guys, there's a way to do this, which is why this makes me so crazy. So, look at this. In the real world, it means you're efficient. It means the end of this bulk and cut pingpong BS that you do not need to do unless you are a professional bodybuilder, and that is unnecessary. And in that realm, that is very necessary. But that's not what you're doing. it and even then I mean unless you're getting on the Olympia and then you have a lot more than SARMMS in your system. I don't care who you are but it means that your lean muscle is preserved. You don't you don't go look I'm getting leaner but you're also 50 lbs lighter and 48 of those pounds are muscle. Lean muscle is saved. Fats torched. Your joints are repaired. Your recovery is actually deepened and your brain function is working better. Which means no more waiting 6 months to see microscopic changes while preaching about all the hard work and patience that you have and how disciplined you are. Hard work and patience are are mandatory. Absolutely. There's no shortcut in this. But chemistry multiplies the ROI. So now it makes all the things you're doing better. Because here's here's the brutal truth. Discipline without leverage is just a bunch of wasted potential. You're just a blowhard making a bunch of noise. You can suffer and starve and grind and still get mediocre results if any. Or you can actually apply leverage at the right molecules, the right stack at the right time in the right way while doing the right things. And suddenly your discipline produces exponential returns. I'm not saying this is magic, but it's pretty [\h__\h] close. Without training, RAD-140 just makes you a slightly larger couch potato. And without diet, MK-677 just makes you hungrier significantly. Trust me. And without any discipline, ostine is just making noise. It's not helping a damn thing. But with discipline, this is efficiency incarnate. It's so effective. Every calorie actually builds something and has a purpose. Every workout sticks and creates more of you in a better version. And every night of sleep rebuilds instead of just, I don't know, helps you get through the night. Most of you guys aren't even recovering at night because you never hit that deep sleep, that delta sleep. You just don't. This isn't hype. And that's what makes me so crazy is the amount of hype that's on social media. That is physiology and human biology. It's all leveraged in your favor. So listen, you can keep living between two extremes, right? Bulk cut, bulk. I'm going to cut and then I'm going to bulk and then I'm going to bulk and then I'm going to cut. What the hell for? You can run around and stay natural and bragging about your authenticity and wonder why your body hasn't changed in 5 years. In fact, you look a little worse and tell me how how awesome it is that you're present and connected to your children, though, even though they're watching their dad waste away and look like somebody that could hide behind a [\h__\h] flashlight standing up. Or you can jab yourself twice a week and destroy your endocrine system. I got nothing against TRT, but it is one lever. If you look at the podcast I talked about, you need more than that. And you can play roulette with all the side effects cuz most of you guys are not doing this right and you've never taken the time to learn cuz some guy in a gym bathroom taught you how to do it. Or you can take the third lane, the smart one, the needle-free one. SARMs are easy. They're effective. And this MK-677 Austrian RAD-140 covers every base without a needle in sight. It's not about shortcuts, you guys. It's not. This is about making you have one short life. Why aren't you making this as efficient as possible? Which is what this does. It's not cheating. This is about using chemistry that biology already runs on. No hype, just actual results for once instead of going, I'm going to try this next. I went I made a joke about cybergenics. That didn't do anything. I don't care who you are. That was garbage. Garbage. But they sell it all day long. And if that makes if this whole thing about becoming efficient and actually producing something that's not going to trash your system, but turn you into that Captain America you actually want to be and function and look like, you don't just look it. If you train, you actually feel it. And if that makes people uncomfortable, good. Because the truth usually does. I'll tell you, listening to me clapping or going, "This was awesome, Spartan. This was great, Dr. T or not." That is the reality. God mode in training doesn't require a [\h__\h] needle anymore. It requires this. Anyway, I hope that's how this helps. I gotta go. Never miss.