What's up, Smash Crew? Good morning. It is uh Tuesday, so I'm going to be going over um IT band stuff today. I got a lot of you guys sending me messages. Actually, tons of you guys. I'd love that. Keep them coming. You ask, I deliver as best as I can. I uh I have to sift through bags and bags and bags of emails, basically. So, I'm trying to get to everything as fast as possible. Keep them coming. I'll do my best. All right. Um, IT band syndrome, IT band pain, uh, IT band issues. So, just to give you a little a little background on what the IT band is, it's this big long chunk of tissue and, uh, it it's it doesn't move. It's not designed to move. It's under what's called a functional load. So, if you have an IT band problem, and I see a lot of guys, they grab these foam rollers. I don't have it's behind me here. So, um, they they take a foam roller and they just beat the Jesus out of this out of this, uh, out of the IT band on the side of the leg, but you're never going to get it flexible because it's designed to be under a functional load. So, it's d designed to have some some tautness to it, and it it's a piece of tissue. It's it's like trying to get the concrete to become loose and and and supple. It's never going to happen. So, what you have to do is you have to go above and below and clean up all the areas around it. Next thing you do, you unload that tissue. So, you'd think I'm Italian with my hands flapping all over the place. And hey, by the way, sorry about no music. Normally, I'm funking and grooving here, but you know, the YouTube has this weird filter that will sniff out music on your on your video and like shut off your sound. So, you guys I'm just kidding. You guys get to see me doing all this stuff, but you don't hear what I'm saying. And and that kind of sucks. So, back to the IT band stuff. We're going to hit the TFL, the glute, the uh the entire quad complex, but more specifically the vasis lateralis and uh and then the hamstrings on the side because those all attach onto the uh onto the IT band and then that IT band comes out and it fans out on the side of the knee. So, a lot of times people have these IT band issues and they have all these lateral knee issues or even if it's really really torquing out. Remember, if it's torquing out like that, it's going to give you this VGUS knee. That VGUS knee is going to cave in. you're going to get a lot of pain on the inside of the knee. That MCL is going to get under a super massive load. Now, go ahead and do your overhead squats where your knees cave in because your mobility is a little bit stinky and uh you're going to have all kinds of problems later on down the road, if not right then and there. Pop that knee go. So, we don't want to do that. So, I'm going to show you how to hit that high spot up in the hip. The joint capsule gets all bound up. It's this big leathery bag that kind of sits around the uh the uh the head of the femur and the acetabulum and it kind of keeps everything nice and tight and there's a lot of connective tissue on there. So, I'm going to show you how to loosen that up. Super easy. But we want to make sure that that uh that femoral head sits in the back of the joint so it's nice and stable. Otherwise, it's going to ride up on top of that labreum and then grind away the whole time you're trying to mobilize. Yeah, that just doesn't sound crappy. It's super crappy. It's so weird in here without music. It just trips me out. So, you're going to take Well, it's really quiet. You can't hear it, but I can hear it. I can't I'm I'm even afraid to say the the the artist's name because heaven forbid YouTube goes, "No, can't say that. Turned off the sound. We don't like that copyright infringement." Like, I'm getting paid by the artist. Those guys make like $2 million a day. So, you're going to take a band. This is a 1-inch band. Okay? You can get these on. You guys are asking me all the time where you get these. Amazon. Go on Amazon. Um what's the company that I usually use? Superior Steel. Sorry, you can see a brain fart right there for a second. It's like 5 in the morning. So, Superior Steel, you get them on Amazon. You get a fourack. It goes from a small one to a really fat one. Just get all four. I think they're about 20 bucks a pop. Totally worth it. Um, just get them. They're super easy. So, there you go. There's your answer. I'll post that in the write up so you guys all know and I'll see if I can stick a link in there somewhere on YouTube. So, what you're going to do is you're going to get high in the hip crease, inguinal crease. You can see I have a box here. Okay? You can use a bench, box, whatever you want. But what you want to do is you want to load up that band so it drags ahead of that femur into the back of the socket. Then you're going to get your leg on here. You're going to fold your foot out. That's really important. And then all you're going to do is you're going to take your back leg and you're just going to get in here really, really. And you're going to hunt around. So you might have to go this way. You might have to go like Oh, for me it's right there. And I'm just hang out. And I'm going to feel this like I'm capturing all the tissue. It's going to feel like somebody is pretty much taking a hot poker. My buddy Lance Angersonson, he'll tell you right now. Cattle prod, that's pretty much what it feels like up in the high hip. Keep that foot planted and then just crank away. This is like smash wad on steroids. Just cranking on this thing. I almost kind of want to stay here because I have a little bit of an IT issue on this side. But is it really an IT issue? No. It's above and below, right? Upstream, downstream from that IT band. It's all the stuff above and below. So, you're going to hang out here for how long? Normally, I'd say two minutes. Try five. Be better. When you're done. I mean, just hunt around. So, my back leg is trailing. My front leg is like this. Foot's turned over. And I'm just hunting around and I'm letting that knee drop out. And I'm going to hit all that stuff up here. Oh, first thing in the morning. That's just grizzly. Yeah, that's number one. Number two is we want to hit that hamstring in the back and that vasis lateralis in the front. There's a really funky way to do it without uh without having to buy any super fancy equipment. I mean I guess uh I guess an Oolie bar is, you know, anywhere from 200 bucks to $1,600 if you buy an Alco. So I mean it can be expensive, but you can always use the ones at your box. All right, so check this out. You can see we got the sleeve of the barbell. Don't worry, we're going to use this in a bit. You see, I got my foam roller hanging out. I just realized I'm wearing a 2014 regional shirt. Spectator regional shirt. You know what I get to do in 2016? I'm going back to regionals as an athlete. How cool is that, man? You guys all believed in me, by the way. I really appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, so you're going to get on the sleeve of this. This is already just abysmal. You're gonna see it wants to roll around like that. I'm using the fatter end just because it's a little higher off the ground. So, big giant legs hanging over this. You want to get up off the ground so you can really put a lot of pressure on there. And then all I'm going to do is I'm going to go on the back side first. I'm going to post out with my leg like this. I'm on this thing. The cool thing is it just rolls and I'm just Oh, that's just horrendous. And I'm going to come up real high and I'm going to grind all the way. It's right. You can feel when it's hitting that transition point between the IT band itself and the hamstring because it just lights you up. Go all the way. Now, here's the fun part. Roll forward. I'm on this same thing. I haven't moved anything except rotated my body and I'm going to do the same thing. And I'm going to come all the way down, all the way up before I throw up my breakfast because it's so awful. And I want you to go all the way down to that knee. Just above the knee. How about I put that in there? Somebody, one of you guys is going to go right over the knee and say, "It hurts when you grind on the bone." Yeah, don't do that. So, you're just going to grind away. So, I'm on this sleeve of the barbell and I'm grinding away the transition between the vasis lateralis and the IT band. I'm going all the way down. I'm not smashing the IT band. Remember that. That's number two. And three. That gave me the mobility sweats. Hey, bottom line is if you're not doing it right, you're not getting the mobility sweats. If you're doing it right, you're getting the mobility sweats. Now we get to use the foam roller. So if you look at the way the anatomy works of the hip, you have that TFL up in here. It's a just a super tight chunk of muscle and it's pretty much the regulator of that IT band. And it's a hip flexor. It does some other things. So a little bit of stability, but you want to be able to unload that thing. And on just about everybody, remember it takes 2 minutes to change the visco elastic properties of tissue. So 2 minutes of sitting at a desk. A lot of you guys are sitting longer than 2 minutes at a desk. So you 2 minutes of sitting at a desk and that muscle gets short. Now we go to stand up and it stays short and tight. So you do that for six, seven, eight hours as a student, as a a worker. It doesn't matter if you're little worker be, it doesn't make a difference. This is going to get short and tight. Do a lot of hip flexion. All this stuff we do, all the exercise, we need to unload this. So you're going to get on the foam roller. You're going to get on that high spot. So we're going to we're going to capture right here. And it's going to feel super fugly. And all you're going to do, so you can see I'm right on that I'm right on that high spot. And all I'm going to do is I'm going to go back and forth and I'm just grinding back and forth. And you want to be really aggressive, do this on the barbell. Be horrible. It's a good song in the background. I can't even say what it is, but it's a badass song. So, make sure this is nice and it's almost it's perpendicular to you. So, you're going to grind all the way across this and go all the way back. You're going to capture some of the glute in the back and all your It sounds so simple. It's easy to do, which means it's easy to what? Not to do. And you're just going to go back and forth and hammer this tissue into submission. Like I mean, like Crossley was just whooping on you. All right, that's homework number four. I know I'm giving you just a ton of homework. Oh jeez. Women and children, I got to watch my language sometimes. Last one is we're going to take this and we're going to hit that glute. Now remember, we got the sciatic nerve. I say it one more time. Look at my butt. Okay. Sciatic nerve runs down through here. It's about the size of your pinky. So, you want to make sure you avoid that. So, when you squeeze your glutes as hard as you can, you get this big ball of tissue up here. That's where you're going to capture the the uh the muscle with this peanut. Use a peanut because it'll capture the muscle in between the bellies of the ball. And then you can grind away without the ball dancing all over the place. I know a lot of times you get on that ball, it just spits it out. So, this way you don't have to worry about it. So, get on this thing and don't don't just sit on it. Find that hot spot. I'm going to post out with this leg. And so, I'm on the lacrosse ball and all I'm going to do is Holy mackerel. And I'm just going to grind away on this until it submits. I'll force it to tap out. Remember Joe Rogan says black out before you tap out. So, if I pass out, it's Joe Rogan's fault. I'm going to go all Joe Rogan's a badass dude, isn't he? Freaking love that guy. Go back and forth, back and forth. So, I'm just grinding away with the peanut, capturing that high hip, ungluing all the fibers, ungluing all that tissue. What you're going to find is that IT band starts to unload, knee pain goes away, all the problems you got go away, life gets better, man. You win the lottery. You marry the person of your dreams. You live to be 150. everything all because you took care of your IT band. I don't know. But it's going to loosen everything up. You're going to feel better and your function is going to get better. How's that? Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works. I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome freaking day.