 al-right. Another master class. Let me drink some coffee. I'm not even going to put it down. I'm just going to hang on to it. You can't have too much coffee. So anyway, this is a master class on KISS-peptin. You're going to want to know this because KISS-peptin is not a fertility peptide. It is not. It is a master regulator of every single system you've got in your biology, and it is exactly why most people are sick because there is a deficiency or a dysregulation of KISS-peptin and KISS-1R receptor problem. And there's so many issues surrounding KISS-peptin that are treated as a downstream issue, and you're not solving the problem. But the reason I'm making these master classes, it's for you. I have this knowledge. I know this, but the, and I'm trying to share it with you. So stop going in my comments and complaining and giving me thumbs down. Like just grow up. And because that's juvenile. But the reason I'm doing this is because of all the instabrow, soccer mom, look at me. I own a peptide company. No, you don't. Sell out doctors and nurse practitioners claiming to own peptide companies, trying to jump on the bandwagon because they want to make money, not because they care. They're coming out with the most ridiculous information. Share it with you guys. And unfortunately, you guys get inundated with all kinds of stuff. You don't know who to believe. That part, I understand. That's very frustrating. I'm not selling you anything. Like that's what I always tell people. I go, look at follow the money, follow the money. I don't care if you buy from me. You want to buy from elite biogenics. Awesome. I will give you everything I got to tell you that every time I will bleed for you guys and make sure you have the best product on the planet. And that's it. You buy from my company. Awesome. I have real labs, real warehouses, and real people working for my company. I'm not some doing it out of my basement soccer mom or sell out doctor with boxes in his clinic, trying to do it on the side because he can't succeed because patients don't do anything he tells them to because he keeps frigging hurting them because he's giving them drugs. I'm not some longevity clinic. I'm here to give you the answer so you can have an informed decision. What you do with the information is on you. But for the love of God, grow up and get out of my comments complaining about stuff and giving me thumbs down. What are you, five? I don't even get my head around that. So go ahead, buy. Don't. I'm still going to show up here because I care. And then the other thing is with a black card, join the black card or don't. It is apply at unlockthecard.com. That's the email you need to send your application request to. Mia, my executive assistant, will take care of you. She'll get you all dialed in and help you out. It is wire transfer only. And you know what? I've been holding off on the 25,000. But you know what? The honestly, the amount of things that I have to handle in the black card and the amount I bleed for the people in there to give them the information to save them and help them with their problems and actually solve them for real is astronomical. I work 16-hour days and I don't get paid enough to be honest. I don't. And if you go, that's pretty arrogant. No, it's not. If I save your life, there should be no amount of money. There was just to be very clear. There was no amount of money I would have been willing to pay. I would have paid anything, everything when I was laying in the hospital texting my wife saying I wasn't going to make them. There is no amount of money I wouldn't have paid. Nothing, all of it. So don't tell me your health and your life aren't worth whatever somebody's asking me or anybody else to solve your problem. Now the issue becomes this is why I do these master classes. You don't know who's going to solve your problem because the social media is filled with, like I said, the soccer moms who pretend they have a business, the nurse practitioners and sell out doctors who have no business opening their mouth and the Insta bros and Insta experts and Cora and Reddit making I Hate Dr. Trevor fan clubs because I keep proving all their stuff wrong and their business is taking a hit because people question them going, hey, how come what you said is not true? And then they try and defend it. You know what the truth is? Just follow the money. I don't care if you buy from me or not. I still come out here, but if you want to join the Black Card, it's access to my private live Q&A every Monday that I do with my whole group. It's not a master class. I had some YETs going, it's a master class. No, it's not a master class. It's a Q&A where I go two hours straight and I solve every problem people throw at me. I don't care what it is and I've done it live so many times. I could do this in my sleep and you get access to the VIP area where you actually get access to me where I'll answer 24 to 72 hours, usually about what it takes me, which is faster than any doctor on the planet. And I will actually solve your problem, which is hand you a prescription and say, go ahead, that'll solve it. And my results speak very loud and clear. I have people that aren't on thyroid medication anymore. They don't have menopause symptoms. Their cancer is gone. Their Hashimoto's is gone. Diabetes is gone. You can't count the number of people that have had excellent results listening to what I tell them to do because it's so high because I actually care. But you decide if you want to. But you know what? End of the month, I'm going up to 25 grand. I don't even want it. 10 grand is so cheap. $97. I don't take credit cards. It is my wire transfer only. Like I said, that's what you get. You got access to the protocol library, which really people are like, oh, that's what I came for. Listen, stop stealing my stuff and using it for my clinics. I have people in my group, one in particular, who was stealing my stuff and using it in her clinic, which pissed me off so bad. So now I have security embedding in there to make sure that doesn't happen because I care. People are just going to use it wrong and wind up causing problems. That's why you need to understand biology. Anyway, I'm done bitching here. I need to tell you all about KISS-Peptin because I think a lot of the information out there is that it's just some fertility issue. It's not like that's what people, oh cool. It's the fertility peptide. No, that's like looking at a nuclear reactor and calling it a light bulb. It's a warm fire. That's what I always say. Yeah, it produces light and a little bit of heat, but you're missing the entire point. Listen, I will show you everything that your doctor doesn't even know exists. And I sure as hell know that these Insta bros and Insta experts and sell out docs don't know and they don't care. They're trying to hit the perfect phrases, having chat GPT write their stuff so they can get you to buy their stuff. I don't care if you buy my stuff. I care that you get the information that you decide what you want to do with your damn health. I'm here to help. I'm a real doctor that gives a shit about you. I've been doing it for 30 years. But listen, here's what's brilliant about the human body and how it's designed. You have this molecule, neuro peptide, which means it's a very small protein that your neurons use to communicate. It's called KISS-Peptin. And most of these people don't even know that. Listen, the idea that you need to understand this, here's the thing that's going to blow your mind. KISS-Peptin is so fundamental. I can't even get my head around this. It's so wild. It's so fundamental to human biology that when researchers in 2003, listen, we discovered that mutations in the KISS-1 gene caused complete mutations in the gene, which means it doesn't work, right? Caused complete reproductive collapse, complete sterility. They realized that they were not looking at a fertility system. They were not. And that's what you guys just start. Oh, it's fertility. No, they're looking at the master control switch of your entire physiology. Think about it this way. If one gene mutation eliminates your ability, listen, you're a one, one mutation, just one. You've got, this shouldn't affect you this deeply. It eliminates your ability to reproduce. It means that gene is upstream of reproduction. It's not part of reproduction. It initiates reproduction. That's the difference just so you know, between a worker and a CEO. KISS-Peptin is the damn CEO. Let me paint this for you at a molecular level, so you understand, because this is where it gets so insane. You have these specialized neurons in your hypothalamus, the control center of pretty much every single thing that happens in your body, called GnRH neurons, ponadotropin-releasing hormone neurons. These little buggers are these things. They're the bouncer of your entire reproductive axis, your entire metabolic rate, your bone density, your immune function. They're that damn important. And here's the problem. GnRH neurons exist in this really interesting state. They're suppressed. They're like they're dead asleep right now, even during this conversation. Why? Because your body doesn't activate them with raw signals. It activates them through this signal gatekeep mechanism. And the gatekeeper is called KISS-Peptin. So when KISS-Peptin produced primarily in two regions of your hypothalamus, the arcutinucleus and the antroventrillar paraventricular nucleus, binds to its receptor, KISS-1R, which is what I was talking about, on those GnRH neurons. It's like punching in. It's like turning the dial on a safe or punching in a security code. The cell membranes depolarize. The action potentials fire just like anywhere else in the cell to conduct a signal. And suddenly GnRH floods into your median evidence, except here's what happens next. GnRH travels through hypofysio portal blood vessels, which are the tiny blood system connecting your brain to your pituitary. And it hits the gonadotropes on your anterior pituitary. Those cells release two hormones, LH-FSH, luteinizing hormone, follicle stimulating hormone. And that's when the cascade kicks in full throttle, like somebody bolted a turbo onto this bitch. LH and FSH flood your bloodstream. So in women, follow me. In women, they stimulate follicle development, estrogen production and ovulation. And in men, they stimulate the lating cells to produce testosterone, by the way, at rates that are about 100 times baseline, just so you know how intense this works. But here's what nobody is talking about online. That same system modulates your metabolic rate, your bone formation, your mood, your neurological function, your immune response. They're not separate systems. It's one system with a thousand parts. And chispeptin is the input control for every single one. So this is where the medical orthodoxy completely falls apart. Look, I need to drink some coffee. The research on chispeptin started with fertility, because, well, knock out the system. The first thing you notice is people can't reproduce. It's obvious. It's measurable. So naturally everybody goes, oh, it's a fertility hormone. And that's where the research funding then goes subsequently, right? That's how it works. But here's what the smart people figured out in 2019. Chispeptin and its receptor, kiss1r, that I just talked about, they're not just in your hypothalamus, you guys. They're everywhere. They're in your limbic system, the region's controlling motivation, memory, emotion. They're in your hippocampus. That's where your learning and memory centers are. They're in your amygdala, emotional processing. They're throughout your entire cortex. They're in your brainstem. They're integrated into systems that have nothing to do with reproduction. So just so you know, what does that mean? It means that kisspeptin isn't a fertility hormone that happens to affect other things. It's a pleiotropic integrator, which means it simultaneously, excuse me, it's multiple organ systems. It's not siloed. It's networked, baby. 22 studies, Oxford and Massachusetts General Hospital, Mass General Hospital showed something so badass. When you give men and women kisspeptin, their sexual desires skyrocket. But it's not because, here's what everybody's all about, it's not because their test goes up. It's not at all. It's because their brain's processing of attraction changes. Their limbic system lights up. They've done this all on MRIs. Their limbic system lights up. Their hippocampus becomes more responsive to erotic imagery. For all I know, they show them dirty magazines. I have no idea, but they figure this stuff out. This is a direct effective kisspeptin on brain circuitry, independent of any of the downstream hormones, which would be testosterone. So if it's doing, listen to me, if it's doing that to your brain at an emotional state, what else is it doing then? I'll help you every single thing you've got. So here's where this becomes actually very strategic to understand. Your body has a fundamental problem it has to solve all the time. How do you coordinate multiple systems to achieve a single outcome? Let's use reproduction, for example, I could do this with a whole bunch of it. Let's use reproduction. Okay, so for instance, you need hormone surges. That's the pituitary, you need sexual desire. That's the limbic system. You need metabolic acceleration. That's your hypothalamus, managing adenosine triphosphate ATP. That's immune suppression. This is people don't get this one, because pregnancy is technically an immunological hack where your immune system has to tolerate foreign genetic material, dad, bone remodeling, cardiovascular adaptations. All of these are different organ systems that normally operate independently. So how does your body synchronize all this stuff? It's the master control of all of this stuff. Here's the genius. Kispeptin neurons are phenomenally sensitive to your metabolic state. So not just your metabolic state, to be honest, your nutritional state or stress hormones or sex steroid feedback, integrate all this information through neurons containing NKB, neurokinin B, and dinorphin. And these create what is called an oscillatory network. So they basically, they pulse in and out. Okay, they create this rhythmic release of Kispeptin that generates pulsatile GNRH release. Pulsatility matters more than anything else in human physiology, because if you have, follow me, I'll just use this and as the HGH can under them that you guys are all like, I'm going to take HGH. It's the fountain of youth. No, it's not. It's the stupidest thing you can do. If unless you're missing your pituitary, you don't take it. It's ridiculous. If you have constant GNRH signaling, the system desensitizes, your cells stop responding. It's called tachyphylaxis. And it's why continuous hormone therapy can't work long term ever. So like HGH, but pulsatile signaling, that maintains receptor sensitivity forever. That's not luck, you guys. That's not I have this magic peptide. That's called engineering. And because Kispeptin neurons receive inputs from energy metabolism sensors, stress detection systems, nutrient sensing pathways, they can dynamically adjust the pulsatile output based on whether your body is in a state where reproduction is feasible or it's not. Go watch. If you just, and like I said, I'm going to use reproduction as an example, because it's easy to follow. If you're overstressed, Kispeptin neurons drop. Reproduction stops, because chronic stress means your body needs every single ounce of its resources for survival, not reproduction. Right? Follow me on this. If you're metabolically healthy, well-nourished, and unstressed, Kispeptin neurons activate and maintain the rhythm. It's not this random hormone system. It's a decision-making system that your body uses to determine whether the conditions are right for complex biological processes. And if it's that sophisticated for reproduction, and those same receptors are distributed throughout your brain, throughout your organs, throughout your immune system, what the hell else is it coordinating? And that's the question that nobody's asking except this bald bearded dog right here. Listen, let me give you the master key insight to all of this, because this is how everything connects. Pliotropy is this concept in genetics, where a single gene, you have to understand this because I said it's Pliotropic, a single gene influences multiple, seemingly unrelated phenotypic traits. One gene, multiple outputs, that's Kispeptin. Your Kispeptin system isn't just about reproduction. Listen, 2022 Oxford showed that Kispeptin modulates reward processing, motivation, and gold-directed paviar. That's what I said. But I'll go further. 2020, JCI, they showed it affects metabolic rate and glucose regulation, reducing or eliminating diabetes. I could do this all day. Baby 2025, Oxford and Mass General showed it doesn't induce anxiety, it actually reduces and solves anxiety, meaning it's not a stress hormone, but it's integrated into your emotional processing. Why? Because Kispeptin is coordinating your entire emotional, motivational, and reproductive systems to function as one integrated unit. Think about what drives human behavior at the deepest level. We've got metabolic optimization, we've got emotional rewards seeking, we've got physical health maintenance, reproductive drive, immune competence. Kispeptin integrates every single one of these, all five. So when Kispeptin signaling is optimal, you've got a powerful, well-curated sexual desire, you've got incredible metabolic health, you've got a solid mood, you've got strong bones in a superior immune system. They're not independent movements, they're synchronized outputs from a single regulatory system. When Kispeptin is deficient, it doesn't matter how, by the way, genetic mutations, metabolic dysfunction, chronic stress, drugs, outside influence, exogenous sources, aging, everything declines at the same damn time. Fertility drops, moods worsen, metabolic rate slows, immune function tanks, bones weaken. This is one system, this is not coincidence. It's one system that fails. Just one. In conventional medicine, here's the issue. Treats each symptom separately with different drugs. It's like fixing a car by treating the check engine light. Instead of fixing, the engine's still broken. You can put tape over the light. Kispeptin is the damn engine, you guys. So here's something that I looked at because I've read through hundreds, if not thousands of research papers on Kispeptin. Nearly every disease that kills people in the developed world comes down to three biological failures. Weird. And Kispeptin is the solution to this. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, mitochondrial, ATP shortage. It's always the same. And I've said this over and over. That's it. Three failures. Underly heart disease, type 2 diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer's, autoimmune disease, dementia, obesity. Name it. It bugs me. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because I solved all disease and I keep proving it every day. I've done it for 365 days in a row. Actually, I'm probably more like 395 days in a row now. Different tissues, same root cause. Where's my... I just... You guys should be blasting this everywhere going. This guy keeps solving health and disease every day and helping you because I'm not asking you for anything, am I? Am I asking you guys for something? Am I coming on here going, please support me and buy me? No. You know what I'm asking you to do? Take all my stuff, stack my YouTube and my Insta and my rumble full of people. That's what I'm asking you for. You want to know I'm asking for you guys to do something for me, which is instead of taking and gleaning all the information off of me and using it for your own stuff, like a bunch of thieves, you actually take it and you go, I need to support this guy because if I don't keep this guy around, that information is going to go the way the dodo. I'm out here because I care because I want you never to be sick. I want you to be rich and healthy and happy and have this great life and this chug or not physiology. And I do it every single day and if anybody complains or says that's not what I do, you know what? Pardon my language. Fuck you. You bet your ass I do. I will bleed for people. So if anyone says I haven't done that for them, you say it to my face because bullshit, I'm the only doctor out here doing this out of 9 billion people on this planet. I care that much. So those three failures, that is the root cause of every disease. How this isn't mainstream medicine is beyond me. That's right because medicine treats symptoms. It doesn't want you better. So watch, here's where Kispeptin gets very interesting. I'll go through all three just so you can understand it. Look at systemic inflammation, Kispeptin signaling in immune tissues, particularly through the KND Wine Neuron Network, which directly interfaces with immune regulation, modulates inflammatory cytokine production. 2020, JCI, they show that adequate Kispeptin signaling suppresses pro-inflammatory cytokine cascades while maintaining anti-inflammatory IL-10, anti-inflammatory interleukin production where it's supposed to be. Why? Because reproductive hormone signaling, which is downstream of Kispeptin, is itself anti-inflammatory. Estrogen is an anti-inflammatory molecule. Strone is an anti-inflammatory molecule when levels are appropriate, but they keep telling you that testosterone is bad for you and you shouldn't have that and your level should be low. Are you nuts? You guys, all you dudes out there should be at a thousand and your free test should be through the roof. Like this, it's unreal the way they've gone, oh, it's supposed to be normally low. You should be around 300. 300? My 75-year-old grandpa had higher testosterone than that. He probably had over 800. He didn't take a damn thing. Listen, I don't care if you take anything. I care that you're taking the right thing. Not the same. Stop listening to these guys on Quora and read it. When Kispeptin signaling fails, these hormones drop, testinestrogen and inflammation becomes chronic. But listen, it's a bit more direct than that. Kispeptin neurons express Kis1R throughout immune tissues. So they directly regulate macrophage activation states. So follow me. They modulate T-cell differentiation towards regulatory and protective phenotypes. It's not just hormone mediated. It's direct neural immune integration. Maybe I'm going a little too deep and maybe I shouldn't, but you guys need to understand this. It's not just the hormones change. This is your system. This is your actual immune, the T-cells, the actual immune system that is being solved by Kispeptin. Look at insulin resistance. This is Kispeptin neurons in the arcuate nucleus, received direct inputs from nutrient sensing pathways. They're connected to AMPK signaling, mTOR sensing, glucose metabolism circuits, which your whole body runs on. So when Kispeptin signaling is adequate, the GMRH-LH access up regulates. Testosterone increases in men. Estrogen maintains healthy oscillation in women, whatever. Both of these hormones are insulin sensitizers. So testosterone increases glute 4 expression in muscle cells. Glute 4, as they go to the outside, allow insulin to do its job in glucose to come into the cell. So estrogen maintains insulin receptor signaling. They enhance mitochondrial function and adipocytes, fat cells converting white fat to brown fat, the metabolically active kind. So when Kispeptin fails, testosterone crashes, estrogen stops pulsing whatsoever, and suddenly your cells become insulin resistant. They're deaf. They don't hear it anymore, and they use glucose everywhere, and you now have diabetes. Your mitochondria now lose their metabolic capacity. Adipose tissue becomes dysfunctional and pro-inflammatory. In a 20-study, Mass General Hospital showed that men and women, primarily women, sorry, showed that women with hypothalamic amenorrhea, complete loss of menstrual function due to Kispeptin, neuronal suppression from stress or low body weight, which is crazy, don't be hyper skinny, have profoundly impaired insulin sensitivity, but give them Kispeptin, insulin sensitivity recovers like that. It's not the hormone replacement that's primary. It's the Kispeptin restoration that allows the entire metabolic endocrine system to recalibrate, except what do they want to give you? Here's some estrogen you can rub on your vagina. Here's a pellet we can stick in your arm. Here's an inject. Listen, I got nothing against people taking testosterone, but if you're taking cream, how do you moderate the dosage? How do you control it? If you've got a pellet in you, it's so variable. Are you out of your mind? And if you're taking an oral, alpha-alcalated 17-molecule, it's so hepatoxic, it's beating the shit out of your liver. Your liver, as I'm speaking, has done thousands and thousands of processes already, about 500 per second. I just wouldn't screw with my biology like that, you guys. So I'm trying to give you answers, and the problem is science is so rampant because people are just inventing. I realize all science is invented, right? Do you understand? I was saying this to Brandy the other day. I said, do you understand the purpose of science is to disprove all the science that came before it? Really, just think about that. It's to disprove, theory, hypothesis, but it's to disprove what came before it that said that theory or that hypothesis was accurate. It's never ending. Just to be very transparent, you know what has never changed? The Bible. I'll just leave it at that. I love watching the world catch up to the word, and it's starting to check the boxes. I don't care if you believe in God, I do. God kept me here. God is a gangster. And he is savage in my life, man. Armor, shield, sword, to take the head of every single Goliath that gets in my way. Bring it, baby. You cannot argue the Bible. I realize this isn't a theology podcast, but science is always arguable. The Bible is not something to think about. Josh Howerton is my preacher, by the way, late point. If you need to watch him, he'll change your life. Listen, look at the ATP. I think we're at that, right? I could go a little deeper in insulin sensitivity, but you guys, what am I, 25 minutes and you've got better things to do with your life. So ATP Shortes, look at this. This is the deepest one. One day, I'm going to do deep cuts of Dr. Trevor. I'm just going to throw all kinds of facts at you guys. The mitochondrial function, that's not even function, the engine, it depends on a couple of things. Adequate thyroid hormone, which gets peptidine neurons integrate with through TRH signaling, sufficient sex steroids, which activate mitochondrial biogenesis genes to make more of those power plants, proper metabolic switching between glucose and fat oxidation coordinated by luteinizing hormone mediated testosterone increases, adequate iron metabolism, big time, which is if you have a iron deficiency and you're fair in issues, you need to get that checked because it'll affect this, which Kispeptin GNRH signaling influences through Hepsidon regulation. When Kispeptin signaling is suppressed, caloric restriction does it a lot, by the way. Stress, that's why that ECG diet was just screwing people up. You'd eat 500 calories a day and put some drops under your tongue. But stress and caloric restriction, metabolic disease, all four of these things collapse. Your mitochondria literally become fewer in number, produce less ATP, your cells enter a, for lack of a better expression, the tank is empty. It's an energy deficit state, which is why people with Kispeptin deficient reproductive disorders don't just have infertility. They have fatigue, they have brain fog, they have reduced exercise capacity. It's not psychological, it's mitochondrial due to Kispeptin because when you restore Kispeptin, this is proven everywhere. When you restore Kispeptin signaling, all three of those biological failures begin resolving simultaneously immediately. That's not treating symptoms. That's treating the root cause. This is why this is the doctor you should be listening to. I'm not asking you for anything. I'm not asking for your co-pay. I'm not asking for you to do a damn thing. If you want to work with me, yeah, there's going to be a fee, but I'm trying to give you the answer so you can solve your own problems. I want to be the book that everybody refers to that goes, fuck this guy has the answer. And yeah, I'm a doctor that cusses, get over it. It's okay. I still know my stuff. Believe me, I used to cuss a lot more. Listen, let me give you the practical application because this is where most of you guys live. Okay, look at something like obesity. Let's look at just your fat. Stop getting offended and get it like, oh my God, he used herty words. Your fat, solve it. Obesity is not a calorie problem. Anyone who tells you that it is hasn't read the metabolic endocrinology literature from the last 15 friggin years. Obesity is a hormonal regulation problem. Here's what happens. And yes, calories and calories out, the thermodynamics still applies, but that's not the primary issue, which is why I explained in that one pose where I was like, this is why your diets are failing. The whole leptin, ghrelin, all the stuff going on. So anyway, here's what happens. Chronic overfeeding or metabolic stress suppresses chispeptin neurons because your energy sensing pathways, they say, hey, listen, we're in a state of metabolic chaos. Don't reproduce chispeptin drops. It's what I was talking about, right? GNRH drops, glutamizing hormone drops, testosterone drops. Now you're in a state of functional hypogonadism with the intact calorie intake. Your mitochondria aren't being stimulated to increase oxidative capacity. Your adipocytes aren't being told to remodel into brown fat in your muscle isn't being told to increase glute 4 expression. So you become insulin def, insulin resistant. You store more fat in your lower metabolic rate and you gain more weight. It's this downward spiral and it looks like a willpower problem because you can see the food going in, right? It's shoving it into your bar cold. But actually, it's a chispeptin mediated metabolic collapse 2020. JCI, they showed that metabolic weight loss where people actually lose fat and normalize insulin sensitivity is associated with recovery of chispeptin neuron activity. You don't just lose the weight. Your hormonal system re-synchronizes the entire damn thing. You want to go a little further? Let's hit hypertension because hypertension is the thing that everybody, you guys send me so many messages. What do I do about hypertension? My blood pressure. First of all, it changes thousands of times a day. So don't worry about it nearly as much. Second of all, 2017, they changed it from 140 over 90 to 120 over 80 and they're trying to drop it even more. Not because they care more, not because there's more incidence of renal failure or strokes or anything else. They're trying to attribute to hypertension. Shit, it's because they can fit you more into that bell curve within normal limits. L is BS. Just so you know, that's coming from a doctor. That's BS. It's to make more money. It's like the BMI. According to the BMI, I'm supposed to be 155 pounds. You guys saw me at 155 pounds. I came out of the hospital in a wheelchair. I did not look healthy. I looked like an AIDS patient. Forget it. So look at hypertension. Blood pressure regulation is controlled by your sympathetic nervous system, your parasympathetic nervous system, and your renal angiotensin system and your vascular endothelial nitric oxide production. Now we have all the systems. Guess what modulates all four of these? Kispeptin signaling. Watch, through connections to your brainstem, cardiovascular centers, through sex hormone effects on vascular smooth muscle tone, through insulin sensitivity effects on endothelial function. So watch, when Kispeptin fails, just follow me. I'll explain it all. When Kispeptin fails, you lose sex hormones. Sex hormones are basal dilators. So your vessels become stiff. Your sympathetic tone increases because reproductive hormones suppress sympathetic activation. Your insulin resistance worsens. You're even more deaf and high insulin literally increases salt reabsorption in your kidneys. Boom! You get hypertension. No, you shouldn't decrease your salt. I'm just telling you the osmolarity and how this works. The 2020 Oxford study showed that women with hypothalamic aminorrhea, this is a good study, man, don't just have reproductive problems. They have elevated blood pressure and it improves with Kispeptin treatment right away. How about depression, anxiety? Just give me a mood disorder. I'll just throw it out me, baby. This is the one that's going to reshape psychiatry for the next five years. And you know what they're going to do? They're going to argue because they're going to, we have to give you SSRs. We have to give you MAOIs. We have to do therapy for the next three years on a couch talking about your problems and telling me about your mother. I got nothing against psychiatrists other than I think they're all full of shit. Sorry, but not sorry. I think you guys are a bunch of liars. You invented a science to talk about people's problems and encourage people to stay stuck where they are. Who's the best psychiatrist on the planet? Tony Friggin Robbins. He will help you solve all your problems. Why? Because he'll just make you get over them. He will literally do pattern interrupts until you don't have the problem anymore because you associate it with something else. But you guys don't want to anchor it, right? What you focus on, what you feel in the action you take after that, those are that's how you get over any problem. That is nothing to do with medicine and no one not a qualified psychiatrist by according to a piece of paper, but I know more than most of you psychiatrists because I know how to solve problems and get people past their sticking points. But look at this. This is going to reshape psychiatry. I promise your limbic system, your emotional brain is saturated with Kiss 1R receptors, your hippocampus, amygdala, prefrontal cortex, ventral tegmental area, all of it. Kiss Pepton doesn't just regulate reproduction, it regulates motivation and reward processing and emotional memory and consolidation and salience that you assign to different stimuli. Like when Kiss Pepton signaling is optimal, watch, you have robust  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected a lot of you guys are asking me about this. I should probably do a post on it because it's that big of a deal. Anadonia is the loss of pleasure because dopamine motivation circuits have just literally turned offline. Emotional, no, it's not a chemical problem. It's a chisptatin problem. Emotional liability because the hippocampal processing is impaired. Hypervigilance because amygdala tone is dysregulated without proper chisptatin modulation. You get social withdrawal, which is what they're encouraging right now. We're supposed to interact with the damn machine, even this thing. You guys are watching me on a video. Me being on a stage and doing this and having a box. I love this, the box idea with a microphone in it. You can just ask me, I'll solve your problem right there on the frigging spot. By the way, I've done that for three years straight. I did it overseas and we, my, I'm another business partner, my name is Guy Junie and we own a company in China, Shanghai primarily, Beijing where I used to go on stage for hundreds of thousands of people. It didn't matter. And I would just bring people on stage and hack every problem they've gotten. I'd throw them a mic and have fun with it. That's what I like to do. I like to solve things in real time. I don't really think my Q and A is live every Monday. Throw me a problem. I'll solve it right there because I know my stuff. If you ask me to solve a legal problem, I have no idea. No idea how to design the infrastructure of Dallas. No idea. Although I think I could do a better job because Dallas, if you've ever driven in Dallas, what is with the roads there? It's 25 minutes from my house, but it looks like dogs breakfast. Somebody just took spaghetti and said, make that and I need two billion to do it. What the f***? That's a whole life. Somebody can explain that one to me. I'd love to know. Anyway, all of the stuff I just explained, right, the anodella, the hypervigilance, all of that stuff, that's depression, that's anxiety. That's not primarily a serotonin problem. It's a KISS-Peptin system failure. 2025, Mass General showed KISS-Peptin administration doesn't induce anxiety. They prove this in humans, meaning it's safe even. This is why I'm telling you this because otherwise people, oh, I don't know if I should take it. I have anxiety, I have depression, I have all this stuff. I have all these labels. I'm not denying it, but you have labels that you've given yourself that you're clinging to because they allow you to stay where you are instead of solving the problem because solving the problem is frigging uncomfortable. This is what they did. They proved that it's safe for people with anxiety disorders, but they didn't publicize it because the people who got, this is the part they didn't publicize it. You can read it. It's in the paper. They just didn't put it out for everybody else. The people who got KISS-Peptin, their mood improved. 79%. Holy crap, Batman. 79% because you restored the master system that coordinates emotional processing. That's why. How about this one? Pre-eclampsia, baby. It's something that's going to blow your mind if you understand. Obstetrics, honestly, was one of my favorite subjects. Pre-eclampsia is a disease of pregnancy where blood pressure suddenly skyrockets, protein fukes into the urine, and the whole pregnancy becomes very dangerous. It's the leading cause of pregnancy-related death and disability. 15% of pregnancies have some form of it. I take this very seriously because I love my wife so much, and I love my children so much. I would hate to see if I could solve this for a woman. I do this all day because I just value human life so much. Here's what's actually happening. Pre-eclampsia is a KISS-Peptin dysfunction disorder. Follow me. I promise you're going to hear this and go, holy shit. You're going to look at your spouse and say, order me KISS-Peptin. I don't care where you get it from. Just make sure you get it from somebody that's trustworthy. Bleed biogenics is trustworthy. I just wear whatever you want. Here's the mechanism. In early pregnancy, the fetal placenta invades maternal blood vessels. Just relax. You guys are like, what? This is a normal process. It has to do it to establish the blood flow. For the maternal immune system to tolerate, remember what I said? It's regulating all this stuff for the maternal immune system. To tolerate this foreign tissue invasion, it requires specific immune states mediated by regulatory T cells and TH2 immune responses. Guess what maintains those two immune states? KISS-Peptin. KISS-Peptin signaling through dopaminergic and oxidosurgic circuits in maternal hypothalamus. So follow me on this. This is why I told you when KISS-Peptin signaling is deficient, there's a problem when it's optimal and so you're running better. So when KISS-Peptin signaling is running the way it's designed, the immune tolerance is maintained. Vascular adaptation happens. Placentation, placentation proceeds. Placentation proceeds normally. It does all the things your body's supposed to do biologically. When KISS-Peptin signaling is deficient, again, metabolic disease, chronic stress, genetic predisposition, obesity, bad decisions, pharmacological interruption from some dumb doctor that's giving you drugs that you don't need, immune tolerance fails. The immune system then attacks the invading placental tissue andothelial dysfunction develops and preeclampsia. 2019, Mass General showed that women who develop preeclampsia have unbelievably abnormal KISS-Peptin signaling early in the pregnancy. Their KISS-Peptin levels are dysregulated. Their placental KISS-1R expression is abnormal. So when you restore KISS-Peptin signaling, preeclampsia symptoms resolve. They proved that also 2019. That means preeclampsia isn't just a pregnancy complication. It's a direct indicator and the problem is they're never going to look at it this way because it takes away their control of going, I'm a guy in a white coat with a God complex instead of just going, the person who's badass is the patient, not the doctor. See, I look at a patient and I go, if you get better, I gave you the information to get better and your system did the work. No doctor anywhere, anytime has ever cured anybody of anything. Just keep that in mind. If you hear I was going, I'm so great, you know what I am? I'm a guy that has all the information that wants to give it to you. Solving preeclampsia shows that it was an underlying KISS-Peptin system dysfunction. Fix that and you prevent one of the most dangerous complications of pregnancy. Look at menopause. You hit this one. I'm having fun with this. What am I? 40 minutes in. Sorry, it's going to be long. Conventional medicine looks at menopause as a declining estrogen problem. That's like looking at a dying power plant and saying, there's less electricity being generated. Genius. What's causing the decline? What upstream system failed? KISS-Peptin system, 100%. Here's what actually happens. As women age towards menopause, their ovaries become less responsive to gonadotropins. That's real, but that's downstream. That's downstream. What's upstream? KISS-Peptin neuronal function begins to decline. Proven the pulsatile output becomes less synchronized, the neurons become less responsive to feedback signals. Excuse me. And the amplitude of pulses decreases. And since, watch, remember what I said at the very beginning about GNRH? Responding to KISS-Peptin, right? Needs, requires it to be activated. So, since GNRH depends, excuse me, on KISS-Peptin to be activated, what do you think happens to GNRH? It's erratic as hell. LH pulses become disorganized, FSH becomes completely inconsistent, estrogen production becomes incredibly erratic. And then ovaries finally give you the finger and stop responding. Complete ovarian failure. But here's the thing being missed. KISS-Peptin decline doesn't just affect reproduction. It affects every organ system with KISS-1R. So watch, here's why I'm telling you this. Mood declines because limit KISS-1R signaling is reduced. Bone density drops because KISS-Peptin signaling is bone building because KISS-Peptin signaling in bone building cells is reduced. Osteoblasts. Metabolic rate slows because hypothalamic KISS-Peptin signaling that coordinates metabolic rate is reduced. Cardiovascular function deteriorates because vascular KISS-Peptin signaling is reduced. So what we call menopause symptoms is actually whole system collapse caused by KISS-Peptin neuronal function. Could you imagine, let's just go hypothetical before somebody says, you could write this down but you're going to need more than what I'm about to say. Could you imagine for your kangaroo, KISS-Peptin, OTC, BPC-157, just that, without even getting into anything else, stop with your black cohosh and all the weird stuff you guys take that don't work. Could you imagine what if you didn't need it and stop taking oral estrogen because it's trashing your system, at least use a patch if you have to. Could you imagine 60% with MOTC reduced? 60% proven it. Harvard proved this dozens of times. There's so many research studies proving it. So the whole, it's inevitable and it's a protein shortage or whatever the hell some people are saying online right now. No, it's not. No, it's not. And what do I have to gain? Nothing. I'm just giving you the information so you can argue all you want. But I have nothing to gain. I'm just giving you the info. Free. Freakin' free. Some of you guys better respect that. Because look at conventional HRT, hormone replacement therapy, addresses the downstream hormone problem. It puts hormones back, but it doesn't restore KISS-Peptin neuronal function. So you get some symptom relief. Great. But the underlying system is still failing. So you haven't solved the damn problem. You've just plugged a hole for another hole that's even bigger down on the other side of the boat. What if, just follow me, what if you supported KISS-Peptin neuronal function directly? You would restore the pulsatile pattern. You would restore the system's ability to self-regulate. You would potentially prevent the entire decline in the first place. My guess, that's, in my opinion, gynecology. That's the next frontier. That's where we need to be looking. My opinion. Am I a gynecologist? Nope. But I took lots and lots of women's stuff when I was in school. So I know all about this. You don't have to be a gynecologist to know this. I took the same classes, remember? And I've spent the last 30 years reading nonstop how many of you doctors can say that? How many of you doctors can say you can recite the Krebs cycle backwards and forwards? How many of you doctors can talk all about lateral spinal phynoflamic tract and know actually what it is? How many of you doctors can even trace a drop of blood through the whole body? That's the problem is I've spent the last 30 years doing nothing but reading and learning and becoming better because I want to be the best. I didn't go to school to get a degree. I went to school to become the best at this so I could help as many people as humanly possible. Look at diabetes. God, I could do this all day because I'm having fun with this now. Look at diabetes. It's the epidemic of modern civilization by far. One in 10 people has it. One in three has pre-diabetes, but that's kind of saying pre-cancer, pre-dead. So that means you already have it. And we treat it with drugs that manage symptoms while the disease gets worse. Metformin doesn't make you better. It makes you worse. Here's what's actually happening at the root level. Kispeptin neuronal dysfunction causes declining... Follow it. You could just... After what I've told you, you should understand this. Kispeptin neuronal dysfunction causes declining sex hormones, which causes insulin resistance, which causes metabolic dysfunction, which causes hyperglycemia, which, remember the whole... Even the mitochondria can't produce ATP, which causes pancreatic beta cell exhaustion as a result of no ATP, which causes type 2 diabetes. It's one giant freaking cascade and we're treating the last step while ignoring the first five. Look it. Here's the physiology. Testosterone and estrogen are insulin sensitizers. They increase glute for translocation in the muscle cells. I said this before. They enhance mitochondrial oxidative capacity and adipocytes. Your fat cells convert to brown so it can be used. They improve adiponectin secretion from functional adipose tissue, but they work only if Kispeptin neurons are firing properly because that's the upstream regulator. 2020 Mass General show that men with functional hypogonadism, low testosterone from Kispeptin suppression, have insulin resistance that is 100% directly reversible by Kispeptin administration. But testosterone replacement, not insulin, not metformin, Kispeptin restoration. I'll wait. Seriously, you guys should be blown away right now. Why the distinction? Because when you give... Listen to me. When you give... This is why a lot of you guys on testosterone don't even need to be here. Just doing it because some Instabrow told you because he's got a big trap vein and he sits in front of a desk or has some weird AI doing it for... I really have no idea. But when you give testosterone without restoring Kispeptin system that's supposed to regulate it. You get physiologically inappropriate hormone levels. You get tachyphylaxis. They shut down. You get negative feedback. It's inevitable. There's no way it's not going to work. But when you restore Kispeptin's neuronal function, the system self-regulates. The hormones come back into physiologically normal pulsatile patterns. The insulin sensitivity actually improves. This is the key difference between symptom management and symptom restoration. And for type 2 diabetes, if you restore Kispeptin function early enough before pancreatic beta cell exhaustion is complete, you can literally reverse the disease with one thing, Kispeptin. 2021 research on hypothalamic amenorrhea. This is my... I tell you, I got so much information from this study. Show that women who restore reproductive function through Kispeptin mediated pathways don't just fix their infertility. They fix their insulin sensitivity. Their HbA1c drops to below 5.2. Their glucose control improves. Kispeptin 2 diabetes is not primarily a glucose problem. It's a Kispeptin problem that manifests as a glucose dysfunction. You want to keep going? Let's go. 47 minutes in. Here's something that... Look at the immune system. Here's something that COVID and chronic illnesses has made the obvious as be. It's not the right word. Like just a nuclear bomb went off your immune system and your reproductive system are the same system with different outputs. That's it. They've proven it. Just look at this. Both require exquisite sensitivity to your metabolic state. Both require tight coordination of multiple organ systems. Both involve complex cellular signaling cascades. And both are controlled by Kispeptin. The mechanism? Look at it. Kispeptin neurons in the hypothalamus project directly to immune tissues. They innervate the thymus where T cells are... It's like boot camp, right? They get educated. They innervate secondary lymphatic lymphoid organs. They coordinate with cytokine production from immune cells. And here's the key. Sex hormones. If you've got anything so far, are the upstream or downstream. The downstream of Kispeptin. And they are themselves profoundly powerful immune modulators. Look at testosterone is immune suppressant at high doses, but immune enhancing at physiological or slightly above physiological levels, which is why TRT is awesome for you. It's not bad for you. It's ridiculous. People die. No, they don't. Nobody's died from testosterone therapy. Nobody. You know who's died? People taking hormone replacement therapy because they got friggin cancer and they've proven it. Seriously, it's ridiculous the nonsense that comes out from it people these days. Immune is anti-inflammatory enhances TH2 responses. So watch together, together, right? So testosterone and estrogen together, they create an immune environment that balances aggression towards pathogens with tolerance, remember self and other tolerance towards self. So when Kispeptin fails, these hormones tank, your immune system loses its calibration whatsoever. You become either immuno compromised, which is unable to fight anything or autoimmune prone, which means you're attacking your own tissues. In 2020, they showed that women with hypothalamic amenorrhea, complete Kispeptin neuronal suppression, they have significantly impaired immune response to vaccines, etc. Their immune system is literally offline, which means when they give attenuated virus fragmented, whatever it is, they give them anything, there's no immune response because their immune system is offline. Restore Kispeptin signaling. Immune system recovers instantly. This is why women's health changes so dramatically across the menstrual cycle. It's not random, you guys. Look at some of you women, if you're listening to this, you get sick at certain times. It's always the same time of a month, not every month, just a moment. It's not random. It's Kispeptin-coordinated immune oscillation. That's why this is why chronic immune dysfunction often correlates with reproductive dysfunction. Just look at people. All you have to do is observe. You're living in a lab. The world is a lab. Just watch. They're not separate problems. They're one system failing at the same time. This is why long-term Kispeptin supplementation, 100%, in my opinion, will have massive implications for chronic infection management. It'll shut down auto-means. I'm talking auto-immune disease prevention. We're barely scratching the surface on this stuff. Look at neurologically. Your brain is what allows you to do anything else. So 20% of your body's energy is what it's using. Your neurons are metabolically very expensive to run. They require optimal mitochondrial function, appropriate growth factor signaling like BDNFG, NF, all this stuff. Symmetric plasticity support, inflammatory tone management, metabolic substrate availability. Guess what coordinates all five of those dang things? Kispeptin. This is the stuff that nobody wants to talk about. Here's how Kispeptin neurons in the hypothalamus project extensively through your cortex, hippocampus, and limbic system. They're not there just to regulate reproduction. They're integrated into learning and memory and consolidation and motivation, emotional processing. They showed that. So when Kispeptin signaling is optimal, your hippocampus has enhanced long-term potentiation capacity. That's the cellular basis of learning. Your dopaminergic system maintains appropriate motivation tones. So you don't get all weird. Your prefrontal cortex has enhanced executive function, so you become smart. Your overall cognitive speed is optimized, and you guys are going, how do I take mormodaffinil? Great. Listen, you want to take and knock yourself out, but what if you're missing the underlying problem? 2022 Oxford showed exactly this. Just so you know. Kispeptin administration enhanced brain activity in regions involved in emotional processing, reward, motivation. It's not just about reproduction, you guys. It's about optimal brain function. This Kispeptin-mediated hormonal signaling increases, what was I saying? BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, that enhances this throughout your entire cortex. It's fertilizer. It supports neuroplasticity, learning, recovery from injury. If you have a TBI, nobody's ever brought up Kispeptin, but when Kispeptin fails, cognitive decline, brain fog, reduced learning capacity, eventually neurodegenerative disease, dementia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis. That's why women often report cognitive changes in menopause. They walk into a room and go, I don't even know what the hell I came in here for. That's not just estrogen decline. It's the upstream Kispeptin-neuronal function that's failing. Here's why young people, by the way, with Kispeptin-deficient disorders, often report the same thing. Brain fog and reduced cognitive capacity, but they never pay attention to the issue. Maintaining Kispeptin function is essential for long-term brain health period and long-term cognitive preservation. Look at your bone density. This is wild because bone is a living tissue that requires constant, like trabecular bone is constant remodeling, cortex, right? Osteoblast build it, osteoclast break it down. Balance is essential. Wolf's Law, piezoelectric effect, all this stuff. But guess what controls this entire balance? Sex hormones. Testosterone and estrogen both suppress osteoclast activity. They both stimulate osteoblast activity, which is why having a 300 testosterone level as a dude is a problem, you guys. Your bones get thin. Hold on. I got to drink some coffee. This podcast is a lot longer than I thought it was going to be, but man, I'm excited. But guess what controls this entire thing? Sex hormones control, but Kispeptin rather controls all of this. So watch when sex hormones are adequate, bone density is maintained. Osteoblastic activity is running the way it's supposed to. There's a balance between osteoblasts and osteoclasts. When they crash, bone loss goes through the roof. It accelerates. And the question is, what controls sex hormone levels? Class? Kisfrig and peptin. So when Kispeptin neuronal function declines, ex hormones drop. Theoclast activity increases. Theoblast activity decreases. And you get this magic thing that everybody doesn't want, which is osteoporosis. In 2020, JCI, they showed that women with the same thing issue, hypothalamic amaryllis, is pepidine neuronal suppression, have bone density losses that would be expected in women. You ready for this? 40 years they're seniors. If you are 30, you have bone density of a 70 year old. The loss, 5 to 10, 5 to 10% per year, per year. Do the math. The math is mathing in a very bad way for you. Restore Kispeptin function, restore the menstrual cycle, bone density stabilizes and then recovers. It's not about calcium magnesium supplementation that you get at Costco or from your doctor in these high priced longevity clinics going, take my magic calcium, it's better than anybody else's. No, it's not. It's about restoring the hormonal system that tells you damn skeleton to maintain itself. That's why osteoporosis in post-menopausal women isn't just about aging. It's about declining Kispeptin neuronal function with your age. And that's why maintaining or even restoring if it's toast Kispeptin function is the primary prevention strategy for osteoporosis. My opinion before you need this phosphonates and calcium supplementation. We have been looking at human biology dead wrong. We've been taught that the body has these separate systems, a reproductive system, a metabolic system, an immune system, a nervous system, a skeletal system. And we treat each one independently. We take a drug that affects one system and cross our fingers that it helps the disease and ignore all the side effects to the other systems. But that's not how biology works. The body is integrated deeply fundamentally integrated at every single friggin level. And the integration point, the master switch that controls every single thing is Kispeptin. I just gave you the lesson. Look it. Look it. Kispeptin is the reproductive activator. It initiates a cascade of GNRH, LH, FSH, sex hormone production, mutation of Kis1 causes complete infertility. It's the metabolic integrator, right? It receives inputs. Listen, it receives inputs from your energy sensors and coordinates metabolic rate, mitochondrial function, insulin sensitivity, adipose tissue remodeling. It coordinates the immune system. It maintains a hormonal environment that allows appropriate immune calibration, not immunocompromised, not autoimmune, balanced. Remember what I said, self and other. It optimizes your neurological system. It modulates dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, GABA throughout your entire brain. So it affects mood, motivation, learning, emotional processing. This is such an incredible peptide and it's the last one that people are looking at that maintains your skeleton. Coordinates hormonal signals that tell your bones to maintain and rebuild themselves. Osteoblast activity. The cardiovascular system modulates vascular tone. I didn't even talk about this, but it does. Blood pressure, endothelial function through sex hormones and autonomic nervous system effects. This is like the ultimate longevity machine. Every single marker of longevity, metabolic health, bone density, cognitive function, immune resilience is downstream of kiss-peptin function. So when kiss-peptin is optimal, you are optimizing everything simultaneously. When kiss-peptin fails, everything fails simultaneously. That's why you see women. I'll use this example because it's been so potent or pertinent in this podcast with hypothalamic amenorrhea who have bone density like they are, what did I say, 70 years old. They have blood pressure issues, metabolic dysfunction. They have cognitive decline. They have immune problems. They have blood pressure all from kiss-peptin suppression. That's why you see men who've got functional hypogonadism, who've got metabolic disease, cardiovascular disease, cognitive decline, weak bones, mood problems, all from kiss-peptin dysfunction. That's why the most powerful intervention you could implement isn't a drug that targets one damn system. It's restoration of the master system that coordinates every single one. And the system is kiss-peptin. This makes me crazy. Conventional medicine operates on a symptom treatment model when you have high blood pressure or they give you a vasodilator when you have depression. They give you MAOIs or an SSRI. If you're infertile, they have IVF. Here's a gonadotropin injection. They have cholesterol, which is a whole other shit show. Here's a statin. We're treating the outputs without addressing the input, but the input is kiss-peptin. Everything I've just talked about in this entire podcast is downstream of kiss-peptin dysfunction. They're symptoms of a systemic failure. We're treating the symptoms while the system is still failing. Listen, the future of medicine. I will say this confidently because the research is already there. It's understanding that disease isn't a collection of separate diagnosis. It's system failure. In the system, you need to understand right now on this episode is kiss-peptin. 2003, the discovery of kiss-1 mutations causing hypogonatotropic hypogonatism. And 2008, studies establishing kiss-peptin's role in reproductive activation. 2020, they showed that its role in metabolic integration, immune coordination. 2025, they showed its role in brain function, neurological function, Alzheimer's, dementia, emotional processing, systemic health. Are you kidding me? It's all pointing to the same damn conclusion. Kiss-peptin is the master of human health, not one of many. V. 1. So, if you restore kiss-peptin function, you restore the system that coordinates your entire physiology. Watch. Here's what happens. Fertility returns. Metabolic health improves. Mood stabilizes. Immune function returns and strengthens. Bone density increases. Cognitive function sharpens. Cardiovascular health returns. Not because you're treating those things separately, you guys, but because you restore the one thing that orchestrates the entire damn thing. This is the paradigm shift that you guys need to understand. And this is happening right now. This is exactly why they're trying to ban this stuff. Your doctor doesn't know this yet. Your endocrinologist sure as hell doesn't know this yet. Your DO doesn't know this. Your cardiologist doesn't know this. Your psychiatrist definitely doesn't know this. But you do. You do because you listen to me. And what you do with this knowledge is entirely up. Whether you restore kiss-peptin system, you tell others what you've learned, whether you demand that medicine reorganize itself around system biology instead of system or symptom treatment, that's up to you, man. Like you decide what you say when you walk into the doctor's office, if you even go. But understand this. The peptide that will reshape medicine in the next decade, I promise you, is kiss-peptin because kiss-peptin sits at the top of every single thing that's going on in your biology. Period. Everything. I've got something out of this. I've got to go.