So yesterday and today, I guess, my wife and I, we drove about 215 miles each way for dinner. Has nothing to do with this podcast. Here, I'll help you in case you want to bounce. Kiss Pepin. I'm going to tell you exactly what it does and how it works and all the things that people think it's just for fertility. And there's, oh man, there's so many things that this does. The cancer implications that this has on preventing metastasis, by the way, are astronomical. It's what it comes from. I'll explain all that. Most people don't have a clue. and these Insta bros and Insta experts. You know what's funny is you guys are getting mad because I'm pointing out the facts about the compounds that you guys are trying to sell people under the guise of something completely different, something completely ineffective. Just like you guys in your nasal sprays, they don't work. It's not possible. Like pharmacologically, they can't work. And yet you guys got all mad when I talked about it. But you think I'm like, you take it personal. That's like saying, you know what? Round tires don't work. Square tires work better? Never. Maybe if you're stacking them. I have no idea. They're not going to work on the road. But you guys will go and get angry and argue about it. Maybe you all should just grow up. Because if I'm giving people the answers to have a better quality of life, isn't that the point? Isn't that the point of coming out here? To me, isn't that the point of giving this information? I'm not doing this because I want to go look at me. Look how great I am. I don't give a [\h__\h] about me. But I sure as hell care about the people that are listening to my voice and taking my information and going, you know what? This guy helped me. This guy gave me information. I almost made a bad decision. Now I made a good decision. This guy gave me the insight so I can look at something going on with my health and actually have a solution instead of listening to the white coats and their god complex lie because they're being fed by big pharma. Yeah, I'm talking about you doctors. I'm a doctor. That that's really irrelevant. I do not subscribe to the dogma that most people do about their health and the lies that are perpetrated under the illusion of health while poisoning somebody into more medication. I just don't do that. Above all, do no harm. You better get that through your head. And you know what's interesting is that's not it's not an oath for doctor. It's not it's not part of the hypocratic oath. It's part of a philosophy for life. And I think once once you realize that it changes your output. And I think if everybody got rid of their egos, yes, you insta bros and you pseudo experts and you want to be chat GPT junkies and you guys that go out and you doctors with your string of degrees, that means nothing. Nothing. My wife has two degrees and she is more intelligent and understands more about physiology and biology than 95% of you doctors and she'll go toe-to-toe with you and bury you. She'll annihilate all you trainers and you guys get mad about it instead of going maybe we need to up our game. My wife was basically a pro soccer player and that has nothing to do with her intelligence. I'm saying but and that's like me going I can't play soccer to save my life and that's like me going I know all the rules about soccer. can talk about the game all the time and blab and run my mouth until it's time to get on the field and she's just been calling me out the whole time. That's what you guys are doing. You guys get all take it all personally when someone's better than you, smarter than you, more effective than you, and giving out the information that you don't know. I don't know the purpose of coming out here, I think most of you guys, is to fluff your ego. Hearts and likes and maybe people giving you thumbs up on YouTube and all the stuff that you guys do. I don't give a [\h__\h] Give me all thumbs down. I don't care if I have 5% liked the video and the other 95% didn't. don't care. And maybe that's the thing. You want me to care, but I just don't because I want people to have a better quality of life. I want people to actually have the answer instead of the lies that have been going on for [sighs] 50, 60, 70 years. Like really, where's your head if you're giving out information? And you're so insecure that you get mad when someone says what you're saying is wrong. I get clips of my videos put out all the time where people go, "This is wrong. That's wrong." But it's not wrong, which is why I don't care. And I just my job is to give you the information so you can do something great, not brag about how intelligent I am so you can feel dumb. And I think there in lies the difference. You have a decision every day who you listen to and what you apply in your life. Right? So anyway, I'm exhausted driving 4 hours each direction, right, to go for dinner. But it was more than a dinner. It was my buddy Matt Budro and Tim Kennedy and a whole bunch of really great men and women who are doing something with something called Apogee. It's changing the way we educate our kids. And instead of teaching children to hold back and [clears throat] live in a cage, this is Matt said this. Matt Budro, we've known Matt for 20 plus years. Matt and Heather, his wife and his kids. And I love Matt. He's a great man. And you guys need to understand this. He basically said like children are being taught now you're in a cage, you have no wings. You can if you have if you know how to fly or if you want to learn how to fly or you actually learn how to fly, you're weird. And Apogee teaches kids you're not in a cage and you have wings and you should be flying to be as just to paraphrase what he said because you need to understand that. So, I support it because I have two children and the public school system, all you teachers and you weird screwed up cat ear teachers with your litter boxes in the back weighing 250 lbs wearing pajamas and Crocs to school and men with boobs and women like chicks with dicks. Like, what? I'd never let my kids near you ever. Not even close. And if you come near my kids, you are going to meet the right hand of God and it's coming from me. Like, never. You guys disgust me and you do it because you want to go we want to feel different but yet you're all the same. You're just a group of the same people over there being weird as hell. Anyway, I we went down there and for this charity event and and hung out with them and I got to see my friend AF and his wife Courtney and it was it's my wife's they grew up together, right? My my buddy AF is a special forces. He's a ranger sniper. This guy's a dangerous human being and he's a great man and it got me thinking about giving information out and helping people and what our purpose is as adults. I get static from adults. What are you guys five clipping my videos and trying to make yourself feel better because I proved the fact that what you were saying was wrong and it was indirectly. It's because all of your your pseudo clients or customers are now questioning you because what I tell is the truth and what you tell is do this and by the way here's my code to buy my stuff. Where's my code? Where's my discount code? I don't have one. I'm never going to have one. Just so you know. You want to join the black card? apply at unlocktheblackcard.com. Don't sit there and send a bunch of questions there because you'll get ignored and it's not meant to be a jerk. I just I don't have time for that and neither does my team. The black card is my Q&A call every Monday for a year and the whole archive of all the calls and a private community where you can actually ask me questions, type them out. You're not getting on a phone with me ever unless you want me oneon-one and then that's significantly more money and it's 10 grand to join the black card. It's wire transfer only. If you want the information to wire transfer, apply unlockthecard.com. That's it. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics, great. If you don't, I still show up. I prove that my kung fu is strong. I'm here all the time. I don't miss because I'm actually here for the right reasons, not for, hey, nobody's promoting my stuff and they're hurting my feelings with their hurty words. I just help. That's it. So, yesterday I got some questions about PCOS and PMS. So polycystic ovarian syndrome and menstrual syndrome like really bad cramps and discomfort. I've even seen my daughter once or twice. She's 19. Just debilitated. And I'm like, "Wow, that as a man, I have no idea." And any guy that goes, "Well, yeah, you try getting kicked in the balls." Yeah, but what are your friends walking around kicking you in the balls for an entire day, 2 days, 3 days, so hard that you have to be bedridden for the whole day? And anytime you're about to feel better, they come up and wing you one more time. Big old flat shoes, get both. No. So, we got no idea. But when I thought about and I got a lot of questions. So I went, how do I solve this problem? And I started thinking about Kispepin and I know a lot about this stuff. This is what I do. And Kispentin is one of the things that solves this problem, one of them. And I'm like menstrual cramps. If you get them, you're going to want to listen to this. And so let me just go over all this stuff. Anyway, the point is I'm exhausted. So if I make a bunch of mistakes or just ramble on like I am right now 10 minutes in, oh there you go. You're welcome. Bear with it anyway. But do a diagnostic on yourself. Just stop with that. I could keep going, but just do a di ask yourself. Even you guys, how many of you guys just feel lousy? Like you feel like your body is running on somebody else's OS, right? Somebody else's operating system is running you. Just the software is all buggy. The energy doesn't work. The batteries are running out of gas. Like the engine's just puking out black smoke. You're trying to get down the freeway home. 5 miles feels like a,000 miles, right? The users manual is written in Latin. Like that's how most people feel nowadays, right? This is it's not that hard. You just have to look at your life. But here's the problem. You're told to eat the most ridiculous things. Have a kale smoothie. Sit down and meditate, right? Make sure you get eight hours of sleep. Lie. Lie. And when that doesn't fix the problem, how about this? When that doesn't fix your menstrual cramps, or even better, your tanked, shot libido, your cratered energy, or the mood swings that you have because of all this stuff going on that could pretty much qualify you for a natural disaster. They're that bad. You're like a moody campfire. Anytime somebody's around you, they tell you it's stress or aging or normal hormones. What a lie. That is a comforting what what do I always say? Comforting, politically correct, managed decline lie. Cheers. I'm drinking a lot. So good. Listen, I don't come out here to comfort you and give you guys a bunch of warm fuzzy hugs. I'm here to give you the truth. And the truth is this. The truth is this. Most doctors are mechanics and they're shitty mechanics. They only know how to change the oil. So, they know how to take out an oil plug and change a filter and undo the top where you put the oil and that's it. They don't understand the engine's computer. You are the engine. So, I'm going to yet again explain the operating system of human biology like the root level code that you have that governs everything from sex drive to your risk of cancer all around Kiss Pepin. And listen, if you are sitting there trying to quickly come up with validation, so I got to get in the comments and say something, don't bother because like I said, I'm just about to turn my comments off. I just don't care you. If you guys are coming to do anything other than go, "This was awesome. Why are you here? Why are you here?" So here, biochemistry 101. This pepin is a it's a neuropeptide, right? It's this little tiny chain of amino acids. It's made in the hypothalamus. Forget all, and I say this all the time because you need to understand this. Forget all of the stuff that you learned in high school biology, whatever you took, but I'm sure it was high school bio about the pituitary gland being the master gland. That's what they say, right? Wrong. That's outdated. That is totally outdated. The pituitary is like the person in the middle, right? It's the intermediate. The hypothalamus is the seauite, right? And kissepin is the majority shareholder of the entire thing, right? The entire operation. And for 50 years at least, we thought the key to reproduction was G&RH, right? G&RH tells the pituitary to release LH, luteinizing hormone, and FSH, which is follical stimulating hormone. And we've built entire fertility. Listen to me. And this is where it gets a little uncomfortable for some of you guys cuz you guys have spent 60 grand on IVF. And now I'm going to tell you what a waste of money that was. Even if you go, I got pregnant. It wasn't from the IVF. You just, the timing was good. And then they took the credit. They stole the credit from your biology. We've built an entire fertility industry around this entire model. Wrong. Dead. Dead frigin wrong. G&RH is the messenger. Kiss pepin is the brain that writes the message. Kiss Kissepin neurons have direct synaptic connections to G&RH neurons. Right? Synaptic connections is the neurological connection. So to say Kissepin controls G&R is like saying a flamethrower controls the match. You get how backwards that is? It's an understatement of epic proportions. It doesn't work. If you look at in nature 1996 that the this is where they identified the kiss one gen's role in fertility metastasis suppression. This was the first clue. But go even further. This that's where this all started was 1996 where they went, "Holy [\h__\h] this stuff stops metastasis." Yeah, you want to buckle up for how wild this is about to get because I'm going to drop a bomb. New England Journal of Medicine 2003 was the nuke that they dropped. They discovered that mutations in the GPR54 receptor which is Kiss Pepin's docking station just so we stay on the same page were the cause were the cause of inherited hypogonatropic hypogonatism. hypo. It's a condition where people never go through puberty. Never. No kiss. This is how important this is. No kiss pepin signaling, no puberty, no reproduction, nothing. It's the fundamental non-negotiable ignition switch for the entire freaking system. And yet, that's the one thing we didn't look at. And you think they're going to do that? No. Because it doesn't make them a bunch of money. Listen, this isn't a very simple like binary little switch. It's a very precise mechanism of action. The hypothalamic pulse generator, right? That's what you should call it. So in men, Kiss pepin pulses at this steady low frequency rate, maintaining this constant anabolic tone of testosterone, right? It's the it's like the drummer on a boat, the rowers, right? The guy that keeps the time. In women, it's a whole lot different, which is why this affects PCOS, but even more so PMS, right? It's the conductor that has things with a crescendo, right? Everything works like this. The pulse frequency is very dynamic in women. Hold on. And I'll say during the follicular phase, this is when things get awesome. During the follicular phase, the slow pulse is what promotes the FSH release for egg development. Oh, now you're starting to see the fertility issue, right? Or how this works. Remember what I said? It does more than just fertility. And that's where we've been wrong. Because what happens then is this massive huge sustained surge of kissepin that triggers the LH that also surges, which causes ovulation, which is when you can get pregnant. But here's the best part. It's not theoretical. Journal of Clinical Investigations 2005 showed this unequivocally. Healthy women, this is so easy. Yet, how much kiss pepin is compared to IVF? They're not even in the same league. IVF is so expensive and they try and sell you on how well it works. And I'm going to tell you right now, it's just a load of crap designed to take a bunch of money from you. Healthy women were given kissepin 10. They showed this massive rapid increase in LH secretion. If you remember sustained surge of kiss peptin which is what they just gave you triggers LH that causes what did I say? Ovulation. And by the way, the effect was immediate. Immediate. They hijack the core command circuit with a single frigin injection. But you keep doing that IVF. Go ahead. Keep listening to those doctors. Ask them if you watch. Kiss pepin. What? 150 bucks. IVF. 60 grand. People have mortgaged their homes and they dangle that carrot in front of you guys. It is a disgusting thing they do. May as well say chemotherapy is going to save your life. It's also a lie. So, let's dig into the fertility. I wasn't going to, but let's dig into it a little bit because it's very frustrating to me when I hear the things they do. They go TRT clinic do that. Okay, great. However, maybe assess the problem first, right? Is it a management? Is it a factory problem? Where is the issue before we start bombing you with testosterone, which is what they do. They go, "Oh, TRT is low. Here's your cipionate. Take 150 milligrams every week, 200 milligrams every week, whatever it is." I got nothing against that. I don't care what you do. But I'm saying make sure that's the right answer. What if you didn't need to do that? What if the testosterone was through the roof if they just fixed this one thing? What if your fertility? Do you think, by the way, that being on TRT handles your fertility any in any way other than catastrophe? No, you're not having a baby on TRT for the most part. Yes, I'm sure somebody's going to get in the comments go, "Why you did?" Okay, great. Arguing these streams is the weakest form of every argument, just so you know. Listen, the standard of care for low testosterone is a medical tragedy. Period. They prescribe exogenous test. It's like finding out your factory isn't producing enough widgets, so you break up the factory and just start porting widgets from another country instead. Okay, so great. Now you've got the widgets, but you've permanently destroyed your domestic production of widgets. Exogenous testosterone shuts down the hypothalamic pituitary testicular axis. Negative feedback loop, baby. It tells the kiss peptin G&R system, hey, we're good, man. We're good. You know what plummets to zero, by the way, when you do that? Your sperm production. You know you need that for a baby, right? Because if you if your wife's pregnant and your sperm production is tanked, talk to your neighbor. Yeah, you know exactly what I'm saying. That ain't your baby. It's just binary, man. If you're fighting, if you're firing off blanks, it ain't your kid. So, maybe fix the system. The Kiss Pepin control is, yeah, I'm in that kind of mood today. I'm tired, cranky. The Kiss Pepin protocol is, oh, it's some wicked the human biology just to me is just this wicked engineering. I love it. You don't replace the output, you optimize the input. You stimulate the kiss pepin pulse generator, which is what I called it, right? If you look, so JCM 20 2011, men with hypogonatropism, they showed this. It was awesome. Subcutaneous kiss pepin stimulates gonadotrop and release. They recorded LH pulses that mirrored which means they're the same physiology natural physiology. You're not a widget importer anymore. You're a genius consultant who retrains the factory and the workers and fixes the entire assembly line. So you restore indogenous pulsatile testosterone production which is infinitely superior to the flat synthetic dose that you take infinitely. It doesn't matter how great it works or how muscular you get or whatever. It's still better for you longevity wise. It's way better for you and you know you restore if you're trying to have a baby spermatogenesis you can take all the HCG you want stimulate those latic cells all day baby still need this and if you look at female so female fertility is a little bit different because it's more of a problem of timing which guys can do this every day women can do this for a fraction of time every month so what happens is the kiss pepin CEO the regulator is off rhythm right so and so let's go to PCOS polycystic ovarian pain syndrome. The pulse generator is stuck in this dysfunctional loop. And in hypothalamic amenoria, I'm just go going to go through all this stuff. Look at hypothalamic amenora, which is over exercise, low body fat, stress will do it, too. Peptin signal is pretty much zero. And you know what the old approach was? Blunt force, baby. They'd give you chromophin or they'd give you injections of menotropins to just beat the [\h__\h] out of your ovaries. They would just whip your ovaries. It works, but it's like starting a car by pouring gasoline on the engine all over it and going, "I don't know. Let's throw a match at it and see what happens." It's bunk and it has a ton of side effects. Ovarian hypo stimulation syndrome, by the way, that's a big one. You don't want to hyper stimulate your ovaries ever. Watch what happens when kissepin comes in. Journal of Clinical Endocrricology and Metabolism in 2014. They used kissepin to trigger uite maturation in women who were already undergoing IVF. Here's the best part. This I told you I'm going to prove this. The result, successful ovulation with a dramatically reduced risk of OSS, ovarian hyper stimulation syndrome. By the way, if you forgot what it is, compared to the traditional HCG triggers. So, right off the bat, you're changing what's happening. You're changing the operating system. You're changing the input. And you're letting the body do the work which it's designed. You realize we've populated this planet far before the invention of all this stuff because our systems were working. But now they're spraying our skies and poisoning our food and poisoning our water and giving our air garbage and making us eat nasty food that's made in a laboratory and stressing us out and keeping inside, getting us away from sunlight, putting us in front of electronics all the time. What do you think our system's going to do? It's not designed to be like that. Get your ass outside and touch grass. You ever think of that? You know what my parents used to say? Summertime, I'll see you when the street lights come on. That was it. The end. Kick my ass out. I rode my bike everywhere and I spent more time out in the sun than I can remember. It was all the time. Here's the issue. I'll tell you why this was so much better. Because Kiss pepin's effect is more more physiological. It has a shorter halflife. It creates a more natural, more safe LH surge. It's precise chemistry, biochemistry. You're not using a wrecking ball. You're using a scalpel to reset the clock that women need in order to become pregnant. And that's just it. Dude, I could probably do an entire series on pregnancy with Kispepin and the other things that are required, which I'm not going to get into on this because I'm already 25 minutes in and I'm dragging on this podcast. I'd apologize, but I don't really know. I don't care. It's my show. But this is where it gets stupidly cool. Let me this. Let me talk about the anti-cancer setup that this stuff I told you I'd blow your mind. The kiss one gene was literally discovered as a metastasis suppressor gene in malignant melanoma cells. So, let that sink in. Let it sink in. The molecule that initiates life, watch this, initiates life, also pre prevents death. The biology is so wicked. For a tumor to kill you, it has to metastasize. cells have they have to detach. They have to invade the basement membrane. They have to enter the bloodstream and then colonize in a new organ. Look at something like multiple myyoma, right? So, Kiss pepin GPR54 receptor tells those, this is what they found, right? Tells those cancer cells to stay out. It suppresses their motility and invasiveness. So, they can't get around, they can't get in. It's like a biological restraining order. It says nope. And the court puts their foot down. And the research is everywhere. Look at cancer research 2005. Just so you know that's 20 years ago. They've known about this for at least two decades. It's actually significantly longer. They did studies on breast cancer. Breast cancer is a very frightening pair of words for any woman. It's a very frightening pair of words for any man who loves that woman too. Just to be clear, I'd be devastated. Touchwood my wife. She's my best friend. I love her so much. They showed that the kiss one expression inhibited metastasis by blocking MMP9 expression which is the the key enzyme that cancer uses to digest tissue and then spread. So you look at ovarian canc there's a bunch of these there's so many I could probably rattle off 50 research studies this stuff is so cool in ovarian cancer international journal of oncology 2013 kiss one expression positive prognostic factor this isn't some fringe theory this is realworld science and medicine it's established oncology and you're not getting it because that doesn't make them money we have a peptide that's native to our bodies that is a potent anti- metastatic agent and they're not using it on you why because it doesn't cost you $100,000 a Even if it cost you $1,000 a month, holy cra, they're going to be like, "No, we could make 100x that in profit and still keep them sick and make more money. They're rigging every dollar out of you because it's what they want to do. They don't want your health." I don't know how many times I need to tell you this and I'm giving you the answers to be as healthy and turn you into a juggernaut. I just want you to have the information. Do what you want. Like I said, buy from me, don't buy from me. Join the black card, don't join the black card. It's up to you. I don't care. I just want you to have the info because I wish somebody did this to me when I had to go through everything I did. when I watch like the stuff that we have gone through, my wife and I, and seen firsthand and live firsthand is frightening. I don't want anybody to go through that. Even you knucklehead Insta bros and wannabe experts. I don't listen, the whole point is above all do no harm help people. Look at libido. This stuff's killer for libido. Libido's not a mystery. It's an electrochemical circuit. That's it. It does this or it doesn't. It says go ahead or it doesn't. The end. I'm not going to get too graphic because I'm sure some of you be like, You can't say that. It's the number six at Arby's. What the [\h__\h] Be the adults. Testosterone is the fuel. His pepin is the ignition. Bunch of gas. Kissepin's the spark. Here, watch. Kissepin neurons project directly into the regions of the brain like the aruate nucleus, the medial preoptic area, which is ground zero for sexual motivation. You look at nature communications 2012 showed that kiss pepin administration directly enhanced and increased sexual behavior. It integrates the hormonal signal with the brain's motivational circuitry. That's how this works. Low kiss pepin means the signal for desire never leaves the station. Optimize and solve the kiss peptin problem and you hardwire the desire back into the system. It's not an erectile dysfunction as much of as it is an electrochemical conduction problem and a presence of a peptide problem. Bring the neuropeptide back which you already got. Get the system running properly. add this to a bunch of other Listen, I would tell you before you start bombing yourself with kispin before you're like, "Oh, that's it. Okay, honey, we're getting busy tonight. Where's the kisspin?" Don't do that because you don't really don't know what the problem is. Honestly, lab work, LSH, FSH, testosterone, free bound, sex hormone binding globulin, all the things that you need to check that you should check E2. Check your do a full panel and find out where you're at. You might have a simple management problem where inclapene would solve the issue. You might have a factory problem where the machine isn't producing anymore. There's so many things it could be. But rushing out and buying it right away because somebody tells you to, I'm not doing that. Do I think it would help? 99% of the time. But that still doesn't mean go out and do it. I just This is the only time I'll There's a few times I would say lab work, but this is one that'll this will really help, especially with your hormones like this. Listen, don't screw with your own system like that. Don't treat yourself like a guinea pig. Take it from the doctor that actually cares that goes, "Guys, just do this. That's it." And if you're trying to have a baby and you're struggling and you you can't figure it out and you've spent you've mortgaged your house and taken out loans and maxed out your credit cards because some doctor says the next time will probably work and they dangle that carrot. Take a step back, take a breather, go get a coffee, hang out with your wife or your husband, talk about what really might be the problem. And then you know what? Worst case scenario, send me an email. I don't know if I can help you, but I'm saying the worst thing that I can do is I can't. Your body isn't stupid, but you have been taught that your body is stupid. I'm telling you, Kiss Pepin is one of the coolest things I've ever seen. And I spent in a on a 4hour drive each direction on the way there, all I did was consume and learn, which is what I do. And all the way back again, and even me driving didn't matter. Consuming, learning, just nonstop because I want to be able to give you the information so you don't have to go through all the things I did. But your body isn't stupid. It has a single priority. Survival, that's it. Reproduct. Just here. Here's why I need to tell you this. Cuz I told you at the beginning I was like fertility issues, cancer issues, PCOS, PMS, energy issues, cancer issues. All of this stuff is solved by Kiss Pepin. So look at reproduction. This is why this is metabolism and energy is what I want you to look at. If you look at casp reproduction is energy energetically very expensive insanely expense. It is not on the list of priorities when you're running a famine. So your brain has a kill switch and it's intentional when your energy stores are low. So low leptin from low body fat, high ghrein from hunger, both of those kissepin production is pretty much shut down. This is why women with anorexia lose their periods. The body says, "Hey man, it's what I said. You're in a famine. Can't do it. shut down the baby making machine and shut down that factory because we need to conserve energy because we need to survive by solving the kiss peptin signaling and improving metabolic health. Now, do you see why you have to have more? You can't just be like, I'm anorexic or I'm bulimic or I have amenorhea or whatever it is I have going on and I I'm all hormonally messed up and my system, my biology and my metabolic health is screwed up. I'm going to take his pepin. It's going to solve all my problems. That's not how this works. But if your if your environment if you solve the kiss watch if I'll make it easy. You solve the kiss peptin problem by doing two things. Improve your metabolic health. Addis pepin into the mix. Now you're sending a very powerful signal to your brain. Hey man, the environment's ready. Resources are abundant. I am flourishing baby. It's safe to grow and reproduce and thrive. This shifts your entire metabolic posture from catabolic, which is breaking down, to anabolic, which is building up, right? It influences energy partitioning. It tells your body to build muscle. It says burn fat. It says, "Stop cannibalizing yourself. Make the system more powerful, stronger, more robust so we can keep on going instead of protecting us and we have to hide in a cave." Look at the female cycle. This is where I I didn't really talk about this enough, but let me go through it a little bit. EMS, EMVD, regular cycles. All of these are the same symptom. They're a symptom of a disregulated system. Kissepin, the Kissepin is like a think of it like a metronome, right? If you've ever played, I played piano since I was like four. I think my mom made me take piano lessons and I love that she did now. But she was the metronome. She'd sit there tapping away on the piano, right? And peptin the metronome is broken. The kisspin metronome in you. So now you get these erratic G&R pulses which causes a massive imbalance in the estrogen to progesterone ratio which matters. This hormonal chaos is the cause 100% direct cause. Mood swings, bloating, pain, discomfort, cramping, all of it. stabilize the kissepin pulse and you stabilize the entire hormonal cascade because it how you do anything is how you do everything. One thing affects everything else, right? A regular predictable cycle with balanced hormone production is the single most effective cure for PMS. I have done this thousands and thousands of times with patients. The problem is when patients try and self-medicate and figure this out themselves, I that's fine. Go ahead. but you wind up coming back to me or even worse some Insta bro or some longevity or wellness clinic doctor because they're like look at all my degrees and look at all my papers and then they just give you something that cost you 10 grand a month. I answer more people in my black card who have been waiting for solutions from doctors in a day than most doctors give out solutions in years. There's a reason why why I do what I do because you need answers and I'm freely giving them to you on the other side of the black card for I want you guys to have it cuz I don't think you should have to wait. This is your life. You get one shot. You wait a day, that's a day less you have here. I take that very seriously. I had to send my wife a message when I was in the hospital on life support. Not going to make the morning. I didn't think I was going to get another day. My wife said, "I can't do this life without you. I need you, Trevor. I love you." That was 4 years ago because I went, "My time matters and God's giving me an opportunity. Here's my calling and this is why I'm out here doing this. I'm not going to squander my time." So, you can squander it waiting for Mr. magic doctor to come and give you an answer and write you a prescription and hand you bags of pills. Or you can actually talk to somebody that gives a [\h__\h] and goes, "Hey, this is the solution." It's actually sign significantly more simple than you thought. They just have to understand me. Someone like me has to understand your physiology, your biology, your endocrinology, how your system works. Not just some bro science idiot with a PhD that goes, "Let me tell you all about what I know." Doesn't matter what I know, matters what you know, which is why I'm trying to give you all this. But really, I'm not kidding. predictable cycle with a very balanced hormonal profile is by far like like orders of magnitude more effective of a cure for PMS than anything else. And what do they do? They throw you on horse piss pills. You're not treating the symptom of irritability. You're fixing the hormonal fluctuation that frigin caused it. This is this is root cause doctoring. Find me a doctor that does that. I dare you. You won't. You have an old one right here. 52. Oh, I'll admit it. I'm old. Listen, look at the hormonal levers, right? Estrogen and progesterone are these neuroactive steroids. They directly modulate. This is why people get really squirly mentally. They directly modulate serotonin, dopamine, and GABA. All three systems, right? This the emotional roller coaster most women experience is a 100% direct chemical consequence of the hormonal fluctuations. And man, fluctuations is a really soft word. They are violent troughs and peaks. So by regulating the hormonal axis at its source, kiss peptin, this is where you exert this powerful stabilizing effect on mood. So it's not the mood that's the problem. It's the hormones that's a problem. And the hormones are the problem because of the signal they're getting. A stable endocrine system is a foundation of a stable emotional state. Period. Men and women, by the way, just women more so because of the peaks and valleys. It's not meant to be insulting if you're like, why would you say that? Because it's the truth. single pulse for men, highs and lows for women. It's par for the course. Now, here's the issue. You don't win this entire thing with you're not the only player on the field, right? In the system, you're not. You have to build it together. So, Kiss Pepin is like Brady, right? Just the QB that has a throws a football with an eyeball on it, but you need the O line. You need everybody in the game. Hypothetically, for a kangaroo, this is how I would look at solving a problem if I was going to, and I said I wasn't going to do this on these YouTube calls anymore because this is a liability to be honest. It just pisses me off. It shouldn't be. I should be able to come out and help you guys like this all day long. So, tasamarellin and Ipamarellin. These are growth hormone releasing hormone analoges, right? This is like your O line. They your quarterback is needs to be protected. They protect the quarterback and they provide all the opportunities on the fit. So, they by by boosting endogenous internal growth hormone. They enhance cellular repair, increase lean muscle mass, they decrease body fat. They make you a more robust human being. So a leaner more anabolic physique gives a super a far superior metabolic environment for kispin to operate right. So create the ecosystem for kispin to do the job it's there to do instead of making sure you throw a bunch of debris in the way like most of you guys are doing right now. So all of this stuff tamerin and a pamarillan works synergistic synergistically with kaspin. Kisspin optimizes reproduction growth hormone optimizes the vessel that the reproduction occurs in. You with me so far? So it's like you have the house and you have the house plans. You have the house plans and the construction crew, right? All of these work really to really well together. PT-41. I don't talk about this a lot and I should probably do an entire podcast on PT41 because it's not just a hey, it's the old version of a Spanish fly. It's not bad at all. Yes, it is definitely going to make you want to have sex whether you think so or not or you go it doesn't work on me. Yes, it does. It works on 100% of people. You're welcome, men and women. And it gives you an erection that will not turn off. Not priapism level, but you're going to be like, where are you, honey? We are. And if you both have it, you guys are going to stay awake for 6 hours doing nothing but breaking your bed or wherever you are. It works that well cuz it's it doesn't work on a vascular level. It works on a neurological level, which is what I'm talking about right now. So PT-141 in this entire thing, right? Tamarellin, a pamelan, caspin, PT-141. This is like the trick play, right? This is a melanoorton receptor agonist. It doesn't work on the hormones. It works downstream. This is what I was saying. It taps the brain's libido centers. Think of it this way. Kiss pepin rebuilds the engine and all the fuel lines, the capacity for libido, right? PT-141 is the push button start on the steering wheel. You have a Ferrari or whatever it is that fires up the engine on command. You use these together and they address the libido from two honestly pretty much unassalable sides, hormonal and neurological. You can't you can't unwind that because those are the two problems. But this isn't like some kind of you guys got to stop treating peptides as supplements. This is genuine biohacking. Not Gary Brea stick a patch on you, take some medicine or take some selenium for your thyroid. This is so much more than that. You can I think a lot of you guys are living in the dark ages of medicine. I really do because you keep buying into that's the problem with social media and I have listen you either have My wife said this and I agree. She said you either have free speech or you don't. She wasn't talking about me. She's in general and where people go we need to regulate what's being said. Why? You either have free speech or you don't. Free speech means all of it can be said. Partial free speech means you can stay, you can say what you want as long as it's within the guardrails of what we want you to say and what we deem as safe. But who determines what's safe? The people who don't like the hurty words. The people who don't like what's being said that's costing them the billions or trillions of dollars because it's unwinding their BS model of healthcare. Instead, their managed decline, unwinding the insurance, unwinding big pharma, unwinding the doctors, unwinding the AMA, unwinding the retraction of research papers. I could do this all day. It's either free speech or not. There is no gray. That's like being pregnant. There is no such thing. So, you can stay in the dark ages of medicine, which is what they're trying to do, is keep you suppressed and down, or you can start going, "Man, maybe I should get out a journal and start taking notes on everything this doctor with a beard and the bald head is telling me." Because treating symptoms with pills that create more symptoms is the dark ages, just so you know. You may as well get some weird scented candle and go, I'm going to do this and dance around in a circle chanting if it works for you, man. But that's not going to solve your problem. That is the age. That is accepting decay if you want it. I would just say no. Listen, kiss pepin is the step. It's the step to taking control of the biology that is ripe. You're born with it. Nobody else. You guys hand the keys over to your biology to somebody with a white coat and a bunch of letters after their name. Don't give me your biology, man. Don't give me any of it. Don't give it to any doctor ever. Take the answers and go, "What do I do with my own?" Because I am sovereign. I can do what I want. Then this isn't about living forever. It's about living better. All the vitality and the passion and the clarity and the power and the sex and the strength and the love and the moods and the support and the you don't a lot of times you don't have you don't have a brain chemistry problem and people you have a chemistry problem. No, you don't. You have a signaling problem and they're trying to cover it up with a chemistry problem with a brain chemistry, a neurochemistry problem, then getting you onto a Prozac or whatever it is and putting you on birth control for no reason. just all of the problems and causing more problems which you think now are just further down the line because you're so convinced that managed decline is the way to health and that's not true. If you have to stop the pill or if you stop whatever it is you're taking and the problem comes back you never solve the problem. Did you have these problems when you were 10? The answer is no. Did you have them when you were 16? Probably not. If you had cramping and PMS and PMDDD and all this stuff if you did then the problem is you have a kiss pepin issue. Cancer I would be lining up for a kiss one all day. Hey, kiss pepin. I don't know. I just I look at things different going I'm not going to do what the standard of care has been that has not that has effectively proven its ineffectiveness. You have one asset that you truly own, your biology. Think about that. And the most powerful pharmaceutical in the world is already running on on the hardware between your ears. I'm just like, you're just learning to to write better software. That's it. Honestly, I think this podcast I just gave you the cheat codes to being a badass human being. solve libido, solve metastasis, solve PCOS, PMS, PMDDD, testosterone production, fertility, ovulation, spermatogenesis. Like you guys, none of this is magic. This is how your body, this is the language. This is the Latin your body speaks. You're welcome. There's the cheat codes. Knock yourself out. Hope you get something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.