It's all candid. We good? Yeah. Hey, Trev. Super ultra UFC fighter right here. All right. Um, got some He's shaking his head cuz it's it's true and he just doesn't want to admit it. Uh, had some knee issues. Um, both sides. I saw him what 3 weeks ago. He couldn't even bend this knee. It's still kind of rough. Still got some We got Ricky in the background cuz he's seen me do this a million times. He's got some issues with his knee. So, what I'm going to do is It hurts on the lateral side of this knee, medial side of this knee. Probably not MCL or LCL. So, we're going to wrap up the knee. Um Jason just asked me what we're doing with the uh with the Voodoo Man. So, that's a good question. So, I handed the phone to uh my boy EMTT, who's the cameraman today. I explain what we're doing with the Voodoo Man. What it's going to do is it's going to compress all the tissue around the joint. It's going to compress all the tissue upstream and downstream. And what it's doing is there's things called mechano receptors. So they're like a loudspeaker to the brain. They basically tell the body where it's position is. So it's like a propriceptive input. Tells you where everything is. So what we're doing is we're forcing the joint, the tissue into the position it's supposed to be in. And then we're going to take it through ranges of motion. Now, if you notice, I'm leaving the top of the patella free. The only reason I'm doing that for him is because of the nature of the injury that he's got. So, we're going to do more. We're going to take a kettle bell. Just so you know what we're doing. Yeah, EMTT's going, "This is going to hurt." The IT band runs down the side of the leg. Vasis lateralis runs along the top and the biceps fores along the back. We're going to take the kettle bell. We're going to sit right in the pocket. So, I'm going to use his leg on this side just so you can see. We're going to sit right in the pocket here with that kettle bell. We're using a really light kettle bell. And we're going to peel those tissues apart. At the same time, we're going to take the knee through a range of motion so we can get him to be able to extend that knee cuz he's missing what's called terminal knee extension. So, you want to clear out that knee is what you're going to do when you're an MMA guy. All right. So, he's already on the side. He's not going to show the pain face because nobody wants to see the pain face. There's millions of people watching. You notice he's blocking it. Good. Thanks, Jason. We got Jason on the We got a whole camera through here. This is awesome. Good. Get the fluffer in here. Good. Listen, you keep that to yourself. Good. So, now what we're doing is we're just taking it through ranges of motion. So, I'm going to tell you right now, I can already pull his knee further. You feel that? There's supposed to be tears coming. That's Yeah. Sweat, tears. You know, this is working because he's sweating like crazy. But what's going on is we're taking the joint through ranges of motion the way it's meant to be. And I'm putting pressure on the inside of the leg just so it's going to peel that tissue basically right off the bone. Get that fascia moving the way it's supposed to. Because a lot of problems with the knee aren't the knee itself. A lot of problems with the knee are the tissue upstream and downstream. Like I was saying, I did a video on this on the other day. So, we're going to capture this tissue, force it to move the way it's supposed to, and uh get that slide between those stakes basically that this guy's got for legs. Now, I'm going to put my thigh here just so you can see what I'm going to do. I'm going to fold over here. That's pretty much terminal knee extension right there. We've hit that full end range, which is what he's missing. And the reason you need that terminal knee extension is because that's where that knee does what's called a screw home mechanism. So the knee turns about 5° right at the end of motion to lock out. You need to have that lock unlock. And there's a muscle that does that. It's called the paplatus. It sits back here. And what's happened with him is that papus has gotten strained. So that's part of the issue. And the other thing is his knee is all grimy and laminated to the rest of his body because he rolls around on the ground, ties people up into pretzels, and calls it fun. And then on top of that, he runs Spartan races and tough mutters and everything else. So once we're done with this, we're going to peel this off. You usually do this for about 2 or 3 minutes. You all right? Good. He knows we just tap out when we're done with this. So once we're done with this, you're going to have to check this out. Good. So we've gone through some ranges of motion. I'll tell you this. Between when we started and now, in the last, say, minute and a half, did it hurt nearly as much? No. It's crazy, right? So, wait. We're going to take him out of the voodoo band. Now, remember what I said. The trick with this one is now he ground is the kettle bell. You got to understand it's a piece of metal. So, now move around. Get into a squat. How's that feel? So, he couldn't do that when we started. Do you feel any pain on the lateral side of the knee? And that's just one knee. So, that's what we do. That's what we need to clear out the lateral portion of the knee. He had an injury. Just so you know what we did. He had an injury this way. So, if you want to explain what the injury was. Back and guard jitsu pressure on the outside of my right leg, inside pop. Same thing on this leg, the outside pop. So, when you get that, you're putting strain on. There's a lot of Jason knows and stuff. There's a lot of structures in the knee. A lot of sticky bits. All you have to do is pull those position or pull that joint out of place. It doesn't necessarily have to tear anything, but what you need to do is basically peel that away so it can start sliding the way it's supposed to again, which is all we did with that. Better than any surgery, huh? All right. Hey, Tra Smash Works.