 K-P-V, lisinprolinevaline. That's what I'm talking about today. K-P-V is this, it's awesome. Like, it's, I've had so many cool experiences with K-P-V that's saved me a whole lot of grief and honestly trips to the hospital. That's how effective this stuff is. Really, you should hear me out. This is a masterclass on K-P-V. I'm going to give you all I've got. You decide what you want to do with it. I'm not here to sell you anything. I'm not here to convince you of anything. I'm here to give you the information so you have it. You can make an informed decision. I'm not a doctor that's out here peddling all my stuff. I'm a doctor that's out here giving you the truth. You decide what you do with it. Why? Because I genuinely love and care about you. So you, this is on you, man. This is on you. I love you enough to tell you the truth and I refuse to settle for anything less. So listen, you have this. And by the way, for all of you guys that have subsequently joined the Black Card, thank you for trusting me with your health and all the issues and problems you have. I really appreciate that. I'll give you all I've got. And for all of you guys asking me what the Black Card is, the Black Card membership is one year. You get access to my private live Q&A Zoom call that I do every single Monday at five. And you can throw a volley of questions at me. I will answer every single one. And if it's a longer question where you need some genuine help like cancer, Alzheimer's, dementia, you've got an insulin issue, you've got stuff that you can't even tell me because you want to keep it private, which is all fine. Then you also have access to the VIP community, the Black Card VIP community, where you can ask me via chat. There's no one on one calls. One on one is a totally different program. It's significantly more money and I only take 20 people a year and the waiting list is growing. And the way you get on the waiting list is by paying. It's the only way I got that from Tony Robbins and I think he's doing it right. So I do the same thing. One on one with me is $250,000 for the year. It's wire transfer only. And to get on the waiting list, there's a three month waiting list right now. It might be four. I don't know. There's somebody that was supposed to pay today. And the way you get on is by paying and then waiting. So that's up to you if your health is worth it or if you think I'm worth it. That's up to you. But the Black Card is $25,000 to join. One year, you get the VIP community where you can actually ask me questions and the private. Zoom Q&A plus the resource library with all kinds of stuff in it, right down to dosage, mixing all that stuff. It is still at last year's price right now. And to be honest, I don't even know why. Just because really think like 10 grand is a is a smoking deal. It's $9,997. You pay by wire. I do not take credit cards. I stopped and I will never take them again because they decide when you get paid. So I won't do it. Yes, I take Bitcoin as well. And it's going to go up Friday. Let's just do that Friday. Friday at the end of the day, it goes up to the regular fee is what it went to January 1st. And then I had all of you guys saying you were trying desperately to join. And so I helped you out and gave you a break at $9,997. So Friday at the end of the day, it goes back up to 25 grand. How about that? And I'll bleed for you guys in the Black Card. But whether you show up and you join or you don't is irrelevant. I still come out here to help you. And it's same with elite biogenics. If you buy product from elite biogenics, my company, and I appreciate that, I don't take that lightly. You could choose a bunch of other people and I'm not out here peddling it and forcing it and going, here's a discount code. Here's all this stuff. I don't care. My prices never change when it comes to elite. I don't have a discount code or affiliate codes and I don't have a bunch of little marketing lemmings running around, pushing all my stuff. I just do this. This is your marketing right here. I tell you the truth. You decide whether you want to buy from my company or not. And it's all the stuff that I would very gladly give my wife and children, which means I trust everything that comes out of my labs. And I think that's important. So you decide, but I show up here because I want you guys to have the answers. You decide what you want to do with it. You can agree. You can disagree. I don't really care if you get my comments or you give me thumbs down. I really think that's weird because if I don't like something, I just move on. I don't rate it. I don't care. I just sit here and I try and help people. And so you guys, I don't know, some of y'all need to grow up. I'm sure that's the comment right there. This guy, I wish he would just get to the point. Don't listen to that. See, if you want my information, you got to listen to the whole Dr. Trevor Bachmeier experience, baby. So keep. Listen, I'm going to save you guys years and years of suffering and honestly, an early demise. I'll save you from that and probably tens, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars in medical bills over the course of your lifetime. No, I'm not kidding. And I'll do it all in one 20, 30, 40 minute conversation right here. And here's what's fascinating to me. Every single person right now listening to this, hearing my voice, every single one of you guys is walking around with this molecule in you. Like the human body is so fascinating to me. This molecule in you, it's not a poison or a toxin. It's not damaging. It's not something placed there randomly. It is there with a purpose. It's this, I told you that this, the lysine, proline, valine, right? Three amino acid sequence that is so radical and does so many cool things in your body and people go, wait, isn't it just for inflammation? Oh my God, listen to me. It is fundamental to human survival and it is so important. I'm not kidding. It is so important. Your body cannot survive without it. It can't KPV, right? Lysine, proline, valine. I talked about this four times now, but here's the rub. Most of you guys have never heard of what it really does. Let me get some coffee on me. My mom, I said this before she sent me a couple of these. You know what? I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 in March and I grew up on watching Charlie Brown, bald, round-headed kid with a yellow shirt. But I mean, this brings back lots of memories. Here's a question. Who is your favorite character on Charlie Brown? Tell me, I'm actually just curious. I like to read my comments on this one. How about that? Just so I know, I'm actually curious. Who is your favorite character in the entire thing? I'll tell you, mine was maybe Snoopy. World War One flying ace turned his doghouse into a, come on. It was great, man. It was great. Anyway, random information about Dr. Trevor that makes me real and human. But most of you guys haven't even heard of KPV or what it does. See, listen, your body right now is this factory, right? And it's making this as we speak right now. This as you listen to this, it's cleaving it from alpha melanocyte, stimulating hormone, alpha MSH in your pituitary gland, your skin, your gut, your immune cells. 2003 study, Journal of Immunology showed that macrophages, which is your cellular cleanup crew, they're literally synthesizing alpha MSH and processing it into KPV at sites of inflammation like this, like it's rad. Your body is so freaking smart and it's manufacturing. Listen, it's manufacturing its own anti-inflammatory pharmaceutical on demand, baby. Here's where it gets wild. And this is where biology gets. It's beautiful. And it just, that's what I always say. Sexy biology is sexy. When I say that KPV is three amino acids, I need you to understand what that means at a molecular level. So lysine positively charged amino acid that loves to interact with cell membranes. Proline, your unique amino acid that creates this kink in peptide chains, giving KPV this very specific three dimensional shape. I'll get back to that in a minute. And valine, which is this branched amino acid, this chain, sorry, branched chain amino acid that makes this molecule hydrophobic enough to, it's important. Here's why. Because when it's hydrophobic enough, it can slip through biological barriers. This isn't random, you guys. You are designed, if you don't think that we have a creator named G-O-D, I don't know, you're delusional. You can't design all this. We weren't some big bang. Even Stephen Hawking even said the likelihood of that occurring is so astronomically low. He was a pretty smart guy that this isn't random. This is biological precision. That's how your body's designed. This is why you need to understand this stuff. Now let me ask you something. When was the last time that your doctor, not me, and if I'm your doctor, awesome, thank you. But if I'm not, I probably should be. But when was the last time that your doctor explained inflammation to you as anything other than swelling and redness? When? When? Because here's the problem with describing it like that. That's like describing a forest fire as warm and orange. Technically, it's true, but it's catastrophically incompetent and incomplete. Here's what's actually happening. Inflammation is, it's a molecular battle, man. It is, it's war in your system. And the resolution of inflammation is scar tissue, by the way. And the response to scar tissue is inflammation. So it becomes this ugly self-propagating cycle and poorly laid, half hazard scar tissue is where all the problems occur as well. There's so much to this podcast. I'm going to probably be on here for far too long. But when a pathogen invades or tissue gets damaged, either one, your pattern recognition software, these receptors specifically, toll-like receptors are called TLRs. Sitting on your immune cells detect danger signals, right? This triggers NF Kappa B, nuclear factor Kappa B, because people are asking me, what are these initials mean? Okay, it's the master control of your inflammation. 2004 study, Nature Reviews Immunology called NF Kappa B, the central mediator of the human immune response. And they were not exaggerating, baby. Once NF Kappa B activates, your cells start pumping out inflammatory cytokines. Which ones? IL-1 beta, IL-6, TNF alpha, the ones I talk about all the time, because they cause all this damage, but they're supposed to be there as well, just not for the length of time that some of you guys have them in there. These are your cellular alarm bells. They dilate blood vessels. That's the redness. Let's go through it. So there's your redness, right? They dilate the blood vessels. They increase vascular permeability. That's the swelling. And then they recruit more, they just come on guys, they recruit more immune cells to the area. That's the heat and that's the pain. This is supposed to be acute, right? Hit hard, kill the invader, clean up, resolution. I'm out of here. See you next week. But here's the trillion dollar problem. What happens when that alarm doesn't shut off? A chronic low grade inflammation is the biological equivalent of a smoke detector going off 24 seven, 365 in your house. Eventually you stop hearing it, but the damage, the damage never stops accumulating if the fire's still there. 2019 study, nature medicine examined 100,000 individuals and showed prove that chronic inflammation measured by increased IL-6 and CRPC reactive protein levels predicted mortality. This is going to blow your mind predicted mortality, better than cholesterol, blood pressure or blood sugar. You might want to stop, rewind and hear that again. Rewind, I just showed my age, by the way, because I come from a time of these things called cassettes. Some of you guys are like, I don't even know what that is. The inflammation is killing you faster than the diseases that you're worried about and they're actually causing the disease to get worse. So it's the self propagating cycle of death. But here's why. Chronic inflammation creates three catastrophic biological failures. And what do I talk about my three biological failures? Where's my Nobel Prize? Really, where's my Nobel Prize? Because the solutions I'm pumping into mankind right now will save millions, hundreds of millions of lives. No, I'm not kidding. No, I'm not trying to be arrogant. No, I'm not cocky about it. I'm confident because what I tell you is the truth and I'm trying to help you. These three biological failures underlie every disease process known to man. I'll go through them. Line by you need to understand these because KPV is a huge part of this. Look at systemic inflammation. It's the first one, which is what this is when inflammation persists. Those cytokines don't just stay local and hang out. They go systemic. So they circulate through your bloodstream, hitting every single organ system you've got. Your endothelial cells, lining your blood vessels, start expressing adhesion molecules. CAM1, V-CAM1, all these things that happened. 2017 circulation showed this endothelial activation is the first step in atherosclerosis. The disease, by the way, that kills more Americans than cancer. Do you want to keep going? Let's have fun with this. Look at insulin resistance. TNF-alpha and IL-6 directly interfere with insulin receptor signaling. You lose the hearing of the cells to insulin. So they activate serine kinases that phosphorylate IRS1. insulin receptor substrate 1, but they do it at the wrong spots, preventing insulin from doing its job. 2006 study, Journal of Clinical Investigation showed reducing inflammation improved insulin sensitivity. This is a great number. 42% baby without changing diet or exercise. 42%. 42%. You guys need to understand what I'm saying. That is such a huge number. That's almost half just by addressing the inflammation. But you guys are running out and getting a humulog pump or metformin or being told that you're just too late and you have to live with it. Look at failure three, ATP shortage. Inflammation damages your mitochondria. Those inflammatory cytokines trigger oxidative stress. Superoxide radicals, hydrogen peroxide, peroxynitrate. They punch holes in mitochondrial membranes. You can't just run out and do F31 and think you're going to solve that cardiolipin issue. There's so much more to this. So your ETC or electron transport chain starts stuttering and chattering. ATP production, nose dives. 2015 study, Cell Metabolism showed chronic inflammation reduces mitochondrial efficiency by 60%. So now you've lost 60% of your ability to create the currency of life. No ATP, no cellular energy, no cellular energy, no life. Peace out. I'm out. That's how bad it is. And here's a beautiful horror of all of this. These three failures, they feed into each other. Listen, inflammation causes insulin resistance. I just explained that. insulin resistance causes more inflammation, both damage the mitochondria. Now, damaged mitochondria produce more oxidative stress, reactive oxygen species, more oxidative stress triggers, you guessed it, more inflammation people. It is the death spiral and it's screwing you up and you guys are running out. Listen, I'm totally fine with the BPC and the GHK-Cu and the TB-500 and the PEG-MGF and all the things you guys are doing for injuries and knock it off with your blends. Just stop. Just please stop. What difference does it make? You're doing it for convenience, but how do you regulate when you take BPC and TB-500, when one is five days, one is one day? See, you see where I'm going with the problem? So I'm trying to help you and I don't care about these fuchsia-haired chemists trying to make videos and reaction videos to me. I'm out here because I actually care, not because I'm hawking a product or that I'm worried about my fragile little ego. I am 52. I'm an old man. I don't care. I'm out here to help. My life is set. I love my life. I love my wife so much, 21 years almost. My kids are awesome. They're lethal. They're awesome. They're loving. They're hard workers. They got ethics. We did it right as parents were God fearing. I got the G-man on my side 24-7, 365. I'm not out here to prove anything. I am giving this away because I genuinely freaking care. You decide, man, but you want to try and figure out where somebody's motive is for making a reaction video, which first of all makes you gay. And second of all, can't you come up with your own content? What are you selling? I've never made a reaction video to anybody. Because I just don't care. Listen, pay attention to this because this is where KPV becomes the most important molecule of your entire life that most of you are probably misusing or you've never even heard of, which is fine. That's why you're here. This doesn't. Sorry, my allergies are going nuts today. My wife looked up something here in Texas. She said it was like Cedar. I call it Cedar tree inflammation. That's not what it is, but whatever she said, something about Cedar trees going nuts here in Texas. And I woke up this morning, but you know what they're doing? Painting the skies with all this crap and it's falling on me. It's getting in my water and my nose breathing, drinking. It's probably my damn coffee. And if you go, oh, tinfoil hat wearing guy. Yeah, baby. I love me a good tinfoil. Listen, KPV doesn't just reduce inflammation. It is the orchestrator of resolution of your tissue. There is a difference, a massive difference. Reducing inflammation is what NSAIDs do. Not good, by the way. Excuse me. They block cox enzymes, COX. Inflammation goes down. Problem solved. Wrong. Because the molecular debris is still there. The damaged cells are still there. The oxidized lipids are still there. You've turned off the fire alarm and the house is still blaze. KPV doesn't do that. It does something completely different. You have to go deeper than just a superficial symptomatology resolution. 2009 British Journal of Pharmacology showed KPV directly inhibits NF-Kappa B translocation to the nucleus. It doesn't block upstream signals. It doesn't suppress your entire immune system. Total catastrophe, by the way. Prednisone, any corticosteroid, it specifically prevents NF-Kappa B from entering the nucleus and turning on inflammatory gene transcription. That's some surgical precision, is what I'm saying. But it gets better. 2014 study, Journal of Inflammation Research showed KPV simultaneously up regulates IL-10. Not all interleukins are bad, by the way. IL-10, which is the master anti-inflammatory cytokine. Anti-IL-10 triggers macrophages to shift from M1, which is pro-inflammatory, to M2, which is pro-resolution phenotype. Remember this. So M2 macrophages don't just stop fighting. They go, let's stop fighting. Let's start cleaning up instead. They phagocetize the cellular debris. They release growth factors and they promote tissue repair. You know what they do is they restore homeostasis. Your body's balanced, working in perfect harmony. That's the way you're designed. KPV is up there conducting this molecular symphony, down-regulating inflammation, while up-regulating resolution. This is why KPV addresses all three biological failures at the same time. Watch. I'll break it down real quick, just so we can hit this fast. Systemic inflammation. By inhibiting NF-Kappa B, KPV specifically stops the cytokine cascade at its source. 2016 study showed, I talked about it right. KPV, that's why I'm not, it doesn't matter. KPV reduced circulating IL-6 by 68% in all inflammatory participants. That's a huge number. Just take 68% and give yourself 68% raise. Let me know how happy you are. Normally, I say take 68% away, but let's go positive today, baby. I'm feeling good. Look at insulin resistance with KPV, with inflammatory cytokine suppressed. insulin receptor signaling normalizes. The ear must come off. You can hear insulin again. 2018 endocrinology showed improved glucose uptake in cells treated with KPV. 71%. 71, you guys, ATP shortage. You know how these feed into each other now, because I explained it about 10 minutes ago. By reducing oxidative stress and inflammation, KPV protects the mitochondrial membranes. 2012 study in mitochondrion specifically showed KPV preserved mitochondrial membrane potential under inflammatory stress. So it kept it safe, even in a crappy environment. Let's look at your brain. Let's look at your brain. Don't mess with this thing. It's that two, three pound guiding piece of fat that keeps you alive, unless you do all the things like complain in my comments and make rage posts about me because I offended or made said, herdy words or all your marketing is going tits up because I'm proving everything you're trying to sell people has been a lie. Maybe that. I don't know. Just a thought. Cause this is where it gets personal for a lot of people. Your brain is 2% of your body weight, but uses 20% of your oxygen. That metabolic demand makes it exquisitely vulnerable to inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction. Neuro inflammation, chronic activation of microglia, which are your brain's immune cells is the common thread. Alzheimer's Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, neurological death. 2020 study, nature neuroscience showed activated microglia release inflammatory mediators that directly damage neurons, directly destroy synapses, completely disrupt the blood brain barrier, which is life, by the way. Once that barrier is compromised, peripheral inflammation floods into the brain. That's why gut problems turn into brain problems because of the lipopolysaccharides leaking out of your sewer system called your gut GI tract and into your nice clean cardiovascular system game over. So here's where KPV becomes a neurological game changer for everybody. The blood brain barrier. Hear me out on this. Just fly with me on this one. KPV is lipophilic enough to cross the blood brain barrier. 2013 confirmed KPV penetration into central nervous system tissues. Here's what happens. Microglial modulation. So once it's inside the brain, KPV inhibits microglial NF Kappa B activation. 2017 study in brain behavior and immunity proved KPV reduced microglial inflammatory markers by 74%. Notice 68%, 71%, 74%. Don't think I don't remember. I know, damn, what I'm talking about. Look at the neuro protection capacity of KPV. By reducing neuro inflammation, KPV preserves neuronal mitochondrial function. Huge because your neurons are hungry. They're so hungry for like, they just need energy all the time. 2019 study showed KPV protected, protected, dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. Alzheimer's specific effects, by the way, of KPV are about to blow your mind. Amyloid beta plaques trigger the intense catastrophic neuro inflammation. 2018 study, brain behavior and immunity showed KPV reduced, amyloid induced, microglial activation prevented, stopped, halted microglial death. Want me to throw in any more words? It kept your brain from dying. Look at MS and demyelination. The oligodendrocytes can't create myelin. So multiple sclerosis is characterized by inflammatory destruction of the myelin sheath. The plastic coating around the wire. 2015, Journal of Neuroimmunology showed KPV reduced inflammatory demyelination by suppressing T cell mediated inflammation. Your brain doesn't regenerate like your liver. You get one. KPV gets in there and throws a shield around your brain. That's just your brain. How about your skin? Look at skin problems. I could do this all day. Psoriasis, eczema, dermatitis. These aren't cosmetic. They are windows into systemic inflammation. Psoriasis is a TNF alpha and IL-17 mediated inflammatory disease. Period. Proven all over the place already. I'm not going to get into this, but your keratinocytes are overproliferating. Your T cells are hyperactive and your skin barrier is giving you the finger and it's compromised. 2011 study, Journal of Investigative Dermatology showed that topical, not even injection, just topical reduced inflammatory markers. When you added sub-Q to anyone with psoriasis, it reduced the skin problem by 62%. Here's what's critical. It didn't just suppress inflammation. It normalized keratinocyte differentiation and restored barrier function. So it made your skin operate the way your skin is supposed to operate, baby. Eczema is similar. TH2 mediated inflammation, barrier dysfunction, chronic itch scratch cycle is the way to look at it, which is what it is. It's the easiest way to explain it. 2016 study showed KpV reduced itch-related neuropeptide release, suppressed TH2 cytokines, which is IL4, IL13, that drive eczema specifically. KpV addressed the root cause, inflammatory dysregulation. You want to have some fun? You want to keep going? Let's do it. I told you it's a master class. Let's hit it all. The cardiovascular system is ground zero for inflammatory damage. Do not screw with your heart. Do not screw with your endothelium. Let this system run perfectly because if it's not, that's where the problem is. It is not a cholesterol problem. You guys need to all stop asking about how to lower cholesterol. You guys need to understand the purpose of cholesterol and know that you've been lied to from day one. Atherosclerosis starts with endothelial inflammation. LDL particles cross into the vessel wall. Oxidation happens. Macrophages arrive. They start chewing up the oxidized. They eat them up. They oxidized LDL and they become these things called foam cells. Inflammation goes through the roof. Plax form, plax rupture, heart attack. Stroke, death. You're welcome. The end. That's the easiest way to explain this. 2014 study in atherosclerosis showed Kpv reduced endothelial expression of V-cam and I-cam 1, which are those, I talked about these, the adhesion molecules that recruit inflammatory cells to the vessel wall. So by preventing this initial step, Kpv gets in the way and it stops atherosclerosis before it even begins. Do you get that? It's, hey, things are sticking because it's an old cast iron pan. And before you start lecturing me about how nonstick is toxic, I'm using it as an example. It's a metaphor. Don't care about the chemistry of this one right now. You have this old cast iron pan. It restores the nonstick. It's now a ceramic pan. Nothing just slides right off like an infomercial before you have any issues. Your heart doesn't care about your good intentions, people. It cares about inflammation and Kpv handles every single aspect of that. Look at your kidneys filter. What did I say the other day? Do you remember? 180 liters of blood every day. That's a lot of exposure. So in case you're wondering to inflammatory mediators, chronic kidney disease, and I address this very clearly, is fundamentally an inflammatory disease. Flamatory cytokines damage podocytes, which are those cells, right? Little flat with foot that form your filtration barrier, leading to protein urea fibrosis, kidney failure. 2018 study in kidney international showed Kpv reduced renal inflammation, observed kidney function, and prevented fibrosis in inflammatory kidney disease by inhibiting TGF beta signaling, which is a master regulator for kidney tissue fibrosis. How about wounds, man? You guys get gashed up, beat up, fall off your BMX bike. Yep, I'm that old. Here's something that'll blow your mind. Wound healing requires. You don't want to shut it down. You want to control it. Wound healing requires inflammation, but controlled inflammation. Acute inflammation to clear pathogens and damaged tissue, then resolution, then regen, right? Regeneration, chronic inflammation prevents healing. It keeps wounds stuck in that single phase, the inflammatory phase. 2013 study, wound repair and regeneration, it showed Kpv accelerated wound closure, 43%. Holy crap, that's like Wolverine. You're like Deadpool, but better looking. Dove that by facilitating the transition from inflammation to proliferation. One phase to the next. It promoted fibroblast migration, collagen deposition, geogenesis, controlled inflammation. What did I say? Control it, resolve it, regenerate it, heal baby. You got to cycle this stuff. It's what nobody talks about. You got to stay on peptides forever. I have a small group of forever peptides, and even then I'm very hard on my body, very hard on my body. I train hard. I run hard. This is how I am. So I look for anything I can to expand the scope of my ability to heal. But don't always copy what I'm doing if you're not running the same way I'm running. Really, I have a guy in my group right now. He says, I just want to do everything you do. That's great, but you're not there yet. You have to solve your biological problems first before you start pushing on the gas. Please, hear me out. This is really important. So if you're going, what do you do? I want to do it exactly. But if you're not where I am right now, doing what I'm doing is not going to make any sense, because it's like looking at Sir Edmund Hillary and going, awesome, he's at the top of the mountain. What's he doing at the top of Everest? You don't need to see what he did, what he's doing up top. You need to go, how did he train to get there? You guys got to understand that. Look at what people do to get to where you want to go. Don't look at what they're doing when they're where you want to be. It's not the same, which is I'm trying to help you. You can't take KPV continuously forever. If some Instabrow tells you that, stop listening. Knock yourself out, but you're just setting yourself up for a lot of problems. Your body adapts. That's why. Listen, you're going to listen to who you want to listen to. Listen to me. Don't listen to me. Give me the finger. Don't give me the finger. I don't care, but what I'm telling you is I'm giving you facts. That's it. I have my KPV. He's the best KPV on earth. I'm trying to sit here and tell you that what I'm giving you is information to do whatever it is you want. Do I think my labs is the best? Yeah, of course. Just so you know, I'm looked up at the top of my corner here and stupidity of Riverside yet again, decided to just turn off and start recording a new track. So now I have two tracks. So I hope this all comes out seamlessly. So here's how it adapts. Your Milano Korten Receptors specifically, MC1R and MC3R, those are the ones that KPV acts on, will downregulate with chronic exposure. 2010 study showed continuous Milano Korten exposure, agonist exposure, right, leads to 100% receptor desensitization within 14 to 21 days. So I've talked to people about doing 30 days, depends on how bad their inflammatory process is. Cycle. Here's how I'll give you, listen, for your kangaroo, four to six weeks on, two to four weeks off. There you go. That maintains receptor sensitivity and prevents any kind of tolerant issues. This isn't hard. Just play with your body's biology the way it's designed. Your body is smarter than you think. Freakin' respect it. So I need to touch on this because this is where people who have a headache. Just so you know, my wife had a brutal, like one of those behind the eye. There's an ice pick thing stuck into my skull kind of, and my wife never takes medication. My wife is so tough. God, she's sexy, man. Like my wife is sexy, but she's so tough. And she's sitting there and I looked at her eyes, her blood shot. You could tell she was in pain. I said, listen, what's going on? She says, I have this headache just started when I was training legs. And this is a woman who's 5'2", about 115, 120 pounds, who squats 185 for more reps than most dudes, which is 8 to 10, and she'll do it effortlessly. Anyway, and I've, so before you guys go, bullshit, I'd like to see it. She'll do 225 for five and then go back and do 245 for another five. She, and she looks like a fitness mob. She's not giant at all. She's sexy. But the reason I'm saying this is because I know she pushes herself hard and it happened while she was doing squats. So I gave her BPC and KPV and 15 minutes headache was pretty much gone. You guys need to understand that. Solve the problem by letting your body  adiadulis, job, don't solve the problem by trying to hide it, which is why I want to talk about NSAIDs, ibuprofen, the proxen aspirin, all the things like you 81 milligram aspirin people, you like depleting glutathione, you like destroying your body's primary antioxidant and thinking that it's okay, it's never saved a life, there's zero research that showed that's ever saved a life or prevented anything, just so you know, just so you know what NSAIDs do, I told you, they block coxenzymes, I'm sure, it's what it is, coxone and cox-2, these enzymes convert arachidotic acid to prostoglandins, which inflammatory mediators, sounds all good, right? You think that blocking the prostoglandins and reducing inflammation is the primary solution, it's the resolution of the problem, prosto, the problem's still there, prostoglandins do a lot more than cause inflammation, listen to me, so coxone, look at the GI tract, here's why you need to understand the production of prostoglandins, right, so it convert, right, hold the enzymes, just follow me on this, the gastrointestinal tract, coxone produces prostoglandins that protect your stomach like, how can you do that now? You guys following me? This is the problem, I'm trying to go a little slower so you actually get this, block coxone and you get ulcers, bleeding, perforation, this is why this happens, it's not, if you all just take BPC and it'll solve all the problems, wrong, by the way, stop taking oral BPC, I'm tired of these guys peddling it, all they want is your money, zero, show me the bloods, doesn't work, and it's been proven that it doesn't work, people just love to argue because they sell it, just like nasal sprays, garbage, 10% at the most, bioavailability, why would you waste it? Use a pen, it's better. 2005 study, American Journal of Medicine found NSAIDs cause, this is just recorded by the way, 16,500 deaths annually in the US from GI complications alone, that's a town, wiped out from taking a pill, look at cardiovascular issues, cox2 inhibition disrupts, you guys need to take what I'm saying seriously, it disrupts the balance between prostocycline, vasodilator, antithrombotic, thromboxane, which is the vasoconstrictor and pro-thrombotic, 13 in the lancet showed, NSAIDs increase heart attack risk, 24%, look it up yourself, people take these things like their skittles, kidney damage, still gland is maintained renal blood flow, 180 liters of fluid, right, of blood every day, remember that, block them, you get acute kidney injury, 2016, British Medical Journal proved chronic NSAID use increases chronic kidney disease risk by 38%. NSAIDs do not resolve inflammation, they suppress symptoms while causing catastrophic systemic damage, they're everywhere, they got you even convinced to take them for health, look at the average mortality here in the US versus almost every other country, how about corticosteroids, dexamethasone, cortisone, these are nuclear bombs that go off in your system and if they're there to save your life, that's one thing, but that's very rare, they work by activating glucocorticoid receptors that suppress virtually all inflammatory gene transcription, massively effective, massively, they're so effective at reducing inflammation, like mind boggling, and they're massively destructive to just about everything else in your body, look at metabolic destruction, corticosteroids cause insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, fat redistribution, muscle wasting, just to name a few, 2018, British Medical Journal showed steroid induced diabetes occurs in 50% of patients on chronic corticosteroids, half, so look to your right, look to your left, one of you is that person, at least, they trash your bones, they're devastating to your bones, they inhibit osteoblasts and activate osteoclasts, bone density blasts build osteoclasts tear down, that's the easiest way to remember it, bone density vanishes 2017, osteoporosis international found, your risk increases 40% minimum within 3 to 6 months of steroid therapy, how about immune suppression, this is my favorite one, when they warn you, don't take this too long because it wrecks your immune system, just so you know your immune system is keeping you alive, you guys, so while reducing inflammation, steroid suppress your entire immune system, infection risk skyroids, 2019, New England Journal of Medicine showed serious infection rates triple with chronic steroid use, triple, look at the HPA the suppression that it causes in that, exogenous steroids suppress your hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, stop taking them suddenly, here's what happens, boom, adrenal crisis, you know what that is, I'll help you, I'll just leave that while I drink some coffee, let that land, steroids are emergency interventions, they're not long term solutions, I've had patients that, I had this one patient, Karen, she was her and her husband, used to come and see me in her kids, and she was on, she had, I don't know, three quarters of her small intestine removed, she was on Cipro for life, should I say it again, because it's unbelievable to even hear that some knucklehead doctor would do that to her, she was on prednisone for life, she was riddled with injuries, riddled with illness, always had problems, unbelievable, all due to what she was taking, it didn't solve anything, it was for her crones and her irritable bowel, and instead of solving the problem, they cut, I don't know how many feet out of this poor woman, out of her intestine, just some of you doctors, you guys, you surgeons, you guys disgust me, listen, here's the fundamental principle that everybody misses longevity, look at longevity, your goal is to be the most epic life for as long as possible, longevity isn't about preventing inflammation, though, it's about resolving inflammation, if you are full of inflammation, you are going to die significantly sooner, inflammation is necessary, it clears out pathogens, it removes damaged cells, it initiates, it's like the spark that starts the repair, the problem is when the inflammation doesn't end, 2018 immunity showed concept of resolution pharmacology, using a molecule that actively promotes the resolution phase of inflammation rather than just suppressing the inflammatory phase, there's KPB, how many times have you heard of it again, I'll wait, how many times has your doctor told you about this, your surgeon, your dentist, your psychiatrist, who's told you about this, people like me or the insta bros who claim to be experts because they can read chat GPT, listen, I don't care if you use chat GPT, just don't claim expertise, listen, KPB doesn't just turn off NF cap, it activates resolution pathways, it shifts macrophages to healing phenotypes, and it promotes tissue repair, it restores balance, homeostasis, resolution, you ready, this is a huge mic drop equals longevity, 2022 study in aging showed that markers of unresolved, not this stuff on the equation, just unresolved inflammation predicted biological aging better than chronological age, people with high CRPC reactive protein and high IL6, but low specialized pro-resolving mediators, they're called SPMs, had biological ages 15 years older than their chronological age, but you've got people out there that made billions of dollars who are drinking baby blood or taking their blood and they're trying to live forever taking 4,000 supplements every day, I don't know, maybe you should just resolve the inflammatory problem, let your body do its job, unresolved inflammation ages you faster than time itself does, here's a paradox by the way that confuses a lot of people, how can reducing inflammation improve in immune function, because somebody asked me what about immune function, the whole prednisone thing, got it, because chronic inflammation suppresses immune function, those elevated inflammatory cytokines I'm talking about cause chronic immune activation, there's a problem with that, you're standing on the skinny pedal till the motor burns out, it causes what's called T cell exhaustion, natural killer cell dysfunction, NK cells, which you need by the way to demolish cancer and impaired antibody response, so 2017 there's a study in cell that showed that chronic inflammation up regulates PD1 and CTLA4, it's immune checkpoint molecules essentially that shut down T cell function, cancer cells exploit the hell out of this, you know what else does, chronic infections, so by resolving inflammation, the PD removes the suppressive signals, your T cells wake up, your NK cells become cytotoxic as hell again the way they're designed, and your immune system goes oh yeah baby I'm back in the game, and you let that immune system off the chain to do its job and it functions properly, 2019 study New England Journal of Medicine showed that reducing chronic inflammation improved all immune responses by 38%, interesting, less inflammation, better immunity, longer life, so how about I just put a bow on this because we got what am I 43 minutes, man these are getting long, I got lots to say and I geek out on human biology so I talk about the things I love, that's what my preacher says all the time, he talks about the Bible, basketball, Michigan football, so I love it, this is me, I talk about my wife and family, I talk about being a badass human, being connecting to God and I talk about biology and I will do this all day baby, you guys have been sold a lie, a lie that inflammation is the enemy, that suppressing it with NSAIDs, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs if you need to know what that is, and steroids, corticosteroids is the solution, the truth by the way, inflammation is a biological response that needs to be resolved, not suppressed, they're not the same, KPV is something that your body already makes, already uses and already knows what to do, it's not a drug, so every time I make a post on social media and they go this is something promoting drugs, I'm like are you high, it is by definition not a drug and yet I get posts pulled all the time because they're saying I'm promoting drug use and then they send something up in my screen, it pops up, I open it up probably once a week and it's black screen and it says you can get help, apparently I have a BPC problem that I, an addiction that I need to go get checked out, are you crazy, but I could sit out there and I could talk about every single drug on the planet that's approved by the FD and the A and it will let me run like crazy, the more I pump it up the more they're going to give me exposure, bite me, KPV inhibits MF Tapa B surgically, which is the master control of inflammation, it up regulates IL-10, so it activates the resolution pathway, it crosses the blood-brain barrier, so it's protecting all of the stuff in your gray matter, your neurons, restores endothelial function, it protects your heart, preserves kidney function, protects your little filters that you need that do more, remember what I said about kidney disease that it ain't just about your kidneys, parathyroid, cardiovascular, the list is endless of the things of the kidney controls, pH level of your blood, it accelerates KPV, accelerates your wound healing, restores tissue integrity properly, so your scar tissue doesn't look like some Italian dropped spaghetti on a plate, it looks like somebody lined it up perfectly that's got OCD and wants all their spaghetti to look perfectly lined up, much better scar tissue, it solves the three biological failures that are killing you guys, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, and it does all of this without the GI devastation of NSAIDs or the molecular or metabolic catastrophe of corticosteroids that absolutely ruptures your health from the inside out, here's what I want you to understand, every disease that you're afraid of, every single one of them, Alzheimer's, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, kidney failure, all of them, they share the same root cause, unresolved chronic inflammation, fix the inflammation, and you know what you do, you fix the disease, KPV fixes the inflammation, it is so bad acid, it has so many more ripple effects than you can imagine, the research is there, Journal of Immunology, British Journal of Pharmacology, Journal of Inflammatory Research, like all of this stuff, 68% reduction in IL-6, 2017, it showed 74% reduction in microglial markers, then in Alzheimer's it showed it proved that it reduced Alzheimer's risk by 68%, no protection in Parkinson's, I can do this all with better predictive mortality than traditional markers, none of this stuff is ethereal, and that's what gets frustrating is I can come out here and I can tell the truth about your health and give you the actual answers that you can run out and do whatever you want, go and get it from wherever you want, go and do whatever you want, but I'm giving you the real truth instead of here's a fancy drug commercial where it shows this lady in distress or this man in distress briefly, 5-10 seconds, and then it talks about how this amazing new drug gives her life back and then lists off 45 seconds of catastrophic deadly effects that do happen that they've convinced you is we have to say that just in case, no they say that because it does, and then at the very end it gives you another 5-second blurb of a smiling lady or man going, it gave me my life back, meanwhile that lady is either AI or dead, this isn't theory, APV is legit, blish, peer reviewed, science, your body is trying to save you all the time you guys, it's making KPV right now, it's trying to resolve the inflammatory aging process that's killing you, destroying you from inside out, and it's not making enough, it's not a question on whether or not KPV works, it's how much longer are you going to keep waiting to give your body what it's desperately trying to make on its own, mitochondria are pissed and they're struggling which is why you got brain fog, your neurons are inflamed which is why you're struggling and you might be halfway down to Alzheimer's dementia, your endothelium is damaged which is why your blood barrier doesn't work, why your blood pressure sucks and why your cardiovascular system is taking, your kidneys are giving you the finger because they're filtering inflammatory garbage 24, 7, 365, you have the molecule baby, three amino acids, it's not suppression, right, resolution, I don't understand, maybe you don't get it, this is not complicated, give your body the tools it needs, not the ones you, not the wrecking ball to make it do something it doesn't want to do, or watch the inflammation destroy your body one cell at a time, I guess, I don't know what to tell you, I'm out here because I love you, I know what I'm doing, I know how much I care and I'll tell you this, I know damn well which direction I'm choosing, KPD baby, anyway I hope you got something out of this, I gotta go, never miss.