All right, good morning everybody. Trav Smash Works. I wanted to show you the top of my head for the first thing in the morning. Look at that. Caffeine and kilos both I need this morning. Um we're going to be going over some low back stuff. I have a a good friend on uh on Instagram, uh Neil Tooth, this one's for you. You're getting some clicking in that low back and some tightness in that low back. So, we're going to go over quadrus labborum longimus and then we're going to hit the front. We're going to hit that so they're together. Don't think they're not. They're married. You can't get them worse. That's how it works. So, this is what happens. We're going to go ahead and we're going to peel that tissue apart because what's going on is if you can't stabilize your trunk and your core, any movement you do is going to suffer down the line, upstream or downstream. Think about it. This is a big chunk of our body. Everything above here relies on this. Everything below here relies on this. So when we have issues with that low back when that for example that quadratus lumboreum anchors that last rib that 12th rib on uh rapid and deep inspiration and it attaches to on something called the iliac crest. It's the top of the hip on the back and it's a big fat strappy muscle and it pretty much stays contracted all day slightly about 30 40%. And then when we get under metabolic load, so for a Metcon or even just some some heavy lifts where we're starting to breathe a little heavy, that muscle clamps down really hard to anchor and stabilize that 12th rib and keep your torso lined up nice and straight, too. So, there are two things it's doing. Now, imagine if that muscle doesn't turn off. When I say it doesn't turn off, check this out. I've done this pose lots. You guys have seen this all the time. Watch. We're sitting in front of our computer like this. Oh, yeah. H you get thumbs down from Trev. So we need to unglue that muscle because that muscle on top of it sits a muscle called the longimus. Longisimus runs all the way up the entire length of the spine. Big giant strip of muscle on either side. You can see it on people that are really welldeveloped. Um like all you guys with these huge giant muscles up the back. Those two giant ridges you see, they look like two shark fins all the way down the spine. Help keep you upright. As a matter of fact, they're pretty much the primary drivers to keep you upright. But now bend over and do a clean. Do a jerk. When you're doing uh upward motion, think of what that has to do. That has to hold you in that upright position. Do a deadlift. Do a bench press. You're still anchoring yourself. Ask my friend Jesse Berdick. He'll tell you right off the bat. When you're benching, you are squeezing your shoulder blades into that bench. You are contracting everything to keep yourself nice and stable. So you can drive, in his case, I don't know what it is, probably about 750 lbs off that bench. So he benches more than I back squat. It's freaky. So, I'm going to show you how to peel that away. This one, Neil, I'm going to tell you, it's got a high suck factor. I had I have a friend of mine, Elena, here. She watched me do it. I made the pain face uh about a thousand times. So, you're going to watch this. Check this out. This one's super legit. But, we need to unglue this stuff so the body can work properly and restore that range of motion. So, first things first. Yeah, you can see the kettle bell here. You know that's coming next. Now, remember what I said. If your trunk and your core isn't properly supported, if you don't have that rotation, you're not going to be able to do a lot of things because that rotation is paramount to doing all the movements we do. Even now, I just turn to this side, that's all rotation. I turn to this side, that's all rotation. More importantly, as those muscles glue down to each other and they don't slide past you, lose all that ability to support themselves because they start to get inflamed because they're stuck. The re response to inflammation is laying down scar tissue. The response to scar tissue is more inflammation. And you see what I'm doing here, right? this big giant circle. So, it's just not good. It's not going to help. So, let's just peel this tissue away. We're going to start with lacrosse ball. And you can see I've got a band right here. Now, I got to move the camera a little more. Just like that. So, you can see what I'm doing. Now, there's an added bonus. Oh, yeah. We got the Wednesday bonus. Check this out. We're going to hit the hamstring all at the same time. Oh, god. Right. So, watch this. We're going to hook our heel in the bend. Use a light band. Listen, you don't have to use a big fat green band for this thing. Look how tiny this is. Cuz it's going to be taking my leg and yanking it over. Make sure it comes on the inside of the foot like this so it doesn't snap off, hit somebody on the other side of the wall or uh hit yourself in anything that you don't want to hit yourself in. Okay. So, all we're going to do is we're going to take the lacrosse ball. It's going to go so I'll turn so you guys can see. It's going to go right here in that portion of the back on the outside of the spine between that last rib and the that ridge of bone right here, that iliac crest. You're going to put that lacrosse ball there. It's going to feel awesome. And you're just going to lay down here. I'll come over here so you guys can really see what I'm doing. So, you can see here. Now, we're going to play off something called reciprocal inhibition. I know you guys are watching a video of me just laying around. So reciprocal inhibition means that one side turns on and one side turns off in response to that. So we're going to turn on in this case we're going to turn on the right side of the body, right side of the core, right side of the trunk and the back. So primarily QL and longus and on the left side we're going to let it turn off. And the left side is where this ball is going to go. So this is super important cuz as we contract one side, the other side says we got to release and let go. We're going to smash the living daylights out of it with this ball. Living daylights. Was that a Bond movie? Not every good one. I think that was a Timothy Dalton, wasn't it? You're not very good. I don't think he's a good Bond. So, we're going to take that, tuck it in here. There's your trivia question. You can fool your friends who play James Bond in Living Daylights. Good. Oh god, that's just terrible. And now you can see, don't you dare laugh at my pain face. And you're just going to take this. The band contracts. And then you're going to bring it all the way back. And if you really want to lock out that leg. Now I'm going to hit that hamstring too on that pull over. Oh, this is just so horrible. So you can see that lacrosse ball. Oh, here I'll move my hand. You can see it. Yeah, it's just smashing the heck out of everything. But we're turning off this side so we get more of a peel away with a lacrosse ball. Yeah, that'll take your breath away. Wait, we're going to have more fun. We're going to use a foam roller next. So if that's not enough, if you got a lacrosse ball, Trev, no big deal. Check this out. So much worse. The cross ball comes back. That's awesome. This one. Listen, I'm going to apologize for the face I'm about to make. So, same thing. Take your heel, put it in here. This lacrosse ball is like a homing pigeon. Watch this. See? Look at that thing. Freaking came back again. It's like an old buddy. It's a dog that doesn't want to leave. No, I love it. You can leave it. Leave it. Leave it. Totally fine. I want that lacrosse ball there. It's totally fine. So, check this out. We're like this. Good. It's like the cat came back. Good. Now, I'm already crossed over and it looks super uncomfortable already. Take all your weight, put it on this, and then come all the way over. And then all I'm going to do is just crank away. Oh god, that hurts. Yeah, Elena said two words. Oh no. Now, I'm going to lay right down on it. Oh, and I'm going to hyperextend that lumbar spine. And I'm just gonna let it come like this. And I'm gonna come back. And I'm anchoring myself on this foam roller. And this is probably one of the most horrific mobilities I've ever done. That actually gave me the sweats. So if you can't hang with a lacrosse ball cuz it's just too easy, grab this. It's even worse. So now we're going to stay in the band because I really want to activate that soaz. So the soaz sits L2 to L5 and it supports the trunk uh primary lumbar spine. It contracts. It does hip flexion. It also does internal rotation of the uh of the femur. So a lot of things that are important. So I'm not going to try chucking this away cuz it's not going to leave. So now with this one, I'll switch sides. So we're going to put the left leg in. Cross the band over up top. Super light band again. Okay guys, I'm not going to put a lot of tension on it. So, I just load it up a little bit because what I'm going to be doing is this. And I want to be able to force a lot of contraction out of this. The more this muscle can contract, the more it's going to get peeled away from this. This handle going to go an inch to the side of the belly button. Handle goes lengthwise. I'm using a 44. It's for demo purposes. I think normally I use a 103. Good. I'm kidding. Good. We're going to take this. We're going to flip it upside down. Oh, yeah. That's just awesome. We're going to keep both knees bent because this is going to disengage the pelvis. And then all we're going to do is floss it out. Now, if you notice, I'm pulling my leg wide because the femur tracks wide. If I do this, it peels my pelvis up off the floor and it bangs into the kettle bell and the top of the acetabulum. So, we're just going to let it go like this and come wide like this. Come wide. Do two sets of 15. I am not going to do two sets of 15 right now cuz I'm not going to make you guys watch me do that. Oh, that was just horrendous. So, there you go. If you see that little bead of sweat running down my forehead, it's because this is probably some of the gnarliest mobility I've ever done. But think about it. Our midsection gets so trashed with what we do. You need to peel that tissue away cuz those muscles are so gnarly strong. So, peel away the soaz, hit that quadrus lumboreum, do it under load because you get that reciprocal inhibition to turn it on and off as you're rotating back and forth. And when you're rotating back and forth and grinding away on that lacrosse ball, it's really going to do some awesome work. Some awesome smash work. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works. I see you guys tomorrow. Have a great day.