Hey, what is up smashers? Guess what? Monday after the CrossFit games, super savage. All you CrossFit athletes are animals. Now you games athletes, whole other level. So badass to watch you guys. Uh you know what? Big shout out to to actually a friend of mine, good friend of mine is uh Sean Ramirez. Dude, you got to get that thumb fixed, that UCL taken care of. And uh and then another one is uh uh Emily Abbott. And uh you know what? You did badass. And Margot Alvarez, Alisandra Pachelli, you guys are animals. Brooks, you're going to be there next year. I already know that. Um that's what we talked about. You're going to be awesome. So anyway, I started looking a lot of the stuff that was going on with the games. 15 workouts. I don't even know how you wrap your head around that stuff. It just made me hurt. And uh and by the way, all the other athletes that I I didn't mention, you're all badass. Just it's the way it goes. And uh and if you guys ever need anything, shoot me a DM. I'll do my best to check it and get at it. If not, get a hold of myself from somebody and uh and I'll get you taken care of. Um low back. I saw people getting taken off the uh off this off the field and and out of the uh tennis stadium with low back issues. And uh and right now, by the way, I'm resting this on a uh on a barbell just so I can can hang out. By the way, thank you guys. All of you guys. You guys all came up to me saying hi, taking pictures and everything. That was awesome. Thank you so much. I appreciate you guys very much. More than you guys know. That meant a lot to me. So, uh, so I love you all. I love you all. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. That was really cool. Um, and if you guys need anything, like I said, DM me. I do the best I can to get to your suggestions and help you guys out. Um, and if I don't get to it, don't be offended. I I do. There's a whole bunch coming through, so I try and filter through them as best as I can. So, low back issues. A lot of the problem with the low back, it's like I no segue, right? Just change like that. It's my OCD and my ADHD. It all goes together. Um, low back issues. A lot of the problem is is that back doesn't move the way it's supposed to. So, it gets torqued down really bad. And then you introduce a shear to that lumbar spine. But it's not just lumbar spine, it's also the hips. And we need to unload that stuff. So, we'll unload the low back. Get rid of that low back tweak, that really bad low back pain. And then that hip pain and that tight set of hips that's causing a lot of problems that uh that's manifesting into low back pain, which uh sucks super bad, especially when I watch you guys repping out like 245 for squat cleans after doing a ton of other stuff. And I just I don't even know how to wrap my head around that stuff. That's pretty awesome. So, first thing is we're going to hit that TFL. So, here's where the knee comes into play. So, the TFL is the uh is basically the the essential controlling factor for the uh how about I put that on the camera, right? the uh the essential controlling factor for Yeah. back up. Back up. Right. Back up. So, TFL sits up in here, hits that IT band that fans out across the knee and uh and it controls a lot of the mechanics, hip flexion, uh depending where it is actually cuz it can do hip extension as well. So, it really small argumentatively some people say it does, some people it doesn't, a little bit of rotation, but uh but primarily a lot of hip flexion and loads up that IT band. The problem is this is under that functional load. Remember that. But it's going to really torque on that knee. So if this is super tight, you're going to wind up with knee issues. You're going to drop into the squat and that knee is going to want to want to cave in. And when it caves in, you get that VGUS knee. It starts to fall in even a little bit. If you watch a lot of these guys that are throwing up really big weight, I'm watching the uh the bar behind me, so I don't get it in the back of the head. But if you watch watch a lot of these guys pushing up big weight, they push their knees out and then squeeze their glutes together and drive themselves out of the hole because they wind up that joint capsule to make it super stable. Can't do that if the knee is all loaded up because that high hip is super tight. So, we need to undo all that stuff. So, first one is check this out. It's so freaking easy. What you're going to do, I'm going to move this kettle bell because well, it's just in the way. And if you can't hear me, then I'll speak a whole lot louder. You know me, I only have one switch. Super loud ADHD. So, what you want to do is you want to get into basically a figure four. Okay, so I'm going to go like this just so you can see what I'm doing. You're going to take the leg, bring it across here. We're going to be hitting this TFL. Okay, this is the side that's going to take the abuse right now. And we're just going to I'll go like this so you can even see here. How about that? That's even better. So, you get to see me this way. All you're going to do is you're going to lay back. So, you're in a figure four like this. Okay. You're just going to take this leg. I'll move over just a bit so we can see it. Yeah. Holding a lacrosse ball. It's like my uh my binky. So, you're going to get in the figure four, drop all the way over, but you're going to keep all this super flat. You can hang out here for how long? 2 minutes. You're going to feel it ripping this tissue right off the bone, unloading that TFL in in turn unloading that IT band. This is so uncomfortable, but it's so effective. Two minutes, right? All right, that's number one. I want you to do that on both sides. Okay, that's super important. And then number two, we want to hit that soaz. So, the cool part is when you hit that soaz, you want to unload it. And the only way you can unload that soaz is by taking Oh, there's a lot of ways, but this is a really great way to peel it off the bone. The soaz hits the uh the last four vertebrae of the lumbar spine, L2 to L5, and then comes into that femur and does a little bit of internal rotation and hip flexion. It also does one really important thing that a lot of people miss. It uh it braces the uh the lumbar spine. So, you know, when you do a 405 deadlift for reps like Josh Bridges, you know, that kind of stuff. Super badass stuff. But you got to be able to brace that spine. It gets so short and tight, especially for the desk jockeyies out there. It gets really, really tight. or anyone that drives a car. By the way, this sitting on my groin really uncomfortable. So, you're going to come back. You're going to find the belly button. You're going to go just lateral one inch. Hey everybody, this is an inch. That's not an inch. Okay. This is an inch. So, we're going to go. Right now, Jan's laughing at me. She thinks it's funny that I said that. It's true. Most guys are wrong with your measurements. I'm just saying. Just putting it out there. You're going to take this is a 44. Okay? You can use a 53. You can use a 70. But you're going to bend both knees, go one inch lateral to the belly button, and then all you're going to do is kick in and out just like this. You're just going to hang out like this. How many are we doing? Yeah, we're not doing this for 2 minutes, but you're doing 15 of these each leg. Okay, when you're done, man, get this thing off you cuz it freaking hurts. Now, that's number two. We've just peeled that soaz off. It's really important to go just to the side of the belly button. Don't go way off to the side because you're not gonna hit that soaz. Remember, the soaz runs down the uh the front of the um the front of the lumbar spine, right? So, we want to stay super tight and close. That's number two. Oh, this thing weighs a ton right now. And I haven't even lifted anything yet this morning. Well, nothing heavy. Nothing worth mentioning yet. How about that? So, now we want to be able to get to the bottom of that squat. It's why I have this band, but we're not doing it yet. See, you thought I was going to use it yet. We're going to take the ab mat, flip it upside down. This is what I have a little cross ball for. Want to peel away that QL so that quadratus laborum comes off that 12th rib anchors on top of the iliac crest in the back and basically stabilize everything. It's a big giant fat strappy muscle. So, not making fun of the muscle if you have muscle issues, but hey, it's a big fat muscle. It is what it is. I call it like I see it. I'm honest. Take the lacrosse ball. You're going to tuck it just to the side of the spine so you can see where it is. Move my Killer Kill Cliff shirt. And then all you're going to do is you're going to do the same thing. So I'm just off to one side. Both knees bent. Lacrosse ball right in here. And then all you're going to do Oh, this is just so diabolical right now. I had a bunch of you guys come up and say that was your favorite word that I used. So I'm going to use it again cuz this freaking hurts. And all we're doing is lacrosse ball underneath. Just grinding away on that QL. All right. Now, that we do for two minutes. Do it until you achieve supplitude. It's a word. Look it up. It's a word. If it's not a word, we're going to get a poll. Put it into Websters. All right, that's number three. Number four is, yeah, we got to get into that squat. But here's the tricky part. We want to be able to torque those knees out. I see a lot of people squatting all hunched over with their knees collapsed. All bad. So, we want to take a heavy band and we want to go all the way around these. Now, I'm really glad that this didn't snap off and catch me right in the side of the head. So, feet flat, drop into the squat, and just hang out. So, you can see what the band is doing. The band is torquing out the knees without you having to put a ton of effort. I mean, you can get your hands in here and hang out like this. All namaste. If you want, that's totally fine. My feet are turned out about 58°, but the band is doing the work. And it's actually surprisingly easy to do it this way with the band versus without the band. How long do we hang out in the squat with the band? Five minutes. Yeah. See, you all said two minutes. I guarantee it. Five. I'm not going to make you sit here and watch me sit in a squat for 5 minutes because, well, that's just weird. But hey, that's how you loosen up that low back. That's how you free up the hips. Hip freedom, low back freedom. Badass CrossFit games. Super savage CrossFit athletes. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works. See you guys tomorrow.