What's up, Smash Gang? It is a hot and sweaty Wednesday morning. Um, just finished working out, so it's been uh it's been pretty spicy. I uh I may even post the workout. You guys were asking me um to post some of the stuff I do training wise, so uh I might just do that. Let me know if that's something you want me to do. I'll post it. It's all kinds of crazy. Um, anyway, low back pain. Crazy low back tweak. Hey, Dr. T, I did something and I don't know, poof, my low back started to hurt. That is probably one of the most Let me get under here so you can actually see me. That's probably one of the most debilitating things is that low back tweak. Um, when you when you jack up your low back, uh, it shuts down everything. You can't do anything. You can't lift. You can't sleep. I have, uh, I have a patient of mine right now. um he came in, low back pain is gone, but initially when he came in, kept him up all night, kept him out of his desk, which is actually not a bad thing at work. Um but he had to stand and even that was uncomfortable. Couldn't drive, couldn't do anything cuz his low back was so lit up. Now, the problem with that is is people run out. Sorry, I'm out of breath. I swung like a 88lb kettle bell for like a half an hour. Um but people go and they take all kinds of NSAIDes. They get I I have a patient right now who's like, "Ah, I'm a lost cause. um I'm always gonna have low back pain. I'm just going to keep getting cortisone shots in my low back. And it just freaks me out because there's always a way to fix it. And uh it doesn't matter if you're you're, you know, 22 or 92 that 99 times out of 100, there's a way to fix it unless there's a massive injury. And even then, we just fix it up. So when that low back starts to tweak out, there is so much going on in here. And you have to remember anytime your body senses any kind of danger, it's going to self-splint. So if it senses any kind of especially the nervous system remember you have the spine computer right brain sits up here sends a signal down through the spinal cord out to all the cells muscles and glands of your body right so the problem is is that if there's any kind of a brush against a nerve or there's any kind of irritation neurologically your body flips out and cranks down all the muscles because it sends these giant red danger signals to your body going something bad's about to happen we better protect it and it's called self-splinting. The problem is with self-splinting is once it lights up, getting it to turn off is damn near impossible. So, I know that a lot of people, they jump in a hot shower, jump in a hot tub, take a hot, you know, take a long rest, pop God knows what kind of a pill, and none of that works or if it does, it's really temporary and it just comes back. So, I'm going to show you how to take care of that super fast, probably 5 minutes. So, you have all this visca in here, never mind the uh the rectus abdominis, the obliques, um all the all the fascia in here, even just your guts. There's all these these, you know, um connective tissue sticky bits in here that get all ropey. This trunk, this core supports your spine a lot more than than anything else. And then we're going to flip around to the back and you have the quadratus laborum. You have the uh the longmus. You have in the front you have the iliacis, the soaz, the rectusorous that comes off the pelvis. There's so much going on in here. I'm going to show you to peel all that stuff away, turn that lit spine off, and uh get rid of that low back tweak. How's that sound? Pretty good. Yeah, I kind of like that. Low back pain. Super bad, right? It's like gladiator. Low back pain. No, we don't like it. So, what we're going to do is Come on. My jokes are great at 5 in the morning. First thing we're going to do is we're going to smash out the guts. Now, it sounds pretty abysmal and pretty diabolical. It's not that bad and it's really, really easy to do. You can grab any ball to do this. I'm going to stress you out a little bit by telling you to go really hard. And I'm going to make it a really valid point that you take a ball. So this is a slam ball. So that's a 30 lb slam ball. So it's not going to go anywhere, but this is so easy. So you're going to basically contract, relax. So the way you get a muscle to turn off is it's already contracted. It's already irritated when you have a low back tweak. What you're going to do is you're going to lay on the ball. We're going to turn everything off by contracting into the ball about 5 10 seconds and then just let the ball sink in. There's four quadrants I want you to hit. So, it's going to seem like you're only moving the ball about two inches, but you're going from this quadrant to this one to this one to this one. It doesn't matter the order. Just hit all four. All right, that's really important. And the easiest God, this is so easy. What do I say? So easy to do. So easy to what? Not to do. So, all you're going to do is you're going to find that spot and I promise you, you're going to get on that spot, especially where the soaz is. So, if you can see, I got the ball underneath and I'm just going to hang out over the ball and I'll Oh, this is just abysmal. Especially after doing all those kettle bell swings, my guts are lit. So, you're just going to hang out over the ball, contract into the ball, and then just boom, sink into the ball. And part of it makes you feel like you're going to throw up a boot. And the other part is it's going to really, really undo and turn off that spasm. So now we also have a little bit of reciprocal inhibition. So we turn off one side, it's going to end up turning off the other side. Or we light up one side, it's going to turn off the other side, rather. So when we contract the abdomen, that turns off the posterior side. Agonist, antagonist. Okay? So bottom line is take the ball, shove it into your guts like this. Just stay off the bone. Contract, contract, contract. Relax. Boom. Sink into the ball. Do that through all four quadrants of the abdomen. That actually gave me the mobility sweats. You know you're doing it right. And I know some of you guys have come to my office. A lot of you guys have come to my office. And keep coming. I'll help you as best as I can. And I always talk about the mobility sweats. I got them. So, that's number one. Number two, yoga block ball. You can use this thing. I I don't care what you do. If you use this thing, it's going to wind up falling in your crotch. So, be careful. That would probably hurt a lot. So, what you're going to do is you're going to get on your back. Okay, let's see if I can get this lined up so you can actually see what the hell I'm doing. So, there we go. You're going to lay on your back. What you're going to do is you're going to bring your knees up like this, feet off the floor. What we want to do is we want to actually turn off the shear that's going here because you have your pelvis is sitting like this. One side's sitting this way, the other side's sitting back. We want to even that out. And in order to do that, we need to set that pubic symphysis. Pigma symphysis is that uh ouch bone sometimes you hit when you're doing snatches. Yeah. Super freaking painful. You hit it and you never want to do snatches again. But inside there is a little disc. So you want that to set in place. And you're probably 99 times out of 100, you're going to get a clunk when you use this. So that clunk is like, oh heaven, super relief. So get the legs like this. Okay. You're going to take one hand and you're going to push away and resist. And the other hand, you're going to pull and you're going to try and push the leg away. So does that make sense? We're going to be like this. And we're creating a shear. So this is the motion. This is the motion we're doing, but we're resisting it. So I'm going to just push, push, push, push, push, push, push, relax. And then same thing on the other side. Push, push, push, push, push, and then relax. You're going to find you have a weaker side. So let me go this way just so you can see what I'm doing. So I'm like this. I'm going to be pushing this knee and pulling this knee. So, push, push, push, push. Switch sides. Push, push, push. Good. And again. And again. We're I want you to hold each one for 5 seconds. Just for the sake of the video, I'm going to do it just a few. So, we do that. We take the block, chuck it between the knees. This is the fun part. And then just give it a squeeze. Do you guys hear that little clunk? You get a little squeeze. Boom. You just set that pelvis. It's that easy, that fast. You don't need to go do anything crazy. No surgery, no cortisone, no wacky, you know, eight-year treatment to try and fix it. Boom. You just said it. How's that, huh? Now, we got that low back pain we want to clear out. Two things you're going to do. Grab a peanut. If you don't have a peanut or an ab mat, can roll up a towel. I just want it to raise up off the ground. And if you don't have a peanut, um, the reason I have the peanut is we're going to trap the spine down the center of the peanut. It's going to hit either side. Get that quadrus laborum and that longus going up the back of the spine or up either side of the spine. I'm dripping sweat. That's how gnarly this is. Um, if you don't have that, grab like a softball or I don't know, a really frozen grapefruit. I have no idea. Something like that. Something that's about that size. Take the ab mat, soft side up. You're going to put this here. And you want to make sure the knees are bent. So, oh yeah, that's just abysmal. So, if you look, I have lacros the peanuts on my back trapping the spine. Knees are bent. And all I'm going to do is I'm going to floss in and out. Pull. And when I bring my knee up to the top, I'm going to suck my belly button into my spine. So, I'm going to come up just like this. And I'm just going to smear and mash away on that. Oh, hot spot on my spine. I'm going to do that on both sides. And I'm going to work my way all the way up the spine until I hit the ribs. Don't go past that because you don't need that. Okay. Oh boy, that was pretty intense. That's going to smear away that low back, clear out those muscles, get that sliding surface working the way it's supposed to. Get rid of that low back pain. Hey, listen. I'm Trev. Low back pain tweak. That's it. Super easy. All right, peace. I'm out. Hey, I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.