 January 3rd, got a January coffee mug in my hands now. So today is an interesting, it's an interesting topic, lupus. So I love how all of you, thank you by the way, put your faith in my ability to find a solution for what's going on. Thank you for that. So the bottom line is this, today you guys trust me with your health and finding solutions for a lot of the things that are going on that you're just not getting answers to and I understand that. I understand how frustrating that is and I understand how broken and corrupt the system is and how managed decline is not health care and that is what big pharma does and medical doctors are largely useless. They are coming from a trade school for pharmaceutical reps and nothing more and I don't care if you're a doctor, you get a defendant. I've been a doctor for a long time, I don't care. Your job above all, do no harm. It is imperative that we take care of people because they trust us. The world has become a place where it's okay to not take care of people and go, so I tried, I did my best, but you didn't. You did your laziest. So I'm going to clear up lupus, I'm going to give you all the answers, I'm going to help you get on your way and if that gives you the solution, if that helps you get past something, just share it. That's all, just share it because people need to know this and I don't do any marketing. Even for elite biogenics, we're the black card. I don't do any marketing. I do this, I talk about it. You want to buy everything from elite biogenics? Awesome. You go right ahead. I will make sure that my company takes incredible care of you and if you don't, that's okay. I still show up and if you want to join the black card and get access to my live Q&A call that I do every Monday evening and the VIP community and the great community that I've built of incredible men and women, who I'm so grateful, trust me with their life and their health and it become for lack of a better word, family to me, then you know what? You send, yes, there's a fee. You send an email to apply at unlockthecard.com and it's wire transfer only. I told you the deadline was extended, so tick talk people, tick talk because if you want to get in, you better hustle because it's not going to stay extended. I just had dozens and dozens and dozens of emails going, please, I'm trying to get in. So I'm trying to help you, but this isn't for me. This is for you. So if you want in, don't dick around. You want to join, then actually do it, send the wire and get in the program. You still get it for last year's price. If not, extension's over, baby. But you better email if you want and say, hey, please let me in and then Amber or Jen will get you all set up with wire and away you go. And that's a year per person. But if you don't, that's okay too. I keep showing up here and give you the best I got. You guys have been told about lupus and lupus is, what do they call it, the disease of 100 different faces and all the nonsense, but that's not accurate. They told you it's this complex, incurable, mysterious autoimmune disease and that the best hope that you've got is managed decline just to slow the progress. And yet the problem is that's not accurate at all. That's not a diagnosis. You guys, that's a death sentence and it's based on a century of scientific cowardice and pharmaceutical greed. Listen, I don't, I'm going to give you, I'll give you why I hate to use this word, but it's like C U R E, not theory, real protocol built on biology that is always ignored and will continue to be ignored because it's not profitable, but I don't make any money off of this. Even if you bought from elite biogenics, I'm not going to be a trillionaire anytime soon from people buying from my peptide company and it's giant. It doesn't matter because I'm doing it because I want people to have the answer and the solution, not because I'm trying to make you more sick so you keep buying my stuff. I do it so you're well and you don't ever need me. That's the difference with where my mind comes from, where my heart and soul comes from. So you need to rip the band-aid off this festering wound that looks a lot like modern rheumatology. Look at the basics that they just don't want to state plainly that are pure fact. Lupus is, this is friendly fire. Okay, Lupus is friendly fire. Your immune system is an army. In Lupus, that army has been fed some really lousy intelligence for so long that it's turned its own weapons on its own people. So you've got these cells like the little snipers, whatever you want to call them, your T cells and B cells and they've gone nuts. They've gone mad. The proof is in the blood. Anti-nuclear antibodies are called anas. You do an anana and a phantatestate. This is a whole other conversation about lab work. But these antibodies aren't the disease. They're the brass that's left, the bullet casings that's left at the scene of the crime. The crime is a failure of central command, the thymus. 2002 Journal of Experimental Medicine showed clearly, by the way, the thymus and lupus patients fails to properly eliminate self-reactive T cells, but during their development. So these rogue cells escape into the bloodstream. It's a ticking time bomb, just ready to annihilate you because when a cell dies, a natural death, apoptosis. The contents, especially DNA, they're supposed to be cleaned up very neatly. They're just mopped up and swept up very neatly in lupus. This cleanup is a disaster. The DNA and all the other nuclear debris spills out. The rogue B cells now hyperactive because of the collapse in regulatory T cell function, see this debris as a foreign army, as an invader and they go full war. They declare war on you. So they produce antibodies that attack the debris and then attack any healthy cell. Here's the problem. They attack any healthy cell that looks even remotely close. Even if it's similar, they go after it. This creates immune complexes, clumps of antibodies and self-antigen, antibodies antigen, that get stuck in the tiny blood vessels of your kidneys, your skin, your brain. This clogging triggers the complement system. It's this cascade of proteins that essentially calls in an airstrike on the location and the result, vasculitis, tissue destruction, organ failure. It's not a mystery. It's a chain of command failure with a very clear biochemical trail. And yet how many times have you guys, if you're listening to this and you have lupus or you've been done, tell us the time it's a misdiagnosis anyway. You don't even have lupus. But people go, you fit these little, check these boxes. But just think about this, AZT and HIV, the quote unquote cure and the disease have the same symptomatology that should set off giant red flags in your head, by the way. Immunosuppression is one of them. Just so you know, your immune system should never be suppressed, ever. It's keeping you alive. So back up to loop, you guys don't screw with your biology, man. I don't come out here to make you buy my products. I come out here to join my black card membership. I come out here to give you an answer. So you actually run radar, right? Just paying attention to everything. So you know what's real and what's not. You know what the early sign of lupus is? Rosacea. We told you that. Nobody. You think it's a cosmetic issue? Dermatology told you it's about spicy food and red wine and maybe some dark chocolate? That's the nonsense. They just feed you this and you go, oh, okay. So dermatologists, they said that's what it is. What a crock of crap. That is incompetence. The 16 study in JAMA dermatology showed significantly higher risk of autoimmune disease, including in fact specifically lupus, SLES, systemic lupus erythematosis in patients with rosacea. The link? LL 37. Yep, that one. Which is why you don't bomb somebody all that you have to be really, if you guys go well, but what about taking LL 37? Hypothetically, when you have lupus, yes, to regulate it, but under somebody telling you what to do in the dosage. Not some Reddit form or Cora or BroSides guy in a tank top and bulging out everywhere with a trap vein thinking that he knows what he's talking about because he can read chat. GPT. That's not helping. Understand biology. If you come to me with it and you're like, hey, should I take it or should I not? I can't give you an answer unless I until I see your labs talk to you and actually go down the rabbit hole on your symptom of screaming that the inflammatory breaks are failing. You need to listen, which is what this rosacea is. If you have rosacea, your immune system is already cranked up on high alert and lupus is when it jumps the fence. It takes you out and now you have nowhere to go. You can handle rosacea. You can look at to see if you have a parasitic issue. You can check your spleen. Your spleen has usually got some kind of an infection. Parasitic, bacterial, whatever, viral. There's a whole bunch of things that it can be. A stool sample will tell you exactly what the problem is. If you look at what the problem is, you start solving the problem. You never have to worry about lupus, but they just go, I don't know what you showed up. That's not how disease works. Disease shows up because of the three biological failures 100% of the time. I'm right. I will take it to my grave that I'm right and I still think I should get a Nobel Prize for it. Lupus is the ultimate expression of the three biological failures that underlie every single chronic disease on Earth. Just connect the dots that they refuse to connect. Look at systemic inflammation. It's the trigger. It's the trigger. It's not just swelling. This is a biochemical warzone, you guys. In lupus, the initial auto antibody production ignites this cytokine conflagration. TNF, alpha, isles, all of these IFN, all of them. These aren't just inflammatory markers that you see on a lab. There are molecular signals that bombard every single cell in your body. In 2009, immunological reviews showed how IFN specifically creates hyperactive immune environment that impairs regulatory T cell function, most the survival of those rogue auto reactive B cells that you're trying to get rid of. This inflammation is the constant screen that tells your body it's under attack. That's just the inflammatory problem. Look at the insulin resistance. This is like smashing the skinny pedal. Here's the link that medicine ignores. Those inflammatory cytokines, 100%. Listen to the words coming out of my mouth. Listen to me. Proven. The research is endless. There's about 17,000 studies that show this. 100% directly cause insulin resistance and people go inflammatory issues aren't the problem. They are the problem. If you go, wouldn't that be the primary problem? No. It's just the catalyst that sets off this terrific holocaust in your system. TNF, alpha, and IL-6 activate the series of kinases, GNK, etc. That phosphorylate IRS insulin receptor substrate 1 on serine residues. This blocks the normal tyrosine phosphorylation needed for the insulin signal to travel down the pathway for glute 4 transporters. It's like pouring glue into the lock of your front door. The key is stick and gum in it. Filling with crazy glute. I don't care what example you use. Putting duct tape over it. Whatever. The insulin, the key, can't turn. Glucose can't get into the cell and the result is hyperglycemia. But worse, now the cell is starving for fuel while floating around in this sugar-rich bloodstream. So this creates AGEs, advanced glycation end products that damage tissues and blood vessels. Remember rage receptors? Creating, you guessed it, more inflammation. 2015 paper, Nature Reviews, Rheumatology. 100% linked insulin resistance to increase disease activity in lupus patients. Specifically, specifically, sufficient cycle that they treat with steroids that cause more insulin resistance. It's madness to me. I honestly can't get my head around it other than it's for profit because they're not looking to solve your problems. They're looking to keep you managed and profitable. Look at ATP shortage. This is the ultimate collapse of your entire system. This is the final failure of your whole biology with insulin resistance blocking glucose entry. The mitochondria, obviously, are starved of their primary fuel. So the TCA, the Krebs cycle, starts to sputter and die. The ETC, electron transport chain, becomes very inefficient and it leaks out electrons that generate this flood of ROSs, this reactive oxygen species. This is the oxidative stress. This mitochondrial dysfunction is catastrophic. 2018 cell metabolism proved T cells from lupus patients have profoundly dysfunctional mitochondria, which alters their metabolism, promotes their auto inflammatory phenotype, causes this chaos. The cells responsible for policing, right, looking around self other policing the immune response are running on E. So they can't do anything because they don't have the gas. This energy crisis isn't a side effect, you guys. It's the engine of the disease. The fatigue is, I drive, somebody told me, this is my doctor told me it was psychological. Are you high? You feel free to ball up your fist and punch that doctor right in the face. Are you out of your mind? The fatigue isn't psychological. It's a systemic ATP bankruptcy problem. You don't have the very currency for life, adenosine triphosphate, to fund all of your transactions for life. You guys see this loop, right? Inflammation causes insulin resistance, insulin resistance causes mitochondrial dysfunction, right, the ATP shortage. Mito-condrial dysfunction generates reactive oxygen species, right, oxidative stress that fuels more inflammation. So when a patient arrives with this systemic civil war, what's the standard of care? It's this medical list of atrocities. Look at the gold standard that these cowards, and you guys need to step up. It's like the IRS. You guys need to step up and go, you know what, you guys can pound sand. 1913, nobody was paying tax. You think your taxes are going to anything in your country. You better take a long, hard look at where your money is going. Imagine if you spent, this is totally off subject. Imagine if you spent all your money in your own town supporting all the businesses in your own town. You didn't jump on Amazon every day and give Jeffy B more money. You didn't opt for, I need to be more green and take longer to get my delivery. You need to go and spend money in your neighborhood and support all the businesses there and go back to that kind of world. I promise you, all the money you put in your own town will benefit the town. Let me know how federal taxes benefit your town. I'll wait. I'll wait. They don't. So save it. Look at this gold standard train wreck dumpster fire that they give you for lupus hydroxychloroquine, Pacuino, right? This is the safe drug. It works. It works by very weakly inhibiting TLRs, toll-like receptors and raising the pH in something called the lysosome, which slightly reduces the processing of autoantigens. But here's the catastrophic side effect of this entire thing. Perversible retinal toxicity. The drug accumulates in the retinal pigment epithelium and causes permanent blindness, laundry list of people that have had this go through. So you're trading one disability for another. Does this sound common? Because they do this all the time. You guys can see this with just about anything. Find the drug. Listen to any drug commercial. Hey, RINVoke, it does this very rarely, but it does all of this awesome stuff that makes you a disaster physiologically and biologically for life. But you guys sign up and go, I took it. It was great for me. No, it wasn't. And you know it wasn't. You're just, you don't want to be wrong. Listen, please pay attention because I come out here because I care. I come out here because you have no idea. It brings me to tears. Sometimes I've laid in my bed and teared up because I care so damn much about mankind because I'm so thoroughly disgusted at 52 going on 53 at how you guys are being abused, how we're all being abused, having drugs shoved into a spray on us, poured in our water, put on our food, put on our skin, given to our children, given to our elderly. Instead of going, we are designed to be a juggernaut and they have convinced you otherwise. You are so friggin strong. And all you do is go, I guess I'm just, it's my genetics. It's not your genetics. It's their psychology that they're pointing, they're poisoning you with. Please listen to me. Think about the permanent damage it's causing to your eyes. The retinal pigment epithelium. It's 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology guideline mandates regular eye exams because the damage is silent, credibly severe, irreversible and progressive. Happens real quick. Prednisone. There's the next one. I talked about this a minute ago. This is like a wrecking ball. It's my favorite term, right? I think I'm listening to Katy Perry too much, maybe. Shut up. It's my show. Anyway, so a synthetic glucocorticoid, right? Indiscriminately suppresses inflammation by inhibiting the transcription factor NF Kappa B. Now we know about NF Kappa B. If you follow me for any amount of time. But here's the problem. When you suppress indiscriminately, suppress all your inflammation, it's like using a fire extinguisher that also melts the foundation of the entire building. So start tower, you put out the fire, but it sinks into the ground and falls over. The side effects are this textbook of disease, Cushing's syndrome, moon face, the buffalo hump, right? Hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, diabetes. Type 2 diabetes, which you already know if you've listened to me. Type 2 diabetes is the precursor to type 3 diabetes, which is Alzheimer's and dementia. Neuronal starvation, proteolysis, muscle wasting. The most brutal of all, by the way, that most people don't tell you, but if you look up any lupus research, you'll see this, especially with people on prednisone. Go outside of lupus. Just look at people on prednisone, long standing prednisone, avascular necrosis. This is where the blood supply to your bones, typically by the way, the femoral head, right? The hip, right? There's the acetabulum on the head of the femur. It's cut off. So the bone dies, becomes necrotic, dies. It collapses, right? The trabecular bone gives out, the cortex crumbles, and you need a hip replacement when you're 31,000, I think it was 2,000? 2,000 study. Lupus, the journal, 20% of lupus patients on steroids developed osteonecrosis. People call that number significant. I call that appalling. This isn't treatment, you guys. That's not treatment. It's a government sanctioned, publicly supported utilation. You guys are mad about the wrong things because you get addicted to social media. You guys need to look at how mankind is being treated, how for all the years that they've been doing cancer research, for example, and how many trillions have gone into cancer research, cancer's increased by almost 75%. They're not looking for a cure. They're convincing you that they are. So you stay on the hook. Look at mycophenolate. Mycophenolate, right? Cell symptom. This is like a chemical weapon. It's an anti-metabolite. It works by inhibiting inizine monophosphate dehydrogenase. I am PDH. It's this crucial enzyme in what's called the de novo pathway of purine synthesis. Since lymphocytes are pretty much the only cells, as far as I've ever seen, that rely as heavily as they do on this pathway, the drug selectively nukes your adaptive immune system. What did I just say about your immune system? Why would you ever want to nuke it? It's not going to make you healthier. The catastrophic side effect, by the way, profound bone marrow suppression. What do you think? What gets created in the flat bones, the marrow of the flat bones? Give you a hint. Red blood cells. There you go. It's a rhetorical question. Memia. Umboscytopenia. Making you a walking target for fatal infections. It's an incredibly brutal teraudigin. FDA, just so you know, this is how bad it is. FDA pregnancy category D. D causes craniofacial and cardiovascular malformations. My wife took one for the team with both kids. Never took a drop of any medication. No alcohol, no nothing. Eight trained. She was all baby until about eight months. Like just that she didn't, you could barely see her until about eight months, rather like maybe seven and a half. She was fit, tiny little butt, little BUN in the oven. That's it. And our kids are badass. They're fit, they're strong, they're healthy because we made them that way because we took no chances. And when I say we, I mean her, she's listen, you guys walking around going, I had to struggle too. I didn't have sex for nine months or I had sex all the time or whatever it is if your wife turned into a nympho and she was pregnant. I've seen it go both ways. So whatever I have the conversations that you guys share with me are mind blowing sometimes. But the point is who cares? You're building a person. Support your wife. Love your wife. Help her with everything, whatever she needs. I used to go get the same taco on my way home from seeing patients every day for seven months, every day. Same taco place. It was so often, it was five days a week. They would ask, hey, how's your wife doing? How's the baby? How's the baby coming? And next thing you know, I didn't show up and I went back there one day, went after our son was born. And they went, oh my God, because it was our son, our daughter we had already had. And they asked nothing pictures and they sent a whole bunch of new tacos to Brandy. Take care of your spouse. I realize this has nothing to do with this podcast, but it doesn't matter. Take care of your spouse when you're doing this. But at the same time, you damn well better take care of that baby. I don't care how sick you are. My wife, she was sick for four months. I did everything I could to alleviate that. She wouldn't take medication if you held a gun to her head. Why? Because she said, I'm the baby's best chance. I have so much respect for my wife. She is a juggernaut. That's your job as a mom. You've been convinced that you're like, it's okay to just take some medication. No, it's not. And if you want to get my comments and get mad about that, you know what, you can go right to hell and don't bother following me because we're not going to get along. I think it's juvenile to take a chance with your child. I do. So when I talk about this, people taking, right, Michael Fennelly, self-sept if you need to know what it's called, it causes patient and you're okay with taking a chance with your baby. There's a reason how they know that, by the way, because it's happened. Here's the best part of self-sept. Long term, long term being longer than eight months, by the way, that's what long term is in this case. According to research, proven increases the risk of lymphoma by 50%. 2005, New England Journal of Medicine confirmed its efficacy. Really, it did. I'm not going to crap on this completely. For lupus nephritis specifically, but the price is turning the patient into a chronically immuno compromised walking cancer target. Make it make sense. Make it make sense. You can't. You guys, this has managed to climb. It's a business model, not a cure. It makes zero sense because it ignores the root cause of the entire problem, which fits perfectly into a very simple, irrefutable model of all chronic disease. My three biological failures. Where's my Nobel Prize? I'll say it again. I will go over this with perfect clarity. Systemic inflammation. Again, the autoimmune attack creates the cytokine hurricane, TNFL, IL6, IFN, all of this stuff. There's your inflammation. Induces insulin resistance, right? Inflammation causes 100% of the time. These cytokines phosphorylate IRS1, insulin receptor substrate one on serine residues instead of tyrosine. So it blocks the pathway. So your cells become death to insulin. Don't hear it at all. Don't see it. Don't hear it at all. Don't see it. Don't hear it. So glucose floods the bloodstream, glycating proteins and creating AGEs, advanced glycation end products, excuse me, that cause significantly more damage. There's your insulin resistance. And then this triggers the ATP shortage because glucose can't get into the cells to feed the mitochondria, the power plants, right? The little power plants that keep you alive. The Krebs cycle, the TCA cycle, whatever you want to call it, right? Just pukes. It starts belching purple smoke on the freeway. It doesn't work. The ETC electron transport chain effectively tanks ATP production tanks. This mitochondrial dysfunction generates a flood of ROS's reactive oxygen species, which is the oxidative stress, which feeds right back into, ready for this mic drop moment, more systemic inflammation. Lupus isn't just autoimmune. It's a metabolic and energetic catastrophe in the drugs. They take a jerry can of gas and pour it on the already lit, crazy fire. It turns it into an epic flamethrower. Prednisone is a direct cause of insulin resistance. Michael Fennellate attacks the rapidly dividing cells in a body already struggling to produce energy. You guys have to understand this. They're giving you things that aren't solving the problem. They're just telling you it does. But look at the laundry list of effects that it has on the other side of the equation. You're missing the point. And I get it. You're desperate for relief. But if the relief costs you your life, it's not relief. You're just, you're volunteering to put yourself out of your own misery. That doesn't make sense to me. Solve the friggin problem, which is why I'm here every day. Never mind that. Look at the deficiencies, the nutrient deficiencies in lupus patients. It's not random. This is even easier. No, this will not solve the entire problem. But it sure as hell helps. Vitamin D deficiency. It's caused by sun avoidance and steroid use. It's crucial for T regulatory function, by the way. You need it. Deficiency worsens the immune dysregulation, so it pours more gas on the fire. Look at B12. Caused by malabsorption from gut inflammation and drugs like methotrexate, which is a chemotherapeutic drug. They also give you that four rheumatoid arthritis for your flare ups, except it's chemotherapy. Get it through your head. Chemotherapy is never good for you. Ever. Full stop. Leads to megaloblastic anemia, worsened neuropathic brain fog, so you become stupid and deficient by decision just by missing a vitamin. And no, not all vitamins are the same. And if some Insta Bro biohacker Brecca Z lot is pushing nothing but vitamins, that's not going to help you. The system is still offline. I get so many people from Brecca going, all they did was give me vitamins from his vitamin store. Go figure. Listen, you want to buy your whatever you buy. I'm always hesitant to say it. Peptides, all the stuff from someone else. You go right ahead. I'm not hawking my stuff. You want to buy from elite? Awesome. I don't care. I still come out here and give you the answer. I personally thorn, ortho molecular, professional, complementary health formulas. Period. Those are the companies I use. I use nobody else. That's it. I don't use any other company for vitamins. Ever. Because I trust them. Iron deficiency. That's another one. Anemia of chronic disease, right? Hepsidon. It's an inflammatory cytokine that traps iron inside the macrophages. It prevents it from being used for red blood cell production. RBCs are important, right? The Keri Oxygen. Vitamin B6 deficiency. Increased metabolic demand from the chronic inflammation that you're walking around in all the time. Deficiency, by the way, exacerbates the neuropathy that you have when you have lupus. Listen, you guys, the system writes off patients with lupus because it's built on a flawed premise. It's built on suppression instead of restoration of your biology. The solution isn't to kill the immune system. That doesn't even make sense to me because it makes you a walking liability to yourself. It's to reboot it. Start it again. Get it work. You need to restore order to your system. Eliminate the three biological failures and the problem's solved. You need to fix them. And if somebody goes, oh, here you go, hawking your stuff again. I'm right. You know, the guy that invented being out of gas. This is being sarcastic, by the way. He's not wrong when your car sputters to a halt because the tank is empty. Put gas in the tank and your car runs again. It might be something else. It sure might be. But if your tank is empty, that's the first place I'm looking. You need an entire protocol that solves this problem with surgical precision. So let me explain a few things that work very well. Thymus and Alpha One, SS 31. I couldn't think of a better dynamic duo. Thymus and Alpha One, master regulator produced by the Thymus. Very organ that fails in lupus. Oh, strange. 2014. Anals of the New York Academy of Sciences proved its actions. It boosts CD4 and CD8 T cell function enhances T regulatory cell activity, which are the peacekeepers, right? It promotes dendritic cell maturation so you get better intelligence for your immune system, not brain for your byproduct because of inflammatory insulin resistance. But for your immune system, it becomes better at surveillance and it modulates cytokine production towards a tolerogenic state. It's literally replacement therapy for the failing thymic function. I'll even go through every process just so you understand. So I don't just explain what these things do. Thymus 31, mitochondrial targeted antioxidant, right? We already know. Inter-mitochondrial membrane has this very unique sequence that allows it to concentrate a thousand fold. It's like it's got a magnet to the inter-mitochondrial membrane. It scavenges ROSs, Reactive Oxygen Species, the source of production complexes 1 and 4 of the ETC, Electron Transport Chain. 2017 study, JCI insight, proved it protects polosites in kidney disease, which the reason I bring this up is because it's a direct application for lupus nephritis. These things are really important because you have to look at what they're doing and how they're affecting the system. Just watch them work system by system. Look at the integumentary system, right? The skin. So the butterfly rash, the discoid lesions, the immune complexes deposited in the dermis activating complement, all that stuff. Thymus and Alpha calms the aberrant T cell response that's attacking the skin. SS 31 protects keratinocytes and fibroblasts from mitochondrial oxidative stress, promoting the tissue repair and reducing all the lesion formation. That's just the beginning. Look at the cardiovascular system. Lupus causes this very accelerated atherosclerosis and pericarditis. You don't want to screw around with that, by the way. Chronic inflammation damages the endothelium. Thymus and Alpha 1 shuts down the cytokine storm that drives all this damage. SS 31, proven by the way, 2013 study in circulation, protects all of the endothelial cells and cardiomyocytes from mitochondrial, rather, permeability transitioning, poor open transition.  and chloro-opening. So, here's what that means. It prevents cell death and preserves heart function. And if you go, why didn't you just say that? Because I want you to understand the mechanism. Look at the kidneys. This is where the ... By the way, lupus beats the crap out of your kidneys. Okay? Renal system. Lupus nephritis. I just talked about this. Immune complexes clog the glomeruli, the little filtering unit. So, it inflames these little puffs of vessels, these little filtration units. Thymocin-alpha-1 reduces the production of the pathogenic antibodies. An SS-31 directly protects the energy-intensive mitochondria of the renal tubular cells and the podocytes, which I was just talking about, preventing their apoptosis, cell death, and preserving the kidney's filtration capacity so you don't run into kidney disease or failure, which is all possible with lupus, you guys. Look at the hematologic system. Anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, thymocin alpha-1 rebalances the hematopoiesis and the bone marrow by modulating the inflammatory signals that disrupted in the first place. You have to think of this from the 1,000-foot view, not the mitigating symptom, etiology view, because that doesn't help anything, which is where pharmaceutical companies want you to stare at the symptoms because it's an easy cell. Pain here, solve here, but what if the pain isn't here? What if this is just the result? Pain here, solve here, your fingers are on the element and they go, let's give you something to numb the pain, but your fingers are still on the element. How about you just take the hand off the element? You've got to think differently about your biology. Look at SS-31. It protects the hematopoietic cells, the stem cells, specifically from the oxidative stress that impairs their ability to differentiate into healthy, strong word there, healthy blood cells. Look at the musculoskeletal system. All of these are massive. This is the primary areas of what lupus destroys and attacks and causes the most problems. We can get into the neurological system. There's so many things we can go into, but this would be a podcast of four hours long. So musculoskeletal system, we've got arthritis, myalgia. This in Alpha-1 reduces the inflammatory cytokines, IL-1, IL-6, TNF-Alpha, all of them that attack the synovium of the joints. SS-31 improves ATP production and skeletal muscle mitochondria. So this directly combats the crippling fatigue that is not psychological. Don't you dare let some doctor tell you that. I told you, ball up your fist, punch them right in the head. Crippling fatigue and it promotes muscular repair. I says 31. MOTC is another variation that you want to add to this. You got to take them in the right hierarchy. MOTC, first, SS-31, second, MOTC, third for your kangaroo. But that's a whole other conversation that I can't legally talk about here. You have to address the broken off switch, by the way, in this entire thing, the colon or giganti-inflammatory pathway. This is where people get really twitchy. So this is your vagus nerve's direct line to your immune system. So when it's activated, it releases acetylcholine, which binds to the, hold it up, alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on macrophages. That's why this thing is so savage. This binding specifically inhibits NF-Kappa-B translocation, instantly shutting down the TNF alpha production. It's the body's built-in circuit breaker for inflammation. In lupus, this pathway is completely dysfunctional, broken. So this is why I'm talking about this. It's not about vaping or smoking. It's not the same or pouches or any of that. That's far too heavy of a hit. Instant hyper-loaded, hypervolume, hyperdictive. This is not. This is about pharmacology. This, I have to say this because I can't say it because they'll pinch this video. This alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist that I'm holding in my hand that looks a lot like a flat thing that you stick on your body. 2011, the Journal of Immunology. It proved that alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism, the little patch that sticks to your body, reduced massively anti-DSDNA antibodies, protein urea and kidney damage, solely from activating this pathway. But it's bad for you, right? Listen, they're not. I'm not talking about intoxicating a patient or doing something stupid. I'm talking about restoring a critical biological signal that's been silenced in SLE. Listen, you want to know, you want to go down the rabbit hole? Let's do this. I'll just give you the whole friggin' thing. I'm tired of people going, what do I do? How do I do it? What do I do? Listen, you want this entire thing. I'm going to make this post on Instagram today in a very short, stubby little version with a full, listen, if you guys can't figure out how to go click the button, if you go, the button never shows up, move to my country. You guys in other countries are freaking out because the button doesn't show up. That's not my problem. That's not my problem. If you can't figure out how to go into your DMs, I had some guy ask me, where do I get this? Have you opened any of the friggin' research I've given you? No, sir, I haven't. I go, how about you start there? Trying to help you guys. So let's go line by line through this. Famous alpha one, alpha one. Reboots the central immune tolerance, fixes the intelligence failure, the immune intelligence failure, right? SS-31 protects mitochondrial integrity, ends that ATP crisis and reduces the massive ROS, the reactive oxygen species leak, right? The oxidative stress. That's C, mitochondrial derived peptide, translocates to the nucleus. I say it every time to regulate metabolic stress response genes. That's how this works, period. It improves glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, and it directly attacks failure, too. We already know that lupus is a product of the three systemic failures. 100%, I just proved it. BPC-157, you can call this, like Kevin Costner, right? It's a bodyguard peptide. It's angiogenesis, healing of the GI tract, repairs the leaky gut that fuels the antigenic load that's entering the lipopolysaccharides that are puking out of your sewer system. What do I say? Into the nice self-contained closed loop system of your circulatory system where it's not supposed to be. Then the immune system freaks out and causes all kinds of problems. KCU, it's the regulator of gene expression. 4,000 plus genes shifts the thousands and thousands of genes from a profile of inflammation to one of repair and tissue remodeling. Then the Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism patch. It's stupid. This is a free country. I shouldn't be able to do this. It's ridiculous. This is me off to be honest. January 3, 2026. I'm like, I better be careful what I say. Devates this anti-inflammatory pathway. It's like an instant off switch for cytokine production. It's that fast. I can't explain how savage it works if you're afraid to try it because you used to be a smoker or something. They're not even in the same league. They don't do the same thing. That's not how it works. 15 pyrazines. 599 extra chemicals added to it. I could do this. I just don't have honestly the desire right now to get into proving it. You decide. You want to go and take all prednisone and everything else. You knock yourself out. Hydroxychloroquine, it's fine. But I'm sitting here giving you a solution because I genuinely give a damn about you and I don't even know you, but I genuinely care. This protocol attacks the three failures all at the same time. Thymus-enulfa-1 and the Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism extinguishes the fire of systemic inflammation. SS-31 restores the insulin sensitivity and eliminates the ATP shortage. BPC-15's GHK-Cu repairs all the collateral damage that's been going on. You're not managing decline. You're rebuilding the biological infrastructure from the ground up. The current paradigm of healthcare in general, you guys, is a surrender. It's a billion trillion dollar industry that profits from patient suffering. I say this all the time. It's a failure of intellect, failure of courage, failure of basic scientific integrity. It disgusts me. The tools for a cure exist because it comes back to building yourself into a juggernaut where pathology can't survive. The research is published everywhere. It's ignored because healthy patients are not a sustainable revenue stream, right? So they're going to keep throwing everything at you ads. Doctors calling you, making you feel guilty for not taking what they prescribe. You need to stop managing symptoms, you guys. You want all the information on this, you're going to have to go to Instagram and tap in the keyword. Because I legally can't say it, which is ridiculous because I could tell all you about how to take tell stuff. All about it. I could tell you every last detail about it, which makes no sense because it will not solve your problem. You need to engineer remissions in your physiology where there's a biological problem. The mystery of lupus was solved decades ago. The problem, you guys, listen to me. It very, it frustrates me because in 2026, I'm actually giving you the answer. The only remaining mystery to all of this is why anybody is choosing to ignore the answer. Anyway, listen, I hope you got something out of this. I don't come out here for me. I come out here for you because if you haven't figured it out yet, I love the crap out of you. And you, I'm the only doctor out here doing this because I don't have an ulterior motive or secret agenda. I'm just a bald bearded dog who genuinely gives a shit. I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.