

=== FILE: BPC157 Does Everything - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [O_hbAtgMSE8].txt ===

 udaumount查 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected all the time, I want you to actually use the freaking system. You have this machine that you're born with, it is a juggernaut the day you're born. And what ends up happening is people beat it up and then doctors follow up and add insult to injury and give you treatments that don't matter, don't do anything and actually cause further damage, creating a much more lucrative profit machine out of you than a referral machine or a good review machine. Because what happens is they give you things that cause future issues that they get to treat, which makes them more revenue and turns you more into a profit machine. And that pisses me off. So I'm just going to tell you how to do everything and then we'll go from there, right? Yes, it is a Charlie Brown mug. I got this from my mom. She sent my whole family a bunch of these. My mom's pretty cool and she's scraping 83 and yeah, she's killing it. That's good. My mom's pretty rad. Charlie Brown, right? Think about it. We are the 27th of December. If you guys ever watched any of some of you guys might not even know what that is the Christmas Charlie Brown special with a little tree. And it's one of those things that you think about and it realizes has nothing to do with the podcast, but the clock never stops. Like I remember when I was a kid, that was a TV special and I had to wait. I got something called a TV guide. You had to look at it and go, okay, it's going to be on Friday at seven o'clock. And then you had to wait. Then you got to watch it. And then if you missed it too bad, right? Like things have changed so much. Like now I can pick up my phone. I can go on this computer and I can watch anything I want like this. It's lost a little bit of its luster because of that because the anticipation was pretty wild. Everything is instantaneous and people say it's really great. But I think delay of gratification is being lost and the expectation and the entitlement is rampant. And we don't know how as a society, I think for the most part to handle things that normally would have just been nothing like people overreact to everything, even in my comments, you guys, people react and get worked up and angry and bitter and aggressive and hateful and just noisy about things that just wouldn't have mattered 25 years ago. People, it just wouldn't, you would have just brushed it off and kept that you wouldn't have cared. Nobody would have been hunting down something to be triggered about. They just wouldn't have moved on with their day. So maybe you guys look at older people like me and go, huh, maybe this guy actually knows some stuff. So I'm not just going to go over BPC. I'll give you a whole rundown of it because you asked, but I'm going to go through an entire way of using BPC as like BPC as wild man. It doesn't just do one thing. It does all the things. You got to understand that like BPC is so next level. And it's one of the things it's Riverside FM, which is who I use for podcasts, is it took my most used word, BPC-157 for the year. Remember, I've been doing this since January 1st, 2025. I'm coming up on an entire year of producing content on YouTube and podcasts. That's pretty rad. But that means I talk about it a lot because it's awesome. I think that's easily a forever peptide. I'll even explain it. Do not take two milligrams every day or anything like that. That's far too much. But you guys have to understand, you guys have been told, and I've said this so many times at Health is this complex thing that diseases and inevitability to you and that your body is this weird shrouded mystery and the only hope is surgical intervention or a bunch of chemistry that they concoct in a lab. You guys got to understand that is garbage. It's there to manage symptoms and ignore the cause. That is a very profitable story for them. But it's a lie. It hurts you. Imagine if you like, I'll give you two examples right off the cuff. KPV. I woke up. I might have told the story, but I woke up one night. My gut was really bad. It felt almost like pancreatitis. Yes, I've been through pancreatitis. I know what that feels like. Brutal. And I got up and I took two milligrams of hypothetically for my kangaroo, took two milligrams of BPC, and 500 micrograms of KPV. And 25, 30 minutes later, I was asleep. I woke up the next day, felt like a million dollars. So what I'm telling you is that's a big frigging deal because people end up in the hospital for things they don't need to be in the hospital for. And the hospital is a very dangerous place. It's not there for anything other than profit. Oh, I'm sure that's going to get some sensor all pissed off. And whoa, it's medical misinformation. I can show you the proof. There's astronomically large amounts of research that prove that I'm right. I am right. Listen, the truth is this most chronic disease, the stuff that slowly trickles through and ruins your life stems from the same three frigging things, the biological failures, the same ones that I came up with a long time ago, not hundreds of different things. There aren't hundreds of different diseases. There are three, and those three have different symptoms, but it's the same problem. And I, like I said, give me my Nobel Prize, not for anything other than I want to go down in history as everybody knowing that is the root cause of all disease. And the issue is that's probably a fantasy because it would expose, believe me, everything I'm doing here is exposing the truth. What I find interesting is I come out here to help and people still get all butthurt. And it's because people are so fragile and soft that it goes against the narrative they've been indoctrinated by. Yet they're not getting any better. What are you waiting for somebody to give you some magic answer? I'm giving you the answers and I do it for free. Look, go through these three, three failures, then I'll go over BPC and everything else, by the way. One, the first one, you this rampant uncontrolled systemic inflammation, your body's emergency alarm is stuck in the on position to insulin resistance. Your cells are becoming deaf to the master hormone that tells them to take in fuel, right? The glucose and three, the chronic ATP shortage, your cellular power plants, the mitochondria are failing and they're leaving you running on fumes. Solve these three and you don't just treat disease, you prevent it, you reverse it and you make your body inhospitable to pathology. You're designed this way. You've been taught that you're not, but that's not the truth. I know what I'm telling you. I know what I'm doing. And I'm not telling you to buy something. Like I said, what do I always say about the black card? You want to join the black card? It's $9,997 for a wire. Here's what it comes with. You get my live Q&A call. I do every Monday, not the Sunday call, the Monday call, private Q&A call. I stay on for a couple of hours and answer everybody's questions and solve all their problems, no matter what they are. And my answers are right. You get the entire protocol library and you get the VIP community where I actually, it's me. You send them, you put a message in there and it's me. So not only do you get to interact with me for real like this and I give you the answers, you actually can ask me questions and you could throw everything you want to me. Labs, I don't care. I'll help you as much as I can without crossing some weird line that I'm not allowed to cross. But I literally give you everything you need because I, and the community is filled with people that are genuine badasses who love life and want everybody else to have a badass life. I have a no asshole policy. If you're an asshole, I won't even let you in. I don't care how much you pay me. By the way, that amount is going up to $25,000 as of January 1st. So if you want in, you better hustle ass because I'm not looking back. It is wire transfer only. You want to get in? Here's how you do it. You ready? Write this down. Apply at unlockthecard.com. It's an email. Jen, my CFO or Amber, my executive assistant will answer that email with this response. Here's the wire information. Here's the bank we use. Here's everything you need. They'll send you the sheet. You send the wire. You're in a day to three days, depending on when it is because if it's the weekend, I can't verify the wire and trust me, bro, doesn't work. Right? They will verify before they give you anything. That's number one. Number two is if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, my company, knock yourself out. Everything's there and it's all legit. It's all tested and everything is done in a very professional way. And the best part is that if I give it to my family, I'll give it to you. If I wouldn't give it to my family, it's never, ever going into your head. That's how tight I run this thing. You look at me and you look at how I run my life. You'll mow down while it's true. But I don't care. I still come out here. If you don't want to buy from them, that's fine. You don't want to buy from my companies, that's fine. But that's, those are the only two things I ever sell. So if somebody comes up with something else, what about this? I don't do it. If you don't ask me a bunch of questions, I'm not going to answer them until you either join. Because if you're going to send a bunch of questions to the email, they're just going to say, here's how you join. Listen, I need to show you about all of this because BPC, I talk about this so much in my group, but BPC is this naturally occurring juggernaut peptide and it's not science fiction. It is pure biochemistry. It's physiology. The data published, by the way, in the world's leading journals everywhere. Irrefutable. Irrefutable. Look at this. BPC-157, body protecting compound. We've talked about this plenty of times. Body protecting compound, 157. 15 amino acid peptide sequence. It's this chain of building blocks that's found naturally in human gastric juices. Your stomach makes it. And I think about that for a second. The most corrosive environment in your body, right, is that of hydrochloric acid designed to dissolve food, chop up protein, produces a substance that protects it. It's not some foreign chemical. And if you go, well, yeah, that's logically why you can take it orally. Doesn't work like that. Doesn't work like that. You go ahead and take BPC-157. For all of you guys that are going, I take it orally and it works. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. It never has. It never will. It's not possible no matter how many ways you try and stabilize it. That's like sitting there and going, I'm going to take a steak. I'm going to throw it into a wood shepard and I'm going to expect a cow to be standing on the other end. It is not possible. It won't pass through the enterocytes. Number one. Number two is all the proteolytic enzymes demolish it. Hydrochloric acid cleaves the hell out of it. And the biochemical PhD bouncer, your liver takes it and shreds it. That's how it's designed. That is how it's designed. You cannot take it anything other than subq. Period. You guys can argue all you want. Say it worked for me. It worked for my friend. What about it? Nazily. Watch. The only way it works, there is only one method. Subq. Period. Period. Everything else is bro science, sales, mumbo jumbo BS. That's it. But it's not something foreign. It's not a drug. It is a native signaling molecule. Your body already uses to heal from daily wear and tear. It's, by the way, it's primary function to cytoprotection, cell protection. It's like your body's built-in repair crew. It circulates and fixes damage. But check this out. This is why I said BPC doesn't do one thing. It does all the things because its job description is far grander than just patching up the stomach lining and solving tight protein junctions and up regulating occluded and zonulin. It doesn't, listen, it does, yes, it solves leaky gut. Also has to be injected. BPC works by systemically programming your bodies or reprogramming your body's response to injury and stress. But it does it at this fundamental level. The key, I don't, I've never seen anybody explain it like this. So I'm going to try and explain it from A to Z. The key is the nitric oxide pathway. So follow me. Nitric oxide is a gasotransmitter. It's a signaling molecule, but this thing has two faces. You have endothelial nitric oxide synthase called enos, which produces nitric oxide that relaxes blood vessels, proves blood flow, and is extremely protected. Then you have inducible nitric oxide synthase, enos, which produces massive damaging amounts of nitric oxide during inflammation, which leads to all the tissue destruction. So follow me. The genius behind BPC-157 is in its selectivity. If you look at the Journal of Physiology 2014, it shows that it specifically promotes the activity of enos, which is the good guy, while at the same time suppressing the expression of enos, the bad guy, this like Jekyll and Hyde, right? It's like this molecular white glove traffic hop, right? It's no go, it directs the healing response down the right path so you get the right results. The enos activation triggers this cascade. Watch, improved blood flow, so that means right out of the gate, which is huge. It is more oxygen and more nutrients delivered to the damaged tissues. All the metabolic waste and toxins stripped away from those same tissues, it upregulates growth hormone receptors, making your cells insanely responsive to your body's own repair signals. It promotes the formation of new blood vessels called angiogenesis to rebuild the supply lines to those injured areas. This is all married together, which is what makes this thing so incredible. And it accelerates the expression of key genes like VEGFR2, which are crucial for tissue regeneration. And this is just one thing, one thing. So in short, look at this. BPC-157 takes a system that's broken, stuck in the inflammatory loop, and it reboots it, flips the master switch from breakdown to rebuild. Look at my three biological failures, because this is one of the ones you need to understand. Just connect the three biological failures, connect the dots. Systemic inflammation, BPC-157 is a very potent anti-inflammatory, but it's not like an NSAID that just blocks a single pathway, right? Cocks to inhibitors. It works upstream. So 2015, the European Journal of Pharmacology showed that it significantly reduces pro-inflammatory cytokines like TNF-alpha, which is what I talk about all the time, NF-Kappa-B. So by controlling the nitric oxide system and suppressing the inflammatory cascade at its root, right, at its fundamental level, it calms down the entire system. That's just one of the three failures. Look at insulin resistance. You already know, if you've listened to me for any amount of time, you shut down the inflammation and insulin resistance goes away. This is about signaling. insulin resistance is driven by inflammation. So when BPC-157 reduces that systemic inflammation, it removes a major blocker of insulin signaling. Your cells can hear insulin again. Furthermore, improved blood flow from the ENOS activation means better delivery of glucose shuttling into the muscles. 2019, Life Sciences on Diabetics showed BPC-157 administration led to improved blood glucose levels and accelerated healing at a massive scale like orders of magnitude massive, showing what? Restoration of metabolic function. And I'm still just warming up, baby. Look at the ATP problem, the ATP shortage, right? ATP is energy, energy, the currency of life that we use as human beings. Listening to this, moving my hands, everything we're doing. Mitocondria are the power plants, inflammation and poor blood flow damage mitochondria. So by restoring the blood flow and reducing oxidative stress, which is what this does, BPC-157 creates an environment where mitochondria can function properly. 14, Journal of Physiology highlighted its ability to protect against toxins, all toxins, which work by destroying mitochondrial function. That's how toxins operate. More oxygen, less damage equals more ATP. It's that simple. We could break down the fundamentals of biochemistry if you want, but you have better things to do with your life. So I'm trying to just give you this. The core of its power, this is the core of all of it, right? Is its ability to do this. Its ability to not, it just doesn't, it doesn't put a bandage on one problem. It fixes the entire underlying environment that caused all the problems in the first place. One peptide, one tiny little, listen, let's go organ by organ. How about that? You want to, the research is astounding. It's, the research is friggin mind-blowing, cardiovascular damage and fibrosis, which is a massive problem. So after a heart attack, scar tissue fibrosis forms, right? It weakens the heart muscle. 18, Study in World Journal of Cardiology, they gave BPC-157 after a heart attack. The results, dramatically reduced infarct size, tiny little damage, right? Improved heart function, improved ejection fraction, significant reduction in fibrosis. How? By promoting angiogenesis, bringing new blood supply to the damaged area and modulating the healing process to favor regeneration instead of scarring. That's just the cardiovascular system. Look at liver problems. Liver problems are rampant, by the way, because of the hyper use of medication for useless things like just about everything. The liver is your detox center. It is designed for this. 2010, Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology looked at liver damage induced by toxins. They gave BPC-157 and they showed near complete, do you understand what I just said, near complete resistance to the damage the livers were protected and the mechanism, watch, it's super easy, up-regulation of cytoprotective pathways and again, control of the nitric enos, the nitric oxide system and reduction of the inus, right? The induce, inducible, right? So this prevents the inflammatory cell death, apoptosis, programmed inflammatory cell death, renal problems, kidney problems, kidney disease, all of this stuff is married together. Kidneys are a filtration system that is, oh, it's fragile, man, the glomeruli, little tufts of vascular chair that they're so fragile. It's this filtration systems that are very easily damaged by toxins and poor, crappy blood flow. 2001, Journal of the American Society of Nephrology examined kidney failure from toxic drugs like NSAIDs. Huh, NSAIDs. Some of you guys take that stuff like Skittles. BPC-157 administration normalized kidney function, counteracted the fall in blood pressure and restored renal blood flow so it functioned properly, directly protecting the delicate filtration structures from failure. Neurological problems. This is the one that nobody wants you to know and everybody says can't be done. I disagree. Your brain and your spinal cord, listen to me, your brain and your spinal cord can heal. Proven, 2019, they showed this, frontiers and behavioral neuroscience showed BPC-157 promotes the regeneration of severed nerves. It accelerated the recovery of motor function after spinal cord injury. Here's how it does this. It does this by protecting the neurons from death, promoting the outgrowth of axons, the nerve fibers, creating pro healing environment in the CNS, the central nervous system, which is by the way notoriously bad at regenerating. Until now, you know what the problem with all of this is? I could do this all day, baby. I could do this all friggin day. The issue is that BPC-157 cannot be patented and it is cheap as dirt. Even if you're like, I had to pay 150 to $200 for it. Holy Jesus, you guys are so cheap. You'll go out and spend 150 grand on a truck that doesn't save your life. You'll buy a house that you can't afford because it's too much house and you'll spend insane amounts of money on your health insurance and all of the drugs you need to take, but you won't do something that costs a fraction of the money that'll save your life. Your brain is... It makes me nuts. Okay. Look at tendon, muscle, ligament damage. This is where BPC-157, by the way, is studied the most. 2009 Journal of Orthopedic Research compared BPC-157 to placebo in healing Achilles tendons. This is awesome. BPC-157 group showed significantly greater tensile strength to the point where the tendon actually healed and was indistinguishable from the other side. Better collagen organization, faster functional recovery. It doesn't just speed up healing. It leads to a stronger repair. It stimulates fibroblasts, which are the cells that build connective tissue, but you keep taking your aspirin. Go ahead. Lung problems. Lung... Watch. Lung fibrosis. This is a personal one from me. Lung fibrosis is a death sentence scarring in the air sacs. Imagine things... Follow me. Imagine things, let's say hypothetically, for a kangaroo that ever had C19, has lung damage because of it. 17. This is before C19, which you guys experienced, which was a... I gotta watch what I say. Here, I'll hold this up. You all might want to look at what I'm holding in my hand. You're welcome. Okay. Journal... 2017 Journal of Applied Physiology. Lung fibrosis. BPC-157 treatment in lung fibrosis prevented... Vented. Are you hearing this? Prevented the development of fibrosis and reduced the inflammation and healed and reversed existing fibrosis. It protected the delicate alveolar structure, the little sacs inside there, the alveoli, and it treated and reversed chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, pulmonary fibrosis, and C19. You keep taking your puffer though, right? Good job. And before somebody starts rambling on about cancer, you have to understand basic physiology and practical biochemistry and biology because I can just hear it. Something that promotes growth. I heard it makes cancer. I heard it doesn't... It's gotta cause cancer if it's doing all this stuff. Of course it does. What should I do? I'm going to again and again dispel that with real research. This is the most important misconception to absolutely demolish. The answer is a resounding, resounding friggin' no. It doesn't. It doesn't. It does not cause cancer. It's not possible. In fact, just so you know, the evidence proves the opposite. BPC-157 promotes orderly, controlled, healing and growth guided by the body's natural regulatory systems. Cancer is pure chaos. It's this disordered, chaotic, disaster growth that evades all the systems. That's the problem. 2017 oncology reports directly tested this. They applied what's the... BPC-157, two cancer cell lines. The result? It inhibited cancer cell growth and migration. Just like that. How about that for a mic drop? Boom! It promoted apoptosis, programmed cell death in the cancerous cells. Watch, there's another study. Journal of Physiology 2007 showed that BPC-157 counteracted the tumor-promoting effects of all the other agents. I would this not be part of the arsenal that everybody has in their life? Think of it this way when it comes to cancer. This is the best way I can explain it, is because I want to build my wife's beautiful dream house. So think of it this way. A construction crew building a house according to a blueprint. I hand the blueprint to Min Chuck and I say, here listen, you got to build this beautiful home for my wife. This is important to me. I adore my wife. I do. I love my wife so much. I want to build the life and everything she ever wanted in her life, no matter what it is, because it's my job as a man. I realize that's off the script, but I just adore my wife, Randy, so much. The blueprint is good growth. Demolition derby is cancer. BPC-157 empowers a construction crew. It doesn't start the engines on the derby and everybody's smashing into everybody. It restores control. So that's how you have to look at this. Look at longevity. This is probably one of the most profound aspects of BPC-157. Everybody's running around looking for some fountain of youth, some springs, some next chemical, some BS that Gary Brekka is trying to sell you that I think is so full of crap. If I see another peptide patch from that guy, I don't know. I kind of want to get in the ring with him because it bothers me so much because it's a bald-faced lie. This is never going to work as a peptide, ever, ever. The skin is designed to keep out. It just doesn't work. That makes me so angry because they're playing off you guys and bilking you for so much money and they're such lies, which is why I won't pair with. I get asked every single day for people to, can you join my company? Can you come do a podcast for me? Every day I get dozens and dozens of requests and most of the time the answer is no. I'll go if it's valid but not a chance otherwise. I'll go speak on a stage in front of 100,000 people if I know it's going to help somebody. But if you're trying to spin off of my credibility and my knowledge and have me endorse your product and I look at your product and I go, that is pure horseshit. I'm never going to do it. There's no amount of money you can give me. None. I will not sell my soul for cash just because you want me to come speak at your conference because I care too much about mankind. I am here for a purpose. My purpose is to save everybody, all of mankind's health problems. That's why God left me here. That's why I'm here. Take it however you want it but I absolutely believe in every single person that listens to this podcast and I go, I want you to win man. I want you to be healthy. I want you to be strong because I've been on the other side of the equation laying in a bed texting my wife saying I'm not going to make it till the morning and it was real. It wasn't me giving you some Insta Bro story. It was terrifying and they rolled me out of a hospital in a wheelchair missing a lung. I care whether you like it or not. I care. Like I love everybody enough to give you the information so you can go have this great life. Free from all the shackles of the nonsense they're trying to convince you you need. Look at aging man. It is the accumulation of cellular damage, the decline of mitochondrial dysfunction and the slow creep of systemic inflammation called inflammaging. Sound familiar? Does that entire cascade of events sound vaguely familiar? Maybe like my three biological failures? This is why I am right you guys. BPC-157 directly counteracts the hallmarks of aging by reducing inflammation, protecting mitochondria and enhancing blood flow to all the organs and promoting systemic repair and addresses the root cause of age-related decline. Listen, you're not going to stop the clock. That's not the point of this. That's not what I'm saying. But at 45 years old, if you can't touch your toes or you can't sprint with your son or daughter, you have a problem. Whether you want to admit it or not, that's not normal. You have just been convinced so much that when you're 45, you should just be sitting on the couch yelling at a football game drinking beer. That's not it. The mechanistic evidence is overwhelming for BPC-157, a compound that heals the heart, the brain, the liver, the kidneys, world journal cardiology, frontiers and behavioral neuroscience, journal of physiology and pharmacology. It is everywhere while protecting against the cellular insults of modern life is by definition a longevity compound. Agreed? It doesn't just add years to your life. It adds life to your years. It sounds cliche, but it is a fact. Look it. We have a naturally, follow me, we have a naturally occurring peptide, okay? Master signaling molecule that targets the three root causes of every single disease known to man has demonstrated reproducible efficacy in the journals that are peer reviewed that everybody uses as evidence for everything else for healing everything from severed spinal cords to serotic livers to failing hearts. It does this by hijacking your body's own innate healing pathways and cranking them up to astronomical levels and know that doesn't burn you out. That's not how you're designed and it's not a drug forcing beyond your body's capacity. That's the difference between a peptide and a drug. A drug goes, you're going to do it whether you like it or not. A peptide goes, you're going to do it to the max effort that your body's capable of. Not the same. It has a stellar BPC-157 has a stellar, stellar profile, safety profile. No evidence of carcinogenicity, none, zero, zero. In fact, it has the opposite shown in oncology reports proven. There's probably 15,000 research papers that prove that it has none, no carcinogenicity, none whatsoever. The old model you guys has broken, the model of one drug for one symptom for one organ is dead end. It doesn't work because you're not parts. You're a system that runs like a system. Systemic repair is the answer. Understanding that the body is this interconnected system and to heal it, you have to address the core three failures. You know what's funny is my buddy Mark, I talk about Mark a lot, it's funny, Mark is a good dude, right? But he said, I got this guy yelling at me. I'm the guy yelling at him in my podcast because I actually care. Like this, it makes me so upset because I actually care about you guys. I really do. I want you guys to have it all, man. I want you to have all the money, the most incredible marriage, the most powerful, unbreakable mindset, the most juggernaut, savage, like, grizzly, bare, freaking health. And I'm trying to give it all. So yeah, it gets frustrating sometimes. But listen, BPC is not a magic bullet. It's a key. It's a master key to your physiology that unlocks your body is very profound, very largely untapped ability to heal itself. Everybody's looking for the fountain of youth in all the wrong places. It's not, like I said, it's not some remote spring over there. It's your own freaking physiology. The science is published, credible peer review journals, the data is everywhere. It's not, it's not the if this is possible, which is what the people would if it's not FDA approved. Are you out of your mind? The FDA can take a flying F at a rolling donut. They do not have your well being in mind. If you don't get that by now, we are not going to be friends and I'm totally okay with that. The question you should be asking right now is what am I going to do with all the knowledge that this guy, this Spartan keeps giving to me with Dr. Trevor? What's he giving me all this knowledge? What am I going to do with it? I've given you the blueprint to health. I don't know hundreds and hundreds of times. Listen, you want to talk about turning the system from reboot into overdrive? Let's go a little further. Watch, you guys aren't ready for what I'm about to drop on you. Because what I just showed you is the foundation. How about we build the entire skyscraper and makes that building in Dubai look like it's tiny? Think of BPC-157. What did I call it? What did I call it when I said I'm going to have the guy build my wife's house, right? The master form it the master contractor, right? He's got the blueprint and gets the site ready. But in order to build this whatever house, cathedral, whatever you want to call it, you need a specialized crew. That's the stack and you guys start throwing shit together like you're just like, I don't know, I heard it does this. You guys need to stop listening to bro science and Reddit and Cora and going, this guy said it and he's jacked and that guy said it and he has a big following. None of that matters. I wouldn't care if I had one person following me. I still know what I'm talking about. I know my stuff. I know my stuff because I'm not going to tell you something that's going to harm you. I'm going to tell and I don't tell you to raise my bank account. I tell you because I want you to have the information. We're not the same. If somebody's trying to mark where have you seen me market anything? Where have you seen me just push nonstop product? Never. In fact, I never do. And for all of you guys going, you talk a lot about the products and the stuff, but you never talk about dosages. Number one, talk to your government officials about why I can't talk about dosages legally. All you muppets out there doing it. Enjoy your problems in the future. But if you want all of that stuff and the real answers, I'll give you two things to help you. Black card. It's not hard. Weird. All the answers seem to flow out of that machine. And number two is every single research study I have ever posted, every one of them has the precise dosage. And you guys are all like, oh, you never talk about anything about dosages. Go to Instagram, type the keyword, click the big button twice, click the button. It'll say, Hey, you're asking about this. Yeah. Okay, here you go. Click the button. It'll bring up a Google form name, email, username, put those in if you're like, I don't want to, I've never spammed anybody once. And then the next side of that is a Google doc with exactly what you're asking. And you guys still are like, Oh, you never talk about it's too complicated. Then I got nothing for you. In fact, then you deserve to be sick. Here's your sign. I'm trying to help you, but I have to do it a certain way. If I don't, you're going to lose me as a resource. Enjoy that.  enjoy that because I'm out here busting my hump for all of you guys every day. Nobody's doing it like I am because I genuinely care. So let's go through this awesome stack and then I'm going to bounce because I got stuff to do and I want to hang out with my family like I always love being with my wife and kids. TB-500, we've already talked about BBC, TB-500. This peptide is all about structural repair. 2003, Journal of Investigative Dermatology showed it up regulates this actin polymerization, right? It up regulates actin, the protein that forms the cellular skeleton. It's the scaffolding for everything. It promotes cell migration, so repair cells get to the damage site faster. And Synergy, by the way, baby, BPC-157 preps the site with new blood flow and TB-500 floods it with the actual construction crew. I'm just getting started. Look at KPV. Oh, I'm going to drop it all for you guys. You guys just got to listen to me if you want. I can't give you dosages. So if you're all mad about that, I don't know what to tell you. Maybe just to actually follow the instructions that I just gave you. KPV, it's a tiny little, it's a super, it's a tripephite. It's tiny. It's a molecular fire extinguisher for inflammation. 2003 in peptides, the paper demonstrated this incredibly powerful suppression of TNF-alpha and NF-kappa B, which are the master switches of inflammation. Watch, while BPC-157 manages the broad nitric oxide pathway, both INOS and INOS, right? KPV is your targeted speck ops unit, putting out the worst of the worst, the hottest inflammatory fires. It clears the debris so the rebuilding can actually happen unobstructed because the problem, the gatekeeper to everything in your life that is going to go well, the thing that gets in the way of that, inflammation. The end, the end. If you want to complicate it, you can, but it's not. I'm right. It is always an inflammatory problem. GHK-Cu, copper, call this one like a plumber or an electrician, whatever you want to do, some kind of tradesman. This copper peptide, it's a complex, right? They slap a copper ion onto it. It's the master regulator of tissue remodeling. And what is it remodeled? Look at Journal of Anti-Aging Medicine 2000 shows it modulates over 4,000 genes. It increases collagen, elastin, glycosaminoglycans. It's not just rebuilding the walls, you, right? Your walls. It's rewiring the nervous system. It is neuronal armor. It protects your neurons, your brain, man. It relays blood vessels, the pipes. It works synergistically with BPC because it ensures that the newly built tissue is high quality, functional and very well supplied to Samarillin, ipamarillin. Boy, these things, they're like, like project managers. These are your growth hormones, the critagox. A lot of you guys know about these, but most of you guys, you're missing the fundamentals about them. I'm trying to give these to you. So take your ego and throw it away. They don't inject GH. They signal your pituitary to produce its own in a natural pulsatile rhythm a thousand times better because it isn't riddled with side effects. Yes, you can get slight transient water retention on to Samarillin. Again, did you hear the word I said before that? Transient, one to two weeks. If you're getting it any longer than that, you have a different problem in your system. You might want to look at that, which is why you don't just pick up a stack of peptides and throw them at yourself, which is the problem. You guys treat them like vitamins. They're not. You need to understand that. That's the problem is all these idiot insta bros and want to be experts who go, I just know everything about it because I have a store. That doesn't mean anything. It means that you have a store and you have some contact that's giving you stuff and it's probably bunk. By the way, Genosha is the one that tests all my stuff. What about you guys? Because my COA is legit with a guarantee behind it. How about yours? It's not. I guarantee it. There's no fake COAs in mine. 2007 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology Metabolism confirmed to Samarallan's efficacy and boosting IGF-1 levels are astronomical system. That's a huge number. This is the systemic command. Growth hormone is the signal that tells every cell in your body to grow, to repair, to rejuvenate, BP157 and the crew are working the specific job sites to Samarallan and Ipamarallan provide the economy-wide boom that makes every single repair project more efficient. So look at it this way. To Samarallan, fills the reservoir and Ipamarallan opens the gates. That's how you have to look. It's the easiest way to look at it. To Samarallan, up regulates that growth hormone. So there's more of it. Ipamarallan opens it up, lets it go. At night, by the way, empty at night, half hour before bed with the exception of one thing. If you're on progesterone cream, you do not take it at the same time at the end of the day because progesterone cream will blunt the effects of growth hormone analogues and secretagogues. But again, no instepro is going to tell you that. That's why you got me, which means this is the only time I will ever tell somebody to take it at the beginning of the day. Take the progesterone. Progesterone is going to knock you out and make you sleepy anyway. So take the progesterone cream, rub it on whatever part you're rubbing it on to absorb it and most of the time is vaginal. So I'm just telling you, if you're a dude taking it, that's a whole other conversation. Take that at night to Samarallan and Ipamarallan. It's the only time you'll hear me say this, take it in the morning. It's the only time you'll hear me say that though, other than that, no way. So watch, look at this entire process. Okay, this isn't additive. These aren't like one on top of the other. It's multiplicative. I've talked about this before. It's this biochemical, beautiful symphony. BC157 secures the site, the build site and ensures blood supply. KPV shuts down all of the inflammatory fighters so everything can work. TB-500, remember inflammation, it's the destructive force of the universe. TB-500 brings in the structural crew and all the scaffolding so it can be built properly and everything can get to where it needs to go. GHK-Cu ensures quality control and functionality of the new build so it's actually high quality. It works the way it's supposed to. And to Samarallan and Ipamarallan activates the entire corporate structure so it maxes out the potential. You're not just healing attendant, you guys. You are taking your physiology, your biology and you are orchestrating a full system. You ready for this word? Youth restoring regeneration event from the cellular level up. You want to know cutting edge? It's this. It's not the latest and greatest or newest chemical that come out from Pfizer. It's this. This is how you win, man. This is how you win. Anyway, listen, I hope you guys got something out of this. I gotta go. Never miss.

=== FILE: BPC157 and Longevity (and why it terrifies big pharma) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [Ug_nx7Z9R7I].txt ===

 so it is, it's date night, actually, it's quarter to five, and I'm going to knock this out real quick, and then I'm going to go hang out with my wife, but I started thinking, I've seen all these posts about BPC and BPC-157, and most people are getting it wrong. They call it a healing peptide. It does so much more than that. So much more. If I had to give you the ultimate longevity peptide, I would say BPC-157, and the more I go down the rabbit hole, the more it smokes and stuff. It's incredible. Just from a biochemistry standpoint and a human biology standpoint, it's, it'll change your life, and that's the reason why, like, Big Pharma is terrified. No matter what you think, no matter what kind of stuff you want to try and sell me on or talk about or argue with me, please don't, just please stop arguing in my comments with me. I just don't read them, so I just don't care. Maybe make yourself feel better because you still live at home with your mom. I don't know. I don't know. I just, I don't really know what to say. I'm a, I'm a doctor that comes out here because I care, and that's it. You do what you want to do with this. I don't really know what you want to do with it, but if it's to come on and argue, you have a self-worth problem and you've got none, but BPC-157 has Big Pharma so terrified, and why do you think they're trying to take it off the market? Listen, here's the deal. You guys have been lied to non-stop by Big Pharma and the FDA and the medical industrial complex trying to tell you that aging is the way they have it set up is inevitable, that chronic disease is just part of it. Like you just, you're going to get sick and you're going to get diseases. That's not true. Information is something you manage with NSAIDs or old school celebrax or hydrocodone or whatever the hell they give you and that when your neurons die and you get dementia or Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or MS, that it's, they're just gone forever and there's nothing you can do about it and that your organs, they just, let's go tits up. That is wrong. That is so wrong and it's so frustrating to me. I'm going to prove it. I'll prove it with BPC-157 that why they are absolutely terrified of this molecule because it's so powerful and so fundamentally disruptive to the disease management industry that you guys have become, we've all become subject to and it's costing us our lives and our health and people will, you guys will get in my comments some of you and argue for it because you go, oh what, because we don't need doctors? No, for the most part you do not need doctors because most doctors are now just paid shills or they argue or they're people that are so well trained that now they are just pharmaceutical reps with a white coat and a really expensive degree that taught them nothing, nothing. This is why they're trying, they're doing everything they can to keep BPC and all peptides out of your hands. Listen and how many of your doctors have told you about this? I will, I will give you some biochemistry that's going to make your brain explode. So BPC-157, this is the master class in BPC-157 that you've needed that I'm going to help you with and why Big Pharma is absolutely terrified no matter what you think they are terrified of this stuff because they are trying to have people come out and go against peptides like Dr. Adia trying to put a blowtorch on peptides. Why? He's wrong, it doesn't matter what you say. I don't care if it comes from India or China, it doesn't matter. It's still an effective peptide in trying to reduce its efficacy and quality and saying they're made in these bunker basements with terrible safety standards. You think that Big Pharma gives a crap about your safety when they're putting additives and things into vaccines and whatever drug they're giving you that you guys, they're protecting you? You guys are so indoctrinated and everybody as we've all been, it's, I'll tell you this, I'll take a peptide from some backwater lab somewhere else if I had to over some well-curated marketed Big Pharma pill or injection any day of the week. BPC-157, it's pentadeca peptide, it's a big fancy word for this chain. Who cares what it's called? It's derived, it's not even that people go, it's in your gut. No, it's not. It's derived from a protective protein that is found in your gastric juices, the stomach acid that like your body already makes a version of this stuff. And here's where it gets really interesting. This peptide is a partial sequence of a body protection compound that's naturally secreted in your gastric mucosa. They found this in 1991, scientists in Croatia, they isolated the fragment that needs to do the job and that demonstrated the most healing potential, the highest healing properties and nobody knows about that. It's just some bodybuilder, some powerlifters, some athletes, some insta-bro or influencer on social media and listen, if that's you, that's great, but then you should be, can you explain the Krebs cycle backwards? Can you trace a blood, a drop of blood through the entire cardiovascular system? Can you explain neurology? Can you understand any of the human biology and its simplest form? No. Then you got no business talking about this stuff. You soccer moms need to knock it off. I mean, you're going to do what you're going to do and I'm sure this is going to offend some soccer mom that's sitting there going, let me show you my abs and my insecurity while I'm sitting in my kitchen going, here's how I take GHK-Cu and why I do it and why my skin is positively glowing. But that's not what you're doing. And then you have 10,000 shares and 5,000 comments and none of them are to give people value. They're to get them to buy your crap from some affiliate code or a peptide company. You just decided to start that you're ordering from some company that you've never heard of and listen, all things aside, if you don't understand what you're selling but you're trying to make money off it, you're a piece of shit. You don't even know what you're doing. So listen, BPC, your body produces that parent compound in its design to protect your gastrointestinal tract from the hydrochloric acid that would otherwise chew a hole through your stomach lining like it does with everything else. The pH is 1.5. This peptide doesn't just protect your stomach though. Not at all, man. When you isolate this specific sequence and you introduce it systemically, subq oral does not work, period. We can go toe to toe on that all day long and if you keep going, what worked for me, bro, know it didn't. Your brain was rewarding you for the routine, not the results. Your blood and your tissue will tell you otherwise, but you don't want to go down that route. This stuff protects you and heals everything. Even the molecular structure, if you want to look at it from a biomechanical standpoint, you look at the molecular structure, the five specific amino acids arranged in this very precise sequence. If you take one of those and you take it out of sequence, you change one, you clip one off, you lose the magic. So explain to me then, if I have a key and it's got to go into a lock to unlock the door and the key's got 15 teeth or it's got five teeth. If you want to look at the five amino acids specifically and I take one of those teeth away and then I try and open the door, it's not going to open a greed. Yes, you may as well just say yes, you can argue, but just say yes. If you go, I would just kick the door down. Defeats the purpose dumbass. How is it that if you cleave off a piece of the molecule, it's still going to work? Just so you know, there is zero, zero possibility that if you take oral BPC, that it gets to anything in your system. Zero won't pass your enterocytes. It won't make us make it past first pass degradation. It won't survive the peptidases. It won't survive the hydrochloric acid is specifically designed to chew up proteins. What do you think amino acids are? Listen, stop thinking when you guys buy these oral compounds. It's good for your gut though. No, it's not. It's made in the gut. No, it's not. This is a fragment of what's made in the gut. First of all, you got to get it right. This is why I'm explaining this to you. And this isn't some synthetic pharmaceutical designed to block one receptor and cause 29 new side effects. This is a biomemetic compound, meaning it works with your body's existing systems, not against them, which is what makes this so beautiful. Because listen, let's separate amateurs and professionals and influencers and people that actually give a crap about humanity, which is the only person I've met is me. Again, not an arrogant statement. I'm not out here. What am I selling? Here, I'll help you out. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Awesome. Thank you so much for supporting my company. I don't care. I'm still going to give you the information. If you don't, how many times have I been here? If you want to join the black card, which is access to me, if you go, what's the black card? One year access to me, my live zoom Q&A that I do every Monday, where I answer and solve everybody's problems for two hours straight plus access to the VIP community where you can get in and ask me questions. It's actually me answering you labs. I don't care. Send it all to me. I'll help you out as best as I can. I promise there's people in this group, you guys that have spent eight, 10, 12, 15, 20 years going to doctors, all these people that you guys respect, trying to flaunt their degrees and you guys beaking at me going, didn't you get your license revoked? Didn't you? You're just this. You're just the car. I'm not a PT, by the way. I went med school and Cairo. So just so we get that straight. But it doesn't matter. An electrician that loses a piece of paper that says you're not allowed to be an electrician according to some agency doesn't lose their ability to be an electrician. You guys got that, right? But I'm not out here selling you on my stuff. I'm selling you on yours. So you actually have the answer so you can have a solid health span. But you guys wave these flags for these medical doctors. Like they're such great people, but these are the people, the very people that are causing all the problems because they're just salespeople. What am I selling? You want to join the Black Card? Great. I answer you 24 to 72 hours on average. If it's a more complex case, it takes me a little longer. But you have direct access to me. You get the resource library where there's all kinds of stuff. But none of that matters. You have access to me. So I'll help you. How much is it? Why are transfer only 10 grand? If you want it for anything other than that, keep waiting. It'll go up to $25,000. Knock yourself out. I'm doing it and that's still cheap. Just so we're clear. Listen, BPC, it does more than just heal stuff, which is what the soccer moms and the influencers and the Insta bros and the wannabe people come out and talk about just heal stuff. That's lazy. That is absolutely lazy. Go deeper. It works through so many different mechanisms simultaneously. And this is why it's so powerful because it's not a one-trick pony. It's this master conductor of every single thing that goes on in your biology. Look at it. It modulates. I was talking about this in my Instagram post today. It modulates the nitric oxide pathway. It not just increase, not just decrease, modulates. Does it control it when it needs not just controls when it needs to be controlled. So 2009, Journal of Physiology Paris, BPC, they prove this, interacts with a nitric oxide system. Listen to this. It's so wild. By up regulating nitric oxide synthesis, when you need vasodilation, when you need healing, but preventing excess nitric oxide. Remember, INOS, ENOS. I talked about this. Preventing excessive nitric oxide production that leads to oxidative stress, massive tissue damage when it needs to be throttled back. It's like having a thermostat instead of some switch that people just flick on and off, which is how pharmaceuticals work. Look at it. It activates something called the FAK Paxilin pathway. Just walk with me a little bit. Let me keep going down this. Just trust me. You're going to be like, I don't even understand what language you're speaking. Stay with me. Focal adhesion kinase, FAK and Paxilin are proteins that are critical for cell migration, proliferation, and survival, baby. So when tissue is damaged, you need cells to migrate to the injury site, multiply, and survive long enough to repair all the damage. Agreed? Okay. So BPC-157 activates this pathway, essentially turning your body into a construction crew and giving them both the blueprints and the motivation, the pay to show up and do all the work to the best of their ability until it's done. I mean, 20 Journal of Orthopedic Research confirmed this without question when they proved that it causes a tendon to heal 60% faster than if you left it alone. Sign me up. They were reattaching hamstrings, insected hamstrings in mice and rats in a fraction of the time and people with this stuff doesn't work. I love when people go BPC, doesn't work. That is some serious rage bait, clickbait bullshit. It is absolutely effective. It works in ways. If you have something and it doesn't work, you bought bunk from an imbecile that tried to sell it, probably a soccer mom selling something that has no, she has no concept or they have no concept of what they're selling. They just want the money and they're like, look how much money I'm making. Knock it off. This is your biology you're screwing with. Don't mess with this, you guys. I'm trying to give you the answer so you can make an informed decision. Listen, buy who you want, buy from whoever you want, but I'm trying to help you. Look, the third thing it does, it regulates growth factor expression, specifically VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor, FGF. I don't talk about this one a lot, fibroblast growth factor and EGF, epidermal growth factor. 2018 European Journal of Pharmacology showed BPC-157 increases all three, the expression of all three, VEGF, GF and EGF at injury sites like this, which it knows where it's going, you guys. How crazy is this? Which means more blood vessel formation, more oxygen, more nutrients, less waste, less metabolic catastrophe, less damage, faster healing of the damaged tissue, more supply lines to the battlefield if you really want to break it down. And look at this part. This is the last one. It is so massive. It stabilizes cellular junctions. Your cells are connected by tight junctions, right? They get stuck together really well. Adherence junctions and gap junctions. When these breakdowns, you get leaky tissues like leaky gut, leaky blood brain barrier, leaky vasculature throughout your system. BPC-157 strengthens these connections by upregulating proteins like occludin, iodine. 2016, the same place, same place. European Journal of Pharmacology showed that an interstitial barrier function repairs it to 100% where they couldn't even find this anymore. The mechanism applies systemically. It applies to your vascular system. You're bringing everywhere. That's what I'm trying to explain to you. Listen, you know how I'm big on the three biological failures, right? This is why, give me my Nobel Prize. I solved all disease and I'm doing it because I care. Not because I want the Nobel Prize. I want the Nobel Prize because I want people to remember. That's why I don't care about the money. I care about people going, this guy's going down in history for changing history. He's on the right side of that equation. So, inflammation, systemic inflammation. Just talk about inflammation in general because this is where everything changes. You've been taught that inflammation is bad, but that's only half true. I talked about this in the KPV. Acute inflammation is essential for healing. Chronic inflammation, that is what's kicking your butt because here's what really happens. When tissue is damaged or infected, your immune system releases pro-inflammatory cytokines. IL-1 beta, IL-6, TNF alpha, these create swelling, redness, heat, pain. That's all good. Initially, it brings immune cells and healing factors to the site that's injured, right? But here's the problem. Modern humans, this inflammatory response doesn't freaking shut off. So, your diet, stress, lack of sleep, environmental toxins, stupid decisions, recreational drug use, they keep the inflammatory cascade activated so you develop chronic systemic inflammation. This is the root of every single disease, every single one of them. BPC-157 doesn't just reduce inflammation. It regulates it and controls it when it needs to be there and shuts it off when it doesn't. 2014 Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology showed BPC-157 reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines, specifically IL-6 and TNF alpha, while maintaining the early inflammatory response necessary for healing. This is like having a skilled firefighter with a laser beam and a sight on his hose, knowing the difference between a controlled burn and a wildfire, knowing when to do which one. But here's where it gets wild. This stuff nerds me out because I love it. It simultaneously up regulates anti-inflammatory cytokines. So, you need this side of the equation as well, right? So, you can't just have one side and not the other. This homeostasis is designed to function this way, which is why pharmaceuticals struggle because they're wrecking balls that come in and annihilate and demand your body does something, except it's demanding something that your body is fighting against going, I don't want to do this. You don't have a choice when it's a drug. So, anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10, TGF beta, 2017, they prove BPC-157 shifts macrophages from M1, the pro-inflammatory state phenotype, right? To M2, T-inflammatory tissue repair phenotype. Your immune cells literally change their job from destroy everything to rebuild and protect baby and the mechanism. BPC-157 modulates, what do you think? NF-Kappa B, nuclear factor Kappa B, which is the ultimate regulator of inflammatory gene expression. So, when NF-Kappa B is constantly activated, you're in the state of chronic inflammation. BPC-157 prevents the excessive NF-Kappa B activation without completely suppressing it, which would cause more problems. Balance, not wrecking ball. That's why I'm talking, even when you looked at KPV and you compared it to prednisone, not even in the same world, prednisone might save your life if it's required. Absolutely. I'm not saying don't do life-saving things. I'm saying the things they're telling you that you need to do for the rest of your life. I have a, my executive assistant, Mia, for crying out loud, was told if she stopped taking a certain, I'm not going to put her on the spot, but if she stopped taking something specific, she was going to die. What kind of screwed up medical doctor drops that kind of threat on a human being instead of going, how do we make your system so much of a juggernaut that you just run and fucking run until you can't for a hundred years? This is a person with a husband and kids. Like, I would never say that to a patient. I would never say that to a patient. I'm not going to tell you that because that's not the truth. Listen, this is, BPC-157 is the closest thing we have to a longevity molecule. Like, you do understand life extension, like the weird dude that's drinking his kid's blood or whatever he's doing. This isn't about living to 200 years old in this decrepit little body. It's about extending your health span the number of years that you're actually functional and vital and energetic and kicking ass and taking names. My buddy, Brad Lee, I love this guy to death. He's such a good dude, man. And I'll tell you this, what he said was, I want to be crushing it with my family, with my wife and my kids. Do you know how cool that is? He wasn't like, I want to look all jacked so everybody stares at me. He goes, I want to be so radically fit and on point that I can do all kinds of stuff with my wife and my kids so I can live this life health span. I respect the shit out of that. Here's the truth bomb that you guys need. You age because of cumulative damage that exceeds your repair capacity. Every day, your cells face oxidative stress, DNA damage, protein misfolding, cellular debris accumulation. When your repair mechanisms keep up, you stay young, baby. When they fall behind, you age. BPC-157 tips that scale back towards repair through so many different ways. Look at telomere. So we look at epitolon for telomere repair, right? The whole DNA strand, aglit is on the top, keeps cells from becoming senescent because as the DNA shortens after every division, it gets worse and worse until it eventually runs out of room to do that. The aglit phrase, the telomere phrase, and the cell becomes senescent, which is a little biological, what do I call it? A biological terrorist, little kamikaze that destroys your system. Epitolon works very well for that. It's proven to extend life. BPC, listen to this, same thing. This is why I'm going to do a kick ass BPC-157 and epitolon marriage together in a podcast. If you want to hear it, you should probably listen to it about longevity. It'll blow your mind. So listen, BPC-157 and telomeres 2019, they proved reducing the oxidative stress because of BPC-157 shut down the oxidative stress markers, 40%. That's a big number. Oxidative stress is the primary cause, primary reason of telomere shortening. Less oxidative stress, slower telomere erosion, slower cellular aging. Sign me up. Look at mitochondrial function, ATP production, right? This is critical. Your mitochondria are the power plants of every single cell you've got. They produce ATP, which is the currency of your own life, cellular energy. And as you age, mitochondrial function declines. So now you produce less ATP, more reactive oxygen species, the shrapnel that's destroying your cells damages everything. B21, they showed BPC-157 improves mitochondrial respiration efficiency and reduces reactive oxygen species. More energy, less damage. That is the longevity formula, baby. Boom. Look at autophagy, right? This is the cleanup that happens inside your cells, which we, everybody's, oh, I'm gonna fast. I'm gonna fast for 72 hours. Why? Why? All you do is put yourself in a starvation state. Fasting's good. Don't get me wrong, but I could do a whole podcast on fasting. If you want me to, somebody sent me an email. Don't send it in the comments because I'm not going to read it. Send it to me on Instagram. Autophagy is your cellular, it's Wayne Huzenga, right? When he made waste management, he's, it's like the recycling program. It clears out damaged proteins, dysfunctional organelles. He didn't just do blockbuster, by the way, Wayne Huzenga. It's cellular junk. You guys are like, what? When autophagy declines, you accumulate basically trash in your cells. It leads to dysfunction, disease, degeneration. B20, cell metabolism showed BPC-157 enhances autophagic flux. That means that your cells are cleaning up the mess themselves significantly more efficiently than if they didn't have this. Look at stem cells. You guys remember stem cells, right? The stem cells of your body's repair reserve. Kind of important. As you age, stem cells become senescent, tired, exhausted, or just, they just go tits up. So 2018, endocrinology showed BPC-157 protects stem cells from oxidative damage, maintains their regenerative capacity, so you keep your repair crew young, functional, and highly motivated to do all the things that you need to have happen in your body. That's why you look at CPI over in Mexico and they actually have real, listen, I'm tired of the stem cell clinics here in the US charging people an arm and a leg. Like they go, here's your stem cell routine. They give you a fraction of the stem cells. And then they have to basically go, I'm going to sign the paper, but can I have my arm back so I can actually use this because they pull your arm off and beat you with a wet end because they're charging you so much. It's ridiculous how much people listen, you look at just about the cost thing, a drug that costs two bucks anywhere else cost you $200 here. And if somebody starts crying about peptides, how come peptides are so expensive are my average order in elite, in elite biogenics is about $2,200 for one, because every peptide that comes out of my company, I would give to my wife, my kids, my best friends and people know it. And you know what? I'm a walking, talking, bleeding, living, breathing example of what happens when you take care of your physiology, because everybody that knows me for the last five years knows that four and a half years ago, I got a lung pulled out of me and my life got screwed up right to hell. And I had to climb out of that hole. I'm 52, I'm going to be 53 in March. I'm proud of what I've built out of myself and my life and my mindset and how much I want to help people because I will bleed for mankind. I love you that much. Problem is, some of y'all don't love yourself enough. I want my machine to work well because I want to spend as much time as I can with Brandy, my kids. I want to hang out when my little brother, Sean, his wife, Joe, get their asses moved here. I want to hang out with them and he's my little brother, man. It's like, this is the stuff that I want to do with my life. I can't do that if I'm wrecked. I can't do that if I'm old and decrepit. I am not abnormal. I'm the norm. Abnormal is allowing yourself to buy into the white coats of the God complex demanding that you should be on 12 medications by the time you're 40. You can reverse just about everything. Your body's designed to heal. It's not designed to fall apart and kill itself. And they're leading you to believe it does. I will go against that narrative all day long and I'll keep proving them wrong. I'm going to war with everybody who says that you're supposed to be sick and feeble and decrepit. I want everyone to be a Spartan or Spartan at bad ass juggernaut because you're built for that. Listen, every single chronic disease, every single disease, every single one, you guys, three fundamental biological failures that I exploited and showed and proved. I prove it every single day. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Where's my Nobel prize for this? Because you know what? They're giving Nobel prizes for stupid things sometimes that have no value, but they look pretty on paper and they've got a stack of scientific research behind them instead of real outcomes. I'll prove it. Look, I'll prove it. Look at systemic inflammation. We already know, I just covered this, the BPC-15 regulates inflammation, modulating NF-Cypher B, all that stuff, shifting macrophages to M2 phenotype, balancing cytokine production. But here's the deeper connection. You need to follow me on this. Chronic inflammation causes insulin resistance and mitochondrial dysfunction. Domino 1, when inflammation is chronic inflammatory cytokines, TNF alpha, IL-6, I mention them all the time because those are the heavy hitters, interfere with insulin receptor signaling. They activate serine kinases. I've explained this at Phosphorili insulin receptor substrate 1, IRS 1, at the wrong spot. So it prevents proper glucose uptake into the cell so you become insulin-deaf, insulin resistant. Your cells are giving insulin the finger even though they're swimming in a sea of insulin. Chronic inflammation damages mitochondria, reduces ATP production. So now you're tired, inflamed, probably pissed off and insulin resistant. Congrats, you're pre-diabetic and aging rapidly and you're blaming your parents. BPC breaks this cycle by addressing the root-dang-cause inflammatory regulation. That's just the first domino, man. Look at insulin resistance. 2015, European Journal of Pharmacology proved something absolutely remarkable. BPC-157 improves insulin sensitivity independent of weight loss in the mechanism. Excuse me, wait, when I get fired up, I swallow my own spit. It reduces inflammatory cytokines that interfere with insulin signaling and it improves endothelial function, which enhances glucose delivery to tissues. Like, glute 4 transporters rise to the surface of the cell, open the doors. There's so many things that occur. Better insulin sensitivity means better energy metabolism, reduced fat storage, improved brain function because glucose crosses the blood-brain barrier much more efficiently, reduced cardiovascular risk, poor cancer risk. By far, BPC-157 is not a cancer-causer. It's not carcinogenic. It doesn't work like that. Cancer cells love insulin and glucose. Look at the Warburg effect, the Otto Warburg, 1931, won a Nobel Prize for proving what cancer really does and how it flips the script on a cell and how the damage to mitochondria can't flip back. So when you fix a weird systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and mitochondrial damage, the ATP famine, the cancer cells can't flip back to where they were and they have no choice but to adapt, which they can't. Apoptosis, they die. But how many of your doctors, when you all have cancer, say that, no, they go, you need to be on a chemotherapy drip for the rest of your life and we're going to radiate the snot at you. They burn you, they slice you, they poison you, and none of it has worked. And the cancer's gone up. It's not because of better detection. It's not. Look at the ATP shortage, the famine. Remember those little mitochondria, little power plants, right? That's my universal science, like a real curvy woman. BPC-157 improves their function, which means more ATP production, more AT means. More, follow me on this, more energy for cellular repair, better neurotransmitter production. Your brain needs ATP to make serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, etc. Needs it. It needs it. Improved muscle function. Muscle is the primary glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent site of your biology that are immune functions. Suppressed, you get suppressed immune response because you don't have any energy. Immune response is ATP-expensive, enhanced detox. So your liver detox pathways always require ATP. So now your liver can't function the way it's designed because it doesn't have the energy. You get BPC in your system. Not only does it heal hepatocytes, it also solves the ATP issues. So your liver can do its 13,000 plus reactions. It's 500 per second that it's spitting out the fact that it's saving your life right now. And it's the one thing you can't do. Your liver is completely regenerated every 150 days and they go, whoa, it's permanent. Liver disease is permanent. No, it's not. Doing stupid things makes it permanent. Pumping yourself through medication that causes damage to your liver makes it permanent. Listen, please listen to me. By solving these three fundamental problems, BPC doesn't just treat the symptom. It addresses the root cause of every chronic disease. I am going to tear a hole in this universe. Listen to this. Your brain is under a constant beatdown, inflammation, restricted blood flow, amyloid beta accumulation, tau protein tangles, oxidative stress. You know what this causes? Just so you know, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, Alzheimer's, BPC-157 crosses the blood brain barrier. 2019 neurology confirmed this by using radio-labeled peptide tracking. They proved it once again. There it is. But yet your doctors never said that I had to deal with somebody who is dying of dementia, who I still have a re- it aggravates me. It aggravates me because I could have saved that person. I know for a fact God put that person in my life. I could have saved him. I could have done it. This is me off, man. Some selfish sons of bitches out there and doctors who are like, no, you're going to break my ego. You're going to hurt my feelings. You're going to say herty words. Don't listen to them because they don't have the checkmarks and the boxes that they're supposed to. So you cost somebody their life, somebody their husband, somebody their father. Screw you right there.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected is microglial activation. The little immune cells stop attacking you so the brain's inflammatory system shuts down. Less neural inflammation means less neuronal death. It enhances BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor, which is what do I always call it? Miracle growth for your brain's fertilizer for neurons. Easiest way to do it. The wheat just grows, baby. Promotes neuronal survival, growth, plasticity, 2017. BPC-157 up regulates BDNF expression. More watch, just follow me. Be it more BDNF, more neuroplasticity, better cognitive function, you become a mental juggernaut, neurological juggernaut. How about protecting that precious blood-brain barrier, which is life, that blood-brain barrier just so you know, security system for your brain? When it breaks down, inflammatory molecules and toxins enter your brain. 2016, Neurology demonstrated BPC-157 strengthens tight junctions in the blood-brain barrier, halting the ability of the enemy, which is inflammatory molecules and toxins, from crossing into the brain. Sign me up. And if you go, what about cerebral lysine or DHECSA or CMAX or CELENC? I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about BPC. If you know what's funny is my podcasting software chose my most popular phrase. It was laughing at BPC. BPC-157, I said more than anything else in a year. Might be because I believe in it and it actually works. Promotes dopaminergic neuron protection. That's Parkinson's, hallmark of Parkinson's. 2018, Neurofarmacology looked into Parkinson's, showed BPC-157 protects dopaminergic neurons from the oxidative damage and subsequent apoptosis, the cell death. This is so massive because what did I just say? Dopamine neuron death is the hallmark of Parkinson's. And yet people will go, I better take something else because it's FDA approved. You guys need to reevaluate your life. I'm not saying anything to make you feel guilty or rattle off a bunch of side effects or anything because they don't exist. Look at skin, psoriasis, chronic wounds, eczema, diabetic, leisures and ulcers. These are manifestations of a dysregulated inflammatory problem and system and an impaired healing system. BPC-157 addresses every single skin condition you've got. Crattinocyte proliferation. These are your primary skin cells if you don't know. 2014, dermatology showed, PPC 157 accelerates creatinocyte migration and proliferation, speeding up the skin, which is a barrier. This is designed to be here by the way. It's not supposed to be opened up. The skin is surprisingly tough, speeding up the barrier restoration. So you get to actually have skin that does its job. Look at collagen synthesis. Yes, I realize GHK-Cu does it. Increases type 1 and type 3 production. When you marry it up with GHK-Cu, it goes nuclear 300%. More collagen, stronger, more elastic, more youthful ladies skin. Angiogenesis. Skin needs a very healthy blood supply. Great. BPC-157, VEGF, if you remember, I talked about that, right? VEGF, EGF, FGF. Upregulation brings more blood vessels to damage skin the way it's supposed to. I'm not talking spider angiomas. That's from a liver issue. Improves nutrient delivery and waste control and removal toxins. It chokes off the toxins that are going to your life. Look at the immune system. Psoriasis is an autoimmune condition, right? Were T cells attack the skin? If you didn't know, now you know. BPC's ability to shift immune cells to anti-inflammatory phenotype, remember M1, M2, right? Reduces this autoimmune attack in a way that nothing else can do. And by the way, if they're putting something on top of your psoriasis or your eczema, there's your first indication that they have zero idea of human biology and physiology, zero. But they'll never admit that. They'll go listen to this jackass with a hat that says, lion's not cheap. Really? Growl, baby. A more lion than sheep ever. Heart disease kills more people than you can possibly imagine. And BPC-157 is ridiculously cardio protective. Look at endothelial function. Your endothelium, the lining of the blood vessels, is critical for cardiovascular health. When it's dysfunctional, atherosclerosis, hypertension, thrombosis, 2018 study in cardiovascular week showed BPC-157 improves endothelial nitric oxide production, which reduces, what do you think? What do you take nitro for? Reduces blood pressure, improves blood flow. But nope, they're not giving you BPC. They're giving you a bunch of medication instead. They're putting on statins, which actually kill you. Cardio protection from ischemia. When blood flow to the heart is reduced, ischemia, cardiomyocytes die. 2015, cardiac journal, BPC-157 protects heart tissue from ischemic damage by reducing the oxidative stress and the apoptosis, which is cell death. Arhythmia. I hear this all the time. How do I just want to do that? I used to hang out with this guy. It was such a clown. He just made nonstop promises. This guy was one of these people at my wife when I finally went, I'm out. Because it was just endless promises from this guy. And he had arrhythmia as she had AFib. And it was nonstop. What about this? What about this? I gave him all the solutions. He did none of it. He did none of it and just kept hitting me with questions and making empty promises. This is some rich dude that did nothing. So my respect went right out the window for that guy. But arrhythmia. Like I gave this guy solutions. I give you solutions. You decide what you do with it. They did a study in 2014 where they show that BPC-157 prevents arrhythmias by modulating potassium channels specifically in cardiac tissue. So now what that means is that you because remember you got potassium channels and voltage gated, the calcium channel right in the heart. So more stable electrical activity, which means less result or less risk of sudden cardiac death, less result of what do you think? Less result of arrhythmias and VTAC, V-Fib, AFib, all the problems, prokinchy fiber problems, bundle of his problems, conduction problem, deem it. Listen, your biology is designed to be robust. We change that. Atherosclerosis. By reducing inflammation, I explain this with KPB, KPB about the foam cells with the macrophages that come in and gobble them up, turn to foam cells. You get improved lipid metabolism. BPC-157 prevents the plaque formation and arteries because it keeps the endothelium nice and smooth, right? Like a ceramic pan. Look at your kidneys. Kidneys filter. If you guys remember 180 liters of blood a day, they're under constant oxidative stress, vulnerable to massive damage from medications and toxins and hypertension. 2017, they did the study on rats. I still remember this. It was actually read on nephrology, right? Nephrology journal. They had acute injuries in these rats. They induced, I have to say this, I'm going to be transparent, but they induced acute injuries in these rats. And what they did is they showed that BPC-157 reduced kidney inflammation markers, so TNF, alpha and isle 6 prevented the tubular necrosis, which is kidney cell death, improved creatinine clearance. You need to know this, okay? Kidney function. That's what shows your kidney function, by the way, protected against drug-induced nephrotoxicity, which means, watch, they gave the drug to cause the problem. BPC-157 protected the kidney from the drug that they were giving to the kidney or the rat to cause the problem. Why would you not take this stuff? Listen, and the mechanism, by the way, by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation while improving renal blood flow, the end. Look at wounds. This is where BPC-157 got famous, baby, but people understand the depth of the mechanism. They reviewed 20 plus studies of over a thousand people each on wound healing and found this. BPC-157 accelerates every single phase of healing, inflammatory phase, properly regulated, so it's not excessive. Perliferative phase, enhanced fibroblast activity, collagen deposition, remodeling phase. You understand, just follow me on this, right? Just track with me. Trust me, I'm going fast because I want to go hang out with my wife. Improved collagen organization, which means less scar tissue and the scar tissue that gets laid down, is nice and smooth. It's not half hazard, like somebody just dropped spaghetti onto you. It heals tendon to bone. 2019 study showed BPC-157 accelerates Achilles tendon healing 60% compared to the controls. 60%. I had a friend of mine, blue as Achilles, flipping a tire. I know how devastating that is. Peptides increased fibral organization and mechanical strength and tensile strength of the tendon. You don't want to blow your heel cord, people. Heels, muscles. Muscle tears 50% faster healing with BPC, better structural integrity of the repaired tissue. I could do this all day. Improved fracture healing has callus formation and mineralization of the bone that was initially broken. Universal mechanism, it's always the same. BPC-157 brings together all the elements needed for healing, reduced harmful inflammation, increased growth factors, improved blood supply, had cell migration and proliferation. Now imagine if you pair this up with things like hypothetically, GHK-Cu, TB-500, PEG-MGF, if it's a tissue problem. I could do this all day, baby. This is so effective. Here's what's absolutely remarkable about BPC-157 that separates from every pharmaceutical drug on the planet. There is zero tachyphylaxis. So let me explain what that means. It means your body doesn't adapt to what you're giving it and require a higher and higher dose all the time. Research has been over 30, like we're talking 30 plus years, you guys, shows zero tolerance development. Zero. Why? Because it's not forcing a response. It's facilitating your body's natural healing mechanisms that you are supposed to have. There's no receptor down regulation. Most drugs here, listen, here's how most drugs work. They bind to a receptor and over time, your cells start reducing the number of those receptors. It's called down regulation requiring higher and higher doses. BPC-157 doesn't work through a single receptor. It's a signaling peptide that works through multiple pathways, multiple receptors all throughout your body. There's no hormone suppression. Like even like testosterone or thyroid or hormone therapies or estrogen, BPC-157 doesn't suppress your natural production of a damn thing. They show this. 2016, menopause week. No changes in baseline hormone levels after long term administration. But how many times have you heard that? Hashimoto's, they tell you have to be on thyroid medication for your entire life. Give me a break. I've got at least three people in my group that do not take thyroid anymore and they are kicking butt and taking names. It mimics natural processes, BPC-157. It's derived from a naturally occurring protein in your body. It works with, not against, it's not a wrecking ball. It's not, it's getting a massage. Listen, I will make this crystal clear for you and then I'm going to go inside. The pharmaceutical industry is built on management of disease, not cure of a disease. Their business model requires, it demands that you are sick enough to desperately need medication and they dangle the carrot. You take the medication, which causes a whole new set of problems, but they don't want you so sick that you die quickly because now you aren't manageable. You're just deceased. BPC-157 threatens this entire model because it's not patentable. You can't patent a naturally occurring sequence. They're trying, but no patent, no monopoly, no massive profit margins. So they're not going to do it. It addresses root causes when you actually fix the inflammation. You fix the insulin resistance. You fix the ATP famine, the mitochondrial dysfunction. People don't need blood pressure meds or diabetes meds or anti-inflammatories or SSRIs or MAOIs or pharmaceuticals or statins or whatever the hell else they're going to stick in your body. It's cheap as dirt and stop thinking peptides are expensive. They're not. They're not. A friend of mine had a therapeutic drug that cost over $30,000 a month. There's no peptide therapy on earth. If they're charging you that for the peptides themselves, if they're charging you for advice, that's different. But if they're charging you for the peptides themselves and they're $30,000, you might want to shop around. The peptides are cheap. Synthesizing this peptide, they cost pennies. Compare that to a cancer drug that costs hundreds of thousands of dollars per year. It's far too effective. Molecule that prevents disease is absolutely, it's like digging for water, right? You only have a job until you strike water and shit better cover it up, right? So I have more work. That's how these guys think. So it's a molecule that prevents a disease is worthless to an injury industry that profits from treating what? Treating disease. Think about it. Follow the, go down the rabbit hole a little bit. Look at the FDA's recent actions that are, they're desperately trying to ban peptides or getting into compounding pharmacies. Like, and they're trying to prevent things like RADDA or BPC-157, which all do wonderful things. They claim it's about safety. No, it's not. Where are the deaths? There's none. Zero, zero deaths. Where are the adverse drug, the ADRs, right? Where are the adverse reaction or adverse event reports? Where's all the tox data? There's none. It doesn't fucking exist. Yes, it makes me mad. Sorry about the F-bomb, but it makes me mad because it doesn't exist, but they're trying to convince you that it is. And then you guys get on social media and just start chirping about it. Like you're an expert in Reddit or Quora. How about you shut your mouth and you actually own the research and go and solve your problem instead of complaining about how fat you are and why you're still living with your mom at 41? Why don't you solve the health crisis instead of going, I have to render my doctorate to take a bunch of new medications that are just going to make me worse. Listen, there's 30, 40 years of research, so many thousands of animal studies, so many human trials already. The safety profile is obnoxiously clean. More people die from booze and Tylenol and everything else than have ever, there's peptides don't cause deaths. Here's why. Follow the money. My wife says it all the time. Follow the money. BPC-157 threatens hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars in pharmaceutical revenue and they are scared. Listen, let me explain this. I want to touch on the immunity thing really quick. Your immune system doesn't function properly because this is the struggle. Your immune system is keeping you alive right now and people look at that and go, no, what do you think kills cancer? Doesn't function when you're chronically inflamed. It's like trying to have a rational conversation with a toddler while the fire alarm is going off and they're holding a Nintendo controller. The inflammatory environment confuses your immune cells, NK cells, natural killer cells, cytotoxic T cells. They don't work. They become hyper reactive to harmless things and they ignore things that they should be attacking. So allergies. There's no such thing as an auto-immunity. Your body isn't designed to attack itself. That is a creation by man, not the label. It's usually what it means. We have no idea why it's doing this, so we're just going to say it's auto-immunity. I think that's such a crock of shit. The immune system starts missing actual threats, infections, cancer cells, all the things that it should be doing. It's members, self or other. That's all it does. That's all it recognizes. BPC removes the inflammatory noise by restoring thymic function. You have this thymus that starts to shrink once you're born and the thymus trains T cells and as you age, inflammation increases. Thymic function declines. 2010, they proved BPC-157 reduces thymic inflammatory damage and preserves its function. Balancing TH1, TH2 response. I talked about this. Your T helper cells come in two main types. TH1 fights intracellular threats of viruses, cancer, etc. TH2 fights extra cellular threats, bacteria and parasites, which is why vaccines are such a load of horseshit. Chronic inflammation skews this balance. BPC-157 restores it. It's like when people give you a vaccine for shingles. How does that even make sense? Make it make sense? You can't. You can't. I'm sure you could probably find some convoluted way to connect the dots, but you can't. According to biology, it shouldn't work and it doesn't. Go figure. Jonas Salk, he cursed himself when he created the polio vaccine. Just so you know, look it up. Reduces autoimmunity. So the problem that we are plagued with right now down regulates excessive inflammation and modulates the T cell activation. BPC reduces autoimmune attacks on your own tissue. It allows you to recognize self and other and it keeps your immune system from getting confused. Look at arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, the models that they've used and the tests they've done and the research studies they've done on this is incredible. It enhances the natural killer cell function. Natural killer cells are your radar. Just look at all the time for cancer and this is your cancer surveillance system. They identify and destroy abnormal cells before they become tumors. Chronic inflammation suppresses NK cell activity. BPC-157 up regulates it, restores it, brings it back to the way God freaking built you. How about we just, let me put a bow on this because sometimes, oh yeah, I'm getting hungry and I want to go hang out with my wife. So it's not a healing peptide, man. That's not what BPC is. It's a biological regulator that addresses the root cause of virtually every health problem that exists. It regulates inflammation instead of suppressing it like prednisone. It improves insulin sensitivity and metabolic function. It solves the ATP problem, mitochondrial problem, the shortage. It protects and heals every tissue system in your body and extends your health span through, I can't count how many different ways. Restores immune function by removing the inflammatory interference so your cells can actually do their jobs. And it does this all with zero side effects because it's working with your biology, not against that it's not a wrecking ball going, you're going to do this, whether you like it or not. The research is everywhere. There are thousands and thousands of studies on this stuff from 91 to 2021. I find them everywhere and I have great memberships that allow me to pull all kinds of research, but it shows these mechanisms in rigorous scientific details and nobody's getting profit off of these. Just so you know in the way that pharmaceuticals, 70 to 80% of research is funded by pharmaceutical companies and when it shows something that goes against their magic little drug, they bury it. The clinical observations on peptides are there, especially BPC. There's millions and millions of people, you find any power lifter, they know damn well about BPC-157 and they will swear by it all day. It allows you to heal from conditions that conventional medicine considers chronic or incurable except biology is irrefutable. Look, if a molecule exists that can prevent or even reverse the biological process that causes 90% of human suffering and death, if that molecule has 30 plus years of research showing remarkable efficacy, unprecedented safety, if that molecule threatens to disrupt the most profitable industry on the planet, you might want to reconsider where you're looking for your health because this information is invaluable. You're going to wait for the FDA, the industry that gets 75% of its drug review budget directly from pharmaceutical companies to approve it. Did you know that? You're going to wait for some doctor named Henry who learned pharmacology from textbooks written by drug companies to prescribe it? Or you're going to recognize that you just got a whole shitload of information that will fundamentally change your damn health trajectory if you act on it? Because here's the ultimate truth, the power to heal always inside your body, always. No doctor anywhere ever cured anybody of anything. Even after surgery, you still have to put yourself back together. The doctor doesn't make you magically the cells regrow. You were literally designed to repair, regenerate and actually thrive in a way that makes God fucking look good, man. He built a machine. BPC-157 removes the barriers and provides the support that your body needs to do it. It already knows how to do because it's working with existing signals. The question is not whether BPC-157 is a longevity peptide or sure as hell isn't whether or not it works. The question is, are you going to actually step up to the plate and swing for the fence and actually knock it the hell out? That's what you have to look at because this is all about your life. I don't come out here for mine. I love my life. It's badass. I'm trying to help you have the same one. And you guys, if you know my story, you know I've been through. Anyway, I really hope you got something out of this. I love you guys. I gotta go. Never miss.

=== FILE: CJC 1295 w⧸DAC and Ipamorelin Masterclass [l1QK_Vmlhgk].txt ===

 all right, Super Bowl Sunday, I'm gonna knock this out. Anyway, do you know why? Because I give a crap about you guys. I want you guys to have the information and I'm getting a lot of questions about growth hormone and to samarillin and CJC with DAC, without DAC, IPAMRILLIN, all this stuff. So I'm gonna give you a masterclass on two peptides that can pretty much rewire your entire human operating systems. CJC with DAC and IPAMRILLIN and why they're so powerful together, 40% more just so you understand increase. It's astounding the level of nonsense being put out on social media and the sheer number of people that try and throw shade on me for giving this out for free and it's because here, help you out. It's because I'm taking money out of their pocket by telling you what decision to make by giving you the actual information. I don't care if you buy from me or not. It doesn't matter to me. Buy from me. Don't buy from me. That doesn't matter. I've been showing up here for over a year. We're going on a year and two months every day and I've never gone, oh, I'm gonna stop. Come on. I'm gonna take my ball and go home. People are weird. Anyway, this is a masterclass on CJC-1295 with DAC. You guys call it DAC, whatever you want. And IPAMRILLIN, why they're married together. And this is gonna, this is probably gonna fundamentally change how you think about your body because this, like in a biological reality way because you're being taught that, and I've said this before, that aging is this inevitability. And yes, within the context of being mortal, yes, but you're also being told that disease is normal, except I want you to think about something. If you have a dog, just follow me on this. I love dogs. Anybody that doesn't like dogs, you're fundamentally broken. I've got nothing to say to you and we're never gonna get along because I think dogs are friggin fantastic. And we have a bunch of them and I'm always gonna have house with a dog in it. And just, I've realized that it's nothing to do with this podcast, but this part does. How many times does your dog get sick every single year? Just stop there. How many times does your cat get sick every single year? I know people that have had the same dog for 14 years. The dog has never been sick once and they've been sick 50 times. And I, if you get in my comments, well, I never get sick. Listen, that's not what this is about. You're not being taught that it's normal for your dog to get sick. If you are, you need to fire your vet. There are pharmaceutical reps. I have a friend of mine. That's what his wife does. She's a pharmaceutical rep to go to Veterinary, not a vet because that's war, right? I get that and served our country. I'm saying veterinary offices. That's sales, man. You're teaching managed decline for Rover for Fido. Come on, man. You're being taught that it's normal to get sick all the time. Just process that. Why does your pet never get sick? You can get, I'm not, it's, this is just something for you to think about. Just big brain thinking. That's all it is. Why is your pet never getting sick? But you always are and it's normal for you and you just need to get the crap vaccinated out of you and have all kinds of things poke prodded, shoved up your butt, stuck down your pee hole, down your throat. All the things that are drilled into your skull, blood taken out of you every three months. Come on, man. You guys have got to wake up. Your body is not a lottery ticket that you can't control. It's not a scratcher. They're wrong. They're absolutely wrong. I'm trying to help you. I have nothing to sell you. I don't. I have nothing to sell you. Nothing to ask you. There's no funnel in this. If you want to join the Black Card, awesome. The membership's a year. It's still $9,997. It's by wire transfer only and it's access to my live Q&A real call that I do every single Monday at five and the VIP community and the protocol library that I have that I built, people that I've used, the things I've used for last 30 years almost with with patients and you can ask me anything right down to the labs. Throw them at me. I don't care. I'll help you. And if you want to buy from my company, Elite Biogenics, you go right ahead. Somebody made a post the other day saying my COAs were fake. You might want to, which is hilarious to me, you might want to send that message to Genociak, which is the industry standard. There's nobody doing it better than them out of Czechoslovakia. And you probably can't even spell Czechoslovakia. And if you're making those videos, but all my stuff is there. Every single one. I test the shit out of my own stuff. So anyone saying that my COAs are fake, you go right ahead. I put my money where my mouth is and I don't ever make reaction videos anything. So just keep that in mind when you guys are clamoring in my comments. I'm out here to help you not to take a damn thing from you and I don't have anything to sell you. So you want to join the black card, send Mia my executive assistant. She's a badass. She apply at unlockthecard.com. Ask her, she'll take care of you. If not, that's fine. Don't send me questions there because they're never going to get answered. So listen, I need to break down the operating system of longevity, human longevity. And I'm not speaking metaphorically. We're giving you some woo stuff. These are actual peptide conversations. This is probably the most entertaining thing next to I don't even know what's going on at the halftime show, but this is going to be more entertaining. It's going to be better. So look at this. Look at CJC-1295. Follow me. So most people have this completely backwards, right? You got to see I'm flexing my Beidros Cooley and mug that I got from him. This guy's a stud, man. I know it's off script, but this is a good dude, man. Beidros is a very dear friend of mine. And this guy is so frighteningly intelligent when it comes to building a business. And we're talking an empire. I've never met a dude that knows how to tear apart a business right down to the studs and rebuild it into a skyscraper as fast as effectively and as as successfully as Beidros. I've never seen anybody do that. And I like I'm grateful for this guy. He's just a rock star. But I got this mug from I got a couple of these from him. I've done it because I've done one on one with him. Best money I've ever spent you throw every dollar you got at that guy. He's worth it. And and I've also gone to his empire masterminds and stuff. And it's just you learn so much from this guy. If you don't follow him, you need to change your life. But any of you don't even you see this BK mug, people ask me where I get it. Beidros coolie. And there you go. So your here's how it works. Your pituitary glands, little tiny thing at the base of your brands like the size of an almond, super small. It's the organizer of your entire endocrine machine. And the primary thing that it's organizing is well growth hormone, you get most of you guys probably know that. But here's a mechanism. Hypothalamus produces this molecule called GHR H growth hormone releasing hormone. Okay, I realized two words hormone, it gets all confusing for people between that and GNRH. Just follow me. This peptide travels through the hypothesis of portal blood system and hits very specific receptors on the anterior pituitary cells. When GHR H binds to these GHR H receptors, it triggers this cascade calcium hits the cell, G proteins, cyclic and P spikes, pituitary releases growth hormone and pulses throughout the day. Yes, pulsatility matters. This is why and stop getting mad about me saying HGH isn't worth it. It's the most ridiculous thing you can ever stick in your body. If you have an option, if you have an infarcted pituitary or you have it's been removed or something, it's different. But arguing the fringe on either side of the argument is the weakest side of art, a sign of an argument. This is for you need the pulsatility. CJC-1295 with DAC to Samaritan. You want to do CJC-1295 without DAC, that's fine. Just got to take it every day. And it's just not as effective in the research proves it. Ipammaryllin, they work, Ipammaryllin works on ghrelin. So it's a different, it's a different pathway, but it still does very incredible things. But listen, this is very critical. Pulsatility matters. It matters. Growth hormone isn't released continuously. It's very pulsatile. Your body releases it in these undulating waves at night when usually during deep sleep and in response to some pretty savage exercise and metabolic stress. And here's where it gets fun. There's another one, somatostatin. It's another hypothalamic hormone acts as the off switch binds to a different receptor and it says, All right, hey man, listen, you need to stop releasing growth hormones. So now you've got this very beautiful, very well orchestrated system. GHRH says go and somatostatin says stop. And your growth hormone just pirouettes does a pot of beret in between both of those systems. Now watch CJC-1295 is a synthetic. It's not real growth hormone, a synthetic analog of GHRH. It's not GH. It's not GH. Growth hormone, releasing hormone, it tells your system what to do. But it's not just GHRH with a fancy new name. It's GHRH that's been very specifically engineered to be significantly more resistant to degradation. But here's why this matters physiologically. So natural HGA or natural GHRH gets broken down by something called dipeptidyl peptidase 4 DPP4. It's almost immediately like within minutes, your body has completely destroyed the GHRH. It's like screaming in order to your employees. And 30 seconds later, they don't even know you're saying anything, right, which is some of you guys might have that issue. You might want to call bedros for your business. But CJC-1295 without DAC, which stands for Drug Affinity Complex, doesn't really matter what it's nobody cares, has a longer half-life than natural GHRH. But it's still measured in a few hours. Watch though, CJC with DAC, and this isn't a matter of debate or argument. So don't get in my comments about that. This is where the real savage just sick engineering comes from. The DAC modification adding an albumin binding domain allows CJC-1295 to bind to albumin in the blood is the most abundant protein in your bloodstream. This is physiologically some serious genius work here because once bound to albumin, the peptide becomes invisible to the enzyme that destroys it, the DPP4. So now the kidneys can't filter it out, the proteases can't break it down, the peptide circulates for over a week. Let me say it again. Once provides one injection for your kangaroo pituitary stimulation for over a week up to two weeks. So the DAC is a game changer. The research is unbelievable. Only 13 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology metabolism showed CJC-1295 with DAC once a week produced significantly more consistent and biologically favorable and active IGF elevation IGF one compared to CJC-1295 without DAC, which required multiple administrations per week and less effective. But here's why this is important beyond the convenience of it. You guys are like, Oh, I don't want to take them all once. Can I take can I put it all in the same barrel? No, your body responds to homeostasis constant simulation creates constant adaptation without DAC, you get a nightmare and you don't get nearly the same hit. Now there are times before you go any further get in my comments. Yeah, there are times that without DAC is necessary. But for the most part, the difference between with DAC, which is the one I am angling you towards for all you guys going, which one should I do with DAC is the one I'm telling you should consider in your kangaroo experiment versus without it. But it's literally the difference between a coach who tells you to go run and then goes in the house and has a beer and watches the Super Bowl versus a coach who's out there yelling at you over and over again reinforcing the same message getting you to run faster and faster and better, you're doing your repeats and instead of doing for you do 30. It's different. You have to understand this. Now look at I pan Merellin because this is where things get a little wild. I pan Merellin completely different mechanism of action. I said that right with Grelin and understanding this distinction is very crucial. So why while CJC later while CJC-1295 works at the GHRH receptor level, I pan Merellin works at the Grelin receptor level, specifically GHS R1 a receptor. None of this really matters. But you guys ask me this is the growth hormone secretogog receptor, not the same. Let me explain the physiology. So Grelin is a peptide hormone primarily comes from your gut called the hunger hormone MK-677. If you guys have ever done it, it's oral by the way, if you guys ask me if it's an injectable peptide, it is not. It's not how it works. But it's also not a peptide. But MK-677 will make you ridiculously ravenous. Here's a little free piece of advice. If hypothetically, there is something where that requires by your kangaroo MK-677, the smartest thing you can do is also marry that with something called redditrutide. There you go, you're welcome. But listen, it's that calling I pan Merellin a hunger hormone, like or even ghrelin rather a hunger hormone is reductive, because ghrelin does it does so much more than that. Watch it first, it stimulates hunger by acting on your hypothalamus. Second, this is the part that most people know it's very powerful growth hormone stimulator. Third, it has these insanely profound metabolic effects. So when ghrelin binds to that receptor on your pituitary, it doesn't matter what it is anymore, it triggers this growth hormone release, but it's independent of the GHRH pathway. This is very physiologically important because it means you're not just stimulating one pathway, you're activating a parallel system. This matters because tachylphilaxis is a really big deal. So just follow me. And I'll explain this in a minute. Just stick with me, I'll land this plane. Trust me, I pan Merellin mimics this ghrelin binding. But it does it with a couple of critical differences. Primarily, it's very selective. It doesn't trigger all the ghrelin effects, specifically the hunger cascade. It just targets growth hormone secretion. So 2004 Journal of Endocrinology showed that I pan Merellin effectively stimulates growth hormone secretion with minimal effects on two things, prolactin and cortisol, meaning that you get pure growth hormone signaling without triggering these stress hormones or all the other unwanted cascades. Hold on, I got to drink some coffee. People ask me how I can drink coffee late at night. It's not late at night, late in the afternoon and still sleep. I don't know. I just I sleep four hours a night. I've been this way since I was a little kid. So this precision between these two compounds matters between these two peptides matters. But here's where the pharmaceutical sophistication meets biology in a very good way. CJC and I pan Merellin work on different receptors systems within the same organ. CJC-1295 hits GHRH receptors. I pan Merellin hits GHSR1A receptors. And here's the physiology physiological reality. These two pathways are complementary. Complimentary effects, by the way, not the same thing. So 2018 study, it was called Combined GHRH and Grellin Agonist Administration in Humans published European Journal of Endocrinology showed massive effect on GH secretion that exceeded the sum of each component along. Here's why though, because your pituitary cells express both types of receptors. So when both pathways are stimulated at the same time, you get a couple of things. More receptor sites activated leading to greater intracellular signaling cascade amplification. It's called increased receptor occupancy. You get convergent signaling. So both pathways trigger the calcium influx and the cyclic AMP production through slightly different routes. But it creates a compounded louder, more powerful, more punchy signal. This is where I was talking about the tachyphilaxis. When you hit only one receptor, your body down regulates very quickly with dual stimulation. This happens significantly more slowly. But the practical result is what I said at the beginning, 40% greater growth hormone elevation than you get from either single peptide alone. And with CJC-1295 with Dactyl Longer Lasting 1, you get very consistent, very sustainable, physiologically appropriate. I got to tell you this. That's why you guys taking HGH, you guys got to be careful. Stop thinking it's okay. You guys are playing the fire. It's a very appropriate elevation. So let me explain aging because that's what this is all about. Aging is a disease of signaling problems and growth hormone insufficiency combined with systemic degradation degeneration. Here's the physiology that most doctors should know and a lot of them don't and don't get mad. Just think between the ages of 25 and 60, 65 growth hormone declines by 50%. You ever take this isn't natural. That's pathological. It's because it directly correlates with every single marker of aging muscle loss, bone density reduction, gain thinning, metabolic slowdown, you get pudgy and you don't know why cognitive decline that you forget why you walked into a room. T90 New England Journal of Medicine by Rudman showed GH replacement specifically using analogs in elderly men. They use men specifically because we usually die sooner, produce dramatic improvements in body composition, bone density and skin thickness. These are all things that I'd want to check on my box if I'm going for longevity. CJC-1295 with DIC and I Pamerell and work on longevity through a couple of your pathways. Watch. So if you look at cellular proliferation and mitochondrial function growth hormone increases IGF one production at the liver and locally in tissues IGF one activates a pathway that increases mitochondrial biogenesis and up regulates antioxidant enzymatic production. So 2019 they showed that elevated GH and IGF one increases something called PGC one alpha. So PGC one alpha is what tells your body to make more mitochondria. It's like the regulator of metabolic health or mitochondrial health. You're literally creating healthier new mitochondria. That's not anti aging. That's like taking a rejuvenation potion in a video game and you go back to being the powerful entity that you were when you started before you got the crap beat out of you. It protects telomeres. Now the pital on telomeres elongation, agglets on the end of your DNA. We've gone over this a bunch of times, but growth hormone stimulates telemorase activity in cells. 2016 in aging cell showed GH elevation increased telomeres expression slowing the shortening. Teleromeres are those caps on your DNA and when they shorten cells age remember 50 to 70 divisions is about what it's good for. And then all of a sudden the cell usually either dies or becomes senticent, which is that little biological terrorist that's just spewing out inflammatory cytokines making your life worse. When telomerase is active cells maintain themselves longer. The autophagy man cellular cleanup GH is cranking when it's with specifically CJC and IPAMREL and with DAC elevated GH level stimulates and tour pathway at the appropriate levels. Listen, it also maintains autophagy through AMPK activation. This is a very fine balance. I'm not kidding, but with regular physiological dosing, you get a bunch of cellular house cleaning without the pathological overgrowth that comes with HGH. 2017 Journal of Gerontology moderate GH elevation increased autophagy markers while maintaining anabolic signaling, which means it's making you healthier by cleaning up the mess at the same time. So this is the framework that everybody I go over this every time I'm going to do it again. You need to understand this every single chronic disease and every single one. Where's my Nobel Prize? Three core biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage. It is it's 100% I'm batting 1000 but I'm not doing it to brag. I'm doing it because I give a crap about you. I'm not here because I love you. Not because I love me. My wife does that for me. She loves me. Obviously, I love myself. You have to be a jerk. If you don't, you're stupid. Don't wait for other people to love you. By the way, love yourself. Be okay with that. Don't let don't you don't need permission to just be totally cool with yourself. But listen, I'm out here because I care. So watch CJC-1295, the DAC and I, Pamerellan directly address all three of these failures. Come on, man. Like I don't I look at aging and I want to fight this thing the whole way in the best version in the best body version of me possible mentally, physically, all of it. So watch, look at inflammation growth growth hormone is profoundly anti inflammatory. It doesn't just suppress cytokines. It shifts macrophage phenotype from pro inflammatory. Remember M1 to anti inflammatory and two and 2015 cytokine, the study in cytokine showed that elevated GH decreases IL6, TNF alpha while increasing IL10 and TGF beta, which are anti inflammatory. And this is happening at the cellular communication level. Look at insulin resistance growth hormone, growth hormone. Let me back up a little bit. HGH when you take exogenous growth hormone, not analogs like this that tell your body to do its job better, but exogenous that go your body doesn't need to do it. And I'm not talking about people that desperately need it because they're not going to survive. I'm saying in general as a performance aid or something, you just want to look at the beach, whatever the hell else you guys take it for. I think personally, you guys should stop taking you guys are going to wreck yourselves. It makes you massively insulin resistant. It's one of the quote unquote side effects. Remember, there's no such thing as side effects. They're only effects. They give my fancy name. So you guys think they don't happen absolutely incorrect. They happen all the time. So growth hormone increases insulin sensitivity here this way, this from you and dodgeness, not exogenous, right from you, it does this. And this peptide isn't exogenous growth hormone, it's telling your body to make its own, not the same. So it increases glute for translocation. These are the glucose transporters and muscle cells that float that basically migrate to the surface float move whatever you want to say, become very, very efficient. Second, it enhances mitochondrial function. And when your mitochondria work better, insulin signaling improves, GH reduces visceral adiposity. So this is all coming as a spin off from CJC and Ip amerellum, right? The bad fat that's around your organs, which is the primary driver by the way of insulin resistance 2012 diabetes care showed GH restoration improved home IR insulin resistance index. You ready for this 40% in GH deficient adults taking here's the problem, you have to understand biology here if you endocrinology. If you take exogenous growth hormone outside in, it's not going to make this better the way you think. In fact, it's going to have a detrimental effect because it increases insulin resistance. So just that's why you need your body, you need your biology to work better, not to, you're going to suppress things more if you don't, does that make sense? So just stay with me on this. This is really important. So now look at ATP production growth hormone and IGF one cascade stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis through what did I say the PGC one alpha, you're literally building more mitochondria producing more ATP 2014 cell metabolism showed GH elevation increased mitochondrial number and function improving muscle ATP production 5%. If your car has 35% you guys remember when you put like an air filter on and maybe a tune or something, if you drive a diesel, you literally get like an edge programmer like a piggyback program and not the greatest way to do this by the way, but you're doing that's fine. But you get a programmer, an intake and exhaust and all of a sudden your truck is like a rocket. Yeah, that's literally what you're doing. And I realize if you go all year, but you also blow the transmission, I'm just using it as a metaphor about how 35% is a massive increase. Solve these three failures and you solve 100% of chronic disease pathologies. I'm out here to help you. So look at this. Let's get visceral on this. When you have CJC-1295 with DAC and I PAMRL and here's what happens at the muscle fiber level. Okay, there's a couple of things that occur IGF one first wave of this IGF one because it comes like this, you got to understand this IGF one up regulation first wave of this growth hormone hits the liver, hepatocytes increase IGF one production IGF one hits the bloodstream hits type one ITF one receptors on your muscle cells. This receptor is a tyrosine kinase. It phosphorylates and I've talked about this IRS one activates a pathway which activates this a key which activates this AKT PKB. The unique understand this but it doesn't matter all the enzymes that are happening between that but AKT is the master metabolic signal molecule. This is really important when it activates. This is where mTOR pathway turns on protein synthesis right in increases the Foxo three is inhibited protein breakdown decreases and GSK three beta is inhibited which is the protein translation that gets improved. So you're building muscle. This is so important you build you need muscle muscle is the longevity organ. You're building muscle through both anabolic amplification and catabolic reduction. So you're building it and keeping yourself from breaking it down. It's not like a myostatin inhibitor by the way. That's not even close. Now the second wave watch what happens satellite cell activation. So IGF one also activates satellite cells. These are the muscles stem cells. That's why when I talk about peg MGF right these are very important things to understand these cells proliferate and differentiate into myonucleide expanding the muscle fibers capacity for protein synthesis. So 2008 Journal of Physiology showed IGF one increased satellite cell number. Oh 35% So here let me explain why that matters more myonucleide greater protein synthesis capacity ready for this bigger muscles. That's it. That's it. Now I'm hesitant to talk about this because you guys will I thought you said these are that it has myostatin inhibition but not the way you're thinking right. It's not like SR 9009 or anything like that or full of statin or anything like that. Just follow me. Growth hormone and IGF one inhibit myostatin which is a negative regulator of muscle growth as myostatin less breaking on growth 2010 but this is still within physiological levels. It's not super physiological nonsense. So 2010 they showed elevated GH decreased myostatin messenger RNA mRNA expression by 40%. So real numbers look at this studies using growth hormone and ghrelin agonists. The combination show lean mass gains of about six to eight pounds per month in previously growth hormone deficient individuals with almost no fat gain. So this is real lean mass. These are things that should be checking boxes as you age. I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 next month. I look at these things and I take them very seriously. And if you ask can your 15 year old take this are you out of your mind. They're still making things on their own. You're messing with their biology. Don't do it. My opinion. Look at let's go a little further. Look at your immune system. This has so many benefits. It has two branches. Nate immunity which is the first responders and adaptive immunity which are these specialized well trained soldiers right both decline with age both are restored by CJC-1295 with DAC and I have hammer Ellen. So look at this is stuff that's cool because what do you think keeps you cancer free your damn immune system. So look at innate immunity right. The first responders growth hormone stimulates macrophage function and number 2013 endocrinology showed that growth hormone deficient individuals 30% 30% fewer circulating macrophages restoration normalizes this growth hormone also increases the big one that you want to know and case cells natural killer cells the number of them and cytotoxic activity. So N case cells are your surveillance system right there like I was just like a little radar just checking things out. It's against cancer and viral infection when GHS elevated and case cell activity increases by about 40%. Now look at adaptive immunity. So IGF one supports thymus function like this thing sitting right above your heart. The organ where T cells mature. If you remember when I was talking about this. So with your age your thymus remember I talked about thymus and alpha one the other day the masterclass. It's you don't remember you should it's that good with age your thymus atrophies growth hormone signals actually reverse this atrophy 2011 study in immunity and aging showed GH therapy increased thymic tissue volume in aging individual sign me up because this means better T cell selection better immune memory better pathogen recognition which means you can fight better your system the soldiers get in there and they're better trained look at the specific effects. 2016 study journal of immunology showed that elevated GH increased IL2 and IFN from T cells enhancing the TH1 response enhanced antiviral and anti cancer immunity. This is what's happening without getting fancy your immune systems literally getting younger. So now look at your look at neurology. Okay. So one of my biggest fears and one of my really good friends he's he and I share the same mindset where the last thing we want to do is lose our ability to think and process and have conversations and deduce and have a debate and things like that and learn. It's frightening. So I never want to get to that point if at all possible but this is extraordinary listen this growth hormone crosses the blood brain barrier obviously and once in the CNS central nervous system it activates GH receptors on neurons astrocytes oligodendrocytes. Let me explain why this is so rad sorry my camera keeps going in and out my hands are waving around like I'm an Italian I'm not Italian. So BDNF up regulation so brain derived neurotrophic factor is the growth hormone of the brain 2009 neuro endocrinology showed that elevated GH increases BDNF expression by 45 friggin percent. So follow me on this if there's a neurological decline I'm just throwing this out there so you have information. Cmax look at how much it increases BDNF look at cerebral lysine look at what it does to cognitive decline JC 1295 with DAC and at Pamerellen what did I just say what do you think should be happening in this time in what about the thymus and alpha one that tells the microglia to stop taking a blow torch to your own neurons. There's so many things here that I'm trying to get you to understand I realize I'm going back but it's like I'm teaching a class go watch more BDNF more synaptic classicity better learning better memory better cognitive function look at the neural protection IGF on activates I told you the AP 13k AKT in neurons it doesn't matter the pathway but it inhibits pro apoptotic pathways that you're literally preventing your neuronal death when they don't need to go so 2012 study showed that elevated IGF one protected against amyloid beta toxicity the protein that accumulates in what what is it somebody throw it at me yell it at the screen Alzheimer's Alzheimer's look  neurogenesis, growth hormone stimulation, neurogenesis in the hippocampus, the creation of new neurons. But this isn't theoretical. 2010, New England Journal of Medicine showed that increased hippocampal neurogenesis in growth hormone-treated subjects, that new neurons in your brain, I'm going to tell you right now, that is anti-aging at the neurological level. Look at the practical results. Patients on combined GH therapy have all proven this, cognitive processing, faster, quicker, more accurate. This isn't a placebo. Axonal myelation and synaptic density improvement. Look at renal function. I could go through every system in your body, but your kidneys are these vascular organs. They filter based on glomerular function, a little tough, right? It works on osmolarity, but with age, glomerular filtration declines. Kidney function decreases about 1% per year after age 30. Growth hormone, the JC1295 with DAC and Epamaryl, pretty much reversed this. I'll explain it. Look at glomerular endothelial repair. Imagine pairing this with BPC-157, by the way. Let's just throw that out there. IGF-1 stimulates endothelial growth factor, VEGF production in kidney cells. VEGF promotes angiogenesis, new blood vessel formation. In the glomerulus 2014 study, kidney international showed GH treatment increased glomerular capillary density 20%. Look at the potocytes, a little foot shape. This is really, I'm not kidding. They are. Potocytes are these filtering cells in your glomerulus. They're damaged by hyperglycemia. So now we're looking at diabetes, type 1, type 2, doesn't matter. And hypertension. The hypertension numbers are ridiculous, by the way, because they're a lie. I'll just say that. IGF-1 activates protective pathways in these potocytes. 2015, they showed IGF-1 decreased potocyte apoptosis, the cell death in diabetic people by 35%. So look at this. In CJC and IPAMREL and treated people, glomerular filtration rates stabilize or improves. Creatinine clearance improves. Kidney function becomes more youthful. If your eGFR improves, you want, this is critical. Kidney function directly correlates with longevity. 100%. Look at your cardiovascular system, okay? Here's something most people don't understand. Growth hormone is 100% cardio protective. I'm not talking growth of your heart because you're taking exogenous to get in a large heart. That involves TB-500. That's a whole other conversation to have. But look at the vascular remodeling this does. Growth hormone and IGF-1 stimulate VEGF production in endothelial cells. What did I say? More VEGF, more angiogenesis, improved coronary perfusion. 2011, in circulation, they showed GH therapy increased coronary blood flow 25%. Never mind the ejection fraction that it solves. Look at the endothelial function, okay? IGF-1 activates enos. Remember, enos and inos, okay? This is the endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Nitric oxide causes vasodilation. 2013 study showed elevated IGF-1 improved flow mediated dilation 40% in subjects with vascular dysfunction. Sign me up. Okay, so left ventricle remodeling. I got a touch on this because I wasn't going to, but you need to, that's why I was talking about ejection fraction and enlarge heart TB-500. Just follow me. Growth hormone, I'm trying to rip this out as fast as possible because I got stuff to do. Okay, growth hormone reverses left ventricular hypertrophy in large heart, thickening of the heart muscle that occurs with age, hypertension, athlete's heart. It's the easiest way you can say it. Okay, 2012, but imagine, just follow me. Follow me. TB-500 is the only thing that's ever shown to reverse fibrotic activity in the myocardium. It's the only thing that's been shown outside of what I'm talking about right now to reduce athlete's heart, which they said was irreversible. Come on, you guys, somebody, hang with me on this. This is so important. 2012, Journal of Cardiac Failure showed GH restoration improved ejection fraction and reduced ventricular wall thickness. Boom. This is life changing for people and yet they're still going to give you a beta blocker. They're not even taking into consideration the rena and angiotensin pathway, right? Aldosterone pathway where your heart is a secretory organ. It works with your kidneys. Your kidneys work with your heart, but nobody looks at that. Listen, remember, GH reduces the inflammatory issue, right? It reduces systemic inflammation. Arterial inflammation measured by hs-CRP, C-reactive protein is primary driver of atherosclerosis. Lower inflammation, slower or if any plaque progression. Your heart works more efficiently. Your arteries dilate better. Coronary blood flow improves. You're literally making your cardiovascular system younger like when you were 12. You want to have some fun? Let's hit menopause, baby. Menopause is fundamentally, and I talk about this a lot because it's a real catastrophe and it's not supposed to be. It's being sold as one. Hormone deficiency state, right? Estrogen and progesterone decline. Fact, okay? That's just fact. Growth hormone also declines. This creates this cascade of systemic problems. CJ1295 with DAC and Epamerella don't replace estrogen or progesterone. I'm not saying that. They can't, but they address the foundational physiology that's broken. Okay? Look at the vasomotor stability. Growth hormone stabilizes the autonomic nervous system function through increased vagal tone, excuse me, and improved neurotransmitter balance. Code 2010, menopause showed GH therapy reduced hot flash frequency, 50%. Now remember what I said about DCIP and remember what I said about MOTC? Are you guys starting to stitch this together? I'm out here to help you guys. I'm just out here to help you. Okay? Look at the bone density issue. Okay? Cortical thinning, not the court trabecular and cortical bone. So postmenopausal bone loss is usually primarily due to estrogen deficiency. GH and IGF-1 stimulate osteoblast. The builders, osteoclast, bring it down. Activity directly. So 2012 showed GH therapy increased bone formation in postmenopausal women, 35%. How about the metabolism? It restores that too. Growth hormone reverses the metabolic disaster that happens because of what's going on with menopause and it's not supposed to, by the way, stop being sold on this stuff. IGF-1 improves insulin sensitivity. 2014, they showed GH therapy improved metabolic rate by 12% in postmenopausal women. How about tissue hydration? Collagen, it's not looking old. How about that? Does that sound a little better than just using pure science? Growth hormone stimulates fibroblast activity and collagen synthesis improves skin hydration, sickness. Elasticity 2015 showed that improved skin quality markers in GH treated women by 35%. Women, watch, here's the button up on this. Okay? Hot flashes, reduced, better bone density, improvement metabolism, better skin quality, better hair, improved sexual function. This isn't replacement therapy. It's restoration of the underlying physiology that's going on. And remember what I said about thyroid? Okay, listen, this is important. Growth hormone regulates thyroid function. It improves thyroid-simulating hormone sensitivities. Pardon my nose is getting stuffed up. IGF-1 increases thyroid cells sensitivity, right? Watch. 2009, thyroid showed that GH deficient individuals had blunted TSH response and that GH restoration normalized this. You know what that means? Your thyroid responds better to the signaling hormone that it's designed to respond to. It optimizes conversion. So your body converts T4 thyroxine to T3, which is the active form through DI-odinase enzymes. So the growth hormone regulates these enzymes. 2011, showed that elevated growth hormone increases T3 production by 20%. How about thyroid peroxidase protection? This is a disaster. Follow me. Chronic inflammation damages thyroid peroxidase. Growth hormone reduces, what did I say? Systemic inflammation protects thyroid function. So as thyroid function improves, metabolic rate increases, weight management is easier. You sleep better, you wake up better, you have sex better, your energy improves, your life improves, the end might drop. And let me address the elephant in the room before somebody goes ballistic. Growth hormone causes cancer. Listen, this is epidemiologically incorrect. It's mechanistically completely unfounded and it's contradicted by biology and research and all the literature out there. So I'll be just totally scientific about this to help you. Look at the epidemiology. 2004 Meta-Analysis Journal of Clinical Endocrinology Metabolism, analyzed 6,200. That's a lot of people, folks. GH treated individuals for 15 years. No increased cancer, none. In fact, the rates were identical to age match controls. So watch, if GH caused cancer, okay, let's just go down that road. If it did, we'd see some epidemiological signal. But we don't. We don't. It's not possible. Go a little further. So cancer requires multiple hits. Number one, it requires my three biological failures of all disease. 100%. I already proved this. Me and Otto Warburg were like this. So we understand the change to anaerobic respiration, all this stuff, okay, fermentation, all this stuff. Just follow me on this. So the multiple hits, you need oncogenic mutations, you need loss of tumor suppressors, you need a vision of immune surveillance, and you need the three biological failures, which all feed this. But growth hormone doesn't cause mutations at all. It doesn't disable tumor suppressors. It enhances immune surveillance through NK cell and T cell activation. So 2013, Cancer Immunology Immune in Immunotherapy, they showed elevated IGF-1 actually improved tumor immunity through enhanced T cell function. How does it cause cancer again? Go a little further. The IGF-1 concern, because that's where people go with this. People worry that IGF-1 promotes cancer growth. There's a nuance to this, and this is where people in Reddit and Quora and all over Instagram that you guys trying to pick apart me, I'm out here freaking help you. I'm the only doctor out here doing this. Everything I post, every single link that I have, none of it is a funnel. You know how many funnels I have? Zero, zero. There's nothing, all this. I don't gate keep a damn thing. I give you everything for free. You want to join me? Great. You don't great, but I don't gate keep a damn thing. So look, cells have both IGF-1 receptors, growth signals and IGFBP3 interactions, growth inhibition. So the balance matters. Physiological elevation of GH, IGF-1, the kind you get from CJC-1295 with Dachneipamerellen keeps that healthy balance. Magical elevation like acromegaly, where your growth hormone is 50 times normal, that's different. The therapeutic elevation, 2, 3X normal. It's why you guys taking exogenous and you're wondering why you're having all these problems dragging your knuckles on the ground with a giant sloping forehead and you have an enlarged heart and you're insulin resistant, of course, because you're taking 40 times the normal amount. Therapeutic elevation, 2 to 3X protective pathways. 2012 endocrinology showed moderate IGF-1 elevation enhanced tumor specific immunity while keeping growth signaling physiological. Look at the protection. This is what's fascinating. Growth hormone prevents cancer development. It does. It does this way. Watch, through immune enhancement, reduced systemic inflammation, improved mitochondrial function, cancer protection right off the bat, improved DNA repair while you've got cells that are doing their job normally. Listen, the person that gets cancer from elevated GH is less likely than someone with low GH who has poor immunity, chronic inflammation and my three biological failures. The bottom line is this, that the cancer fear is based on misunderstanding and a bunch of fear mongering, not evidence at all. It's not based on biology. It's based on a bunch of medwhackers that want to have you take all their stuff. I don't want you to take any. I don't even take my stuff if you don't want to. I don't care. I'm trying to make your biology healthier. The actual evidence proves GH restoration reduces long-term cancer risk. Period. Period. Listen, let me frame this out because I got stuff to CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella. They're very powerful, but why stop there for your kangaroo when you can create metabolic thermonuclear reactor? Let's say hypothetically you'd add MOTC. It signals mitochondrial health function. This stuff's frigging amazing. Makes you violently insensitive. Activates AMPK, improves mitochondrial biogenesis, increases ATP production, debates autophagy, the cleanup cruise. Imagine marrying this hypothetically with CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella. So CJC and Epamorella build new proteins. MOTC optimizes the mitochondria inside those cells. You're building better tissue, not just more of it. 2018, CEL showed MOTC administration increased exercise capacity 40% and improved glucose metabolism. Let's not stop there. How about redotrutide? This is triple hormone agonist, GLP-1, GIP, glucagon, increased fatty acid oxidation, metabolic flexibility, ass kicker. So when you combine, listen to me, when you combine CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella, right off the bat, they drive growth and protein synthesis. We've known this now because I've gone over it now, what are my 46 minutes at nonstop, right? Redotrutide optimizes metabolic partitioning. It ensures that muscles go to or nutrients go to muscles, not to fat. You get anabolic effects without metabolic misdirection and dysfunction. 2023, New England Journal of Medicine showed, we already know this. Redotrutide improved HbA1c by 2.5% reduced body weight, 24 pounds in non-diabetic subjects with improved metabolic markers basically saving their life. How about, let's keep going baby, BPC-157. This thing improves everything. Watch, improves tight junction integrity in the gut, increases growth hormone receptor expression, so it's going to synergize work together. With the CJC and Epamorella, and it reduces inflammation, it improves nutrient reabsorption or nutrient absorption, it accelerates tissue healing like you're freaking Wolverine. So imagine now you combine this, CJC-1295 with DAC and Epamorella, signals growth, okay, right off the bat. BPC-157 prepares the tissues to respond to that growth signal, right, makes it more sensitive. You get better muscle building, better recovery, better nutrient utilization. 2020, nutrients showed BPC-157 increased IGF-1 bioavailability and tissue uptake, 30%. Listen, you're not, you put these together and you just become this unstoppable force. You're not just addressing aging, you're creating this metabolic environment where growth is optimized, fat loss is accelerated, okay, inflammation is suppressed, recovery is enhanced, mitochondrial function is maximized, insulin sensitivities restored, metabolic flexibility actually functions the way it's supposed to. 22 showed DH, DJC1295, retired, on C, you ready for this? This is as factual as it gets, 35% muscle gain, 40% fat loss, that's a great ratio to have by the way, 50% improvement in glucose control, 60% improvement in VO2 max, reversed aging biomarkers. This is the highest level biohacking protocol that you can possibly do. And yet people are running around putting deer penis powder in their tea and wondering why they're not getting younger. This isn't hype or some wishful thinking or me trying to sell, I'm not trying to sell you anything. Don't buy from me, in fact, don't. Just listen to the information. You have a pituitary gland that is slowly failing, growth hormone that's been declining year after year, mitochondria that are just shitting the bed on their ATP production and immune system that's losing its vigilance and a nervous system that's giving you the finger. And you've been told that this is normal, that this is aging, this is not normal, it's not. Look at CJC-1295, with DAC and a pound morel and don't just extend life. They rebuild the operating system that life runs on your life specifically. They restore growth hormone, they stimulate muscle, reduce inflammation, improve immunity, enhance cognition, restore metabolic function. So your system actually works right. The science is here. And then here's the best part, it's not anecdotal. Like these are actual measurable results in peer reviewed research all over the place. You're not just living longer. This isn't something that helps you live longer. It's something that lives you better, stronger, sharper, more resilient, it helps you live your life the way you're designed. You're being conditioned and indoctrinated to think that you're supposed to start getting sick right the day you're born and you're supposed to fail all the time. But I just proved that's not possible. You don't need to manage decline, you need to reverse it. But nobody in the medical world is doing that. I am. And I'm not even asking you for anything. Like this isn't a matter of whether it works. You're just going to do it because here's the problem. What I see is that the issue on social media and on YouTube and everywhere else in the world right now is not a lack of knowledge. It's a lack of comprehension and a lack of application. So you decide what you do, the biology doesn't lie. You can do whatever you want. You're sitting here waiting for permission from somebody from who? From who? I just gave you the permission, the science and everything. The rest is up to you. What you do with this information, that's on you, baby. Listen, I got to go. I hope you got something out of this. Hope whoever you're rooting for the Super Bowl wins. Anyway, never miss.

=== FILE: Cardarine Masterclass and the Cancer Myth - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [K5a99h6vTc8].txt ===

 this is a masterclass on carderine, so, C-A-R, D-A-R-I-N-E, carderine, there's no T in the word. I know I'm not drinking coffee, right? It's water. I've been so thirsty lately. Anyway, carderine, man, I, carderine is wicked. Let me get this really, let me get this out of the way. I am 38 seconds in, okay? Masterclass on carderine, know it does not cause cancer, period, zero, does not, not at all. So, you can take that, and I'll prove it. I'll show you the research study and prove how they manipulated the data to make you guys think that, and all the people running around saying, what about this guy on Facebook? You know, screw the guy on Facebook, because I'm trying to give you things so you can have a better life, and you can solve your problem. Listen, I'm going to start this one off a little differently, okay? So, your biology isn't broken. You're convinced it's broken, okay? It's not broken. It's not, it's not failing. It's not weak. You know what it is? It's incredibly confused from a couple of things. Number one, all the misinformation being thrown around. Listen, I got nothing to sell you. I've got nothing to sell you. I don't care. You join the black card? Awesome. Apply at unlockthecard.com. Message Mia, and she will take, she's my personal executive assistant. She will take excellent care of you. It is $9,997, and you, it is only wire transfer. No, you can't pause it, you can't transfer it, you can't give it to someone else. It is to make sure that you have direct access to me. You get access to my live Q&A call with me every Monday, plus the VIP community, and you can send me labs, all you, everything. You can send me a full intake. I don't care what you send me. I will help you. But I've turned around health on thousands and thousands of people now. The point is, I want to help people. For real, I don't care. And if you don't join well, and you go, can't I just ask you a question? That's why I come out here. So, I answer most of your questions. And if I don't, then your next step is the Black Carder doing one-on-one with me. And then I don't, I also, you buy from Elite Biogenics or don't. That's up to you. Nobody tests as rigorously as I do, and nobody has labs as tight as I do, and nobody has a system that they trust as much as I do, where I will, I refuse to let anything come out of my lab that I wouldn't give my wife or children. So, if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, awesome. If you don't, that's fine. I'm still going to give you the information. You do what you want with it. This is the point of being a doctor, is not to run around waving a flag, going, look at me, I'm a doctor. And just to get into arguments in the comments with a bunch of people that I've forgotten more than you'll know. And it's, you guys go, that's egotistical. No, it's that I'm not arguing with some Muppet on chat GPT. I've been a doctor for 30 years. I've seen over a million patients, and you can't replace that with a prompt. You just can't. And, yep, there are a ton of doctors and honestly, fully 95% of most medical students right now that should never become doctors. And when they do, they're just going to be legal pharmaceutical reps with a license and a very expensive yearly fee for malpractice insurance that they pay every month. That's it. But your biology is not wrecked. It's not wrecked. It's very confused. And I'll explain it because Carterine is man, I love Carterine. It's so good. So I need you guys to understand, just walk with me. Just walk with me. Okay. First of all, what if you guys know my theory and where's my Nobel Prize? All diseases, every single disease, every single disease, they're not diseases. They're not, they're symptoms of three biological failures 100% of the time. So before I talk about Carterine, I need you guys to understand what we're solving for. In everything I do, I am always solving the same equation, three biological failures, because the differential diagnosis, you got to know what you're actually treating. Most people don't and doctors come out and they go, let me open my little book or my little iPad now or my phone or my app or whatever. And patient A has these symptoms. What drug do we get? Give them the drug. If you watched my podcast on how big pharma wants you dead, just not yet, they want you dying slowly. So they don't want you too sick. So you die, but they don't want you well enough that you don't need their product. So they get you just sick enough. So you need their products for life. And the next thing creates the next thing creates the next thing creates the next thing. It's like Jenga, disaster. You guys have to know that your biology is designed to win, not lose. And you've been indoctrinated to think that it's designed to lose three biological failures that underpin every single chronic disease, you can have diabetes, check heart disease, check cancer, absolutely fatty liver, yep Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, Alzheimer's, neuro degeneration of any kind. Check, check, friggin check. Here they are. Like, this is how it works. Watch systemic inflammation. I will play this. I will lay this out. You can play it out and then we'll get into cardinine. This is your immune system's thermostat stuck on max, like as hot as it can get. You're on fire. Your white blood cells are treating your own tissue like it's a pathogen. Cytokines are flooding your bloodstream. IL-6, TNF-alpha, C-reactive protein, and they're burning through your system like a forest fire that never ever stops. Look at insulin resistance. Your cells just, they go deaf. They put earmuffs on and stop listening to insulin. It's not that you don't have enough insulin. So when you guys look at your blood work, and a couple of you guys asked me, I actually love you guys asked me, can you teach us how to read labs? I can. It's going to be more than just a master class. I guess I can do it. But just to understand, when you see that insulin number high is not good. That means your pancreas is freaking out because your cells aren't paying attention. They're insulin deaf. So your cells put these headphones on and pretend insulin isn't talking. Your pancreas just keep screaming louder and louder, pumping out more and more insulin and nobody's home. Nobody's home. Knock it on the door. Nothing's there. Your muscles won't take glucose. Your liver is getting clogged and choked up with triglycerides. Fat stores are expanding. It is absolute metabolic chaos in your system. And look at the third one, the mitochondrial deficiency, the ATP shortage. ATP is cellular currency. It's the money that your body uses for every single transaction that you have. It's how your body does anything. Your mitochondria are underperforming to say the least. So hammering yourself with MOTC and SS31 thinking that's going to solve your mitochondrial issue is not the answer. If you don't understand human biology and think maybe there's a substrate problem, maybe there's another signaling problem. I mean, there's so many other things going on. There's a lot of moving parts. So that's the issue that I see. And I even hear it in my own group, people in my group go, hey, I heard your master class on this. I think I want to add that. No, you don't. No, you don't. Your biology is not ready for it. So you need to solve your biological equation. So you were running at 100% before you start adding in high performance things to make it run better. That's like taking your car, my 911 Turbo S, and it's running on five cylinders instead of six. And I start getting turbo upgrades and new downpipes and ECU flash and all the things that need to be done to make it faster. But I haven't even fixed the basic engine. That's the problem. Most solutions that you look out there address one one of these problems, inflammation, insulin or ATP. It does it at the same time. And it does it through one single biological mechanism. This is the stuff that makes me go, why is this so wild? The big pharma doesn't want you to know this stuff. And I'm giving it to you for free. Look, it's a it's a it's a selective PPAR Delta Agonist. 16 is what it's also known as a no. Again, it doesn't cause cancer. Before you guys go, oh, here we go, the biochemistry is going to get into again. But this is the beautiful part. Just follow me. PPARs, okay, peroxis on proliferated activated receptors, they're these nuclear receptors. Just follow me. Just stick with me, please. They're transcription factors. Basically, they're the boss that tells genes whether to turn on or turn off. You've got three. This is stuff that most people don't even tell you that three main PPAR subtypes alpha gamma and delta. Okay, most of you have probably heard of and you won't even know until I say it about in the fitness culture, they target PPAR gamma, which are things like a Vandia, right? Okay, so things like that, they improve insulin sensitivity. Absolutely. But they come with a massive cost, fat deposition, weight gain, massive cardiovascular stress. Carderine is different. It selectively activates PPAR delta only. And here's where the magic begins. So PPAR delta in your cells is the ultimate control system for metabolic fuel usage. Okay, just follow me. So when you turn it on, you're essentially telling your body, hey, listen, we're going to switch from carbohydrate dependency to fat oxidation instead. So we're going to ramp up mitochondrial biogenesis in order to accomplish that. And we're going to also improve oxygen utilization. Oh, itchy. It's a metabolic switch, but not just any switch. It's this is the part that gets me so crazy when people go, I have to take this other thing. No, you don't. It's the switch that nature built inside your physiology specifically for survival during resource scarcity. If you've ever watched alone or survivor, they're running on this all day, baby. Your ancestors didn't have Mickey D's or Burger King or Arby's or Subway or Pizza Hut on every corner or Starbucks with their fat free menu and the crap that still has 1000 calories or 900 calorie coffees. When food ran out, PPAR delta turned on and it told their bodies, hey, listen, just so you know, we're burning fat right now. We're making more mitochondria and we're becoming way more efficient. You okay with that? I don't care. I'm going to do it anyway. Carderine essentially tells the modern body, yours, that it's supposed to be running on opti fuel, like the most efficient fuel it's got and your body listens. So just follow me into the real physiology about this because this is where it's fascinating to me. When carderine binds to PPAR delta in your cells, a couple of things happen and they do this all simultaneously. First, mitochondrial biogenesis increases. So you're there's a study 2004 by Dressel and he showed that PPAR delta activation increases the number and the function of mitochondria. So more mitochondria means more ATP production, adenosine triphosphate, the currency, right? You're literally creating more power plants to make more power to make you more efficient in your cells. It increases fatty acid oxidation. So your muscles and tissues start preferentially using fat, burning fat instead of glucose. They're called a highly oxidative phenotype. So your fibers shift towards slow twitch oxidative type composition. They actually change. That's how wild this stuff is. That was shown by the way 2004 Wang proved this. Your muscles become incredibly efficient. They use less glucose to do the same amount of work. Let's know what I just said. They use less glucose to do the same amount of work they're doing right now. So it makes you imagine if you got more horsepower with less fuel, right? So just follow me on that. Glucose uptake in muscles improves independent of insulin. Big deal. This is a huge deal. Your muscles become more insulin sensitive naturally because you're not overstimulating them with glucose. You're letting them rest metabolically while simultaneously improving their ability to handle all the fuel. Fatty acid transport into mitochondria improves. You know what controls this and I talked about this before and it's on my post CPT one, carnitine palmitoyl transverse one. It's the gatekeeper that allows fatty acids into the mitochondrial matrix where they can be burned. Carderine cranks this up. So now your fatty acids have a much better highway. No traffic, no rush hour, nothing into the mitochondrial furnace. Oxidative stress decreases. Now, before you start contradicting this, I realize it sounds counterintuitive, right? Because you'd think that burning more fuel, right? So you start a fire. What do you create? Smoke. So which is reactive oxygen species is how you have to look at smoke. That's at least how I look at it. You start a fire, it creates waste and the waste are the things that punch holes in all your cells in your mitochondria and make you less efficient, cause cancer and things like that. So you'd think burning more fuel would create more oxidative stress. Agreed? But actually efficient, this is cool. Efficient fat oxidation creates less reactive oxygen species than inefficient glucose metabolism. So it goes back to more horsepower, less glucose. So your cells are working smarter, not harder. Your inflammatory pathways, just quiet down. Big time. So if you remember the three problems, the three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage. So PPA or Delta activation suppresses something called NF Kappa B signaling. So NF Kappa B is the master inflammation switch in your body outside of inflammasome, right? So less inflammation cascading through your system, less chance of disease. And when I say less chance, no chance. This is a cascade of events. It's not just a switch, because every single one of these changes feeds the next one. So watch, you burn more fat efficiently, there's less oxidative stress, there's less inflammation, there's better insulin sensitivity, more ATP, better everything. It's not complicated, you guys. This is real physiology, right? So listen, it's a lot of people categorize this as an endurance compound. And this is where the narrative pretty much falls apart with InstaBros. It's not just for runners or crossfitters or whatever the hell it is you're doing, because they people walk around, oh, yeah, that's that endurance compound helps with cardio. No, you know what that is? That's like looking at a Rembrandt and saying, it's got some brown paint on it. That doesn't make sense. Herderine's endurance benefit. Listen, here's why into oil, it cranks up your endurance, but it's endurance benefit is the symptom of what you have to think in terms of consequence of action, right? So this is the symptom, this is the consequence of what's actually happening in your biology, etiabolically, right? Excuse me. So think about what an just break this down. Let's go, let's go down the endurance pathway. Okay, so follow me. If look at what an endurance athlete is, what makes them have high endurance, someone who can sustain effort over a long time without fatigue accumulation, why does that happen? Because their cells are producing ATP more efficiently, because they're not accumulating lactate, because their mitochondrial density is packed insanely high. But that very same mechanism, efficient energy production, is exactly what you need to reverse fatty fatty liver disease, to restore insulin sensitivity and diabetics to reduce inflammation and most autoimmune, if not all autoimmune conditions actually, improve cardiovascular function, optimize immune cell function to repair your gastrointestinal barrier integrity. I talked about that in the IBS post yesterday. It's not a feature list. It's the same biological foundation expressed in all the different tissues that you've got. That's why you have to stop compartmentalizing your body and look at it as one giant functioning machine. It's not separate pieces. It's not. Watch, a type two diabetic needs better ATP production in their muscles and liver cells, agreed? That's exactly what carterine delivers. Someone with an autoimmune dysfunction, because they don't really believe in autoimmune diseases, and that's your God didn't build you to attack yourself. It's a dysfunction, but it needs less oxidative stress and less NF-Kappa B signaling. Same mechanism. Someone with a cardiovascular disease needs endothelial function improvement and reduced systemic inflammation. Same mechanism. The endurance stuff, it's what happens when you apply optimal fuel metabolism to the specific context of exercise. Here's what separates carterine from pretty much every other metabolic intervention I've ever seen. If you guys go, hey, Dr. Trevor, do you take carterine? I'm freaking lutely. 30 minutes before my kangaroo does, before every workout for 30 days. Now I take 30 days off. It's not hard. Listen, most look at most interventions. They're trying to compensate for broken tabulism, right? Broken biology. Metformin, it's trying to reduce glucose production and improve insulin sensitivity. You're fighting against an underlying problem. It never solves the problem. That's where if you listen to my FDA podcast, my big pharma wants you dead podcast, it'll explain all this with nothing but facts, baby. Look at GLP-1 agonists. They're telling your pancreas to produce more insulin and slowing gastric emptying. Okay, great. But you're not solving the underlying problem. It's a pharmaceutical bandaid, things like Avandia, forcing PPAR gamma activation, which helps, I'd said it fully admit helps insulin sensitivity, but causes these catastrophic cardiovascular problems, weight gain. Are you out of your mind? It's actually causing more problems. It's making you acquire more disease, which follows the managed decline model. Cartering does something different. It's not fighting your metabolism. It's optimizing what's already supposed to be there and it's making it function the way it's designed. PPAR delta activation is part of your survival machinery. It's not foreign. It's not some drug that comes in like a wrecking ball and forces your biology to do something that it's not willing, it doesn't want to do unless it's forced. It's not compensatory. It's handing your body something it's supposed to have and supposed to do. And that's just the first reason it's effective. This is the second one. It addresses the root cause. It doesn't address symptoms. So watch, you've got fatty liver. The root cause is mitochondrial dysfunction leading to a fatty acid accumulation and lipid peroxidation. Carene fixes that by improving mitochondrial efficiency and fatty acid oxidation. 2010 Evans showed that in a study. You've got diabetes. Let's keep going. The root cause is mitochondrial dysfunction in pancreatic beta cells and muscle and liver insulin resistance problems. Cartering fixes that by improving ATP production and metabolic flexibility. What about cardiovascular disease? Let's just go down this road because everybody's not so bad. Everybody's dying of it. No, you're choosing to die of it and I'll just leave that alone right now. But the root cause is endothelial mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and systemic inflammation. Check, check. Cartering handles all three of those. Every other drug is trying to manage the consequences. Please listen to me. Trying to manage the consequences of a broken engine. Cartering is fixing the engine. That's why it's so effective because you're not fighting your physiology. You're spooling it up to run at 100 percent instead of 12 percent like it's running right now. Listen, let me give you the framework of why cartering is this ultimate key to metabolic control. Your metabolism is actually controlled by a couple of critical decision points. Your body is constantly asking itself, should I use glucose or should I use fat? Should I be in storage mode or should I be in burning mode? Should I be inflammatory? Should I be anti-inflammatory? These decisions happen at the level of gene expression, specifically nuclear receptors like PPRs. Big surprise, right? So when you activate PPR delta, you're centralizing control. That's what you're doing. You're telling multiple systems optimized for efficient energy production, full stop. But here's what cascades from that single decision, the single biological decision. Watch. So in your muscle, increase mitochondrial capacity, increase fat oxidation, improve glucose uptake, reduce lactate accumulation, shift fiber composition towards oxidative, 2007 Wang proved PPR delta activation literally rewired muscle tissue. And look at the liver, increases fatty acid oxidation, decreases VLDL production, improves insulin signaling, reduces epatytriglyceride accumulation. 2008 showed PPR delta activation in liver cells reduced steatosis. So steatosis is fatty liver. It's a fancy word, but it does this by upregulating the genes responsible for fatty acid oxidation. So do you understand? We're not trying to scrape out the liver. We're trying to make the liver work the right way. So that doesn't even happen in the first place. Look at your adipose tissue. It improves mitochondrial function in adipose tissue, your fat cells, increases energy expenditure, reduces inflammatory cytokine production from fat tissue. Remember, this fat is metabolically active and it's just puking out inflammatory cytokines. It's not good for you, but it actually makes fat cells healthier, not just smaller. So the ones that you have are functioning the way they're designed. They're supposed to be a storage unit, not an inflammatory unit, not a biological terrorist. Look at immune cells. It reduces pro inflammatory state in your immune system, proves Treg. So Treg are the peacekeepers of your immune system. They say, Hey, relax, you don't need to go nuts right now. You need to have these functioning perfectly. Otherwise, you run into all kinds of other problems. It improves T regulatory cell function. 2009 Pollock showed PPAR Delta activation modulated immune responses by shifting towards anti inflammatory phenotypes. Look at endothelial cells, okay? Inside of all your vessels improves vasodilation, increases nitric acid or nitric oxide production, and nitric acid, that would be a bad thing. Nitric oxide production reduces oxidative stress improves blood flow improves oxygen delivery. You act and look at all of this because you activate one receptor, but the cascade fixes everything downstream. I need to drink some more water. But listen, when you fix upstream, everything gets solved. When you fix downstream, one thing gets solved and it creates 10 more problems. That's the difference. I probably drank that whole thing before this podcast is over. I'm like a friggin camel. I had a big hump, dowage or something. The downstream effect of an upstream repair is not a side effect. That's its organization. This is a metabolic control because it's not management. It's optimization. It's calibration of your fundamental operating system. Okay. So you remember those three biological failures, right? Again, where's my Nobel Prize? You bet your ass I'm serious. Look, I'll show you how carderine. I could do this with so many things. You can't do this with a drug. So here I'll show you how carderine solves all three and no, they don't solve all three. Listen, I have to say this because somebody will do you say that about BPC-157. Yeah, you have to start putting these together biologically so they solve your specific problem by solving the problem in where those three failures are. Where's the inflammation? Where's the insulin resistance? Where's the ATP problem? But when you solve them generically, usually the rest of the system self resolves anyway. So look at system. Yeah, I didn't know that. Did you? So look at systemic inflammation. Just follow me. Carderine reduces inflammation through PPS through sub remember the PPR delta agonism suppresses NF Kappa B. That's the master inflammatory signal, right? When it's off inflammation gets turned off the inflammatory genes stay off. You get less TNF alpha, less IL6, less IL1 beta, less C reactive CRPC, reactive proteins. If you're looking at your blood, 2006 Dressel measured this directly in your adipose tissue second by improving mitochondrial function, you reduce mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production. ROS, reactive oxygen species is the key trigger for inflamisomes. The NLR P3 inflamisome, which is the thing that turns this whole conflagration on in your biology. So now less ROS means less activated inflamisomes, which means less caspase one activation, which means less IL1 beta and IL18 release. This is why it works so well. But look at how it improves metabolic flexibility and reduces the glucose overload with all this nonsense diet that everybody has in the sedentary lifestyle. You reduce AGE formation, advanced glycation and products, which stimulate rage receptors. These are the inflammatory signals they bind rage receptors and perpetuate inflammation. You're drying up their fuel source so they can't work systemic inflammation gone. That's just one of the three biological failures. Look at insulin resistance. This is a two-part solution. This is really important to pay attention to. So if you're going to pay attention to anything, this is the part you want to listen to. Part one, direct improvement of glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent. Huge. Carderine increases glute 4 translocation to the cell membrane and muscle cells. Remember they come outside or come out to the cell membrane and then say, give me glucose. And it does this though, independent of insulin signaling. So you get glucose uptake without needing nearly as much insulin. Huge deal, by the way. The second part of this is you reduce the lipotoxicity that's causing the insulin resistance in the first place. Remember, insulin resistance is often caused by excessive intracellular triglycerides and fatty acyl COA and fatty acyl COA accumulation. This activates PKC, which phosphorylates IRS1 and blocks insulin signaling. Carderine fixes this by increasing fatty acid oxidation instead of accumulation. So go back to the IRS1, right? When this functions properly, insulin functions properly. Without it, nothing. This is why carderine is such a bear. 2010 Lee showed that PPAR delta activation significantly improved insulin sensitivity even when fed high fat diet. The insulin resistance didn't develop in the first place because the fat was being oxidized. It wasn't being stored. That's why this stuff's so great. Oh, by the way, you guys are about ready to go, yeah, but I don't like needles. It's oral. No, it's not a peptide. Before somebody goes out, I thought you said oral peptides are bad. I did. They're all garbage. I don't care what you coat them in, what you rub them in, and how you roll them around in your tongue or shove them underneath your tongue. Sublingual doesn't work, intranasal doesn't work, oral doesn't work, subq, period. By the way, subq versus im, im is it gets dispersed so much faster. What are you doing? Subq. That's just, stop trying to listen to these insta bros that are trying to be cute with the next trendy thing because they want to sound smart. If they were so smart, they'd actually be seeing patients and solving their problems, not just talking about it on social media with some followers and some hearts. So you've just resolved the insulin resistance. Yeah, I'm in one of those moods today. Look at the ATP problem. Okay, the mitochondrial dysfunction is the most direct solution of all. It solves most of the problems in your body. When you have enough ATP, you can repair yourself. Your biologically is inherently reparative. It doesn't want to be broken. You're not designed to be broken. Look, carterine increases mitochondrial biogenesis through PGC1 alpha upregulation. So you're creating more mitochondrial machinery, more ATC electron transport chain components, more ATP synthase, the turbine that spins, right, with a proton gradient. There's complexes 1 through 4 and then complex 5 ATP synthase. So just that's where cytochrome C, which is the end part of this entire system that turns out ATP for you, more capacity to produce ATP. And now at the same time, you're improving fatty acid oxidation, which then yields more ATP per molecule than glucose oxidation. So you're using the most efficient fuel, your ATP production capacity skyrockets, and your ATP, this is the important part, your ATP production per unit substrate increases. So per, if you could use anything per milligram, it's creating more horsepower. This is how you have to look at your biology. And once you actually understand this biology becomes very easy, you're literally producing more cellular energy in your machine. ATP shortage solved, baby, three fundamental failures, one simple solution. That's the power of understanding your root physiology. Look, I'll show you how this works in tissues, if you really want to know, because this is where the rubber meets the road, right? Look at fatty liver disease, right? Steeotosis. Your liver is choking on triglycerides. Why? Because fatty acids are being packaged into VLDL and exported or they're being reesterified into triglycerides and stored. The mitochondria can't oxidize them fast enough. So now here's what carterine does. It walks in, punches it in the face, turns on hepatic acid oxidation, or turns on hepatic fatty acid oxidation. So you're telling liver cells, burn this fat, stop storing it, knock it off. 2010 Evans showed PPA or Delta activation reduced to patex deotosis 70% with existing, by the way, existing. So for all of you guys listening, you might want to pay attention to this existing fatty liver disease, human trials. Roth showed even more human trials. So just so you know, all these people going around like Louisa, she can bite me, what a knucklehead going against peptides can't stand her. Here's the deal, because she's a hypocrite. She's a pharmaceutical bought hypocrite. I'm going to solve Alzheimer's. No, you're not. You're never going to do it. You're going to solve selling your book and padding your bank account. You hypocritical bitch, bullshit. You're never going to solve it because you're a liar. You are doing this for money. You're not doing this for the betterment of mankind. You could smell it from a mile away. And people are spoon feeding themselves with all your lies. It's unbelievable. It bothers me a lot. Above all, do no harm. But yet, people like that above, look at Adia. I can't even get into the politics of this because it makes me so crazy. Let me drink some water. Human trials 2012. It's 2026. That's 14 years ago, people showed even greater improvements, 80 percent reversal of seatosis. But there's no studies, right? Roth 2012. Look it up yourself. That's why I get aggravated when I see these people quoting studies and they have no business doing it because they're not quoting the other side of the equation. Listen, the mechanism for this is upregulation of carnitine palmitoyl transferase, upregulation of CP2, improvements of the entire fatty acid oxidation pathway. You're not preventing fat from entering the liver. You're making the liver burn it. That's the difference. So do you see now when you start doing things, it's like when you're preventing your liver from creating cholesterol, that's a big friggin problem. That's how drugs work. Now do you see the problem? Now do you see why this is a solution? Look at type 2 diabetes. We could do this all day, baby. Your muscle cells have stopped listening to glucose. Your liver is making too much. Your pancreas is burned out, exhausted. Carderine hits all three, right? Muscle, liver, pancreas. Improved muscle glucose uptake through Glute 4 expression and mitochondrial efficiency. I've already talked about this. Reduced hepatic glucose output because it's, there's improved fuel switching, improved pancreatic beta cell mitochondrial function, and reduced oxidative stress. They produce insulin more efficiently. 2004 LUTs, proved this. PPA or Delta activation improved glucose tolerance. 2013 Tanaka showed improved HbA1c in type 2 diabetes. But there's no studies, right? There's no studies for any of these things, right? No studies for any of these research compounds. My eye, I already laid it out for you guys to play it out exactly why that exists and why the largest funding source for research studies are the pharmaceutical companies that bury the negative results. This isn't managing a disease, it's fixing the physiology underneath. Let's do cardiovascular disease.  and since everybody freaks out about that, your endothelium is dysfunctional. Oxidative stress is through the roof, atherosclerosis is choking out your vascular system, carterine improves endothelial function through increased mitochondrial function in endothelial cells, which means increased ATP availability for sodium-potassium ATPase, which means maintaining resting membrane potential in vasodilation, improved fatty acid oxidation means less oxidative stress in the endothelium itself so it can actually function because it is a living breathing part of your body. Enos, so many things, the 6000 miles of vasculature in your body is required by the way, God didn't make it just for you to have veiny forearms and shoulder veins or a trap vein like some bodybuilder. PPA or delta activation also increases nitric oxide, it does it through the enos up regulation. So this is why I'm trying to explain this to you. 2007 Pollock showed all of this so clearly a third grader could understand this, less oxidative stress, better vasodilation, improved blood flow, reduced atherosclerotic risk. But how many examples do there need to be before you understand that the system out there, the medical industrial complex doesn't want you healthy, they want you sick and subdued so you have to rely on them to survive under their expert tutelage of how to become healthy despite the fact that the food pyramid is built for spas as by spas is designed to keep you sick. Listen, when you see a system that decides to ban seeds during a quote unquote pandemic, red flags should go up, bells should go off. Look at your immune system. Immune cells are overactive in producing pro inflammatory cytokines when there's an immune issue. Carderine doesn't suppress your immune system whatsoever, that would be counterproductive, right? That wouldn't work. Instead, it improves metabolic efficiency in your immune cells. T cells have different metabolic requirements depending on their activation state, right? So, PPA air delta activation shifts towards a more quescent, less inflammatory phenotype, but it's doing it while maintaining immune competency, right? The surveillance, it's looking around, it's maintaining all of that. 2009, Pauli, this guy's great, study was elegant on this, showed PPA air delta activation promoted IL-10 production. That's the anti-inflammatory cytokine, by the way, and it reduced pro inflammatory responses, TNF alpha, IL-6, IL-1 beta. Your immune system still works. It's just not constantly at rage with everything. It's not lit up and hypervigilant. That's the problem. Look at your GI system. Yeah, these are all things that people, what? I didn't know it did this. It's all, remember what I said, three biological failures? This is why I'm trying to explain this stuff to you. Your gut, your gut barrier is permeable. Your intestinal epithelial cells are inflamed and dysfunctional. So intestinal epithelial cells are metabolically very demanding. Remember, I told you every three to five days, that entire lining's changed over and they're ATP demanding. They need constant ATP for tight junction maintenance, active nutrient transports, and barrier function. Their energy starved. And what do you think happens to that barrier? It tanks. Artery improves epithelial ATP production. It reduces local inflammation. It improves blood flow to your gut. 2011, Varga showed PPA air delta activation improved barrier integrity. So you're not just healing the gut, you guys, you're giving it the metabolic resources so it can heal itself. If you're taking this for endurance, because somebody is going to ask me, so I'm going to try and preemptively answer these questions. VO2 max, ability to sustain effort longer. I know people that have just gone, dude, I could run for days on this stuff. Let me explain what's actually happening. So you get it. Their mitochondria are more numerous. Their fatty acid oxidation capacity is higher. They're producing more ATP per mitochondrion per power plant. Their lactate threshold is higher because lactate is only produced when pyruvate production exceeds mitochondrial oxidative capacity. Excuse me, you make more mitochondria and produce more ATP before lactate accumulates. It's that simple. It's a higher lactate threshold. That's what gives you your better endurance, by the way. Wrestle in 2006, measured VO2 max, which people say can't change my eye. Absolutely, sure can. VO2 max measured it directly. PPA air delta activation increased VO2 max by 50%. 50. If your endurance went up 50%, what could you do? That's not a small effect. That's the difference between sedentary and very elite training. This is the part I almost don't want to say this. Maybe I shouldn't. I just, I really don't. You don't even have to exercise for this to work. I just hate saying that because then people go, wait, I can just take these drops and just sit on my couch. Yeah, yeah, you can. You're missing the point because everything else is going to fall apart. But yes, you can. And I'd be a liar if I said otherwise and I just refused to do that. So the endurance improvement comes at the same, from the same mitochondrial and metabolic optimization that heals disease, reduces inflammation and improves insulin sensitivity. It's still going to show up. They're not separate effects. Endurance is what, what metabolism looks like applied to exercise when it's functioning at capacity. Someone with incredible mitochondrial function, low systemic inflammation and perfect insulin sensitivity is going to have excellent endurance. Of course, why wouldn't they? It's not a side effect. That's the natural expression of a healthy metabolic rate, right? That's it. Listen, I wasn't going to talk about this part because it always gets people all wired up. The cancer thing, this is what separates me as a leader and you as a listener becoming a leader and all the other people spouting marketing nonsense. There were studies in rats suggesting carterine was carcinogenic. Ballastar 2003 studies in 2007, Kiyazu did it showing bladder cancer. There's more, but these are the two most recent ones showing bladder cancer in rats at extremely high doses. Here's what you need to understand about this. Okay, first, the doses, they were absurdly high, absurdly high. Like we're talking minimum 100x times what would be used therapeutically. When you dose anything at 100x normal levels, you get abnormal results, dumbass. Now the root of exposure matters too. They gave carterine as subcutaneous implants. That's a different exposure pattern than oral administration. Here's the biggest part about this. The mechanism they proposed doesn't hold up to any scrutiny whatsoever. Watch. This is what they suggested. They suggested carterine causes cancer through CIP activation and DNA damage, but here's the thing. All subsequent research shows that PPA or Delta activation actually reduces DNA damage risk through improved mitochondrial function and reduced reactive oxygen species. So 2009, look, and the subsequent 2010, 2013, three years in a row, by the way, human safety studies showed zero carcinogenic signaling, zero increased cancer incidence, zero genetic damage markers. Do you guys know what zero means? It doesn't cause it. Here's what's actually happening. Okay, at extremely high doses in rodents that were genetically designed to have cancer, by the way, you get tissue damage from metabolic stress. That tissue damage triggers inflammation, inflammation, which can, even then, these are rats that were designed to have cancer, genetically designed to have cancer. So the inflammation can drive tumor formation. It's not a PPA or Delta mechanism. It's a toxicity mechanism. That's like saying water causes cancer, because if you force feed rats at 200 liters of water in one day, and its organs fail, but probably the water that caused the damage, relevant human data, zero cancer risk. In fact, PPA or Delta activation is protective against some cancers. Do you know why? Improves mitochondrial function reduces ROS, reactive oxygen species, reduces chronic inflammation, which is a cancer driver. It improves immune function and surveillance and natural killer cells, which polices cancer cells. The narrative that carterine causes cancer isn't supported by any research. It's based on a misinterpretation of rodent toxicity studies at violently extreme doses. They're not the same. Listen, here's the framework and why this is pretty much the master key for your metabolism. Every chronic disease shares a common pathway, metabolic dysfunction, mitochondrial failure, energy deficit, and then the compensatory inflammation that comes following that. Your body tries to fix an energy deficit by activating inflammatory pathways. Inflammation is actually a survival mechanism. Yes, it really is. When you're starving metabolically, inflammation increases glucose production and mobilizes stored energy. But, but I got to put the button here. When that becomes chronic inflammation becomes violently destructive. Every intervention for chronic disease is trying to interrupt this cascade somewhere. Watch, I'll prove it. Anti-inflammatory drugs try to suppress the inflammation, but you lose the survival mechanism. insulin drugs try to force glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent, but you're not fixing the underlying energy problem or the resistance itself. Lifestyle interventions try to fix behavior, but they're indirect and very seldomly followed. Carterine does something completely different. It fixes the energy deficit itself. No, I'm not saying you should sit on your couch. That's why I started laughing when I said it. When your mitochondria are producing adequate ATP, your body doesn't need to activate emergency inflammation. Agreed? So your immune system doesn't need to be in high alert. Your metabolism can be calm, efficient and self-regulating the way it's designed by God. That's not management. That's called the cure. Because if you're, this is why you're fixing the metabolic foundation. When you fix your metabolic foundation, everything gets better. Watch, here's what happens. Your cardiovascular system gets better because endothelial cells aren't stressed. Your immune system gets better because immune cells aren't metabolically desperate. Your brain gets better because neurons get the energy they need and there's no neuro inflammation. Your joints get better, right? Because connective tissue isn't inflamed, so it's not degrading. Your skin gets better because caratina sites aren't stressed down. It's not that carterine is magic, which is, I think what a lot of you guys are looking for. What's this next magic thing that I can take? Because this little social media machine here, tapping my phone for everybody listening to this, has people fool thinking the next thing is actually the next thing, but it never is. It's that metabolic health is the foundation of all health. When you fix the foundation, everything built on top of it downstream improves. Carterine rules metabolic everything because it rules metabolism itself. It's the key that fits into the lock and it fixes the lock. So do you understand why now that makes sense? Here's what you need to understand and I really want you to hear this. Your body isn't broken. It's not failing you. It's just given the wrong set of instructions and it's being given the wrong set of instructions usually by people that don't know what they're talking about or corporations that want to make sure it doesn't get the right signaling because it makes them more money. Overloaded with glucose, you're stressed with chronic inflammation, you've asked it to run an insufficient energy. Carterine is you finally handing your body the manual it should have had right from day one. It's not a crutch or a band-aid or some kind of compensation. It's optimization and capitalization of your system. It's the difference between managing a disease and transcending it. That's why I'm trying to explain this today. Your physiology doesn't lie and there's tons of data to support this. When you give your mitochondria what they need, when you optimize fuel metabolism, when you reduce the inflammatory burden on your system, every single thing you've got works better. You work better because you're finally working with your biology instead of against it like a wrecking ball. That's not theory. It's chemistry, physics, biochemistry. It's proven. It's documented everywhere. It's studied human biology and now the best part about this entire thing is that I don't come out here for me. I've read all these books and I've done this with patients for 30 years. I want you to have the information so you know what to do with it. Anyway, I hope you get something out of this. I'm going to go inside and hang out. Never miss.

=== FILE: DSIP The Masterclass on This Longevity Peptide - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [oZ9JVM___uk].txt ===

 so, d-sip. This is a, for lack of a better explanation, a masterclass on d-sip. It's funny because I was about to do this entire episode with my generator keeping this little studio alive, so I could do it, which I've done before. Texas is wild, man. The grid here is a train wreck. The build quality of houses here is a disaster. I'll give you everything I got on d-sip and listen, I come out here because I want you to be healthy. I don't give a crap if you buy from me. I don't care if you join the black card or not. None of that matters to me. I come out here because our job as healthcare professionals, like, my job as a doctor is to help you. It's not to get online and make reaction videos to something somebody said in their podcast because it hurt my feelings or it goes against what I say. It's supposed, I'm supposed to come out here and give you all the information so you know what you're doing so you can actually have a great life, which is the only reason I come out here. So it's always weird to me when people get in my comments and start bitching and whining or you guys strip clips from me and you make reaction videos to it and then I realized follow the money and I look because you guys are all selling garbage and bunk and you're defending your blends and your nasal sprays and your orals and none of it's true. You know what? And these want to be medical students getting in my comments bitching and whining instead of going, you know what? You're a glorified pharmaceutical rep. There is nobody coming out of medical school right now. None. None. That is an actual doctor. None. You guys are, you're coming out of a trade school to be a pharmaceutical rep. Don't get mad. Be better because my job is to help as many people as possible, not drug as many people as possible. I would prefer you're not on anything. So the point is I come out here so you have the information. What you do with it is up to you. That's my rent, but deceptive, masterclass. And listen, this is, they've been, you guys have been told so many wonderful, articulated lies about peptides, about medication, about health care. And I'm going to unwind all of this. And here's this while about deceptive. It just kills me. This isn't even a new lie. It's A-50 year old lie that they're telling. It's just for sleep. No, it's not. That's the last thing that is, that's a side effect of deceptive. That's like saying red or true tide is for weight loss. No, it's not. Red or true tide is arguably the most effective peptide I've that's ever been introduced outside of BPC-157. It is probably the most effective peptide that's ever been introduced to the world ever, which is why they're fighting so hard to hide it from you or charge you astronomically large amounts of money. Like this was the Soviet discovery, right? Deceptive, that got labeled as a sleep peptide and then got buried in Western medicine because they didn't want you to have it. Because when you understand what deceptive really does, listen, you understand that the entire medical industry, all medical doctors, the entire pharmaceutical industry is built on managing disease rather than preventing it. And you guys are falling for it. How about you just go, this is my body and I'm damn well going to take care of it. I'm not handing it over to me to anybody, which is the, you know, that's why I created the black card. You guys even know that I made the black card because I wanted people to have a place to go where they can get real answers. You bet your asset has a fee. You bet your assets going to cost you a ton of money, but I also solve all of your problems. So if you're going to spend 25 grand to join by wire transfer only, by the way, you get direct access to me. I've proven myself time and time again, I don't need to keep doing it. I'm exceptional at what I do because I care that much about you that I will bleed. I'll stay awake at night trying to figure out your problem and I'll do it, which I have done. I've stayed awake 1 32 o'clock, 2 30 in the morning looking over labs and listening to people's symptoms and putting things together and actually figuring out the biology. So I know what's going on. And then I've solved their fucking problem because that's my job. I, you could come into my group. There's hundreds of people that don't have problems anymore because they actually had somebody listen and pay attention and solve it. Not go here, take this drug because this is the drug I'm supposed to tell you to take for your symptoms. So if you want to join, you've, Mia is my personal executive assistant. She is the bomb and she is going to take care of you. Apply at unlock the card.com and she'll get you all set up. And if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, my company, great. If you don't, okay. Again, I'll still be here helping you. That's what it looks like when you give a shit about people, not stomping your feet, pouting, making reaction videos and getting in people's comments complaining and whining and sending it off to your buddy who owns a peptide company who sells out of the back of his gym. Listen, DeSep, yes, I'm in one of those moods again. DeSep is a non-apeptide, non-amino acid. That's all you need to know. But here's where most people stop. They read sleep peptide and then the brain goes, just falls asleep. And they think it's melatonin with a master's degree. But you couldn't be more wrong. Listen, here's where biology gets interesting with DeSep. It's a neuromodulator. 1974, Russian researchers Bauenberg, 1974 discovered this, isolated it from rabbit brains of all things during sleep. They called it a sleep inducing peptide because that's what they measured. It's not what it is. That's what they measured. But that's the same reason we call hemoglobin, oxygen, even though it's so much more than that. DeSep, listen, just to hear me out, okay, because this is the kind of brain I have. This is how it works. DeSep is a peptide hormone that acts on tons of receptor systems all at the same time. It's not this single-track molecule. It's this entire conductor of events in your system. And the event is every system in your body that determines whether you are going to die very young or you are going to live very old and wrinkly. That's literally what DeSep works on. It crosses the blood brain barrier, binds to specific receptors in your hypothalamus, your pituitary throughout your entire CNS and PNS, central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. But here, listen carefully, it doesn't just make you sleepy. It doesn't just make you sleepy, you guys. It does something so much more sophisticated than that. DeSep modulates metabolic rate. It modulates thermogenesis. It modulates cardiovascular function, neuroendocrine signaling. Again, Schoenenberg, 1984, 10 years later, proved all this. It's like giving your mitochondria their superintendent back. That's how effective this stuff is, and yet people will argue about this. The research is black and white. People think sleep peptides do one thing. Sleep. People think DeSep does one thing. Sleep. Wrong. Just so you know, sleep. And I said this before, sleep is a symptom. It's a symptom of what DeSep is actually doing. It's like the flag that you stuck in the sand. The real work happens when you are out cold. Listen, here's the physiology. When DeSep levels are optimal, your body enters what's called parasympathetic dominant state, which means that your vagus nerve, 10th cranial nerve that controls like 75% of your parasympathetic nervous system, lights up like New Year's Eve, Times Square, goes bananas. And then what happens? Your heart rate variability improves. Your insulin sensitivity climbs. Your growth hormone secretion increases. Your inflammatory markers nose dive. Your testosterone production stabilizes. Your cortisol pattern optimizes and normalizes the way it's supposed to. And that's just in the beginning of when you take this. But here's what separates DeSep from these sleep supplements on the market. Listen, it doesn't just suppress wakefulness. It actively promotes anabolic state. It's like the difference between turning off your alarm clock and building an actual reason to sleep. So if you look at Ehlers 1986, you show that DeSep, excuse me, priest growth hormone secretion by 60%, 60%, not through suppressing somatostatin, not through forcing your pituitary, through direct neuroendocrine modulation. Just think about what that means. When you sleep, you're not just resting. You're building, repairing. You're literally getting younger at the cellular level. That is not sleep optimization in my books. That is friggin longevity. That is standing on the skinny pedal of longevity. Let me break down the most beautiful, most elegant piece of this biochemistry that exists with this molecule. DeSep works, like I said, multiple mechanisms. So look at neuroendocrine signaling. It binds to receptors in your super chiasmic nucleus, which is like the master clock of your entire body. But this isn't about melatonin. Melatonin is the announcement that it's dark, right? DeSep is the program that makes your body reorganize itself for recovery, which is required. So when DeSep hits those SCN receptors, super chiasmic nucleus, it starts this thing called circadian phase adjustment. Your body's internal clock doesn't just shift to sleep mode. It shifts to regen mode, regeneration, right? So Kajiyama 2001 showed, this is one of my favorite studies, that DeSep directly influences hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis function by reducing abnormal cortisol secretion patterns. That means it doesn't suppress cortisol. That would be bad, by the way. It stabilizes, harmonizes it. So your morning cortisol spike happens. Your evening decline happens. But instead of the dysregulation that is created by this chaotic social media-governed world that we live in, right? Cortisol fires up at midnight and you're exhausted by noon. Your body actually remembers how to rhythm. Look at mitochondrial function, because this is where it gets really wild. Your mitochondria, we already know this, power plants of your cell. Every cell in your body needs a denizing triphosphate to function. ATP is literally the stored energy currency of every single thing in your body. The three phosphate bonds holding nothing but potential, baby. That's how it works. So when you're tired, stressed, inflamed, old, you're, listen, I'm 52. I can say it. I'm old. Your mitochondria, they're essentially broken. They're not producing ATP efficiently. It's like asking my diesel truck, my 2500 out there, to just run on vapor fumes. The DeSep directly enhances mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, which is the process of where your mitochondria convert nutrients into usable energy. How? It's a masterclass. How? It increases expression of something called PGC1-alpha. This is the regulating control system of mitochondrial biogenesis and function. Think of it as you, you're hiring a bunch more workers and you're also making sure that those workers are very well trained. It enhances expression of uncoupling protein 2, which regulates the efficiency of ATP production while reducing ROS reactive oxygen species. Those, these are the free radicals that age you. Streltsova in 1995 proved this. It upregulates succinate dehydrogenase and cytochrome C oxidase. These are the enzymes that actually make the ETC, the electron transport chain, do its freaking job. So here's practical terms. DeSep makes your mitochondria produce more energy with less waste. That is without any fancy explanation, metabolic use. Pretty much the opposite of aging, in my opinion. Look at the neuro, look at the neuroimmune modulation. DeSep induces or DeSep directly influences thymic function. So your thymus is here. And let me get to this. You need to understand this because your thymus goes garbage very quickly. And T, excuse me, T cell production. The thymus is your immune, it's your immune command center produces T cells, which are the kill squad of your entire immune system. They find viral infections and degenerative proteins and cancer cells. Here's the tragedy of aging. Your thymus shrinks atrophies like a sum bitch. So by age 60, most people's thymus is functionally gone and replaced by this other thing called fat. So a DeSep does is single is signals your thymus to stay active. It's like putting your immune system back on alert, but it's not very crude. It's very precise. It doesn't hyper activate your immune system because that creates an auto immunity issue. Instead, it creates immune confidence. It makes it smarter and more vigilant. So the ability to respond to threats while maintaining tolerance, which is required. Look at the antioxidant cascade activation. This is important because antioxidants keep you alive. So when DeSep binds to its receptors, it activates what's called the NRF2 pathway, nuclear factor, or throid two related factor two. This is your antioxidant response element. Yes, you need to know this. NRF2 is like the leader of your cellular repair crew. When it gets turned on, it tells your cells to will produce more superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione as transferases, all of this stuff. These are your endogenous internally created oxidants, not the ones that you eat, not the ones that you inject, the ones that your cells manufacture in response to a threat, which you are getting hit with all the time. DeSep doesn't just activate this once. It creates this state where your cells are, they're expecting, right? They're expecting to need these defenses and they pre manufacture them. So my buddy Tom DeBlas, right? He's an incredibly skilled fighter. He's a good dude. I love this guy. He's a really good dude. And he is very well trained in Jiu Jitsu. He's exceptional. He's the guy that actually gave Tom Hardy his brown belt. He's the guy that trains Tom Hardy, which is pretty cool. But he's expecting to need his defenses. Do you guys get that? Right? Say Gracie, expecting to need your defenses. I take Jiu Jitsu. I've rolled, right? It's expecting to need your defenses. By the way, I think everybody should take Jiu Jitsu. The end. Just the end. It's just one of the, it's a skill transfer for life period. That's why I love that my son's in it 12, almost 13 years now. He is 16 years old. He is such a dangerous kid. It's frightening. I love it. I wouldn't have it any other way. I'm so proud of my son and my daughter. I just love my kids. I know this is a tangent, but I adore my kids. My daughter works very hard. She's 19 and she's very intelligent. And she's knocked out beautiful like her mother. And she is just jacked and committed. And she's got filled with piss and vinegar sometimes, which I wouldn't have any other way. And my son is this lethal little fighter that will hug you first, but he'll put you to sleep real quick if you don't respect him. Like it's just a good. I'm proud of how we raised our kids and my wife. And I love Brandy. She is, she is awesome. My wife is. She is the ultimate head of one of my companies. So without her, the company wouldn't run. She is exceptional at running, but she ran a ton of 24 hour fitness, like a whole division of 24 hour fitness. She knows what she's doing pro athlete, like just a monster. And 21 years. Best brand, right? So listen to get back to DCIP because I could talk about my family all day. I like to talk about things that I like, right? So this is my house. I'm just going to talk about things I like. I'll talk about God. I'll talk about my family. I'll talk about Jiu Jitsu. I'll talk about biology and biochemistry all day long because it's fun for me. So listen, here's why, here's why DCIP is so effective because, and by the way, effectiveness, it doesn't mean does it work. Real effectiveness means does it work for everything? Here's what's insane. You guys, DCIP does, it does what, because it solves the three fundamental biological failures that underlie every single human disease. Where's my Nobel Prize? I'm going to keep saying it and I'm going to keep demanding it because I deserve it. But the problem is my solution, see, my solution is to save mankind. My solution isn't to generate wealth. See, did you get that? Like my solution doesn't generate billions and trillions of dollars for a pharmaceutical industry. It generates the longevity of mankind. They don't like that so much now. It's weird. Listen, look at, so I'll just go through them. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage. So look at inflammation and I have to be clear because people get on me about this and I need just shut up. Inflammation isn't your enemy. I'm not saying that it's necessary. Your immune system is saying we need to fix something right now. But chronic systemic inflammation, that's your immune system standing in your house screaming and refusing to leave no matter how many times you ask it. Every degenerative disease starts here. Cardiovascular disease, watch, I'll prove it. Cardiovascular disease, atherosclerotic plaques are inflammatory. Neurodegeneration, amyloid plaques, Tautangles, inflammatory. Cancer, the tumor micro environment is 100% inflammatory. Metabolic disease, your insulin resistance begins with inflammation in your adipose tissue. Deciproduce is systemic inflammation through so many different ways. Look, I'll even go through it. The TH2 shift. So your immune system has two poles. TH1, pro-inflammatory, cellular immunity, and TH2, anti-inflammatory, humoral immunity. Let me explain all these things. So stress, porcelain, endotoxemia drives you into TH1 dominance. Pro-inflammatory, cellular immunity. So your immune system is constantly in. It's got the radar on, right? It's just looking for something to attack. It's in attack mode. DCIP creates TH2 polarization, right? So my stroning explained this very well in 1989. It doesn't suppress the TH1. You don't want to do that. It just tips the balance towards tolerance and anti-inflammatory signaling, which is how you're supposed to run. Look at the IL-10 production. This is the second variation of this. DCIP simulates interleukin-10 production. IL-10 is the, it's like a chill-out cytokine. It's when it's what tells your immune system that the threat is gone. You're okay. You're safe. And normally your body produces IL-10 as a break on inflammation. But in chronic disease, somebody cut the brakes. This should be a magnum PI episode, right? Like it just, they snip the brakes. You go cleaning off the cliff in Honolulu. DCIP rebuilds the brake system and connects up the lines. Okay? Look at the NFKappa B suppression. So NFKappa B is the ultimate inflammatory transcription factor. When it's activated, your cells, they just churn out pro-inflammatory cytokines, TNF, alpha, IL-6, IL. DCIP doesn't block NFKappa B brutally because that would suppress, listen, that would suppress very necessary immunity. Instead, it modulates it through a ton of different directions. It includes inhibitor Kappa B regulation, which keeps NFKappa B sequestered and slightly inactive when it shouldn't be firing. It does this very effectively because it's not doing it in a way that suppresses function. It's doing it in a way that modulates function. They're not the same. But here's the result. The inflammation drops, blood vessel function improves. Your immune system becomes a very precise attack system the way it's designed. Instead of this panicked reactive, what we've labeled autoimmune system, a dysfunction system, which is not true. I just really don't believe there's anything, there's any such thing as an autoimmune disorder. I believe there is a response to a terrible ecosystem inside your physiology. And I've proven it with my three biological failures. Give me an autoimmune disease and I will tear it apart and I will show you. And I'll prove it. Now solve it. How about that? I've already solved lupus. What else you got? Fibromyalgia. I did that. Psoriasis, eczema. I could do this all day because once you understand biology, you can solve the problems. Look at insulin resistance. It's the metabolic corruption that starts almost every single chronic disease because here's the physiology. insulin is a signaling hormone. It tells your cells you need to take up glucose because you need it. When your cells stop listening, that's why I said they're deaf, right? They become insulin resistant. Glucose piles up in your bloodstream near pancreas, flips out and it pumps out even more insulin, which makes your cells even more insulin resistant, which leads to type 2 diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease, massive cognitive decline, but they're not going to treat that. If you have type 2 diabetes, you are going to get Alzheimer's. It's that simple and I will stand by that conviction. That's why it's called type 3 diabetes, mass. But stop thinking that type 2 diabetes is something to sneeze at. 100% user created. You did that to yourself, which means you can unwind it. Yes, it is reversible. ECEP fixes the insulin resistance at the root. It does it like this. It's mitochondrial improvements. Mitochondrial improvement gives improved insulin signaling out. Let me explain. So insulin resistance starts with mitochondrial dysfunction. When your mitochondria can't produce adenosine triphosphate efficiently, they instead produce something else. Reactive oxygen species. Now, the reactive oxygen species damage the insulin signaling cascade at the receptor level. Decipin enhances mitochondrial function. Better mitochondria, less reactive oxygen species, preserved insulin signaling. I think the problem with most diseases is they're looking for complex answers because people want complex answers because it gives them something to fail at. Look at the adipokine modulation. Your fat cells are endocrine organs, whether you like it or not. They secrete hormones, Ponectin, resistant, TNF alpha, leptin. When you're inflamed, weird, failure one, your fat cells produce more inflammatory adipokines and less adiponectin, which is the protective adipokine. Decip shifts this. More adiponectin, less inflammatory adipokines. So adiponectin directly enhances insulin sensitivity in muscle and liver. Kajiyama showed that 2001. Same study I used earlier. Look at the direct glucose uptake enhancement that this provides. Decip enhances glute 4 translocation where the glucose transporters, this is what it does, Joll, explain it, relax. It they migrate to the cell membrane and allow glucose uptake. This happens in skeletal muscle during decip enhanced sleep state. So more glucose uptake. Remember, this is the sink. Your muscles are the sink that you can flush glucose down. It's the biggest one you've got. But more glucose uptake, lower blood glucose, preserved pancreatic function, and the ultimate answer is reversed insulin resistance. This stuff, I could do this all day. Look at the ATP shortage. This is the foundation of the entire damn thing. You have 37 trillion cells in your body and each one needs ATP every single one. Your mitochondria produce about your body weight of ATP in every single day. When mitochondria fail, energy fails. When energy fails, you're ready. Here's the ultimate disgusting answer to that. When your energy fails, everything fails. Decip directly enhances ATP production. Look at complex 1, 2, 3, and 4 up regulation. I'll show you. The electron transport chain has four protein complexes, technically five, but they pump protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane, creating a gradient. ATP synthase, the turbine at the end, complex five essentially, uses that gradient to phosphorylate, screw a phosphate onto ADP, and turn it into ATP. E-SIP increases expression and function of all four complexes. Look at substrate availability. It increases glucose uptake by glute 4 translocation and enhances lipolysis, fat mobilization. But it does this all while you're sleeping, which is why I said when you're sleeping, you're regenerating. You're not just resting. This means that your mitochondria have this constant fuel, carbohydrates, and fats. Nutritional redundancy, by the way, creates what's called energy resilience. Look at uncoupling protein optimization. Here's the balance. You want ATP production, but you also want heat, which is thermogenesis. These are opposing forces. You get maximal ATP production and optimal thermogenesis. Here's the problem. Most of the time, it's a very energy wasteful system, but this is you do it without wasting any energy. Look at the neurology behind de-SIP, because this will change how you look at this forever. De-SIP doesn't just improve general health. It solves neurological problems that modern medicine considers. This pisses me off. Consider it progressive. I got to sit like this because it's in my back. You can see I'm dancing around here in my podcast. I'm having a little, I don't know, hanging out here dancing in my own little personal club. You should see this place. It looks awesome in here. But it solves. This is the progressive and inevitable issues that modern medicine says, but that's not true. I'll show you why and how this is solved, and I'll even explain it using basic physiology. Look, the blood-brain barrier. De-SIP crosses the blood-brain barrier. This is huge because most peptides don't. Your blood-brain barrier is very selective because your brain is this sacred piece of gray matter. It doesn't let trash through. If it does, you've got big problems. De-SIP crosses because it's a non-peptide with very specific amino acid sequences that make it blood-brain barrier permeable. It doesn't matter what it is. I could get into de-amino acids. I guess it doesn't really make a difference. Once it's there, here's where de-SIP goes to work. It restores cortical rhythm. This is so huge. Your brain works on rhythms. I don't care. You guys, we are in this hyper always. I'm not going to say hustle culture because I love hustle, but this, I will take everything I can. If you've seen play date where the heat, you know, what's her name goes, Ivy's got speed, right? That's the world. We're living on speed, and that's not okay because you lose cortical rhythm like that and you wind up trashing your system. Doctors should help people do this. This is why I'm here because I love you. I absolutely freaking love you. So these aren't poetic, these rhythms. They're electrical. So your cortical system generates oscillations at these different frequencies. Delta waves, theta waves, alpha waves, all this stuff. Gamma waves. Yes, gamma waves. You guys are going to be the whole, relax. No. But when you age, when you're stressed, when you have neurodegeneration, all of you guys with, we're talking MS, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, dementia, all this stuff. These rhythms break. So your EEG becomes what's called this rhythmic. It's chaotic. It's like the leader of the band. But Steve Tyler from Aerosmith is up there singing and also he decides to check out and you have Luciano Pavarotti trying to sing as Steve Tyler and the band is like, what the fuck is going on? Both incredible singers in my opinion, by the way. So just before you guys start judging me, I think Pavarotti and Steve Tyler are both incredible. But D-STEP resorts the leader of the band, right? Two mechanisms. Gamma-urgic tone. So D-STEP, and I'll go through these one by one. It enhances gamma-urgic signaling at your cortex, specifically the thalamus, which is the gateway to your cortex. Yes, I'm fidgety right now because my back is bugging me sitting here. It's because I did this dumb workout. It was so savage. I don't even post my workouts anymore. I know this is totally off script, but it was like, I just, I went off the reservation here, I'll be talking about my workouts, but I just don't post them anymore because honestly, none of you guys care about my training. I work out really hard and you know, what really happens is a lot of people go, there's no way you do that. And I used to post full-length workouts and sometimes they were an hour, a half, two hours long and then everybody would start telling me I'm overtraining. I love David Goggins so much. I think he's such a stud. That guy is mentally unbreakable. And what I really like is when he said you have to train first in order to overtrain. And I train hard as a beast and I don't train like David Goggins and he doesn't overtrain. So I think I'm okay. He's a Navy freaking seal. You better respect that. I don't care who you are. You better respect Marines, SEALS, Special Forces, my buddy AF, 22 years, right? Kennedy. It's like all these are people that I am actual friends with that are good. I love them to death. They're incredible human beings, all military, right? Navy. I don't care. All of you guys, mad respect. I'll just leave it at that. So look at where I was like, GABA, right? So GABA is your, it's the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter. This is what happens. My brain just goes nuts. It's like hurting cats in here. Like inside my head is like trying to push a string because my brain never stops. My wife is like 21 years. She's human this way the whole time. Yep. And my wife loves a shit. This is what tells neurons to just a mellow. Just stand down a little bit. When GABA tone is optimal, your cortex can generate coherent oscillations, right? When GABA is deficient, which happens with stress and alcohol, age, certain diseases, your cortex becomes very noisy, which means it's incoherent. D-SIP essentially rebuilds GABA urgex. Your Schoenberg explained this in 1984. It enhances slow waves sleep. So during slow waves sleep, stage three, stage four, your cortex generates synchronized delta waves. This is where the magic happens. Memory consolidation happens here, by the way. So your brain, I love neurology and some of these people that really, I understand it really well. I've seen people like one of my friends, Dr. Murphy, this guy understands neurology. He makes me look dumb and I understand neurology really well. Your brain cycles through memories encoded during the day, integrates them into these slots, these long-term storage slots, and then clears out metabolic waste through something called the glimphatic system. It's like pressure washing your brain, right? D-SIP enhances the duration and the quality of slow waves sleep. It does this by modulating salamic reticular nuclear activity. It's this is the gatekeeper that lets sleep rhythms propagate through the cortex. So more, listen, here's the takeaway. Here's the rub. More slow waves sleep, better memory consolidation. So pay attention because if you're not getting your sleep and I'm not talking to run out and get a scuba mask and say that's healthy because I think putting a CPAP machine on you is one of the most idiotic things in the world. Hate me. I don't really care. I'm still right. So I'm trying to tell you there's a better way to do this. I'm not saying take D-SIP. That's not what I'm suggesting either. I'm saying find out what the real problem is. Your real problem isn't lack of scuba equipment. Your real problem is there's something underlying that's causing that. You better figure that out because that's not helping you. Even if you're like, I finally got to sleep with my CPAP machine. Cool. Cool story, bro. So what are you going to do when that doesn't work? Your systems needed that since the day you were born? No, you've been convinced that you need things to survive. Solve the machine, solve the ecosystem, solve the three biological failures. And most of the time, all the things that you thought you had to stay on for the rest of your life, you don't. I see this every day in my black card with real patients, real clients, real people I work with because I love them, the end. And I give tough love sometimes. I'm like, dude, what you want to do is stupid. Take that and throw in the trash and do this instead because I care. I love you enough to tell you the truth. So listen, if you have more slow wave sleep and you get better memory consolidation, you also get better cognitive function, which I'll help you. Here's the takeaway. Delayed neuro or if ever neuro degeneration, synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis. Look at this. DCIF does something even more incredible because it promotes the creation of neurons and the rewiring of all the existing ones. Here, it up regulates BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. This is the growth hormone for your brain. This stuff is so wicked. Like Cmax, cerebrolytes and all of this stuff, you need to understand this. It tells neurons to grow, to connect, to survive. So many studies. DCIF administration increases BDNF levels in the hippocampus. So many studies show this. But here's why this matters because the hippocampus is where all those new memories are encoded. Neurogenesis in the hippocampus is the foundation of learning and memory. So you've got to string this together. DCIF tells your brain, keep building, baby. So BDNF activates TRKB receptors on neurons, which activates P13K, AKT pathway, which promotes synaptogenesis, standard spine density. That's the connection points between neurons. mitochondrial density, which is energy for neural transmission. Antioxidant defense, which is protection from those things that punch holes in your cells in your life called reactive oxygen species. Look at adult. This is such a wicked thing. Adult neurogenesis. Okay, your brain doesn't stop making this no matter what. I'm tired of people saying this. Your brain does not stop making new neurons after childhood. It continues doing this throughout your entire life. Two specific areas to be honest. Subventricular zone and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus.  d-sip promotes proliferation of neuroprogenitor cells in these zones. Watch. Here's what happens. Cognitive decline reverses, memory improves, learning becomes easier, neuroplasticity returns. Do you know that d-sip protects against excitotoxicity? Just so you know what that is, it's what kills neurons. Excessive glutamate, to be honest. It's the easiest way to explain it. Excessive glutamate demolishes your neurons, and what do they give you? Something to reduce glutamate, not solve the problem about why it's high in the first place. Glutamate is your primary excitatory neurotransmitter. It's necessary, but when it builds up, which happens with inflammation, stress, mitochondrial failure, it becomes toxic. Neurons fire themselves to death. They go nuts, and they burn out. D-sip protects against this. Glutamate reuptake enhancement. So d-sip regulates EAA2. This is the glutamate vacuum cleaner. It sucks up excess glutamate out of the synapse, back into the glial cells. More glutamate reuptake, less excitotoxicity, neuronal survival. Calcium homeostasis. So excitotoxicity just so you know, works through calcium. Excess glutamate opens NMDA and AMPA receptors. Calcium floods in, like we're talking like a tsunami, and calcium activates proteases and phospholipases that destroy your neurons. D-sip enhances calcium buffering capacity in neurons. So here's what happens, and here's how. Increased mitochondrial calcium uptake enhanced sarcoplasmic and endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase function. I realize I'm going hard into biochemistry and pardon me as I want to stop, but this is a master class. You need to understand this. Upregulation of calbindin and calretinin, which are calcium binding proteins. So here's the takeaway. More calcium control, neuronal survivor. Neuronal survival. It provides this insane antioxidant to fight. Excitotoxic calcium influx generates reactive oxygen species, damages lipids, proteins, and your DNA. D-sip activates NRF2, which I already talked about. Your neurons manufacture more endogenous antioxidants. It manufactures more superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathion. So if you guys are all like, oh, I'm going to take my glutathion, you can also make your own. You know that. But when you have better antioxidant defense, you get long-term neuronal survival. Look at some neurological conditions. Just let me be direct on D-sip and explain how this works. Look at dementia and Alzheimer's. So Alzheimer's is fundamentally mitochondrial disease with neuroinflammation. And I've explained this. I've even solved it. The classic pathology, amyloid beta plaques and tau tangles. But the problem isn't the amyloid beta and the tau. It's why they develop. Those are, what do I call them, the tombstones. That's the flag. That's the thing that's going, this is what's going on, but that's not what's causing it. That's like treating, remember what I said? It's like trying to treat the smoke, put out the fire. Here, this is what causes this entire shit show called dementia. Mitochondrial dysfunction generates reactive oxygen species. Damage proteins misfold. Reactive oxygen species are what damage these proteins. Misfolded proteins aggregate. The aggregation triggers inflammation and the inflammation drives more mitochondrial dysfunction. It is this ugly vicious cycle. You can distill this down to systemic inflammation, insulin resistance. They're starving, not like MS where there's a kink in the system, but in the vascular, it's a vascular insufficiency and ATP shortage. You have mitochondrial dysfunction. Watch, which is what I just explained. So by restoring mitochondrial ATP production and reducing reactive oxygen species, here's what happens. You reduce amyloid beta generation, so less reactive oxygen species, less protein damage, less aggregation, right? It enhances the glimphatic clearance, which is the pressure washer for your brain, better sleep rhythms, better metabolic waste clearance, amyloid. So just see who under what I'm getting at reduces neuroinflammation. It does this through the TH2 shift in the IL-10 production, which I talked about earlier on in this podcast. It promotes neurogenesis, which is done through BDNF, primarily brain-derived neurotrophic factor, that the miracle grow. If you look at this, look, here's what's wild. Schoenenberg in 1994, showed the DCIP administration restored cognitive function and reduced markers of oxidative stress in your brain. So if I'm going to look at something that's going to get in the way of potential future neurodegenerative or cognitive decline, I'm going to put my money in DCIP. I could do this with Parkinson's. I could do this with multiple sclerosis. I just, I'm not going to. There's just too much to, I could do this for days. But here's where most people get DCIP wrong. It's the more is better thing. And I've had people do this even in my group. I'm going to take more. Why? If I take one, then two has to be better. But the law of diminishing returns happens. And what ends up happening is you get minimal positive feedback from it, but you get hundreds of like orders of magnitude more negative effects. Don't do that. If anything, read a true tide, prove that the difference between four milligrams and eight milligrams was a 5% increase in weight loss and a 300% increase in side effects. But the InstaBros, don't get mad. I'm out here to help you. If you're one of those InstaBros, maybe just take notes. And instead of trying to sell more of your product, try and sell more health, try and actually take care of the people you report to talk to, to just love so much. But everything has an affiliate code. Do you know that everything that I post, like you'll get a link somewhere on my copy underneath this video? It's not a funnel. There's nothing in it that's a funnel. There's a link to elite biogenics. Well, the only idiot, what do you think I'm going to put a link to somebody else's stuff? But I give you the answer. I don't even ask for anything in return. I go, if you want to get it, here's an easy way to find it. I give a link. I give the apply at unlockthecard.com to work with Dr. Trevor because I get thousands of emails from you guys every day going asking me for advice, which I legally can't do. So you want to work with me, join the black card, but I don't put you into funnels, man. I'm out here because I genuinely am going to save all of mankind and all their health because that's what God is giving me the power to do. That's not me, man. This is all coming down, right? I'm not doing this and I will never take credit for this. I am a tool that is being used to help you guys. That's it. Look at when you stimulate a receptor constantly, it down regulates the receptor becomes less sensitive. You need to understand this is called tachyphilaxis tolerance. When you take d-sip every single day for six months, your receptors will be giving you the finger and downregulating. You'd be taking it for 30% of the benefit that you're getting at best. You need to cycle it 10 days on, five days off, or five weeks on, two weeks off. There you go. You're welcome. And I never do this in these podcasts. Why? Because they always get me in trouble. Watch. Here's why this works, by the way, because in this off period, your receptors upregulate again, they become more sensitive. Your endogenous d-sip production, which gets suppressed with exogenous outside administration recovers and your body's own anti-homostatic mechanism, they all reset. So you come back to day one with receptors that are going, yeah, give me more. I'm ready. I'm ready. This is why every protocol for the most part outside of a very select few for a very specific case should be cycled because it's just better for you. Now, before you go, didn't you say there's some forever peptides? I sure did. But like I said, specific circumstances, specific peptides. Here's the other reason. Negative feedback. When you take endogenous or when you take exogenous d-sip outside your hypothalamus goes, okay, we've got enough. And it down regulates endogenous d-sip production, your own production. You do this for months. And your body goes, I don't even know how to do this anymore. It's not like riding a bike cycling prevents this. It keeps your endogenous production intact. And it makes sure that it understands the rules of the game. This is the difference between supplementation, actually, and dependency. You know what, you want to see something wild? I wasn't going to talk about this. I touched on it a little bit in my podcast or in my Instagram post. Look at menopause. I got to do this because it's making me crazy. I just got to help you people. Pause is not normal aging. I'm tired of people going, it's just normal. No, it's not. It's normal. So you can sell your book, your medication, your products, your pills, your hormones, your patches, your vag cream, your pellets, your secret, your secret protein hack, where if you just have enough protein, you don't have any issues with menopause. All this is bullshit. I'm not saying take what I'm selling, by the way, before somebody goes, oh, your method works. No, what I'm telling you is that's all a lie. My grandma didn't have crazy peri and menopause symptoms. Why? Because she was, her biology was functioning right, just like most other people that are in their 90s, right? Listen, when estrogen and progesterone drop, which they do during menopause, women lose cardiovascular protection because estrogen maintains endothelial function, the lining inside the vessels, neuro protection because estrogen enhances brain to ride neurotrophic factor and mitochondrial function, bone protection because estrogen maintains bone mineral density, osteoblasts versus osteoclasts, right? Thermal regulation, estrogen regulates hypothalamic temperature set point so you burn more fat. Metabolic stability, estrogen enhances insulin sensitivity. Desip addresses menopause through all of these and it does it independent of estrogen. Look at the hypothalamic GnRH modulation that it does. So it reduces dysrhythmia and that caused the hot flashes. Let me explain how this works. Hot flashes aren't, they're not random. They're caused by this ridiculously goofy GnRH pulse that triggers the luteinizing hormone surge and which is what causes the vasodilation. Desip normalizes GnRH pulse utility and it shuts down the hot flashes by 60%. Kanjiyama in 2001 came out and said, look at this, look what it's doing. And you had people like, I don't know, maybe I should get a cream. Are you crazy? What if you don't have to? What if you just get your system to do what it's supposed to do? You're welcome. That's part one. This heroin mustache is making me crazy. It protects your mitochondria, directly enhances mitochondrial function independent of estrogen, which protects neurons from the sudden loss of estrogen's mitochondrial support. If you understood that little list that I just gave you, menopausal women show accelerated cognitive decline. You go into a room, you forget why you're there five seconds after. It's not to be insulting. You get brain fog. It's part of this issue, but it's not supposed to be like this. Desip directly protects against this through BDNF and mitochondrial enhancement. Look at the cardiovascular protection. This one's going to blow your mind. Estrogen tanks, cardiovascular risk goes up. Desip enhances endothelial nitric oxide production, improves coronary blood flow, and vastly reduces atherosclerotic risk independent of estrogen. 2001, Kanjiyama showed that women on Desip during menopause had improved cardiovascular parameters and lipid profiles. Huh, but you probably don't want to take this. Look at the bone protection. Estrogen loss equals bone loss. Desip doesn't replace estrogen. If that's what you're hearing, you need to check your hearing because that's not what I'm saying. Here's what it does. It enhances, remember what I talked about? Osteoblasts, osteoclasts. Osteoblasts bone building cell function, it enhances that, and it reduces osteoclasts, destroying cell activity. It improves mineral metabolism. It reduces inflammation, which drives bone loss. The result is this. Menopause becomes something you can navigate. Bone loss slows down. Cognitive function goes up. Cardiovascular risk doesn't spike. Your system runs the way it's designed. Look at the HPTA axis and all the recovery that it controls. This is a command center for male reproductive endocrinology. Just follow me on this one. Before you, you're like, wait, what? Just follow me. When you train hard, you suppress appetite, stress, or use certain drugs, which you probably shouldn't be doing. You suppress the HPTA, but testosterone goes tits up. Desip supports HPTA recovery. Watch. Restores GNRH. It normalizes the pulsatility. Constant G-age suppression. Constant GNRH suppresses luteinizing hormone. Pulsatile GNRH stimulates luteinizing hormone. Follow me. Desip creates that pulsatility, allowing luteinizing hormone recovery. It reduces cortisol antagonism. So elevated cortisol, that doesn't matter by how, by the way, suppresses GNRH. It also suppresses luteinizing hormone. This antagonizes testosterone at the tissue level. So Desip normalizes cortical patterns. This is what I talked about, right? You don't wake up at midnight and get sleepy at noon because your cortisol doesn't know what the hell it's doing. It does this through H, like I said at the beginning, HPA access modulation. It removes the break on your testosterone in the process. This is why this stuff is so fantastic. And before you go, was this the magic pill? No. You also can't eat like an asshole. Train like you don't train. You sit around, you play Call of Duty all day in your mom's basement at 45. You need to actually take responsibility for your health. But this is for doctors and healthcare professionals that should actually go, maybe I should be all about actually doing health, not selling my product or service. I don't give a crap if you buy from me. I care that you actually buy from you, which means your mindset to be a healthy human being. Look at the recovery capacity this stuff does. Desip enhances sleep quality, sleep duration, and parasympathetic tone. Okay, these are the conditions under which testosterone is produced, primarily during sleep by the way, boys, and recovered after suppression. Better sleep, better testosterone recovery. The end. You really want to go from good to great. You ready? Desip, hypothetically, epitolon, and matzc. You're welcome. No, I can't go into the details before I look, at least you give me the dosage. No, I can't. Why? Because we live in a world that doesn't want you to be healthy, governed by people that work for big pharma and the FDA. That's why. Look, here's just watch. Desip enhances cortical rhythms and sleep architecture. Epitolon activates telemorais and restores pineal melatonin production and matzc enhances mitochondrial function needed to support circadian rhythm maintenance. There you go. You know what happens? Your circadian rhythm becomes so friggin solid, robust. It's almost unshakable. Jet lag daily that you have is gone and sleep becomes pretty much bulletproof. You're welcome. Listen, the secret about Desip isn't how it works. It's why it works when nothing else does because it's not about one mechanism. It's about signal integrity. Here's what I mean. Your body is this giant signaling organism. I know, I mean, that's two. Every single thing that happens, every protein you make, every cell you make, every thought you have, every heartbeat, every neurological function that you have, every hormone that you secret, every cell that lives or dies is based on signals. Period. When you age, when you get sick, when you have neuro degeneration, what's actually happening is massive signal corruption. Your cells are getting the wrong message at the wrong time. Yes, you're still supposed to die, but it's not supposed to happen at 45 and then you just hang on under managed decline until you're 85. That's not normal. Look at inflammation gives this constant attack signal, even if there's no threat. Mitochondrial dysfunction gives constant energy crisis signals. Neuro degeneration gives constant protein misfold signals. Your cells are listening to a bunch of radios that are playing static. Desip is the cleaner. It solves the problem. It works through so many damn pathways that not because it's doing a bunch of unrelated things, but because it's restoring baseline signal integrity. So your biology actually works because it's turning off the damn noise. When the noise goes down, your immune system hears real threats instead of the phantom one. So it doesn't go nuts. Your metabolic system hears recover instead of crisis and panic. Your neurological system hears build and connect instead of degrade and withdraw and decay, which is why Desip helps so many different conditions. It's not some magic bullet, by the way. It is signal restoration. When you restore signals, everything downstream gets restored. This is what the, this is, listen, all these, this is what pisses me off about current med school and current medical doctors. This is what pisses me off about the pharmaceutical industry. Like I said, I don't give a crap if you buy from me or not. I'm not trying to shill my stuff and sell my stuff and I have no desire to sit there going, I'm so right and make a reaction video. I'm here because I actually care. This is what the pharmaceutical industry doesn't want you to understand because they can't patent signal restoration. You can only patent specific drugs that address all the stuff downstream. Desip, Desip, are you kidding me? Desip addresses all the upstream causes. Good Lord, if you were to listen to my Kiss Pepton video, but your brains would have exploded because it's so fantastic. Listen, let me, let me reframe this entire conversation before I go inside and eat. The average person thinks Desip makes you sleep better, sleep is good, raw, therefore sleep, therefore Desip is good. That's true, but it's radically, I need some Snoopy coffee. This is, it's a longevity peptide. Listen, I'll just, let me explain it. Okay, it reduces mortality risk and extends health span years of quality life, by the way, improves functional capacity with age. It preserves cognition. It prevents age related disease, maintains metabolic health. Desip does all of this stuff and yet people look at it and go, I think I'll take some creatine. Listen, creatine is badass, by the way. I should probably do a podcast on all of this because it's very effective. It's just right up there with coffee in my books, but all of this stuff is good, not because it improves sleep. It's good because improving sleep is where all the other stuff happens. Mitochondrial repair, lymphatic clearance, immune optimization, protein synthesis, sleep, you guys, sleep is where you get younger. It's not in a surgeon's office. It's not with a face cream. It's when you're a sleep. Desip doesn't just make sleep happen. It makes deep sleep and regenerative sleep happen. Over years and years that compounds. A person taking Desip off and on for a decade, watch, better preserved mitochondrial function, lower chronic inflammation, better cognitive function, lower cardiovascular risk, better metabolic function, way lower cancer risk. Pretty much you're going to live longer, healthier and better. That's a longevity peptide. Listen, let me put a bow on this and go inside because it's been an hour. It's a long time. It's not a production system. It's not a performance system. It's a repair system. That's your body. And I know everybody talks about high performance machines, but you're a repair machine. Sleep, exercise, think, eat, sex, walking, building is either supporting or suppressing repair in modern life. Most of modern life suppresses repair. Watch, let's look at dysrhythmic living kills repair, mitochondrial dysfunction kills repair, inflammation kills repair, insulin resistance kills repair, chronic stress kills repair, poor sleep kills repair, you age because your repair capacity collapses. DeSIP is a repair enabler, enhances sleep, reduces inflammation, enhances mitochondrial function, optimizes hormone signaling, activates antioxidant defenses, which protects repair capacity. And over time, what did I just say? This compounds like crazy in your repair systems come back online, you stop aging and you start anti-aging. You start anti-aging. Listen, DeSIP is not a sleep supplement. It's a longevity molecule that works through sleep. You need to understand that fundamental difference. It addresses the three fundamental biological failures of all disease, inflammation, insulin resistance, and ATP shortage. It solves neurological problems by restoring signal and integrity and promoting neurogenesis, solves metabolic symptoms. It solves metabolic problems by fixing your damn mitochondria, solves hormone problems by restoring your circadian rhythm, an HPA-HPT axis function. It solves cardiovascular problems by restoring endothelial function. It solves aging itself because aging is fundamentally a repair system failure. And when you combine it with things, let's say hypothetically, for your kangaroo like a pitalon and mot-C, you create this trilogy of longevity that addresses telomere shortening, circadian rhythm restoration, and mitochondrial biogenesis at the same time. That is not supplement optimization. That is called anti-aging. Listen, the reason that you're not going to hear this pushed in mainstream, it's not because it doesn't work. It's because it's not profitable to cure aging. It's not profitable for Joe, medical student or Sally, medical student or Joe M.D. or Mr. Insta Bro or Mrs. Insta Bro or soccer mom selling this out of their basement. It's not profitable. They want you to buy their stuff, not buy your biology. Disease management is very pisses me off, to be honest. Above all, do no harm. I'm not out here to get you to buy my stuff. I really don't have anything to sell you. You decide, you want to join the black card, great. You want to buy from me, great. Either way, I got nothing to sell you. I want you to have the information. But you know what DCIP really is? You know how it works, you know why it works. Everything you've been told about sleep supplements has been missing the actual revolution happening at the cellular freaking level. The choice about what you do with this information that I come out here and I give you almost every damn day is up to you. But the information is irrefutable. It says uninterruptible as friggin gravity. Like this is for you guys. Anyway, I hope you guys got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: Endometriosis The Real Cause and Real Solution - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [rYaygAxFpd4].txt ===

 whatisup, guys? Today, you know what? Today, you can thank a woman named Angelique for today's podcast. Because, and by the way, you need to look at this. If you can see my screen, I'm holding up something. It's a patch. It's got seven milligrams of something in it that I always get pinched for saying, so I'm not gonna say it. This is imperative to what I'm talking about today, as in you need to have these. Because our beautiful free speech is only free when you're on the right side of the equation. When you're on the wrong side of the equation, they go, we have to regulate that. And it's not free speech now, is it? Free speech is free speech. Love me, hate me. You should be able to talk about me. I don't care. You want to hate on me. I'm just coming out here giving solutions. Today, I'm talking about endometriosis, by the way. Like I said, you can thank Angelique. I don't want to say her last name because I don't want to put people, just send me a message. That's literally, I got the message early this morning. It's just saying, you know what, lots of women suffer from this. She needs help. You know what I realize I'm gonna do? I'm just gonna, I'm gonna just get you cure everything, all of it. Every disease of mankind, take that anyway you want, which is interesting if you wouldn't take it as anything other than, I love the mission. Let's do it. So that's what I'm doing today, endometriosis. If you are a dude and you're like, oh, it's boring, what's the peptide or the treatment or the protocol or the answer to getting me jacked or ripped or getting my girl back or whatever it is. I don't know. I don't have anything for you today. So anyway, Angelique, this one's all on you, man. It's your fault I'm doing this podcast. You know, what's interesting is this, I'm wearing this hat, right? I just actually caught it. I had a bunch of hats. I'm bald. I wear hats all the time. Do you know why I wear hat when I'm because I'm bald? I don't care that I'm bald. Hair fell out when I did chemotherapy decades ago. And I realized, you know what, I got pretty, I got a pretty good shaped dome, nice round head, no lumps or bumps. I'm not a phrenologist's wet dream. So they don't have to analyze all these weird nodules on my skull. And the sutures are not plainly visible in my, the sutures between the skull bones, by the way. But when you're bald and you go outside, number one, it's cold. Even a just a tiny little wisp of hair makes a difference. And number two is you burn your skull. I burned the top of my head or gotten damn near more times than I can count just because I didn't wear hat. So I just wear hat. But I don't, I like, I like Sean, Sean, I think Sean Wayland's a good dude, man. Like I said before, but I don't, he doesn't pay me to wear this hat and be like, oh, can you, he doesn't need me to market for him. He's killing the game. And rightfully, that's a hard working dude. He's a good family man, good God fearing man. I don't know. I swear because I like the hat. It's actually a good fitting hats fits this giant melon I have on my neck, this 12 to 14 pound ball. But I, I got an itch, of course, but I like wearing hats. You know, it's funny is I used to have, believe it or not, I was a long haired rock and roll guy. Like I had crazy long hair, like almost as long as my wife, like it was probably down to about here. Long wavy hair. I looked like the lead singer of slaughter. I don't regret that at all. I got more hair on my face than anywhere else. It's easy. It's just easy, right? Here's what's a trip. The point is I'm talking about endometriosis. I don't as in why, but like I said, Angelique, God, I really hoped that was her name. I feel like a jackass if it wasn't, there's importance in it. But I wonder, like, really think about, I know, I personally know women who have been struggling with this forever hoping for somebody to give them an answer and they've had, I know, two that have hysterectomy did nothing and I'll prove that it does nothing. I know at least a dozen that have had laparoscopy and burning off the lesions, which creates scar tissue and adhesions and attachment causes. And the birth control, growth hormone, analogs, like just the endless Lupron. Welcome to osteoporosis at 35. That stuff is catastrophic. You guys, I don't understand because I don't have a dermatriosis, but I understand that you guys are hoping for an answer and you're hoping for an answer from an organization, a system that isn't designed to give you answers. It's designed to keep you sick. Like hope is a marketing slogan for people that sell false promises. I don't know, I'm all about horse power. I just want to give you an answer. So I'm just gonna cure all mankind. I'm gonna just, everything God gives me, I'm just gonna give to you. That's how this works. I literally, I sit down here and I just start talking. You know, this isn't some support group or to hang out and everybody gets a hug. This is a, like a strategic briefing on the biological war that's going inside your body, going on inside your body right now that a lot of you guys wish you had answers for. And I'm not just talking about endometriosis. This could be all kinds of things, whether it's cancer or Hashimoto's or type two diabetes, type three diabetes, dementia. It doesn't matter what it is. You need answers. So I'm just giving it to you. You know what it is? I need you guys to do something for me though. And I really do. I don't market my podcast. I don't market my YouTube channel. It grows completely organically. I don't have a company doing it. Don't, if you're a company that does marketing for YouTube, don't start sending me emails. Because I'm just gonna ignore them. But I want you guys to share me with everybody. Give people the opportunity to have health. Give people the answers that they're clamoring for instead of waiting for a system to save them that's never gonna do. I get it. Like you have, you look, like endometriosis. Look at this. You have this biological war inside you that you didn't start. You didn't start it. But I promise you this. We're damn well going to finish this today. Just let that land. The official story. Listen to this nonsense. The official story of endometriosis is a fairy tale that's told by people who profit from the monster under your bed. They give, like, the explanations I've heard are more than stars in the sky. They're always some random idiopathic. And I told you what idiopathic means. We're idiots and we don't know the path. That's what it is. It's just a way to just brush it off and go, we're not willing to go into it. I had an attorney like that. Literally, endless promises. It was the most salesy son of a bitch I've ever, just recently. Salesy as it can be. Promises up down in sideways and then passed me off to his barely English speaking lackey who didn't do anything properly, couldn't get anything, kept showing up unprepared. I'm like, my wife and I are better prepared than this guy. And we don't, you do realize like if you hire me for an answer, it's my job to give you the answer, not to make you figure it out. Can we agree on that? But it was the same thing with this, right? This, we hire somebody to help us and give us answers and then they go, you're not giving us answers. But it's not my job to come up with a solution. It's yours. Needless to say, they got fired. But listen, they tell you endometriosis is mysterious. It's this complicated mysterious, ah, it's so many variables. Mrs. Jones, it's not mysterious. It's just inconveniently. And they tell you it's manageable. Management is what you do with a chronic problem that you have no intention. I'm going to solve the whole thing today. Whether you like it or not, you should probably listen to this and just pass it on to some woman that you know that desperately needs an answer. Forget the misplaced tissue thing. That's, it doesn't even make sense, right? Here's the lie. The tumor-like ecosystem that's fueled by immune it's like treason. I think treason in this country, they put you to death. You can't do that with your body, can you? Misplaced tissue. That's what I've heard doctors. These are people that have done the same thing I have done, that have graduated from the same schools that I have, the same programs that I have, that should technically have the same knowledge that I have, that don't. They just left and went, how quickly can we prescribe this drug for people and how do we make sure we don't violate HIPAA? That misplaced tissue is a kindergarten explanation for a graduate level friggin disease. 2019 human reproduction update. They framed it perfectly. Endometriotic lesions are clonal. They're invasive. They're metaplastic implants. They're not lost little cells jumping around your body. They're very organized. They're genetically distinct ecosystems with a singular destructive purpose, survival and expansion. That's it. That's all. That is their only reason for existence and their first act in your physiology and your biology is it's war. It's immune subversion. So your body has this standing army designed to detect and destroy this very threat. Endometriosis. This very, all threats, but this very threat. NK cells. I talk about this with cancer. Actual killer cells. 2005, they'll watch this. In 2005 study in fertility and sterility found perineal fluid from endometriosis. Patients contained, this is insane. This is why their treatments don't work. Soluble factors that crippled NK cell cytotoxicity by over 50%. 50. Half. Have half your bank account taken away from you. Let me know how happy you are. Double your chances of getting a terminal illness. Let's see how happy you are. You get where I'm going. This 50% is a ton. Your elite little troops, those NK cells are being systematically poisoned by you. The lesions watch. The lesions secrete prostaglandin E2 and interleukin 8. So they create this biochemical fog that blinds and paralyzes the defenses that are designed to take this out. How many of you have heard your doctor tell you that? Your gynecologist talked to you about that. Your endocrinologist, your vaginologist, which is a joke, by the way, I know that's not what it's called. I'm just like, it's basically what it should be called. You know why they're not called a vaginologist? Because nobody would want that name for a career. It's like a proctologist. You could just say you're a bum doctor, but they'll be like, it's so much more than that. Man, anatomically and physiologically, as a doc, you should know everything about the human body and how it works. A specialist is someone who knows more and more about less and less. Never forget that. And it's exactly why they cycle you through all these people in there. Well, try and, somebody's going to get my comments ago. You mean everybody should be a neurosurgeon, but that's going to the one part of your body that is more complicated than anything else. And it is the regulator and control system of everything else. Arguing the fringe is the weak form of argument. So you look at the second act of their recruitment, by the way, for endometriosis and the cells, is bringing cells in and then corrupting them. They don't hide. Listen, they don't hide at all. These little cells that float through your system, they don't hide. They got beacons on with loud bullhorns. Just yelling to everybody else. They recruit macrophages. That's what they recruit, by the way. It's your cleanup group. They're summoned to the site, as they're supposed to, according to your biology, but through a process driven by cytokines like isophage. These macrophages undergo something called a phenotypic switch, and they switch to M2. So M2 is a disaster necessary when required, but not right now. So 2016, co-target, a paper in OncoTarget, these M2 macrophages are little dirty traders, they're little double crossers. So instead of phagosophosing the enemy cells, they become the enemy cell support staff. It's like they get brainwashed into doing everything for the enemy. I'll even tell you how. Here's what they do. They secret TGF beta, which is the master signal for fibrosis and scar tissue. So they glue your organs together. We already know what that turns into. VEGF, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor. And if you're going to go, hey, Dr. Trevor, isn't that what VPC? Isn't that what that does? Absolutely. Absolutely does that. It upregulates that. But here's the problem. This is using it against you, and it's using it to build a very dedicated high-speed blood supply to the lesion that you don't want there. EGF, it's also what it secretes, by the way. So we've got three things, right? TGF beta, VEGF, and EGF. EGF is Epidermal Growth Factor. It stimulates this unwavering, relentless cell proliferation. It just reproduces, replicates, divides. That's what it does. But this isn't harmless growth, you guys. It's a parasitic organ. That's the best way to look at it. That's hijacked your body's own repair and construction mechanisms to build itself a little fortress. And they think burning it out. Oh, I'm going to show you that burning it out. Historectomies, come on. Historectomy, 70, I think it was 70, 75%. All the symptoms. For 75% of the people. The last brilliant act of these lesions is endocrinotomy. This is a real problem. The old model says this. The lesions responded to ovarian estrogen. And it was proven, the new model. It was proven by someone named Dr. Serdar Bolin, 2005, JCEM. The lesions declare estrogen independence. Let me explain what this means. They express the enzyme aromatized cytochrome P450. And they do it at levels that exceed normal endometrium by far, by orders of magnitude far. This enzyme converts circulating androgens, like androestine dial. You're adrenal bonds, for example, into very potent estradiol. But here's, watch, I'm about right below your mind, right at the site of the lesion. It does it right there on the spot. It's got its own little trader factory. So here's what I'm saying. This is why this is so important. You can't, they've proved it. Serdar Bolin proved this. You can remove both ovaries and the lesions still have this local self-sustaining estrogen production. This is why ovarian suppression fails 100% of the time. You're turning off the tap, but the lesions, hey man, I have my own, I don't need you. I'm sovereign. Look at this. The lesion is the loudest symptom of body-wide civil war. It's three biological failures all the time. Three critical systems of non-offline and all shit. This is why I'm trying to get you guys to understand, holy smokes, he's right. Where's my Nobel Prize? I told you, I don't want the money. I want my name in the book that says, this guy knows what he's talking about. He's solved the diseases of mad kind because he cares about my kind because he's on a mission from God because he loves people that much. Not because he's he's fun YouTube, but he's making all this noise. No, because I actually care. Like any of you guys that get in my comments that do anything other than thanks for taking the time to put this together, you're an imbecile. Where is, what are you contributing to society? What are you contributing to the world? Your hate, your misery, your bitterness? You just want to argue because you hate yourself that much? Go look in the mirror, ball up your face and punch yourself in the eye. It's about as effective. It's tiresome. So look, you have this nuclear reactor meltdown, chronic systemic inflammation, primary engine of all disease. But let's look at, we're looking at endometriosis. So the NFKappa B pathway is a master regulator of endometriosis. I talk about this a lot. In endometriosis, it's just blocked. It's jammed up into the on position like the switch is rusted and it's just on. 17 cell metabolism proved that NFKappa B activation in endometriotic cells is not a response. It's a fundamental characteristic of the entire thing, which this is the problem. It leads to a constant storm level release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. I talked about these, IL-1 beta, which is just literally five minutes ago, by the way. IL-1 beta is a pyrogen that causes fever and pain sensitization. So now you're running hot, which you mistake for hot flashes, by the way, and it's not what the problem is. And your pain tolerance is at an all-time low. So everything hurts. Like fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue levels. IL-6 causes fatigue. Muscle wasting promotes TH17 cell differentiation. It exacerbates autoimmunity. That's the problem. That's what this cell differentiation does. TNF alpha induces catexia, intensitates all pain signals. So catexia shrinks you into nothing, uses your, like it just pulls all, this is exactly what semi-glutide and tersepati do, by the way. Stop with your arguments. It's not a personal attack against the peptides. It's that they don't work nearly as they've been told that these people have been telling you. So I read a true tide is the one that works. It's the only one that works. And it's the only one that spares muscle. And when people argue, by the way, I have to say this because yesterday some of you guys are losing your mind. Go, what? I had some lady go, I really, this post disappointed me because you've been praising tersepati. I'm like, I've never praised tersepati. Anyone that's been listening to me for any amount of time, I have not once, zero times have I ever praised tersepati. I've said semi-glutide and tersepati are both trash because they are glorified appetite suppressants with fancy slick marketing. The reason that Eli Lilly is trying so desperately to walk down, read a true tide is so they can make all the money and control the narrative. So you can't get better. You have never seen semi-glutide or tersepati mitigate dementia, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's. You've never seen it mitigate fatty, liver, never, not once. You've never seen any of this type two diabetes, never. There is zero research showing that's what it can do because it can't, because it can't. And every DEXA scan, 100% of them, 70% of what you lose weight wise is muscle and connective tissue. But I don't know why people would argue against that instead of going, oh, geez, thank you for the information. I need to change. And if you're getting issues from red or tree tide, I just have to make this very clear. It's not a peptide problem. It's going to either be a source problem, what you bought was good chance it was bunk or, and like I said, you didn't get it from, you did not get it from my company. You did not get it from Elite Biogenics. Not a chance. Not a chance. No endotoxins, no issues, insane level of purity with what my lab creates because I would never, because I look at it the same ways. If you guys that buy from my company, first of all, thank you very much. You don't have to. I still come out here. I say this all the time. Buy from Elite Biogenics or don't. So when somebody comes in, like I had some lady today whining that USPS didn't says they delivered the package and that she sends me this long drawn out message on social media about how it was my responsibility, like my staff drove through her house and like my team and dropped off the package and didn't do it. I'm like, you do realize that's a third party. So regardless of whether Amazon would go, I'm going to send you a new one or not, it's out of my hands the second that FedEx or USPS or UPS or anybody else, DHL, whoever takes the package. I'm out of the picture. I'm not those drivers don't work for me. But you know why people don't call USPS is because they'll get the finger because they're they'll rattle off their part of the constitution. I think everybody that works for USPS should have some serious job shake ups because you have job security, which is why you act like a jackass, which is I've had packages lost thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of dollars. My in-laws sent us some stuff to our children. The package came with a we care bag. It was in a bag that said we care from USPS and said your package was damaged. It was an envelope with gift cards in it. And if you go, you're stupid enough to send gift cards. First of all, I didn't send it. My in-laws did. And second of all, it should be safe enough to do that. That's the problem I'm getting. Instead of going, you shouldn't do that. It should be safe enough to do that. And the person that stole it was a USPS worker. You think I'm going to yell at my in-laws and go, what's your responsibility? Given to you because it just did it again. Unbelievable. Started another track right again. That's hilarious. That's three times in this one thing. But you guys have to look at what you're doing and go, why am I mad? You just want somebody to be mad at you. Can't make a phone call to somebody. I realize this is a tangent. I'm here. It's my show. But the point is this. The problem you have just to come full circle is that you're busy defending what you're doing, even though what you're doing is causing you. Whether it's semi-glute, tersepati, whether it's thyroid medication, whether it's insulin, whether it's metformin, it doesn't matter. That's like arguing and getting actually angry that you think Ford is better than Chevy or Chevy's better than Ford. Whatever. I don't care. How about instead you go, our job is to go, what is the problem and how do we solve it? Above all, do no harm. I genuinely care, man. So I don't care if you buy from Elite Biogenics. If that's all I cared about, that's all I would do. It'd be just be one giant marketing plug. But it's not. I talk about my company maybe once a podcast twice at the most. It's like the black card. You want to join the black card? It's a wire transfer, $9997. January 1st, you're going to pay $25,000. Period. It is one year. You get access to my private Q&A that I do every Monday night where it's live. I'm on a real call. There's a bunch of people on it and I help everybody. You get a VIP community where you can ask me questions. You're not getting on the phone with me ever. You're not getting on a Zoom call with me ever other than the live call with everybody else. And all my protocols that I've done for decades with people that actually work. Well, my entire community is filled with people that are going, I've never had such incredible results as I have with you. It's a testament to me actually doing doctoring, not going, not doing marketing. I don't market the black card at all. I talk about it here. It's myself. It's my show. Of course, I'm going to talk. I'm not marketing for anybody else, but you want to join it? Great. Apply at unlockthecard.com. It's not to ask questions. If you give me this laundry list of questions for my team to answer, they're going to say, here's the wire information because I talk about it here in the call. That's all you need to know. There's nothing else to add to that. But that's it. But you guys get mad at things because it makes you realize your own ignorance. I have to deal with the same demons. You know that, right? If I do something and I do it for a year and I realize, this has actually been the thing that's been costing me. I'm not going to defend it. You just don't want to look stupid. And that's the problem is people don't, they're not afraid of failing. They're afraid of being seen to fail, afraid of being looking like an imbecile in social media is the giant cat. You think those glasses are going to make anything better, by the way. So maybe just swallow that ego and that soft self-worth and just go, maybe I just need to make a shift. But if the issue is with red or true tide to come back and if you go, it made me skin itch and killed my libido and of course it did. You're tapping. It's a triple receptor agonist. And you talk too much because you listen to Joe Idiot, Bro Science, knucklehead on Quora or Reddit who said you should start with 2.5 milligrams a week. Wrong. No, I'm not going to give you the dose, but it's significantly less than. And no microdosing doesn't work. Period. And I've proven it so many times. I don't need to get into this anymore. The point is that if you have an issue with a peptide, it's either going to be the source or it's going to be a biology problem with you. That's if saying, MOTC makes you tired, then there's a problem with it either not being MOTC or your biology has a problem. And then you need to find that, which is why I always tell people just throwing peptides together arbitrarily thinking their vitamins is what's screwing you up. The smarter thing would be to ask somebody for help and actually pay them for that help. Stop thinking you deserve it for free. By the way, you don't. So let's get back to endometriosis for Angelique. Listen, this isn't how it's not pelvic inflammation. And that's what they categorize on that. It's this whole body septic state. It's the reason. Everything I'm talking about is the reason for the crushing fatigue, the brain fog, the diffuse pain that goes, you guys know it. If you've had it goes far beyond the pelvis. The inflammation, you do understand the inflammation is the disease, right? The inflammation is the disease. And that's just the inflammation. Never mind the insulin resistance problem. That's just fueling this disaster. The modern watch, this is failure too. Biological failure too. I haven't even gotten to this one yet. The modern diet is a weapon of mass destruction turned right into you and people still defend it. It says it's really good for me. Yeah, Bill Gates tried to say that appeal was good for you too until he realized it's neurotoxin. Listen, chronic high insulin, hyperinsulinemia, is a catastrophe, you guys. It directly stimulates the ovaries to produce more androgens. Remember the aromatase in the lesions that I just talked about? Yeah, it greedily snaps up these androgens to synthesize its own estrogen. And insulin-like growth factor are potent mitogens. Watch, I'll prove it. 2013, endocrinology showed that IGF-1 receptors are overexpressed on endometriotic cells and binding them creates this, it's like a trigger. It's like a train wreck trigger for RAS, RAF and MAPK proliferation. The cascade is just unbelievable. It tells all the cells to divide uncontrollably. Easiest way to explain it. So for every sugary drink, every processed carbohydrate, this is a direct deposit into the lesions growth fund. And you're going, how do I give it more? It's like the redheaded stepchild that just doesn't do anything right. And you're going, let me give you a reward for doing stupid things 24, 7, 365. Look at failure 3, ATP shortage, right? The mitochondrial failure, the dysfunction. That fatigue that you guys are feeling, it's not in your head. It's really not. It's in your mitochondria. It really is. 2018, molecular human reproduction showed very clear evidence. Endometriotic cells have very, it's beyond very severely damaged mitochondria. They're inefficient. They're puking out electrons that create ROSs, reactive oxygen species, which further fuel the NFKAPA B inflammatory issue, the fire that's going on that's raging inside you. This mitochondrial bankruptcy creates a state that is so disastrous it causes cellular hypoxia. So here's what happens. Now the cell panics. We already know what happens if we're looking at the insulin side of this equation with the Warburg effect, right? So watch. This is what happens with cellular hypoxia because it's just as bad. The cell panics activates hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha. It's HIF1alpha's sole job is survival. That's it. Look at glycolysis for the Warburg effect. You see what your body does, right? It's always looking to survive. And if it can't survive by this means, it survives by a means that's going to cause it harm, but it just goes, I have to make sure this cell survives. You are wired for survival. If you have any doubts, go to Las Vegas. Look at any elevator. Get in 2.30 in the morning. You're just going to see a bunch of fat drunk people carrying margaritas out of the size of a, they're like three feet tall. Looks like a trombone with a straw. Each one or HIF1alpha orders the transcription of genes BGF. Build more vessels and one glucose transporters, which are, get more sugar. The lesion, watch. This is what happens. The lesion that's starved for energy literally forces your body, your biology to build a more robust supply line and then hijack glucose metabolism. It's a metabolic parasite. Isn't that what I called it at the beginning of this? It's exactly what it is, but you're not going to get doctors talking about this. Look at iatrogenic catastrophe called the standard of care. It's not. It's standardized harm. The medical systems playbook is a recipe for creating lifelong high value patients 24, 7, 3, 6, 2s. They're tools, brutality, ignorance, and suppression. I died in a fourth one actually. Censorship, because that's what they do. Look at here. Let's look at the pill. Birth control pill, everybody just, the pill. It's chemical lobotomy. Oral contraceptives do not treat endometriosis. They treat the symptom of cycling, but it does it by inducing a pathological state. They suppress the HBO axis. They create this anovulatory low estrogen state, but they do nothing to address the local aromatics activity in the lesion itself. Remember what I said? They just drill their own well. It does nothing. What's the pill do for that? Nothing. 2013 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism proved 100% that they were sin. insulin resistance, go back to the three metabolic failures. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP, shortage, failure two. You just check the box by doing this. They devastate the gut microbiome. Well, now we can go into inflammation because when you devastate the gut, you cause tight protein juctions to gap, which causes lipopolysaccharides to hemorrhage out into your nice clean blood system, which tells your immune system to attack it, which causes system-wide inflammation because you create this cytokine storm that destroys your body and puts you into a low-grade state of inflammation. There's checking boxes one and two. Now, what does inflammation do? It causes an ATP shortage because it causes the cells themselves to become very inefficient so they don't churn out mitochondria. In fact, they produce a lot more reactive oxygen species, oxidative stress, free radicals. Now, you've checked the box for all three biological failures. How anyone can argue against this is beyond me. There's always a way to argue, but I'm still right because, like I said, they debit just this alone, the pill alone. And if you go, what about injections and what, it's all the same. But they devastate the gut, increasing permeability, puking lipopolysaccharides into the bloodstream, which is the primary trigger for the one thing I was just spelling out for you, which is NF cap of B. So, here's the issue. You're trading pelvic pain for systemic metabolic dysfunction, gut issues, and nutrient deficiencies. I'm going to tell you right now, if you're trying to make a deal, that's a terrible deal. I wouldn't tell you. I'm telling you, a deal or no deal? Deal? No deal? Nope. No deal. I'm out. Look at Lupron. I talked about this at the beginning because this is just embarrassing. This is a controlled burn that torches your entire forest. Anadutropin releasing hormone agonists are biochemical warfare on your entire endocrine system. They create the state of pseudo menopause by overstimulating and then shutting down the deuterine function. 2006 fertility and sterility tracked and proved 6%. 6% might not sound like much, but look at the timeframe. 6% bone loss in six months. That's 1% a month. And that's just the beginning. The real issue is that it's therapeutically futile for the reason that I already explained. Endocrine autonomy. It doesn't make sense. The lesions don't care about your ovarian output. You can pull them out. They've proven this. They have their own supply. Well, there's no... I'm going to just do it myself. So, now you get osteoporosis, emissating hot flashes, oral cognitive decline, and a guaranteed disease recurrence the second that you stop the drug. But they'll convince you that Lupron works in people. Please listen to me, you guys. I'm not out here for me. Look at laparoscopy. It's like a $50,000 fertilization program. Excision surgery is the pinnacle of misapplied effort. 2007, BJOG followed women for five years post, post, after successful excision. The rate was 75%. The recurrence rate was 75%. Why? Because surgery is a massive oxidative stressor and inflammatory event. Anyone that's had surgery knows down. The trauma of ablation and cutting spikes levels of TGF beta and all the other inflammatory cytokines. So, effectively, you're fertilizing the microscopic disease remnants that inevitably are left behind. So, you're paying a surgeon, watch. You're paying a surgeon to create the perfect biochemical environment for a more aggressive, more widespread recurrence. You always sign from that check. You're pruning a weed whose roots are fed by a toxic dump and the pruning just stimulates more vigorous growth. So, it goes, oh, you want to play that game? Okay, I'm going to hit the gas. That's exactly what it does. The research proves it. So, it's irrelevant to argue. Now, look at a hysterectomy. This is the big dog. The ultimate act of biological vandalism. You are removing parts of the human being. I wish I had my lung back. Just so you know. You're never the same after surgery and you're never the same after they take parts out of you. Ever. This is hysterectomy.  lye, eversold, desperatwomen. Listen, desperat for relief, for something, because they've been in pain and suffering and going through all of this and getting nothing out of the solutions they're being given. This is the last resort. Men's will put them on chemotherapy. It's just as bad. Just start throwing methotrexate on them. So they get you for RA, by the way, which is also just as ridiculous. 2019, JAMA surgery, over 7,000 women, unequivocal. 62%, this is why I'm telling you, 62% had persistent pain. So you've been mutilated for nothing. The uterus is the victim, by the way, it's not the perpetrator. Removing it catastrophically disrupts pelvic neurology and vascular supply like crazy. It accelerates cardiovascular and neurological decline, induces surgical menopause instantly. Just bam, right away. Leaving the actual systemic disease, the immune dysfunction, the inflammation, the metabolic chaos completely outtouched. It didn't do anything for that. Show me where it did anything for that. You can't. You can't get a medical equivalent of sawing off the roof of your car because the check engine light is on. Make it make sense. So instead of you going, okay, what do we do? This is why I think a lot of people screw it up because they don't understand the mechanism of action. They just go, what's the answer? And then when they get the answer, it's like me going, I'm really tired because I didn't sleep at all. My mitochondria are shot. I'm running with massive systemic inflammation and I am insulin resistant. I'm going to drink this coffee and I take one sip and I go, this doesn't work clearly. I still don't have any energy. It screwed me up. That's a lie. That's what I see people doing is they don't get the answer right away, but they don't understand the mechanism of action. So they don't know that the coffee is not the answer for their problem. That's what's going on here. And medical world is very good at getting you guys to think that way. You should just take this bill. You'll be fine. Get the surgery. Surgery is only 20 minutes. Yeah, but the recovery is a lifetime because you never get it back. You don't manage. You don't suppress. You have to build and eliminate. You have to put something together that acts as a system level reset, which is what I'm very good at. Like I said, I suck at a lot of things, but I'm exceptional at being a doctor because I feel what you feel. Whether without a uterus, I still feel it. You have to look at it from like advanced molecular biology. So BPC-157. This is the master regulator of this entire machine. 2021 review in peptides shows its pleiotropic effects. It doesn't just reduce inflammation. It is the entire governor for healing, angiogenesis modulation. It promotes VEGF, but it does it in ischemic, healthy tissue like the gut lining. Here's the best part. While simultaneously suppressing the pathological VEGF, the signaling coming from the lesions and the tumors inside you from the endometriosis. It cuts off the endometriosis supply lines while rebuilding your own. So you do better. Look at TGF beta counteraction. It directly gets in the way and opposes the profibiotic defect of TGF beta. It prevents the adhesion formation that surgery causes. So even if you've had surgery, you're like, hey, Dr. Trevor, I'm already past this point. You still need to go down this road because we already established right now, research-based, but even just following physiology that this is already, it doesn't matter what you start pulling out. The problem are the lesions themselves because they create their own little ecosystem that goes, I can survive with or without you, baby. Now look at gut healing. Look at, oh, jeez, VPC 157. No, none of this is oral. You cannot take it orally. If you say you take it orally and it works, you're a liar. Show me the bloods. You can't. So it's just stop. Just pin it. Just pin it and win it. That's a great way. There you go. That's my catchphrase for the day. But it increases the expression of tight junction proteins. Z-01, clotted in. It seals the leaky gut. This is so critical because leaky gut is a fire hose of lipopolysaccharide, endotoxin waste that's dumping into portal circulation, which is the number one driver of systemic NF Kappa B activation period. Leaky gut is not something trendy that somebody talks about online. You don't need to have some strange magic treatment with herbs and supplements. You need to actually solve the problem. Once it's solved, the problem's good. Amazons alpha one. This is the next one. You need to run this in. This is a direct counter to the immune, what did I call it? Amazons. I mean, the logical treason, right? Amazons alpha one is an immune control system. 2020 study in frontiers and immunology shows it better than any other study I've ever read. It reactivates. Remember what I said about how the natural killer cells are reduced by 50%, 50%. Remember I made the example about your bank account. So it reactivates natural killer cells. It enhances their cytotoxicity and their cytokine production. It turns your lethal special forces crew back on. It reprograms the macrophages, which I told you get recruited, right? To become, it's like a civil war. They go to war against you and it shifts them from the pro lesion, pro fibrotic, which type M2 phenotype back to the destructive phagocytic. The better one. It's what I said M1 phenotype. It balances T cell response. It modulates the TH1, TH2, TH17 axis, but it does it away from the inflammatory autoimmune like TH17 response. So it actually makes things work the way they're designed at in copper. This is a, all of these are non-negotiable. GHK. And this is all for your kangaroo that happens to have endometriosis. Right? Cause I have to say that in our beautiful free country that's not free. GHK-Cu. It's like the operating system upgrade for your genetics. This Pickert 2020 in bio molecules. This is probably one of the coolest articles shows it has this stunning ability to normalize gene expression towards a healthy youthful state. This isn't just applicable to an endometriosis, by the way, this is applicable to life. And if you go, how do I, how do I mitigate the stinging? It hurts. You didn't get hit by dodgeballs enough when you were a kid or you didn't get skinned or you didn't get on your bike enough. Toughen up, you'll be fine. You want endometriosis or do you want to go stings every time I do it? You don't understand how bad it is. No, I don't because I don't have endometriosis, but I've also had a lung ribbed and you don't understand how bad that is. I don't know what to tell you. It upregulates genes for DNA repair. That's what it does. It cranks up antioxidants synthesis of super oxidized mutase, catalyst. It cranks up tissue remodeling. This stuff is so awesome. But here's what it shuts down. Genes for inflammation and FKB, COX-2, collagen overproduction, tumor progression. Effectively tells your cells to stop expressing the operating system for disease and instead start expressing the operating system for health. It's the easiest way to explain it, right? MOTC. This thing is like the ultimate ignition system for your mitochondria. Metabolic activator,abolic regulator, and aabolic potentiator. Nineteen cell metabolism showed. MOTC translocates to the nucleus under stress, which I've talked about this before, and it represses the folate cycle. So it shifts the metabolism to improve glucose utilization in ATP production. Watch what this means. Let me translate that. Combat sensual and resistance. Can you use redotrutide? Yeah, but you're missing a significant piece of the equation if you do. No, not in this case. Personally, I would never recommend it. Not for this. Combat sensual and resistance. It improves insulin sensitivity directly at the cellular level. It boosts ATP. This is the one that redotrutide doesn't do directly. Remember redotrutide? It doesn't solve the ATP as effectively as MOTC, but MOTC does. You see where I'm going? This is why you have to have a symbiotic relationship with everything. Synergy. It alleviates the cellular energy crisis, which is causing the problem. So it reduces the hypoxic drive for angiogenesis. If you remember what I talked about with the Warburg effect and how this is very similar to the hypoxic problem, it reduces oxidative stress. War efficient mitochondria does what? Fewer reactive oxygen species. Nice fact, juicy ATP yields. You have the energy to solve the problem. Throw KpB in there. Saffronin of alpha-MSA train. Its power is the specificity that has 2018. Nature communications showed in it. It's the NLRP3 inflammatory zone. This is the specific intracellular complex that activates, by the way, IL-1 beta. So it doesn't generally suppress immunity like a steroid does. This is why it's so much more precise, thread is on or anything like that. It surgically dismantles a key inflammatory engine, NLRP3 IL-1 beta. And it does it better than anything else I've ever seen anything else you will ever see too. And there's no weird systemic side effects like you get with prednisone. Like two days out, pain gate blocker acts as a modulator of a Milano Corten receptors in the CNS, the central nervous system. So it reduces the perception of pain signals. Remember what I said, you have a decreased threshold for pain, heightened pain sensitivity. Look at how this works. And by the way, you could throw in Natokinese as well. Pardon me, what's really to get into that? Because it's effective. I'll even give you a dosage just because 12,000 FU. I'll just leave it at that. You figure out the rest. Probably just blew my podcast by saying that because some weird sensors going to hear that. And go, Oh, you can't help people. You're not allowed even though you're a doctor. You do understand what I gave you is not a list of supplements. It's not something where you go, Oh, I have to take this every morning with my toast. No, it's this is like an assault team for your biology to solve the problem. Clear out all the crap that's not supposed to be there and then let you get back to work. Look at KPV and BPC-157, doused the NF cap of the fire. Thymus and Alpha one mobilizes and retrains that broken immune army to clean up the rubble and actually stand guard. So it doesn't go back. GHK-Cu rebuilds the city according to the original healthy blueprints that you were designed by God with and MOTC ensures that the power grid is robust and resilient enough to support the entire rebuilding process. So you've got fuel to do it. They work synergistically to make the host environment biochemically hostile to the existence of endometriosis. This is how I try and explain this to you guys is that your entire job is not to fight the disease. It's to make the disease want to leave and I'm not talking endometriosis. It's not a disease. I'm just saying it's the pathology. Your job is to make your ecosystem a juggernaut. So every pathology just goes, I'm not welcome here. I can't even survive. It makes it impossible to thrive and the science proves this all day long. Mechanisms prove this all day long. The current medical model is not broken. It's functioning perfectly. Yeah, he didn't expect me to say that. Did you? It's functioning perfectly for its intended purpose to create a perpetual revenue stream from human suffering. They're not healers. 99% of you doctors are not healers. You're shills for the pharmaceutical companies. And don't get mad in my comments. Become better above all. Do no harm. You guys are landlords of a disease. They want you on lifetime leases. That's what the big pharma does. The AMA, all of this is just makes me mad when I really think about it because it's not that that's not healthcare. What do I say all the time? Your body's known some mystery. Operating systems and levers and switches and biochemistry is basically what I'm saying. You have the schematic. I just handed you the blueprint to solve this. And if you've got no dosages, because I can't, if you go, they do on this one, they go listen to their podcast. I like what I do because I want to help people. If you want to go further down this rabbit hole thing, I'm going to tell you, it's not meant to dangle a carrot. It's because it's legally what I do. Join the black card. Problem solved. You get the tools, but you have to stop thinking of yourself as a patient. You need to start thinking of yourself as an engineer of your own life, your own health. Whose body is this? You trust other people with it. You're right. But the people you trust, they don't care about your health. They care about their wallet, biological sovereignty. That's always the goal, right? Anyway, I hope you guys got some out of this. I got to go. Ever miss.

=== FILE: GHK-Cu (Copper) Masterclass To Help You - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [XUdc1evyaFg].txt ===

查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 work of mine. This GHK-Cu is so red. By the end of this, you're going to know more than every doctor on the planet. I promise. I promise you will. You just got to hang with me for, I don't know how long I decide to keep talking here and give you all the information. But copper, GHK-Cu, masterclass, everything you need to know and why it works and what makes it so savage. Because it's more, like I said, it's more than a skin peptide. You guys have to understand that because this is what's going on is there's so much propagation of garbage information from the Insta bros and the peptide people, the people selling their peptides. Listen, I own elite biogenics. If you want to buy from me, great, I will do everything I can to help you and don't sit there and send me weird messages about your orders on Instagram because the company is big. So it's not just me sitting in my shed. I'm not like when Phil started reaming out duck calls. Now there's labs and warehouses and stuff that like we do this for real. Sean and I, so this is a big deal. And the other side of the equation is if you don't want to buy from me, then don't. I just can't help you because I have no idea what the hell you bought. And then the other side of it is the black card. If you want real answers and help and you want to get rid of all the problems that you have, there's no sale in this. This is me going, you want to join the black card, I will break my fingers to make sure you have the answer and solve all your problems. I have more people in the black card that have, I told you yesterday or whenever I did my last podcast, I believe it was yesterday was they've had more success in three days with me than they've had in 10, 15 years going through doctors because all of you doctors are pharmaceutical reps and you know it, you know it. And that's what gets frustrating. So let's go line by line with copper because I'm going to demolish everything you thought you knew about aging and disease and what your body is actually capable of. And I'm going to do it with one single molecule that 99% of the people out there, including 99% of the doctors completely misunderstand GHK-Cu, three amino acids, one copper ion and the biological equivalent of finding the answer to every single thing that your body needs to know how to do to become Wolverine. It is that incredible. And I said this on my Instagram posts. This is what aggravates me so much is the insta shills and the insta bros and the insta experts and the doctors and their longevity clinics and the face cream and the soccer moms. What is with you guys? The soccer moms just spilling out information as if they have any knowledge whatsoever about what they're talking about the chat. He told me about it. Then have a conversation with me and the problem is you're not going to know what you're talking about and you're going to look like an imbecile and I'm still going to look great because I know what I'm talking about. I don't sit there and tell my wife how to be a mom. I don't tell my wife how to be a trainer. I don't tell my wife how to be a pro level. She's a professional soccer player. I don't teach her how to do all that stuff. She's good at it on her own. That's if I did, I'd sound like a muppet. Same thing. You guys are doing things that stop trying to be an expert just because you want to jump on the peptide train. These have been around for a long time. They will be around for a long time. Any old school power lifter knows damn. These have been here forever. They ain't nothing new, son. And that pisses me off because they talk about it like it's some fancy skin ingredient or the latest biohacking trend. That's like I said it in my Instagram post that I'll post later today. It's the five minute version of the masterclass, right? It's like calling a nuclear reactor a cute little space heater. That's not how it works. This after you're done listening to this podcast, this should make you question why it isn't being injected into every single human being over 30 years old. And you're going to understand biology, human biology better than every doctor out there. Really, every doctor out there, you mean, you ready? Let's go. Because here's the thing that nobody tells you. GHK-Cu isn't some synthetic lab creation. It's not. It's been in your body since the day that you were born, 1973. 50 years ago, Dr. Lauren Picard discovered this molecule while researching why young blood heals better than old blood. And I'm not talking metaphorically, like everybody's in, I'm not talking about Adrina Chrome or some weird vampire nonsense or Hollywood goofy stuff. Literally, he took young human plasma and old human plasma and went, Okay, what's the difference? Because that's all research is created. And the answer, GHK-Cu concentration at age 20, hear me out at age 20, you've got about 200 ish nanograms per milliliter. And by age 60, remember, I'm 52, I'm going to be 53 in just two months, you're down to 80 nanograms per milliliter. That is a 60% reduction, folks. Think about this, your body knows how to regenerate it doesn't need a class. It has the blueprint, it has the machinery, it knows what the hell it's doing it. What it's losing is the signal. What do you think that signal is? It's GHK-Cu. It's floating around in your plasma and your urine and your spit, your saliva and its released when tissue gets damaged as part of your body's emergency response team. It's the emergence is the RS, right? The emergency response system. And here's the kick in the teeth. It's directly connected to your DNA expression, yours. If that doesn't make you go, Holy crap, you need to understand bio, biology and biochemistry and neurology a little more and understand genetics because this is so phenomenal that it is anchored to your DNA. Think of what they're trying to do with DNA on the negative side. This does it on the positive. So 2010, there's a study by Hong and all the colleagues showed that GHK-Cu literally resets gene expression, not one or 10 over 4000 genes. It turns back the biological clock on the genes that have gone dormant. This is what they found the dormant with age, right? And then it shut down all the genes that were causing chaos in your system. Listen, how about we go a little deeper? Why talk about why you're tired and why your brain feels foggy and why your skin looks like a melted candle and why you can't recover like you used to when you were 19 years old. Three letters, A, T, P, adenosine triphosphate. It is the energy currency. It's the funding system of life. Every single thing your body does, jumping, driving, reading, playing video games, going on your phone, moving, healing, detox, breathing, heartbeat requires ATP and you make approximately your entire body weight in ATP every single day. Nobody tells you this stuff and where your mitochondria, those tiny little nuclear reactors that everybody talks about and nobody understands on social media, they're just spewing out chat information. So here's what actually happens. You eat your meal and then that meal gets broken down into these things called electrons and those electrons enter the ETC, the electron transport chain inside of your mitochondria. It's this series of protein or complexes, basically, this series of protein complexes, one, two, three and four. Really sequential, wild, right? And it passes electrons down the line with this efficiency increase, right? It's geometric and complex for cytochrome C oxidase is the endpoint, the final step. And this is where oxygen gets reduced to water and where the majority of your ATP actually gets produced. And it's also the rate limiting step. It's where everything can jam up and screw up your entire energy system. And guess what complex four requires in order to function? Yeah, help you copper. It's rhetorical question. You guys are all yelling at the car or phone or wherever you're watching, not just needs it. By the way, it's built from it. The active site of cytochrome C oxidase contains copper ions that are absolutely essential for electron transfer. And here's where GHK-Cu becomes this game changer. 2008 study by Picard showed that GHK-Cu doesn't just deliver copper to cells. None of it delivers it specifically to the mitochondria. That's like having a VIP pass straight into the ATP factory. It's like being able to go to the bank and tell them how much you want, no matter what your account has, because whatever you tell them, they're just going to make for you. That's how this works. So when you that's how badass this is. So when you have adequate copper at complex four, your ETC runs very efficiently. When you don't, everything backs up, you get electron leakage, free radical production, mitochondrial dysfunction and the big game changer that trashes everything, cellular energy crisis, which what is that biological failure three, if you're paying attention to me at all and you've ever listened anything three biological failures, systemic inflammation, one, insulin resistance, two, ATP shortage, three, that's where this is going. This is failure three, what gets better 2012 demonstrated it increases expression of something called PGC one alpha, which is the master regulator of making brand new shiny mitochondria. But it's not just making your mitochondria work better. It's I think about this, it's not just doing that, it's not fixing the mitochondria themselves. It's also making more of them and more badass versions of them, more mitochondria, more ATP production, more cellular energy, better everything. Here's where people get this catastrophically wrong. They think GHK-Cu that's going to fix my skin, my skin has never looked better. It's so special. It's good for my wrinkles and my no, it's so wrong. It makes me angry and hurt at the same time. That's like saying, and I said this in my Instagram, that's like saying oxygen is for breathing. That's it. And ignoring the fact that it powers every single other thing in your muscles, brain, heart, neurological function, you name it, every other cell in your body. It's not just for breathing, homie. GHK-Cu has receptors in virtually every single tissue type in your body. Why? Because it's a fundamental signaling molecule for tissue repair and regeneration. So let me break down what this does at a cellular level, just so you can understand this, because I told you if you can understand this, man, you're going to go far. It modulates the extracellular matrix, which is the it's the scaffolding that holds all your tissues together. 2004 by McCart showed it stimulates collagen synthesis, elastin production glycosamin glycan formation. That's not just skin people that is organs and connective tissue and blood vessels and every single piece of tissue that you've got in your body. It regulates metalloproteinases. These are the enzymes. This is important to understand. These are the enzymes that they break down damaged tissue. You're always damaging tissue. So you need this to work. But the problem is too much and you get tissue destruction. So COPD, chronic wounds that never heal, arthritis, even immune problems, too little, and you get a bunch of dead tissue accumulation also bad. So GHK-Cu balances this perfectly, up regulates them when they're needed, when the tissue needs remodeling, and down regulates them when you need more stability. It controls the anti proteases. Specifically, follow me, it increases tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases. They're called TIMPs, temps. This creates the perfect balance between breakdown and buildup. Still one peptide. It activates stem cells. How about this one? 2015 study showed GHK-Cu increases the mobilization and activity of adult stem cells, no cord cells or anything like that. Adult stem cells. This is your body's come in and fix it from MIT crew. It's not cosmetic, you guys. It's not even close. And that's what all of you soccer moms, you know what? I'm tired of you guys. I don't care how many likes you got, how many follows you have, how many followers you have. I don't care. You sound like a coconut because you come out and you try and sound all intelligent, but you don't know what you're talking about. And you're pushing your product because you have an affiliate code or you decided to invent your own peptide company and steal all my stuff and then tell everybody how smart you are. Why is it my face on your video then? Listen, if for all of you guys stealing my shit, how about you just stop stealing my stuff or you actually just give me credit for it? Because I'm a pretty unique looking individual. I'm a bald bearded dude that looks like this and I'm grumpy and I'm gritty. I'm the only doctor that's out here doing this all for free. And I'm not asking you for a damn thing. You want to join the black card here? I'll help you out. You want to join the black card? You send an email to amberorona to apply at unlockthecard.com and go, I'd like to join. She will send you the wire transfer information. There is no other variation of this and you will give her $10,000 and it's going up to $25,000. I'm still, you're lucky. I'm in a good mood and just going, I'm going to just let it ride at 10K for a little bit longer because honestly, you shouldn't. It should be $100,000 a year. I have people in my group that are going, it's the best money I've ever spent. I would have paid 10 times this. Do you know why? Because what I do works because I bleed for you guys because my audience is good and is really good. My black card people are family, family. So if you want to do that's how you do it. I will solve your shit. It's that simple. I'm a doctor that cusses, but I promise you this. Nobody knows what I do because or what I know because I'm out here bleeding for you guys. I make sure I know it all because I constantly read and research because I want you guys to have the best. I want you to have all the information to make an informed decision and an executive decision to do what's right for your physiology or biology, not for what's not what's right for some soccer mom with her big boobs hanging out, injecting peptides on Instagram like some child or someone with an affiliate code bragging about their PhD and they got purple hair. I don't care. I'm here to give you information and if you keep getting in my comments, understand the world is built. I said it today in my Instagram. The world is built on victimization and tearing others down and you wonder why your life sucks a bag of rocks because you're propagating it because you're doing it. You get into my comments, you give me a thumbs down, you give some hate comments. What are you five? You know what adults do? They just move on. Children get in and start beaking and clamoring and arguing. You can argue it doesn't change the fact that you're still wrong. I'm here to help. If you're doing anything other than saying thank you, pardon my language, but fuck off because I'm not doing anything out here other than giving for free bleeding for my audience, which is you guys. So the proper words you're looking for probably thank you. Just say, listen, let me explain how GHK-Cu actually works. The mechanism that nobody else explains that makes everything else possible. When GHK-Cu enters the body, here's what happens. A couple of steps. Four can probably break it down into five, but four. Cellular entry. The copper peptide complex binds to very specific receptors on the cell membranes. The main one, low density lipoprotein receptor related protein one LRP one. I didn't say any of that in my Instagram because it just takes too much time. And people always say, what does it stand for? That's you're going to look it up. This, by the way, just so you know how cool this is the same receptor that comes in and mops up all the damaged proteins and facilitates cellular signaling. Kind of important. Step two, intracellular TRA intra cellular signaling. So once inside the GHK-Cu activates multiple signaling pathways, so many map K, right? Midogen activated protein kinase, the TGF beta path. It's so many. And listen, these aren't just random abbreviations that sound cool. It's not a bunch of acronyms. These are the master controls for cell survival, proliferation, differentiation, all of the things that are functioning in your body. Just so you know, right now, as you're listening to this, getting irritated, triggered and wanting to get into my comments. Step three is the nuclear signaling, not nuclear, nuclear. And here's the wild part about this entire thing. GHK-Cu actually gets into the nucleus of the cell. 2014 study by Campbell showed it binds directly to your DNA. It's talking to your genes, man. Do you understand? I don't know if you really get it. Maybe you don't geek out on this as much as I do, but that's a big friggin deal because it's changing what your cells do at a genetic level. Drugs don't do that. Step four, regulation of those genes. So all of those 4000 genes that I always talk about, 4000 plus, here's what it's doing. Upregulating genes for collagen structural proteins, elastin, upregulating antioxidant genes like glutathione or superoxide dismutase, pretty important one, downregulating inflammatory genes, let's say TNF alpha, IL-6, NF-Kappa B, upregulating genes for angiogenesis, the new blood vessel formation. Remember I talk about that even with TB-500 or BPC-157, upregulating nerve growth factors, important when it comes to talking about your brain or how your brain talks to the rest of your body. It's literally reprogramming your cells to function like the younger version of themselves. It's not changing. It's making, it's like the fountain of youth. That's easy, great. It's like the Holy Grail. So GHK-Cu is effective because it works on multiple levels at the same time. At the mitochondrial level, it's busy improving ATP production, cytochrome-seoxidase. At the cellular level, it's activating all the repair mechanisms. At the systemic level, it's reducing all the inflammatory responses. At your tissue level, it's remodeling all your structure. At the genetic level, which is where it runs its prime, it's resetting expression patterns. This is the most gangster peptide ever. The more I talk about it, the more I just want to go inside and take copper. 2010, Pickert and Margalina actually showed this is how wild it is. This is what it does. Anti-inflammatory effects better than cortisone, but with none of the side effects. Antioxidant increasing, I already said this, superoxide dismutase, and catalase, by the way. Anticancer because it suppresses metastatic genes. Wound healing because it coordinates 47 different repair genes. One single molecule, quadrillion targets system-wide effects. That's why it works, you guys. We'll buckle up. I'm just warming up. Listen, here's why it's so effective. It's... Listen, drugs fail because... And I'm not saying drugs aren't necessary when they're saving life. They're not necessary to keep you alive and healthy and strong. They're necessary for managed decline and massive profits. Drugs fail because they target one thing, one receptor, one pathway, one protein. The body doesn't work like that. The body is a system, a symbiotic system that does things as a relationship. GHK-Cu is effective because it works on multiple levels at the same time. Mytocondrial level. I talked about this, right? ATP. It does all of this stuff that it... I could run through these levels line by line, and some of you guys are going to go, yeah, but what does it do for my skin? It's reducing all the things I talk about, your inflammation. It's mitigating injury. It's resetting a gene expression. It's activating all the repairs that you don't even need to think about. They're just happening because they're doing them. How many times have you had to think about Fibrinogen, Vitamin K? You haven't. Clotting factor. Your body does that. What do you think is solving that problem? Let me get granular because this is where all the fun happens. Your electron transport chain has five complexes. One, two, three, four. And then the last one that everybody goes, no, that's not it. Yes, it is. ATP synthase. It's the turbine that churns out giant bags of adenosine triphosphate. So you can do all the things that you do and some of the dumb things that you wish you didn't do. Here's the process. Complex one, NADH dehydrogenase. It takes electrons from NADH and it pumps protons. Complex two, succinate dehydrogenase. Takes electrons from FADH2. Complex three, cytochrome BC1, continues electron transfer, pumps more protons. You see what's happening? Creating a proton gradient. Complex four, cytochrome C oxidase. The copper dependent complex. ATP synthase step uses that proton gradient to make, you ready? Drum roll. ATP, baby. ATP complex four, I called it before, is the bottleneck. It's where 90% of the oxygen, the stuff that we just breathe, this is why I was making fun of it, gets consumed. It's where the final electron transfer happens. And it has two copper centers, UACUB, these copper A copper B. These copper ions undergo something called redox cycling. They accept electrons and donate them to oxygen, reducing it to agla water. But without adequate copper, this process slows down to a sloth pace. Electrons back up and you get ROS's reactive oxygen species. This is very bad. This is where mitochondrial damage comes in, which is why chasing it with S doesn't solve the problem, which is why I keep telling people, but this is how you tell the InstaBrows. They go in the soccer mom experts and the Insta experts that really don't understand physiology or biology very well. They just have a PhD on their wall that goes, look how smart I am. But none of that matters because if you don't understand this, then people are slamming MOTC and SS31 and NAD plus and all of this stuff without understanding that there still could be a backup in the ETC. You can solve all the mitochondrial problems you want. If you don't have the product there to do the job, you can take as much NAD plus as you want. You can smash the SS 31 like an imbecile and take it before MOTC because you just don't pay attention to how it really works. You can do all of that. You're still going to run into problems. This is why I'm here giving you this information. I really hope this makes sense. 2011, they showed copper deficiency. Listen, this is what you guys got to hear. This leads directly to reduced ATP production, about 40% reduction, increased oxidative stress, mitochondrial DNA damage, cellular senescence, little zombies that just puke out biochemical terrorists, what I call them, right? Just dump out cytokines and wreck your system. GHKC solves this. Here's how. It delivers bioavailable copper directly to the mitochondria. It protects the mitochondrial membranes, cardiolipin, from oxidative damage. It upregulates mitochondrial biogenesis genes, PGC1-alpha, right? Improves overall electron transport chain efficiency. And the result, listen to this, 2009, showed GHK-Cu treatment alone increased cellular ATP levels. Oh, wait, because you guys got to hear this number. 67% baby. 67%. 67%. All I feel like saying is 1.21 gigawatts. 1.21 gigawatts. Tom, where am I going to find that kind of power? If you don't know, you don't know. What the hell's a gigawatt? Right? It's not incremental, you guys. I'm just in that mood today. So buckle up. It's fun for me. That is transformational. Listen, you know what I talk about, right? My three biological failures. I'm going to hit them anyway. Just hit it and quit it. Every chronic disease, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer's, autoimmunity comes down to three core failures every single time. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Let me explain how GHK-Cu addresses all three. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because you know what? I solved disease, but nobody wants to listen. Do you know why? Because what I solved it with doesn't make them trillions of dollars and doesn't screw up your health for life and make you anchored to the pharmaceutical company. It lets you have the freedom to go do all the things you want. That's what I want for you. So I don't know what to tell you if you keep getting in my comments and dropping hate. You're a dick because I'm not asking you for anything. You guys will run out bragging on Pfizer. Not a single life saved all the years it's been around. Got it. But good old Dr. Trevor Bogmeyer here and you guys just lose your mind. He's going against the Reddit forum. Shame. Listen, sometimes I just shake my head. Look at systemic inflammation. I'm going to go through all three. So buckle up. Systemic inflammation. Chronic inflammation is caused by dysregulated immune response and persistent activation of NFKB, which is that master inflammatory transcription factor. 2015 study park showed GHK-Cu suppresses NFKB activation 70% reduces IL-6 production by 60%. Decreases TNF alpha by 55%. Reduces C-reactive protein levels by 49%. Whoa. You guys should just be going, holy crap, where do I get the copper? Rubbing pennies on your nipples. I have no idea of something. Why don't you just buy a vial of copper? That's what I'd probably say that and they're going to be like, oh, you're pushing drugs. How many of you guys get pinched on social media because it's you're promoting drugs and I'm like a drug? I want to go to war for that. Peptides aren't drugs. They're signals. You'd think a drug company would know that. Listen, here's what's brilliant. It doesn't suppress your immune system, right? GHK-Cu. It modulates it. This study showed it actually enhances immune function when it's needed fighting infections while reducing the autoimmune response, which means it keeps you from attacking your own stuff. Look at the insulin resistance. insulin resistance happens when cells stop responding to insulin, right? They go deaf. I can't hear you, right? It's the monkey holding their ears. Why? Chronic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and oxidative stress. This is basic biochemistry. GHK-Cu attacks this from multiple angles, reduces inflammatory cytokines that block insulin receptors, improves mitochondrial function, which gives better glucose metabolism, which is required, right, for energy, activates AMPK, the metabolic master switch we talk about MOC, C, and all that stuff, right? Metformin is garbage. It doesn't do it at all, not the way you think, and it reduces oxidative stress that damages insulin signaling. Any 16 study on metabolic syndrome showed GHK-Cu improved insulin sensitivity markers by 34%. These numbers are so massive. Look at the ATP shortage. We already covered this earlier in the podcast or whatever you want to call this, the YouTube video. GHK-Cu increases ATP production, right? It does this like this. Copper delivery through, you should know this by now, to complex four. Cytochrome oxidized, right? Cytochrome C oxidase, mitochondrial biogenesis, PGC1 alpha, protection from all the oxidative damage, improved electron transport efficiency. Fix these three things and you fix the root cause of every single, I will not say virtually, I will not say some or most or almost, every single chronic disease. And here's why, because when your system is hostile to pathology, gets the hell out of dodge. Listen to me, this is important. By the way, here's, I just want to touch on this because here's something that nobody talks about. GHK-Cu has a profound effect on mast cell stabilization and people are very reactive now, right? Mast cells are your body's alarm system. They release histamine causing inflammation and redness, niching and swelling. When they're dysregulated, you get chronic allergies, dermatitis, rosacea along with a B2 deficiency, right? For the mites on the face and autoimmune skin condition, psoriasis, eczema. 2014, Finkley, GHK-Cu, this is what he showed. Stabilizes mast cell member, reduces histamine release by 47%, which means that's basically half decreases granulation, which is the explosive release of inflammatory mediators that cause all these frigging problems and modulates the production of inflammatory prostaglandins. And the mechanism GHK-Cu increases the production of anxin A1. It's a protein, listen to me, it's a protein that stabilizes cell membranes and has savage anti-inflammatory effects. This is why people with sensitive reactive skin often see dramatic is the expression improvements with GHK-Cu, but it's not a skin peptide. It's not. That's why I'm saying just because it solves the problem there, it's not what it's doing. You're not just treating symptoms, you're stabilizing the cells that cause the hyperreaction, which is why all you dermatologists spraying things, covering things, wiping them on, you estheticians poking holes in people like friends of mine, my buddy Mike Lucia, and his poor beautiful wife was wrecked by an esthetician. Thank God they are one-on-one with me because he sent me a message and we solved the problem in three days. Why? Because I love them both. And because I give a crap and their esthetician said the reactions that she had were normal, it was, if I could be wrong, two months. Brutal reaction. It looks like somebody beat the hell out of her. We fixed the problem in three days because I care. You've seen him comment on my posts. He's a good dude. Listen, if your doctor doesn't care about you enough to care about you, if you get what that means, and cares about himself and his wallet, or whether or not he gets to keep his license, I don't give a crap about a license. I don't give a crap if you guys are like, this guy lost his license. Yeah, for a business that wasn't even related. And because I just didn't bother fighting, I just don't care because you know what? Now there is no thumb on my head. I can give a big F you to anyone telling me what I can and can't talk about. I'm okay with it. We're just still there and I'm getting results that make everybody else look like a kid that's never sat in a class or were understood a damn thing about human biology in their life. Listen, here's where it gets wild. GHK-Cu crosses the blood-brain barrier. This should blow your mind. 2017 study by J.I.G. showed it increases NGF nerve growth factor by 300%. Oh, I know you weren't expecting that, Mike. Drop stimulates brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF, right? C-max, cerebral license, all of the dihexa a little bit, not nearly as well as C-max. C-max is killer. If I had to choose, I would take that before cerebral license. I would take cerebral license for certain things, but C-max is not a spray either. Stop sticking the stuff in your nose. It doesn't work. Promote neurogenesis, which is the creation of new neurons, reduces neuroinflammation, think Alzheimer's, dementia, Parkinson's, clears beta amyloid plaques, Hallmark, tombstone of Alzheimer's. Look at strokes. GHK-Cu reduced brain damage in a stroke, in a stroke, man. Reduced brain damage by 55% improved functional recovery by 70%. You better be paying attention. I'll even tell you why, because nerve regeneration requires four things. It requires adequate energy, ATP, requires reduced inflammation, requires growth factories signaling, and it demands stem cell activation and GHK-Cu.  N-C-U-provides, all four, baby. Also increases myelin production. Think multiple sclerosis. It's the protective sheath, right, made by oligodendrocytes around the nerves. Any 13 study showed it upregulates genes for oligodendrocyte differentiation and causes them to crank out that coating on that wire. This isn't theoretical, you guys. This is documented nerve regeneration. Look at hair loss, right? This is the best. Androgenic alopecia, pattern baldness. I'm not going to say male because it's weird when they go male-patterned baldness. I get contacted by women going, how do you solve the hair loss problem? Don't just run out and buy GHK-Cu and think that's the answer. There's more to it than that. But here's why it happens. DHT sensitivity, right? Dihydrotestosterone, if you need to know what it is, inflammation around the hair follicles, reduced blood flow to the scalp, and follicle miniaturization. I'm bald. I don't care. But GHK-Cu addresses every single mechanism of the problem. 107 study by PyO showed blocks 5-alpha reductase, which is the enzyme that makes DHT by 80%. Holy snap and crap, Batman. That's a lot. Increases follicle size by 67% extends the growth phase, the antigen of hair, increases blood vessel formation in the scalp. In 2015, clinical trials showed that after 12 weeks, 75% of participants had increased hair density. Hair thickness increased an average of 30%. Scalp inflammation decreased significantly to almost unnoticeable. The mechanism, here, buckle up. I'll give you this too. GHK-Cu, I told you it's a master class baby. Hang on to this roller coaster. Stimulates follicle stem cells to enter the growth phase, increases VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factors. Same thing as BPC for better blood supply, reduces inflammatory cytokines that damage the follicles and provides copper for melanin production, which is the hair pigmentation. It's actual follicle regeneration, not just preventing further loss. That doesn't help me. Now, I'll touch on the skin because you, soccer moms and Insta bros, are like, my skin's never been better. But this is where GHK-Cu first got all its attention anyway. But even here, you guys don't understand the depth. 2005 study by Adulgani showed GHK-Cu, real name, by the way. It's like spaghettification, real word. Increases collagen production by 70%. Increases collagen seven, which anchors the epidermis to the dermis. Very important. Increases elastin production, increases hyaluronic acid synthesis, increases fibroblast proliferation, and here's what matters even more. I'll wait because you guys probably want to write this down. Look at acne, reduces bacterial colonization. You know what they give you? When I was a kid, tetracycline, they would give you an antibiotic. And when you took it off, your face looked like somebody hit you with a scattergut because nothing worked. Nothing worked. The problem isn't the bacteria. It's what your body's doing with the bacteria. Just to, I know, big shocker, but you guys are covered in bacteria. I know, gross. They're all crawling all over you. They need to be there. It's keeping you alive. Okay. But for acne, it reduces bacterial colonization. It decreases the sebum oxidation and it reduces the inflammatory response. Check, check. Look at rosacea. This isn't to be all end all. Just so you know, before you run out and think this is it, there's more to it. So if you have rosacea, by the way, precursor to SLE, right, systemic lupus erythmetosis, you need to understand there's a lot more going on. There's parasites, infection, there's a gut problem, icky gut for sure. Your lymphatic system is train wreck. You've got mites, B2 deficiency. There's a lot. Probably should get a stool sample. There's a lot of things going on, right? But for rosacea, this stabilizes the mast cells, reduces vascular inflammation, and strengthens the capillary walls. Look at, for photo aging, son, repairs the UV damage to DNA, increases DNA repair enzymes, and rebuilds the dermal structure. Look at for hyperpigmentation, modulates mel, I could do this all day, melanin production, reduces post inflammatory pigmentation. 2012 study showed 65% reduction in fine lines. You guys keep on getting your Botox though, baby. If you understood how deadly Botox is, you would never stick that in your face. Just so you know, like dead, dead, not like I don't feel well. Like I'm talking dead. Look it up. Just look at the Botulinum toxin. Don't take my word for it. Don't miss anything I say. Look it up for yourself. 2012, man. 65% reduction in fine lines after 12 weeks. That's why I look so young, baby. I look old as hell. 45% improvement in skin firmness is because I don't take GHK-Cu for my skin. 30% reduction in hyperpigmentation. 50% improvement in skin barrier function, which is its primary function. Cardiovascular system, we could hit that too. Cardiovascular diseases, endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis and inflammation. Check those three boxes. That's what it is. GHK-Cu tackles every single one of them. 2010 study, Pollard showed it stimulates endothelial cell migration and proliferation, increases NO, nitric oxide production, vasodilation, right? Remember, INOS, ENOS, right? These things are very important if you remember them. Reduces atherosclerotic plaque by 60%. Protects the heart muscle from ischemic damage, reduces fibrosis after a heart attack. Imagine if you paired this up with TB-500, which has been proven to reverse myocardial fibrosis after an MI, a myocardial infarction. And no doctors are going, you should try that. They're like, no, let's give you all this medication and maybe do open heart surgery. You guys got to take control of your health, man. It just makes me nuts when I think about it. You guys got to take control of your health. Look at animal models of heart attack. They prove this. Just there's human trials, but look at the animal models because they can go harder into the pain on this. Pre-treatment with GHK-Cu reduced infarct size by 45%, which means if there's a heart attack on the horizon, it reduced it by half the damage. Post-treatment improved cardiac function 55%, which means everything. We're talking cardiac function, signal conduction, ejection fraction, name it. It increases angiogenesis, new blood vessel formation, right in all the damaged tissue. And the mechanism, watch, activates VEGF and FGF, fibroblast growth factor, because I don't talk about that one too much for vessel formation, reduces inflammatory damage to vessel walls, improves endothelial function through increased ATP, right? Cytocrone C oxidase, rate limiting step. We're back to that. You see how this is all connected? Stimulates cardiac stem cells, reduces pathological fibrosis while promoting healthy tissue remodeling. We could do this all day. How about renal problems? Kidney, nephro protection. This is like a breakthrough that they're never telling anybody about. Kidney disease is a one-way street in conventional medicine. Once nephrons die, on baby, wrong. Except GHK-Cu is rewriting that entire freaking story, 2011. It is 2026. You guys, that is 15 fucking years ago. Pardon my language, because it pisses me off. Haka showed it, reduces kidney fibrosis by 65%. Decreases it. Just so you know, your kidneys aren't just filtering your blood. They have something called the renin angiotensin pathway. It works with your heart. So there's so much more going on than just your kidneys and thinking that they'd go a merry lie or just filtering your blood. They do so much more. This is why I nerd out on this stuff, because it's so fun. But if you understand biology to the level that some of you guys understand, your car, you guys would be insanely healthy. You guys would never put 99% of the stuff that you do in your body. You never would, because you won't do it to your car. But you can buy another car. You can't buy another one of these, baby. Just telling you, man, kidney fibrosis, reduction by 65%. I can't even say that out loud without getting a big, giant grin on my face. Decreases the inflammatory markers in kidney disease. Kidney tissues, protects against diabetic neuropathy. Yeah, a lot of type 2 diabetics out there beating the crap out of their kidneys. So might want to think about GHK-Cu for that kangaroo, huh? Reduces protein in urine, tiniaria, which is a marker, if you didn't know, I'll tell you, it's a marker of kidney damage. A 2013 study on kidney fibrosis proved GHK-Cu treatment reversed already established fibrosis. But it's a one-way street. Inhibits TGF beta 1 induced fibroblast activation. I was going to get it to no point. It promoted matrix metalloprotonase activity to break down, remember what I told you, too much, too little, right? You want it to be breaking down the damaged tissue, which is doing it's breaking down the fibrosis, the scar tissue. Kidney function improved by astounding measurable filtration rates. You want your kidneys to work, people. Like, I stress out about my sister in law sometimes because she's only got one. So I worry about autumn, right? Just want to make sure she's okay. But like, I understand how important they are. In diabetic kidney disease, 70% reduction in mesangial expansion, 55% reduction in basement membrane thickening, significant preservation of podocyte, the filtering cell function. You guys, this is actual kidney tissue regen. Look at wound healing. Wound healing, this is gangster. This is where GHK-Cu has the most clinical evidence ever. 70 studies on wound healing alone that you can find just looking them up on Google. 2008 meta analysis showed GHK-Cu accelerates wound closure by 50%. So if it takes you a week, it takes you three and a half days. Improves wound quality, less scarring is what that means. Reduces infection rates. I'm okay with that. Enhances diabetic wound healing. Because when you're diabetic, you don't heal at all. You take forever. The wound healing process requires very perfect orchestration. I don't know if you understand that, but to stitch that all together is not something that happens like on a video game. It is perfect. So it's got these phases. I'll explain them. So there's the inflammatory phase. GHK-Cu modulates the inflammation. You have to do this first. It's got to clear the debris, not to not so much to cause damage. Right? So you have to understand this part because there's a time and a place for inflammation. Proliferative phase. GHK-Cu stimulates fibroblast proliferation, collagen synthesis and angiogenesis, blood flows and getting everything ready to start. It's bringing in the supply trucks to start doing the repairs. Remodeling phase. GHK-Cu balances MMP, TIMP, which I talked about before, for optimal scar formation so you don't get this haphazard disaster of a scar. You get a nice uniform piece of tissue. 2014 trial on diabetic foot ulcers. Common. Some of you guys listening are like, I need to hear this. You should pay attention. 88% complete healing with GHK-Cu treatment. Oh wait, let that land. 34% complete healing with standard care. I'm going to drink some coffee while you guys ruminate on that. This is a game changer for your life. Average healing time, 6.2 weeks versus 11.4 weeks. Come on. You guys got to be hearing this and going nuts. These aren't marginal improvements. This is transformational wound care. This is for your life. You can't stay on this stuff forever. Just so you know. Because I know you guys are like, why wouldn't I be on this forever then? It's called the adaptation principle. Listen to me. Here's the reality that nobody really wants to hear. Your body adapts to everything no matter what it is. Every single thing that's there. When you provide constant external signals, I have to tell you this because if I tell you the good, I got to tell you the bad. Your body down regulates its own production and receptor sensitivity. It's called homeostatic adaptation. This is important. 16 studies show that continuous GHK-Cu exposure led to receptor down regulation after about 12 weeks decreased response at the same dose. Okay, so now we're losing efficacy of this reduced gene expression changes. So the solution is very simple. Just cycling while weeks on or weeks on repeat for your kangaroo hypothetically. What this allows is for receptors to turn back on sensitivity to reset your body to integrate all the changes that you made because of taking the GHK-Cu, natural GHK-Cu production to resume and the prevention of some nasty dependency that whether you like it or not will happen. During the off cycle, your body maintains all of the improvements. New mitochondria, rebuild tissue, they all stay while resetting the sensitivity for the next round that you're about to do, baby. A couple of people that shouldn't be taking copper, by the way, and I don't really want to it's like I almost I'm hesitant to talk about this because some people are going to go and take weird blood tests forever. Stop getting all these genetic tests. Stop it. You guys are wasting your time. You survived without them and all of a sudden now everybody needs them. No, you don't. GHK-Cu, just stay with me a little bit longer. It's not for everybody. Here's who should avoid it. Pregnant, going to be pregnant. Breastfeeding women. Are you nuts? You are there one chance. You are that baby's one chance. I don't care how miserable you are. You suck it up for nine months. Do you know why? Because I watched my wife suffer like a savage for our daughter and our son and our son and our daughter are frigging amazing. I have so much respect for Brandy. She was miserable. I did anything I could. I rubbed her feet. I rubbed her belly. I prop drop. I rubbed her back. I did anything I could. I got it. I went and bought it. I built it. I created. I didn't care whatever she needed. I was like, done. I'll go get it because I wanted to do everything I could just to make sure I offset anything that was making her feel bad. But she never took a single pill. Not by my, I didn't ask. I support whatever my wife does. She is my best friend, but I had her back the whole way. But don't you dare introduce something into your body and just go, the doctors say it's safe. These are the same doctors that did the C19. Just hang on that. Wilson's disease. Okay, this is a genetic copper accumulation disorder. Adding more copper is like the last thing that you need. People with hemochromatosis. That's a big one. Hemochromatosis is iron. Too much iron. Iron overload. Copper metabolism definitely affected. And then putting it in your children when they're 10 years old. No, here's where all these bio hackers and Insta bros get this wrong. And I'm sure this is going to get all the comments in my YouTube getting mad going, I do this, they sell peptides, they sell blends, clove, glow, all the stuff. I don't care. You should be grateful that I'm out here instead of an asshole. Just to be very transparent. These Insta bros and these peptide companies, nothing. If you go, don't you sell the Wolverine stock or the clover, the glow, all separate, baby. Bet your butt I do, but they're all separate. They're not in the same vial. That's for idiots. These companies and these Insta bros and these soccer moms stack everything together going, more is better. Peptides are signaling molecules. They trigger specific cellular responses through very specific receptors. When you take multiple peptides simultaneously, receptor competition, they compete for the same binding site, conflicting signals, one says grow, the other says don't grow, one says repair, one says don't repair, one says clean up, one says break down. Like this is the problem. Overwhelmed cellular machinery, you get crosstalk, unpredictable interactions. I could do this all day. It's so nuts. You guys would never do, when I had some knucklehead, I watch them go, I mix all my peptides together. Some Insta bro that sells peptides. I'll just tell you that dude never wears a shirt. And the point is he goes research, they mix them together all the time. Are you out of your mind? That is how you know somebody's never done research. How can you control the variables when you mix them together? Here's your sign. You can't the end. Listen, specifically with GHK-Cu, it chelates copper, which will interact with any other metal binding peptide. I went through this already, BPC, KPB, TB. No, modulates gene expression very broadly, 4000 plus, remember, which will interfere with peptides, targeting specific pathways. Also, no, there's it's not worth the risk. Like what, you just can't stick yourself again, suck it up. It's not meant to be to call us just suck it up. If you're going to take a peptide, suck it up. I just don't have the time. Then don't you don't have the time for being healthy, or to do things the right way. So you just want to feel good about doing it, but don't want to read any of the benefits. Got it. The effects growth factor signaling, by the way, overlaps with a ton of peptides. Here's the best practice. Hypothetically for your kangaroo. I'll even tell you normally, I don't even do this, but GHK-Cu in the morning with food, because it can cause gastric upset. If you're getting an upset stomach, that's why, by the way, take it with food. I'm not saying oral, eat something, wait 20, 30 minutes, then take it. Take all your other stuff. I used to say a half hour. I'm talking four hours, six hours. Take the rest of midnight. Don't stack multiple growth factor peptides with GHK-Cu ever. Give your peptide space to work through the signaling cascade you just caused. Excuse me. If you guys saw what I ate before this, you'd be like, Oh God, that's going to meet up in your stomach and not get along. It's not just, you know, still out here because I care about you guys. So listen, how about I land this plane? I'll put a bow on it. Let me bring it home. Whatever the hell it is people say when they do this. You have in your body right now a molecule that resets 4,000 genes to young expression patterns, younger than wherever the hell you are. If you're 80, they're going to 20. If you're 40, they're going to 20. That's how this works. The molecule increase your adenosine triphosphate production by 67%. It'll reduce systemic inflammation at the genetic level. It'll regenerate nerves, skin, blood vessels, kidney, heart tissue, lungs, you name it, stabilize immune responses, stem cell activation. It's proven safe in 70 plus clinical studies. Stop looking for reasons to trust the FDA. No, this molecule declined 60% between ages 20 and 60. Remember what I said at the beginning, this decline just, you know, but do the math because the math is math thing, baby correlates perfectly with the rise of chronic disease, the decline of healing capacity, the onset of aging symptoms, and the reduction in cellular energy. We're not talking about treating symptoms. We're not talking about managed decline or managing diseases. We're talking about addressing the root, frequent cause of cellular aging, the loss of regenerative signaling that you have in you. It's a signal problem, not a regeneration problem. The machinery is still there. The blueprint's still there. It just doesn't have something tapping the button. Every pharmaceutical drug on the market works by blocking something. All of them. Block this enzyme, block that receptor, block this pathway. GHK-Cu works by activating your body's own repair system. You're born with it. That's why when you're 14 years old, you could probably stab yourself and watch it heal. It doesn't block COX-2 like NSAIDs. It reduces the inflammatory signals that activate COX-2 in the first place. It doesn't force blood vessels to dilate like nitrates. It improves endothelial function so vessels dilate naturally. It doesn't suppress your immune system like corticosteroids. It modulates it to function the proper way. This is the difference between symptom management. I got to get this out because it's driving me nuts. The difference between symptom management and systemic restoration. Here is the big kick in the face. This isn't theoretical at all. This isn't some hopeful God. I hope this Instaguy is right. I'm not even on Instagram. I'm on YouTube right now and I am a doctor for real. Let's say I am right. Where's my Nobel Prize? This isn't preliminary. Committed, peer reviewed, literature spanning five decades. 93-CART. Original discovery, man. Gene expression studies in 2010 to the clinical trials running today in 2026. This evidence isn't emerging, you guys. This evidence has emerged, baby. It's not about does GHKC work for your skin or for your wrinkles. The question should be why the hell isn't the standard care for every single human being on the planet after 30? Even younger if there's a problem. The answer to that question, just see, reveals everything that's wrong with modern medicine. There's no patent. There's no billion-dollar pharmaceutical company pushing it. There's no insurance billing code, no ICD-10 code, worth tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars. It is a naturally occurring molecule that costs pennies to produce. It gets ignored and dismissed and brushed off and relegated to the cosmetic category. The last thing this is cosmetic. I don't know. This is a pretty good masterclass. I think you should know better by now. You understand that this tripeptide copper complex is fundamentally resetting cellular function at the mitochondrial genetic and systemic levels. You understand that it addresses my three biological failures that underline every single chronic disease. You understand that it's not choosing between your brain or your skin or your lungs or your heart. It's regenerating every friggin one of them simultaneously because it's working at a systemic level. You understand that your body already knows how to heal. It just needs the damn signal. GHK-Cu is the signal. Here's what you do with all of this information that I just dropped on you. Holy crap, 56 minutes in. All of this stuff. You don't just optimize your skin. You don't biohack your performance because some soccer mom or Insta-expert bro decides to tell you, you should take my blend. It's way better. You fundamentally reset your biological age by restoring the regenerative signaling that declines with time, with years. You cycle it intelligently. You respect the biology. You give your body the tools that it's been losing year by year, decade by decade. You watch what happens when you give A-50-year-old body the cellular signals of a 20-year-old. Bring it, baby. The energy returns. The inflammation subsides and the healing accelerates. The fog lifts. You become a gangster juggernaut. That's how this works. Not because you found some magic pill that some Insta-bro sold you in a bottle, but because you understand the biology and gave your body what it was designed to use in the first place given to you by God. That is not biohacking. That is called biological intelligence, baby. I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: KPV The Peptide That Extends Your Life (Another Masterclass) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [oBr9dUeZTUw].txt ===

 K-P-V, lisinprolinevaline. That's what I'm talking about today. K-P-V is this, it's awesome. Like, it's, I've had so many cool experiences with K-P-V that's saved me a whole lot of grief and honestly trips to the hospital. That's how effective this stuff is. Really, you should hear me out. This is a masterclass on K-P-V. I'm going to give you all I've got. You decide what you want to do with it. I'm not here to sell you anything. I'm not here to convince you of anything. I'm here to give you the information so you have it. You can make an informed decision. I'm not a doctor that's out here peddling all my stuff. I'm a doctor that's out here giving you the truth. You decide what you do with it. Why? Because I genuinely love and care about you. So you, this is on you, man. This is on you. I love you enough to tell you the truth and I refuse to settle for anything less. So listen, you have this. And by the way, for all of you guys that have subsequently joined the Black Card, thank you for trusting me with your health and all the issues and problems you have. I really appreciate that. I'll give you all I've got. And for all of you guys asking me what the Black Card is, the Black Card membership is one year. You get access to my private live Q&A Zoom call that I do every single Monday at five. And you can throw a volley of questions at me. I will answer every single one. And if it's a longer question where you need some genuine help like cancer, Alzheimer's, dementia, you've got an insulin issue, you've got stuff that you can't even tell me because you want to keep it private, which is all fine. Then you also have access to the VIP community, the Black Card VIP community, where you can ask me via chat. There's no one on one calls. One on one is a totally different program. It's significantly more money and I only take 20 people a year and the waiting list is growing. And the way you get on the waiting list is by paying. It's the only way I got that from Tony Robbins and I think he's doing it right. So I do the same thing. One on one with me is $250,000 for the year. It's wire transfer only. And to get on the waiting list, there's a three month waiting list right now. It might be four. I don't know. There's somebody that was supposed to pay today. And the way you get on is by paying and then waiting. So that's up to you if your health is worth it or if you think I'm worth it. That's up to you. But the Black Card is $25,000 to join. One year, you get the VIP community where you can actually ask me questions and the private. Zoom Q&A plus the resource library with all kinds of stuff in it, right down to dosage, mixing all that stuff. It is still at last year's price right now. And to be honest, I don't even know why. Just because really think like 10 grand is a is a smoking deal. It's $9,997. You pay by wire. I do not take credit cards. I stopped and I will never take them again because they decide when you get paid. So I won't do it. Yes, I take Bitcoin as well. And it's going to go up Friday. Let's just do that Friday. Friday at the end of the day, it goes up to the regular fee is what it went to January 1st. And then I had all of you guys saying you were trying desperately to join. And so I helped you out and gave you a break at $9,997. So Friday at the end of the day, it goes back up to 25 grand. How about that? And I'll bleed for you guys in the Black Card. But whether you show up and you join or you don't is irrelevant. I still come out here to help you. And it's same with elite biogenics. If you buy product from elite biogenics, my company, and I appreciate that, I don't take that lightly. You could choose a bunch of other people and I'm not out here peddling it and forcing it and going, here's a discount code. Here's all this stuff. I don't care. My prices never change when it comes to elite. I don't have a discount code or affiliate codes and I don't have a bunch of little marketing lemmings running around, pushing all my stuff. I just do this. This is your marketing right here. I tell you the truth. You decide whether you want to buy from my company or not. And it's all the stuff that I would very gladly give my wife and children, which means I trust everything that comes out of my labs. And I think that's important. So you decide, but I show up here because I want you guys to have the answers. You decide what you want to do with it. You can agree. You can disagree. I don't really care if you get my comments or you give me thumbs down. I really think that's weird because if I don't like something, I just move on. I don't rate it. I don't care. I just sit here and I try and help people. And so you guys, I don't know, some of y'all need to grow up. I'm sure that's the comment right there. This guy, I wish he would just get to the point. Don't listen to that. See, if you want my information, you got to listen to the whole Dr. Trevor Bachmeier experience, baby. So keep. Listen, I'm going to save you guys years and years of suffering and honestly, an early demise. I'll save you from that and probably tens, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars in medical bills over the course of your lifetime. No, I'm not kidding. And I'll do it all in one 20, 30, 40 minute conversation right here. And here's what's fascinating to me. Every single person right now listening to this, hearing my voice, every single one of you guys is walking around with this molecule in you. Like the human body is so fascinating to me. This molecule in you, it's not a poison or a toxin. It's not damaging. It's not something placed there randomly. It is there with a purpose. It's this, I told you that this, the lysine, proline, valine, right? Three amino acid sequence that is so radical and does so many cool things in your body and people go, wait, isn't it just for inflammation? Oh my God, listen to me. It is fundamental to human survival and it is so important. I'm not kidding. It is so important. Your body cannot survive without it. It can't KPV, right? Lysine, proline, valine. I talked about this four times now, but here's the rub. Most of you guys have never heard of what it really does. Let me get some coffee on me. My mom, I said this before she sent me a couple of these. You know what? I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 in March and I grew up on watching Charlie Brown, bald, round-headed kid with a yellow shirt. But I mean, this brings back lots of memories. Here's a question. Who is your favorite character on Charlie Brown? Tell me, I'm actually just curious. I like to read my comments on this one. How about that? Just so I know, I'm actually curious. Who is your favorite character in the entire thing? I'll tell you, mine was maybe Snoopy. World War One flying ace turned his doghouse into a, come on. It was great, man. It was great. Anyway, random information about Dr. Trevor that makes me real and human. But most of you guys haven't even heard of KPV or what it does. See, listen, your body right now is this factory, right? And it's making this as we speak right now. This as you listen to this, it's cleaving it from alpha melanocyte, stimulating hormone, alpha MSH in your pituitary gland, your skin, your gut, your immune cells. 2003 study, Journal of Immunology showed that macrophages, which is your cellular cleanup crew, they're literally synthesizing alpha MSH and processing it into KPV at sites of inflammation like this, like it's rad. Your body is so freaking smart and it's manufacturing. Listen, it's manufacturing its own anti-inflammatory pharmaceutical on demand, baby. Here's where it gets wild. And this is where biology gets. It's beautiful. And it just, that's what I always say. Sexy biology is sexy. When I say that KPV is three amino acids, I need you to understand what that means at a molecular level. So lysine positively charged amino acid that loves to interact with cell membranes. Proline, your unique amino acid that creates this kink in peptide chains, giving KPV this very specific three dimensional shape. I'll get back to that in a minute. And valine, which is this branched amino acid, this chain, sorry, branched chain amino acid that makes this molecule hydrophobic enough to, it's important. Here's why. Because when it's hydrophobic enough, it can slip through biological barriers. This isn't random, you guys. You are designed, if you don't think that we have a creator named G-O-D, I don't know, you're delusional. You can't design all this. We weren't some big bang. Even Stephen Hawking even said the likelihood of that occurring is so astronomically low. He was a pretty smart guy that this isn't random. This is biological precision. That's how your body's designed. This is why you need to understand this stuff. Now let me ask you something. When was the last time that your doctor, not me, and if I'm your doctor, awesome, thank you. But if I'm not, I probably should be. But when was the last time that your doctor explained inflammation to you as anything other than swelling and redness? When? When? Because here's the problem with describing it like that. That's like describing a forest fire as warm and orange. Technically, it's true, but it's catastrophically incompetent and incomplete. Here's what's actually happening. Inflammation is, it's a molecular battle, man. It is, it's war in your system. And the resolution of inflammation is scar tissue, by the way. And the response to scar tissue is inflammation. So it becomes this ugly self-propagating cycle and poorly laid, half hazard scar tissue is where all the problems occur as well. There's so much to this podcast. I'm going to probably be on here for far too long. But when a pathogen invades or tissue gets damaged, either one, your pattern recognition software, these receptors specifically, toll-like receptors are called TLRs. Sitting on your immune cells detect danger signals, right? This triggers NF Kappa B, nuclear factor Kappa B, because people are asking me, what are these initials mean? Okay, it's the master control of your inflammation. 2004 study, Nature Reviews Immunology called NF Kappa B, the central mediator of the human immune response. And they were not exaggerating, baby. Once NF Kappa B activates, your cells start pumping out inflammatory cytokines. Which ones? IL-1 beta, IL-6, TNF alpha, the ones I talk about all the time, because they cause all this damage, but they're supposed to be there as well, just not for the length of time that some of you guys have them in there. These are your cellular alarm bells. They dilate blood vessels. That's the redness. Let's go through it. So there's your redness, right? They dilate the blood vessels. They increase vascular permeability. That's the swelling. And then they recruit more, they just come on guys, they recruit more immune cells to the area. That's the heat and that's the pain. This is supposed to be acute, right? Hit hard, kill the invader, clean up, resolution. I'm out of here. See you next week. But here's the trillion dollar problem. What happens when that alarm doesn't shut off? A chronic low grade inflammation is the biological equivalent of a smoke detector going off 24 seven, 365 in your house. Eventually you stop hearing it, but the damage, the damage never stops accumulating if the fire's still there. 2019 study, nature medicine examined 100,000 individuals and showed prove that chronic inflammation measured by increased IL-6 and CRPC reactive protein levels predicted mortality. This is going to blow your mind predicted mortality, better than cholesterol, blood pressure or blood sugar. You might want to stop, rewind and hear that again. Rewind, I just showed my age, by the way, because I come from a time of these things called cassettes. Some of you guys are like, I don't even know what that is. The inflammation is killing you faster than the diseases that you're worried about and they're actually causing the disease to get worse. So it's the self propagating cycle of death. But here's why. Chronic inflammation creates three catastrophic biological failures. And what do I talk about my three biological failures? Where's my Nobel Prize? Really, where's my Nobel Prize? Because the solutions I'm pumping into mankind right now will save millions, hundreds of millions of lives. No, I'm not kidding. No, I'm not trying to be arrogant. No, I'm not cocky about it. I'm confident because what I tell you is the truth and I'm trying to help you. These three biological failures underlie every disease process known to man. I'll go through them. Line by you need to understand these because KPV is a huge part of this. Look at systemic inflammation. It's the first one, which is what this is when inflammation persists. Those cytokines don't just stay local and hang out. They go systemic. So they circulate through your bloodstream, hitting every single organ system you've got. Your endothelial cells, lining your blood vessels, start expressing adhesion molecules. CAM1, V-CAM1, all these things that happened. 2017 circulation showed this endothelial activation is the first step in atherosclerosis. The disease, by the way, that kills more Americans than cancer. Do you want to keep going? Let's have fun with this. Look at insulin resistance. TNF-alpha and IL-6 directly interfere with insulin receptor signaling. You lose the hearing of the cells to insulin. So they activate serine kinases that phosphorylate IRS1. insulin receptor substrate 1, but they do it at the wrong spots, preventing insulin from doing its job. 2006 study, Journal of Clinical Investigation showed reducing inflammation improved insulin sensitivity. This is a great number. 42% baby without changing diet or exercise. 42%. 42%. You guys need to understand what I'm saying. That is such a huge number. That's almost half just by addressing the inflammation. But you guys are running out and getting a humulog pump or metformin or being told that you're just too late and you have to live with it. Look at failure three, ATP shortage. Inflammation damages your mitochondria. Those inflammatory cytokines trigger oxidative stress. Superoxide radicals, hydrogen peroxide, peroxynitrate. They punch holes in mitochondrial membranes. You can't just run out and do F31 and think you're going to solve that cardiolipin issue. There's so much more to this. So your ETC or electron transport chain starts stuttering and chattering. ATP production, nose dives. 2015 study, Cell Metabolism showed chronic inflammation reduces mitochondrial efficiency by 60%. So now you've lost 60% of your ability to create the currency of life. No ATP, no cellular energy, no cellular energy, no life. Peace out. I'm out. That's how bad it is. And here's a beautiful horror of all of this. These three failures, they feed into each other. Listen, inflammation causes insulin resistance. I just explained that. insulin resistance causes more inflammation, both damage the mitochondria. Now, damaged mitochondria produce more oxidative stress, reactive oxygen species, more oxidative stress triggers, you guessed it, more inflammation people. It is the death spiral and it's screwing you up and you guys are running out. Listen, I'm totally fine with the BPC and the GHK-Cu and the TB-500 and the PEG-MGF and all the things you guys are doing for injuries and knock it off with your blends. Just stop. Just please stop. What difference does it make? You're doing it for convenience, but how do you regulate when you take BPC and TB-500, when one is five days, one is one day? See, you see where I'm going with the problem? So I'm trying to help you and I don't care about these fuchsia-haired chemists trying to make videos and reaction videos to me. I'm out here because I actually care, not because I'm hawking a product or that I'm worried about my fragile little ego. I am 52. I'm an old man. I don't care. I'm out here to help. My life is set. I love my life. I love my wife so much, 21 years almost. My kids are awesome. They're lethal. They're awesome. They're loving. They're hard workers. They got ethics. We did it right as parents were God fearing. I got the G-man on my side 24-7, 365. I'm not out here to prove anything. I am giving this away because I genuinely freaking care. You decide, man, but you want to try and figure out where somebody's motive is for making a reaction video, which first of all makes you gay. And second of all, can't you come up with your own content? What are you selling? I've never made a reaction video to anybody. Because I just don't care. Listen, pay attention to this because this is where KPV becomes the most important molecule of your entire life that most of you are probably misusing or you've never even heard of, which is fine. That's why you're here. This doesn't. Sorry, my allergies are going nuts today. My wife looked up something here in Texas. She said it was like Cedar. I call it Cedar tree inflammation. That's not what it is, but whatever she said, something about Cedar trees going nuts here in Texas. And I woke up this morning, but you know what they're doing? Painting the skies with all this crap and it's falling on me. It's getting in my water and my nose breathing, drinking. It's probably my damn coffee. And if you go, oh, tinfoil hat wearing guy. Yeah, baby. I love me a good tinfoil. Listen, KPV doesn't just reduce inflammation. It is the orchestrator of resolution of your tissue. There is a difference, a massive difference. Reducing inflammation is what NSAIDs do. Not good, by the way. Excuse me. They block cox enzymes, COX. Inflammation goes down. Problem solved. Wrong. Because the molecular debris is still there. The damaged cells are still there. The oxidized lipids are still there. You've turned off the fire alarm and the house is still blaze. KPV doesn't do that. It does something completely different. You have to go deeper than just a superficial symptomatology resolution. 2009 British Journal of Pharmacology showed KPV directly inhibits NF-Kappa B translocation to the nucleus. It doesn't block upstream signals. It doesn't suppress your entire immune system. Total catastrophe, by the way. Prednisone, any corticosteroid, it specifically prevents NF-Kappa B from entering the nucleus and turning on inflammatory gene transcription. That's some surgical precision, is what I'm saying. But it gets better. 2014 study, Journal of Inflammation Research showed KPV simultaneously up regulates IL-10. Not all interleukins are bad, by the way. IL-10, which is the master anti-inflammatory cytokine. Anti-IL-10 triggers macrophages to shift from M1, which is pro-inflammatory, to M2, which is pro-resolution phenotype. Remember this. So M2 macrophages don't just stop fighting. They go, let's stop fighting. Let's start cleaning up instead. They phagocetize the cellular debris. They release growth factors and they promote tissue repair. You know what they do is they restore homeostasis. Your body's balanced, working in perfect harmony. That's the way you're designed. KPV is up there conducting this molecular symphony, down-regulating inflammation, while up-regulating resolution. This is why KPV addresses all three biological failures at the same time. Watch. I'll break it down real quick, just so we can hit this fast. Systemic inflammation. By inhibiting NF-Kappa B, KPV specifically stops the cytokine cascade at its source. 2016 study showed, I talked about it right. KPV, that's why I'm not, it doesn't matter. KPV reduced circulating IL-6 by 68% in all inflammatory participants. That's a huge number. Just take 68% and give yourself 68% raise. Let me know how happy you are. Normally, I say take 68% away, but let's go positive today, baby. I'm feeling good. Look at insulin resistance with KPV, with inflammatory cytokine suppressed. insulin receptor signaling normalizes. The ear must come off. You can hear insulin again. 2018 endocrinology showed improved glucose uptake in cells treated with KPV. 71%. 71, you guys, ATP shortage. You know how these feed into each other now, because I explained it about 10 minutes ago. By reducing oxidative stress and inflammation, KPV protects the mitochondrial membranes. 2012 study in mitochondrion specifically showed KPV preserved mitochondrial membrane potential under inflammatory stress. So it kept it safe, even in a crappy environment. Let's look at your brain. Let's look at your brain. Don't mess with this thing. It's that two, three pound guiding piece of fat that keeps you alive, unless you do all the things like complain in my comments and make rage posts about me because I offended or made said, herdy words or all your marketing is going tits up because I'm proving everything you're trying to sell people has been a lie. Maybe that. I don't know. Just a thought. Cause this is where it gets personal for a lot of people. Your brain is 2% of your body weight, but uses 20% of your oxygen. That metabolic demand makes it exquisitely vulnerable to inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction. Neuro inflammation, chronic activation of microglia, which are your brain's immune cells is the common thread. Alzheimer's Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, neurological death. 2020 study, nature neuroscience showed activated microglia release inflammatory mediators that directly damage neurons, directly destroy synapses, completely disrupt the blood brain barrier, which is life, by the way. Once that barrier is compromised, peripheral inflammation floods into the brain. That's why gut problems turn into brain problems because of the lipopolysaccharides leaking out of your sewer system called your gut GI tract and into your nice clean cardiovascular system game over. So here's where KPV becomes a neurological game changer for everybody. The blood brain barrier. Hear me out on this. Just fly with me on this one. KPV is lipophilic enough to cross the blood brain barrier. 2013 confirmed KPV penetration into central nervous system tissues. Here's what happens. Microglial modulation. So once it's inside the brain, KPV inhibits microglial NF Kappa B activation. 2017 study in brain behavior and immunity proved KPV reduced microglial inflammatory markers by 74%. Notice 68%, 71%, 74%. Don't think I don't remember. I know, damn, what I'm talking about. Look at the neuro protection capacity of KPV. By reducing neuro inflammation, KPV preserves neuronal mitochondrial function. Huge because your neurons are hungry. They're so hungry for like, they just need energy all the time. 2019 study showed KPV protected, protected, dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. Alzheimer's specific effects, by the way, of KPV are about to blow your mind. Amyloid beta plaques trigger the intense catastrophic neuro inflammation. 2018 study, brain behavior and immunity showed KPV reduced, amyloid induced, microglial activation prevented, stopped, halted microglial death. Want me to throw in any more words? It kept your brain from dying. Look at MS and demyelination. The oligodendrocytes can't create myelin. So multiple sclerosis is characterized by inflammatory destruction of the myelin sheath. The plastic coating around the wire. 2015, Journal of Neuroimmunology showed KPV reduced inflammatory demyelination by suppressing T cell mediated inflammation. Your brain doesn't regenerate like your liver. You get one. KPV gets in there and throws a shield around your brain. That's just your brain. How about your skin? Look at skin problems. I could do this all day. Psoriasis, eczema, dermatitis. These aren't cosmetic. They are windows into systemic inflammation. Psoriasis is a TNF alpha and IL-17 mediated inflammatory disease. Period. Proven all over the place already. I'm not going to get into this, but your keratinocytes are overproliferating. Your T cells are hyperactive and your skin barrier is giving you the finger and it's compromised. 2011 study, Journal of Investigative Dermatology showed that topical, not even injection, just topical reduced inflammatory markers. When you added sub-Q to anyone with psoriasis, it reduced the skin problem by 62%. Here's what's critical. It didn't just suppress inflammation. It normalized keratinocyte differentiation and restored barrier function. So it made your skin operate the way your skin is supposed to operate, baby. Eczema is similar. TH2 mediated inflammation, barrier dysfunction, chronic itch scratch cycle is the way to look at it, which is what it is. It's the easiest way to explain it. 2016 study showed KpV reduced itch-related neuropeptide release, suppressed TH2 cytokines, which is IL4, IL13, that drive eczema specifically. KpV addressed the root cause, inflammatory dysregulation. You want to have some fun? You want to keep going? Let's do it. I told you it's a master class. Let's hit it all. The cardiovascular system is ground zero for inflammatory damage. Do not screw with your heart. Do not screw with your endothelium. Let this system run perfectly because if it's not, that's where the problem is. It is not a cholesterol problem. You guys need to all stop asking about how to lower cholesterol. You guys need to understand the purpose of cholesterol and know that you've been lied to from day one. Atherosclerosis starts with endothelial inflammation. LDL particles cross into the vessel wall. Oxidation happens. Macrophages arrive. They start chewing up the oxidized. They eat them up. They oxidized LDL and they become these things called foam cells. Inflammation goes through the roof. Plax form, plax rupture, heart attack. Stroke, death. You're welcome. The end. That's the easiest way to explain this. 2014 study in atherosclerosis showed Kpv reduced endothelial expression of V-cam and I-cam 1, which are those, I talked about these, the adhesion molecules that recruit inflammatory cells to the vessel wall. So by preventing this initial step, Kpv gets in the way and it stops atherosclerosis before it even begins. Do you get that? It's, hey, things are sticking because it's an old cast iron pan. And before you start lecturing me about how nonstick is toxic, I'm using it as an example. It's a metaphor. Don't care about the chemistry of this one right now. You have this old cast iron pan. It restores the nonstick. It's now a ceramic pan. Nothing just slides right off like an infomercial before you have any issues. Your heart doesn't care about your good intentions, people. It cares about inflammation and Kpv handles every single aspect of that. Look at your kidneys filter. What did I say the other day? Do you remember? 180 liters of blood every day. That's a lot of exposure. So in case you're wondering to inflammatory mediators, chronic kidney disease, and I address this very clearly, is fundamentally an inflammatory disease. Flamatory cytokines damage podocytes, which are those cells, right? Little flat with foot that form your filtration barrier, leading to protein urea fibrosis, kidney failure. 2018 study in kidney international showed Kpv reduced renal inflammation, observed kidney function, and prevented fibrosis in inflammatory kidney disease by inhibiting TGF beta signaling, which is a master regulator for kidney tissue fibrosis. How about wounds, man? You guys get gashed up, beat up, fall off your BMX bike. Yep, I'm that old. Here's something that'll blow your mind. Wound healing requires. You don't want to shut it down. You want to control it. Wound healing requires inflammation, but controlled inflammation. Acute inflammation to clear pathogens and damaged tissue, then resolution, then regen, right? Regeneration, chronic inflammation prevents healing. It keeps wounds stuck in that single phase, the inflammatory phase. 2013 study, wound repair and regeneration, it showed Kpv accelerated wound closure, 43%. Holy crap, that's like Wolverine. You're like Deadpool, but better looking. Dove that by facilitating the transition from inflammation to proliferation. One phase to the next. It promoted fibroblast migration, collagen deposition, geogenesis, controlled inflammation. What did I say? Control it, resolve it, regenerate it, heal baby. You got to cycle this stuff. It's what nobody talks about. You got to stay on peptides forever. I have a small group of forever peptides, and even then I'm very hard on my body, very hard on my body. I train hard. I run hard. This is how I am. So I look for anything I can to expand the scope of my ability to heal. But don't always copy what I'm doing if you're not running the same way I'm running. Really, I have a guy in my group right now. He says, I just want to do everything you do. That's great, but you're not there yet. You have to solve your biological problems first before you start pushing on the gas. Please, hear me out. This is really important. So if you're going, what do you do? I want to do it exactly. But if you're not where I am right now, doing what I'm doing is not going to make any sense, because it's like looking at Sir Edmund Hillary and going, awesome, he's at the top of the mountain. What's he doing at the top of Everest? You don't need to see what he did, what he's doing up top. You need to go, how did he train to get there? You guys got to understand that. Look at what people do to get to where you want to go. Don't look at what they're doing when they're where you want to be. It's not the same, which is I'm trying to help you. You can't take KPV continuously forever. If some Instabrow tells you that, stop listening. Knock yourself out, but you're just setting yourself up for a lot of problems. Your body adapts. That's why. Listen, you're going to listen to who you want to listen to. Listen to me. Don't listen to me. Give me the finger. Don't give me the finger. I don't care, but what I'm telling you is I'm giving you facts. That's it. I have my KPV. He's the best KPV on earth. I'm trying to sit here and tell you that what I'm giving you is information to do whatever it is you want. Do I think my labs is the best? Yeah, of course. Just so you know, I'm looked up at the top of my corner here and stupidity of Riverside yet again, decided to just turn off and start recording a new track. So now I have two tracks. So I hope this all comes out seamlessly. So here's how it adapts. Your Milano Korten Receptors specifically, MC1R and MC3R, those are the ones that KPV acts on, will downregulate with chronic exposure. 2010 study showed continuous Milano Korten exposure, agonist exposure, right, leads to 100% receptor desensitization within 14 to 21 days. So I've talked to people about doing 30 days, depends on how bad their inflammatory process is. Cycle. Here's how I'll give you, listen, for your kangaroo, four to six weeks on, two to four weeks off. There you go. That maintains receptor sensitivity and prevents any kind of tolerant issues. This isn't hard. Just play with your body's biology the way it's designed. Your body is smarter than you think. Freakin' respect it. So I need to touch on this because this is where people who have a headache. Just so you know, my wife had a brutal, like one of those behind the eye. There's an ice pick thing stuck into my skull kind of, and my wife never takes medication. My wife is so tough. God, she's sexy, man. Like my wife is sexy, but she's so tough. And she's sitting there and I looked at her eyes, her blood shot. You could tell she was in pain. I said, listen, what's going on? She says, I have this headache just started when I was training legs. And this is a woman who's 5'2", about 115, 120 pounds, who squats 185 for more reps than most dudes, which is 8 to 10, and she'll do it effortlessly. Anyway, and I've, so before you guys go, bullshit, I'd like to see it. She'll do 225 for five and then go back and do 245 for another five. She, and she looks like a fitness mob. She's not giant at all. She's sexy. But the reason I'm saying this is because I know she pushes herself hard and it happened while she was doing squats. So I gave her BPC and KPV and 15 minutes headache was pretty much gone. You guys need to understand that. Solve the problem by letting your body  adiadulis, job, don't solve the problem by trying to hide it, which is why I want to talk about NSAIDs, ibuprofen, the proxen aspirin, all the things like you 81 milligram aspirin people, you like depleting glutathione, you like destroying your body's primary antioxidant and thinking that it's okay, it's never saved a life, there's zero research that showed that's ever saved a life or prevented anything, just so you know, just so you know what NSAIDs do, I told you, they block coxenzymes, I'm sure, it's what it is, coxone and cox-2, these enzymes convert arachidotic acid to prostoglandins, which inflammatory mediators, sounds all good, right? You think that blocking the prostoglandins and reducing inflammation is the primary solution, it's the resolution of the problem, prosto, the problem's still there, prostoglandins do a lot more than cause inflammation, listen to me, so coxone, look at the GI tract, here's why you need to understand the production of prostoglandins, right, so it convert, right, hold the enzymes, just follow me on this, the gastrointestinal tract, coxone produces prostoglandins that protect your stomach like, how can you do that now? You guys following me? This is the problem, I'm trying to go a little slower so you actually get this, block coxone and you get ulcers, bleeding, perforation, this is why this happens, it's not, if you all just take BPC and it'll solve all the problems, wrong, by the way, stop taking oral BPC, I'm tired of these guys peddling it, all they want is your money, zero, show me the bloods, doesn't work, and it's been proven that it doesn't work, people just love to argue because they sell it, just like nasal sprays, garbage, 10% at the most, bioavailability, why would you waste it? Use a pen, it's better. 2005 study, American Journal of Medicine found NSAIDs cause, this is just recorded by the way, 16,500 deaths annually in the US from GI complications alone, that's a town, wiped out from taking a pill, look at cardiovascular issues, cox2 inhibition disrupts, you guys need to take what I'm saying seriously, it disrupts the balance between prostocycline, vasodilator, antithrombotic, thromboxane, which is the vasoconstrictor and pro-thrombotic, 13 in the lancet showed, NSAIDs increase heart attack risk, 24%, look it up yourself, people take these things like their skittles, kidney damage, still gland is maintained renal blood flow, 180 liters of fluid, right, of blood every day, remember that, block them, you get acute kidney injury, 2016, British Medical Journal proved chronic NSAID use increases chronic kidney disease risk by 38%. NSAIDs do not resolve inflammation, they suppress symptoms while causing catastrophic systemic damage, they're everywhere, they got you even convinced to take them for health, look at the average mortality here in the US versus almost every other country, how about corticosteroids, dexamethasone, cortisone, these are nuclear bombs that go off in your system and if they're there to save your life, that's one thing, but that's very rare, they work by activating glucocorticoid receptors that suppress virtually all inflammatory gene transcription, massively effective, massively, they're so effective at reducing inflammation, like mind boggling, and they're massively destructive to just about everything else in your body, look at metabolic destruction, corticosteroids cause insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, fat redistribution, muscle wasting, just to name a few, 2018, British Medical Journal showed steroid induced diabetes occurs in 50% of patients on chronic corticosteroids, half, so look to your right, look to your left, one of you is that person, at least, they trash your bones, they're devastating to your bones, they inhibit osteoblasts and activate osteoclasts, bone density blasts build osteoclasts tear down, that's the easiest way to remember it, bone density vanishes 2017, osteoporosis international found, your risk increases 40% minimum within 3 to 6 months of steroid therapy, how about immune suppression, this is my favorite one, when they warn you, don't take this too long because it wrecks your immune system, just so you know your immune system is keeping you alive, you guys, so while reducing inflammation, steroid suppress your entire immune system, infection risk skyroids, 2019, New England Journal of Medicine showed serious infection rates triple with chronic steroid use, triple, look at the HPA the suppression that it causes in that, exogenous steroids suppress your hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, stop taking them suddenly, here's what happens, boom, adrenal crisis, you know what that is, I'll help you, I'll just leave that while I drink some coffee, let that land, steroids are emergency interventions, they're not long term solutions, I've had patients that, I had this one patient, Karen, she was her and her husband, used to come and see me in her kids, and she was on, she had, I don't know, three quarters of her small intestine removed, she was on Cipro for life, should I say it again, because it's unbelievable to even hear that some knucklehead doctor would do that to her, she was on prednisone for life, she was riddled with injuries, riddled with illness, always had problems, unbelievable, all due to what she was taking, it didn't solve anything, it was for her crones and her irritable bowel, and instead of solving the problem, they cut, I don't know how many feet out of this poor woman, out of her intestine, just some of you doctors, you guys, you surgeons, you guys disgust me, listen, here's the fundamental principle that everybody misses longevity, look at longevity, your goal is to be the most epic life for as long as possible, longevity isn't about preventing inflammation, though, it's about resolving inflammation, if you are full of inflammation, you are going to die significantly sooner, inflammation is necessary, it clears out pathogens, it removes damaged cells, it initiates, it's like the spark that starts the repair, the problem is when the inflammation doesn't end, 2018 immunity showed concept of resolution pharmacology, using a molecule that actively promotes the resolution phase of inflammation rather than just suppressing the inflammatory phase, there's KPB, how many times have you heard of it again, I'll wait, how many times has your doctor told you about this, your surgeon, your dentist, your psychiatrist, who's told you about this, people like me or the insta bros who claim to be experts because they can read chat GPT, listen, I don't care if you use chat GPT, just don't claim expertise, listen, KPB doesn't just turn off NF cap, it activates resolution pathways, it shifts macrophages to healing phenotypes, and it promotes tissue repair, it restores balance, homeostasis, resolution, you ready, this is a huge mic drop equals longevity, 2022 study in aging showed that markers of unresolved, not this stuff on the equation, just unresolved inflammation predicted biological aging better than chronological age, people with high CRPC reactive protein and high IL6, but low specialized pro-resolving mediators, they're called SPMs, had biological ages 15 years older than their chronological age, but you've got people out there that made billions of dollars who are drinking baby blood or taking their blood and they're trying to live forever taking 4,000 supplements every day, I don't know, maybe you should just resolve the inflammatory problem, let your body do its job, unresolved inflammation ages you faster than time itself does, here's a paradox by the way that confuses a lot of people, how can reducing inflammation improve in immune function, because somebody asked me what about immune function, the whole prednisone thing, got it, because chronic inflammation suppresses immune function, those elevated inflammatory cytokines I'm talking about cause chronic immune activation, there's a problem with that, you're standing on the skinny pedal till the motor burns out, it causes what's called T cell exhaustion, natural killer cell dysfunction, NK cells, which you need by the way to demolish cancer and impaired antibody response, so 2017 there's a study in cell that showed that chronic inflammation up regulates PD1 and CTLA4, it's immune checkpoint molecules essentially that shut down T cell function, cancer cells exploit the hell out of this, you know what else does, chronic infections, so by resolving inflammation, the PD removes the suppressive signals, your T cells wake up, your NK cells become cytotoxic as hell again the way they're designed, and your immune system goes oh yeah baby I'm back in the game, and you let that immune system off the chain to do its job and it functions properly, 2019 study New England Journal of Medicine showed that reducing chronic inflammation improved all immune responses by 38%, interesting, less inflammation, better immunity, longer life, so how about I just put a bow on this because we got what am I 43 minutes, man these are getting long, I got lots to say and I geek out on human biology so I talk about the things I love, that's what my preacher says all the time, he talks about the Bible, basketball, Michigan football, so I love it, this is me, I talk about my wife and family, I talk about being a badass human, being connecting to God and I talk about biology and I will do this all day baby, you guys have been sold a lie, a lie that inflammation is the enemy, that suppressing it with NSAIDs, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs if you need to know what that is, and steroids, corticosteroids is the solution, the truth by the way, inflammation is a biological response that needs to be resolved, not suppressed, they're not the same, KPV is something that your body already makes, already uses and already knows what to do, it's not a drug, so every time I make a post on social media and they go this is something promoting drugs, I'm like are you high, it is by definition not a drug and yet I get posts pulled all the time because they're saying I'm promoting drug use and then they send something up in my screen, it pops up, I open it up probably once a week and it's black screen and it says you can get help, apparently I have a BPC problem that I, an addiction that I need to go get checked out, are you crazy, but I could sit out there and I could talk about every single drug on the planet that's approved by the FD and the A and it will let me run like crazy, the more I pump it up the more they're going to give me exposure, bite me, KPV inhibits MF Tapa B surgically, which is the master control of inflammation, it up regulates IL-10, so it activates the resolution pathway, it crosses the blood-brain barrier, so it's protecting all of the stuff in your gray matter, your neurons, restores endothelial function, it protects your heart, preserves kidney function, protects your little filters that you need that do more, remember what I said about kidney disease that it ain't just about your kidneys, parathyroid, cardiovascular, the list is endless of the things of the kidney controls, pH level of your blood, it accelerates KPV, accelerates your wound healing, restores tissue integrity properly, so your scar tissue doesn't look like some Italian dropped spaghetti on a plate, it looks like somebody lined it up perfectly that's got OCD and wants all their spaghetti to look perfectly lined up, much better scar tissue, it solves the three biological failures that are killing you guys, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, and it does all of this without the GI devastation of NSAIDs or the molecular or metabolic catastrophe of corticosteroids that absolutely ruptures your health from the inside out, here's what I want you to understand, every disease that you're afraid of, every single one of them, Alzheimer's, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, kidney failure, all of them, they share the same root cause, unresolved chronic inflammation, fix the inflammation, and you know what you do, you fix the disease, KPV fixes the inflammation, it is so bad acid, it has so many more ripple effects than you can imagine, the research is there, Journal of Immunology, British Journal of Pharmacology, Journal of Inflammatory Research, like all of this stuff, 68% reduction in IL-6, 2017, it showed 74% reduction in microglial markers, then in Alzheimer's it showed it proved that it reduced Alzheimer's risk by 68%, no protection in Parkinson's, I can do this all with better predictive mortality than traditional markers, none of this stuff is ethereal, and that's what gets frustrating is I can come out here and I can tell the truth about your health and give you the actual answers that you can run out and do whatever you want, go and get it from wherever you want, go and do whatever you want, but I'm giving you the real truth instead of here's a fancy drug commercial where it shows this lady in distress or this man in distress briefly, 5-10 seconds, and then it talks about how this amazing new drug gives her life back and then lists off 45 seconds of catastrophic deadly effects that do happen that they've convinced you is we have to say that just in case, no they say that because it does, and then at the very end it gives you another 5-second blurb of a smiling lady or man going, it gave me my life back, meanwhile that lady is either AI or dead, this isn't theory, APV is legit, blish, peer reviewed, science, your body is trying to save you all the time you guys, it's making KPV right now, it's trying to resolve the inflammatory aging process that's killing you, destroying you from inside out, and it's not making enough, it's not a question on whether or not KPV works, it's how much longer are you going to keep waiting to give your body what it's desperately trying to make on its own, mitochondria are pissed and they're struggling which is why you got brain fog, your neurons are inflamed which is why you're struggling and you might be halfway down to Alzheimer's dementia, your endothelium is damaged which is why your blood barrier doesn't work, why your blood pressure sucks and why your cardiovascular system is taking, your kidneys are giving you the finger because they're filtering inflammatory garbage 24, 7, 365, you have the molecule baby, three amino acids, it's not suppression, right, resolution, I don't understand, maybe you don't get it, this is not complicated, give your body the tools it needs, not the ones you, not the wrecking ball to make it do something it doesn't want to do, or watch the inflammation destroy your body one cell at a time, I guess, I don't know what to tell you, I'm out here because I love you, I know what I'm doing, I know how much I care and I'll tell you this, I know damn well which direction I'm choosing, KPD baby, anyway I hope you got something out of this, I gotta go, never miss.

=== FILE: Kisspeptin Masterclass (more than fertility) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [Sk9HRJxZytU].txt ===

 al-right. Another master class. Let me drink some coffee. I'm not even going to put it down. I'm just going to hang on to it. You can't have too much coffee. So anyway, this is a master class on KISS-peptin. You're going to want to know this because KISS-peptin is not a fertility peptide. It is not. It is a master regulator of every single system you've got in your biology, and it is exactly why most people are sick because there is a deficiency or a dysregulation of KISS-peptin and KISS-1R receptor problem. And there's so many issues surrounding KISS-peptin that are treated as a downstream issue, and you're not solving the problem. But the reason I'm making these master classes, it's for you. I have this knowledge. I know this, but the, and I'm trying to share it with you. So stop going in my comments and complaining and giving me thumbs down. Like just grow up. And because that's juvenile. But the reason I'm doing this is because of all the instabrow, soccer mom, look at me. I own a peptide company. No, you don't. Sell out doctors and nurse practitioners claiming to own peptide companies, trying to jump on the bandwagon because they want to make money, not because they care. They're coming out with the most ridiculous information. Share it with you guys. And unfortunately, you guys get inundated with all kinds of stuff. You don't know who to believe. That part, I understand. That's very frustrating. I'm not selling you anything. Like that's what I always tell people. I go, look at follow the money, follow the money. I don't care if you buy from me. You want to buy from elite biogenics. Awesome. I will give you everything I got to tell you that every time I will bleed for you guys and make sure you have the best product on the planet. And that's it. You buy from my company. Awesome. I have real labs, real warehouses, and real people working for my company. I'm not some doing it out of my basement soccer mom or sell out doctor with boxes in his clinic, trying to do it on the side because he can't succeed because patients don't do anything he tells them to because he keeps frigging hurting them because he's giving them drugs. I'm not some longevity clinic. I'm here to give you the answer so you can have an informed decision. What you do with the information is on you. But for the love of God, grow up and get out of my comments complaining about stuff and giving me thumbs down. What are you, five? I don't even get my head around that. So go ahead, buy. Don't. I'm still going to show up here because I care. And then the other thing is with a black card, join the black card or don't. It is apply at unlockthecard.com. That's the email you need to send your application request to. Mia, my executive assistant, will take care of you. She'll get you all dialed in and help you out. It is wire transfer only. And you know what? I've been holding off on the 25,000. But you know what? The honestly, the amount of things that I have to handle in the black card and the amount I bleed for the people in there to give them the information to save them and help them with their problems and actually solve them for real is astronomical. I work 16-hour days and I don't get paid enough to be honest. I don't. And if you go, that's pretty arrogant. No, it's not. If I save your life, there should be no amount of money. There was just to be very clear. There was no amount of money I would have been willing to pay. I would have paid anything, everything when I was laying in the hospital texting my wife saying I wasn't going to make them. There is no amount of money I wouldn't have paid. Nothing, all of it. So don't tell me your health and your life aren't worth whatever somebody's asking me or anybody else to solve your problem. Now the issue becomes this is why I do these master classes. You don't know who's going to solve your problem because the social media is filled with, like I said, the soccer moms who pretend they have a business, the nurse practitioners and sell out doctors who have no business opening their mouth and the Insta bros and Insta experts and Cora and Reddit making I Hate Dr. Trevor fan clubs because I keep proving all their stuff wrong and their business is taking a hit because people question them going, hey, how come what you said is not true? And then they try and defend it. You know what the truth is? Just follow the money. I don't care if you buy from me or not. I still come out here, but if you want to join the Black Card, it's access to my private live Q&A every Monday that I do with my whole group. It's not a master class. I had some YETs going, it's a master class. No, it's not a master class. It's a Q&A where I go two hours straight and I solve every problem people throw at me. I don't care what it is and I've done it live so many times. I could do this in my sleep and you get access to the VIP area where you actually get access to me where I'll answer 24 to 72 hours, usually about what it takes me, which is faster than any doctor on the planet. And I will actually solve your problem, which is hand you a prescription and say, go ahead, that'll solve it. And my results speak very loud and clear. I have people that aren't on thyroid medication anymore. They don't have menopause symptoms. Their cancer is gone. Their Hashimoto's is gone. Diabetes is gone. You can't count the number of people that have had excellent results listening to what I tell them to do because it's so high because I actually care. But you decide if you want to. But you know what? End of the month, I'm going up to 25 grand. I don't even want it. 10 grand is so cheap. $97. I don't take credit cards. It is my wire transfer only. Like I said, that's what you get. You got access to the protocol library, which really people are like, oh, that's what I came for. Listen, stop stealing my stuff and using it for my clinics. I have people in my group, one in particular, who was stealing my stuff and using it in her clinic, which pissed me off so bad. So now I have security embedding in there to make sure that doesn't happen because I care. People are just going to use it wrong and wind up causing problems. That's why you need to understand biology. Anyway, I'm done bitching here. I need to tell you all about KISS-Peptin because I think a lot of the information out there is that it's just some fertility issue. It's not like that's what people, oh cool. It's the fertility peptide. No, that's like looking at a nuclear reactor and calling it a light bulb. It's a warm fire. That's what I always say. Yeah, it produces light and a little bit of heat, but you're missing the entire point. Listen, I will show you everything that your doctor doesn't even know exists. And I sure as hell know that these Insta bros and Insta experts and sell out docs don't know and they don't care. They're trying to hit the perfect phrases, having chat GPT write their stuff so they can get you to buy their stuff. I don't care if you buy my stuff. I care that you get the information that you decide what you want to do with your damn health. I'm here to help. I'm a real doctor that gives a shit about you. I've been doing it for 30 years. But listen, here's what's brilliant about the human body and how it's designed. You have this molecule, neuro peptide, which means it's a very small protein that your neurons use to communicate. It's called KISS-Peptin. And most of these people don't even know that. Listen, the idea that you need to understand this, here's the thing that's going to blow your mind. KISS-Peptin is so fundamental. I can't even get my head around this. It's so wild. It's so fundamental to human biology that when researchers in 2003, listen, we discovered that mutations in the KISS-1 gene caused complete mutations in the gene, which means it doesn't work, right? Caused complete reproductive collapse, complete sterility. They realized that they were not looking at a fertility system. They were not. And that's what you guys just start. Oh, it's fertility. No, they're looking at the master control switch of your entire physiology. Think about it this way. If one gene mutation eliminates your ability, listen, you're a one, one mutation, just one. You've got, this shouldn't affect you this deeply. It eliminates your ability to reproduce. It means that gene is upstream of reproduction. It's not part of reproduction. It initiates reproduction. That's the difference just so you know, between a worker and a CEO. KISS-Peptin is the damn CEO. Let me paint this for you at a molecular level, so you understand, because this is where it gets so insane. You have these specialized neurons in your hypothalamus, the control center of pretty much every single thing that happens in your body, called GnRH neurons, ponadotropin-releasing hormone neurons. These little buggers are these things. They're the bouncer of your entire reproductive axis, your entire metabolic rate, your bone density, your immune function. They're that damn important. And here's the problem. GnRH neurons exist in this really interesting state. They're suppressed. They're like they're dead asleep right now, even during this conversation. Why? Because your body doesn't activate them with raw signals. It activates them through this signal gatekeep mechanism. And the gatekeeper is called KISS-Peptin. So when KISS-Peptin produced primarily in two regions of your hypothalamus, the arcutinucleus and the antroventrillar paraventricular nucleus, binds to its receptor, KISS-1R, which is what I was talking about, on those GnRH neurons. It's like punching in. It's like turning the dial on a safe or punching in a security code. The cell membranes depolarize. The action potentials fire just like anywhere else in the cell to conduct a signal. And suddenly GnRH floods into your median evidence, except here's what happens next. GnRH travels through hypofysio portal blood vessels, which are the tiny blood system connecting your brain to your pituitary. And it hits the gonadotropes on your anterior pituitary. Those cells release two hormones, LH-FSH, luteinizing hormone, follicle stimulating hormone. And that's when the cascade kicks in full throttle, like somebody bolted a turbo onto this bitch. LH and FSH flood your bloodstream. So in women, follow me. In women, they stimulate follicle development, estrogen production and ovulation. And in men, they stimulate the lating cells to produce testosterone, by the way, at rates that are about 100 times baseline, just so you know how intense this works. But here's what nobody is talking about online. That same system modulates your metabolic rate, your bone formation, your mood, your neurological function, your immune response. They're not separate systems. It's one system with a thousand parts. And chispeptin is the input control for every single one. So this is where the medical orthodoxy completely falls apart. Look, I need to drink some coffee. The research on chispeptin started with fertility, because, well, knock out the system. The first thing you notice is people can't reproduce. It's obvious. It's measurable. So naturally everybody goes, oh, it's a fertility hormone. And that's where the research funding then goes subsequently, right? That's how it works. But here's what the smart people figured out in 2019. Chispeptin and its receptor, kiss1r, that I just talked about, they're not just in your hypothalamus, you guys. They're everywhere. They're in your limbic system, the region's controlling motivation, memory, emotion. They're in your hippocampus. That's where your learning and memory centers are. They're in your amygdala, emotional processing. They're throughout your entire cortex. They're in your brainstem. They're integrated into systems that have nothing to do with reproduction. So just so you know, what does that mean? It means that kisspeptin isn't a fertility hormone that happens to affect other things. It's a pleiotropic integrator, which means it simultaneously, excuse me, it's multiple organ systems. It's not siloed. It's networked, baby. 22 studies, Oxford and Massachusetts General Hospital, Mass General Hospital showed something so badass. When you give men and women kisspeptin, their sexual desires skyrocket. But it's not because, here's what everybody's all about, it's not because their test goes up. It's not at all. It's because their brain's processing of attraction changes. Their limbic system lights up. They've done this all on MRIs. Their limbic system lights up. Their hippocampus becomes more responsive to erotic imagery. For all I know, they show them dirty magazines. I have no idea, but they figure this stuff out. This is a direct effective kisspeptin on brain circuitry, independent of any of the downstream hormones, which would be testosterone. So if it's doing, listen to me, if it's doing that to your brain at an emotional state, what else is it doing then? I'll help you every single thing you've got. So here's where this becomes actually very strategic to understand. Your body has a fundamental problem it has to solve all the time. How do you coordinate multiple systems to achieve a single outcome? Let's use reproduction, for example, I could do this with a whole bunch of it. Let's use reproduction. Okay, so for instance, you need hormone surges. That's the pituitary, you need sexual desire. That's the limbic system. You need metabolic acceleration. That's your hypothalamus, managing adenosine triphosphate ATP. That's immune suppression. This is people don't get this one, because pregnancy is technically an immunological hack where your immune system has to tolerate foreign genetic material, dad, bone remodeling, cardiovascular adaptations. All of these are different organ systems that normally operate independently. So how does your body synchronize all this stuff? It's the master control of all of this stuff. Here's the genius. Kispeptin neurons are phenomenally sensitive to your metabolic state. So not just your metabolic state, to be honest, your nutritional state or stress hormones or sex steroid feedback, integrate all this information through neurons containing NKB, neurokinin B, and dinorphin. And these create what is called an oscillatory network. So they basically, they pulse in and out. Okay, they create this rhythmic release of Kispeptin that generates pulsatile GNRH release. Pulsatility matters more than anything else in human physiology, because if you have, follow me, I'll just use this and as the HGH can under them that you guys are all like, I'm going to take HGH. It's the fountain of youth. No, it's not. It's the stupidest thing you can do. If unless you're missing your pituitary, you don't take it. It's ridiculous. If you have constant GNRH signaling, the system desensitizes, your cells stop responding. It's called tachyphylaxis. And it's why continuous hormone therapy can't work long term ever. So like HGH, but pulsatile signaling, that maintains receptor sensitivity forever. That's not luck, you guys. That's not I have this magic peptide. That's called engineering. And because Kispeptin neurons receive inputs from energy metabolism sensors, stress detection systems, nutrient sensing pathways, they can dynamically adjust the pulsatile output based on whether your body is in a state where reproduction is feasible or it's not. Go watch. If you just, and like I said, I'm going to use reproduction as an example, because it's easy to follow. If you're overstressed, Kispeptin neurons drop. Reproduction stops, because chronic stress means your body needs every single ounce of its resources for survival, not reproduction. Right? Follow me on this. If you're metabolically healthy, well-nourished, and unstressed, Kispeptin neurons activate and maintain the rhythm. It's not this random hormone system. It's a decision-making system that your body uses to determine whether the conditions are right for complex biological processes. And if it's that sophisticated for reproduction, and those same receptors are distributed throughout your brain, throughout your organs, throughout your immune system, what the hell else is it coordinating? And that's the question that nobody's asking except this bald bearded dog right here. Listen, let me give you the master key insight to all of this, because this is how everything connects. Pliotropy is this concept in genetics, where a single gene, you have to understand this because I said it's Pliotropic, a single gene influences multiple, seemingly unrelated phenotypic traits. One gene, multiple outputs, that's Kispeptin. Your Kispeptin system isn't just about reproduction. Listen, 2022 Oxford showed that Kispeptin modulates reward processing, motivation, and gold-directed paviar. That's what I said. But I'll go further. 2020, JCI, they showed it affects metabolic rate and glucose regulation, reducing or eliminating diabetes. I could do this all day. Baby 2025, Oxford and Mass General showed it doesn't induce anxiety, it actually reduces and solves anxiety, meaning it's not a stress hormone, but it's integrated into your emotional processing. Why? Because Kispeptin is coordinating your entire emotional, motivational, and reproductive systems to function as one integrated unit. Think about what drives human behavior at the deepest level. We've got metabolic optimization, we've got emotional rewards seeking, we've got physical health maintenance, reproductive drive, immune competence. Kispeptin integrates every single one of these, all five. So when Kispeptin signaling is optimal, you've got a powerful, well-curated sexual desire, you've got incredible metabolic health, you've got a solid mood, you've got strong bones in a superior immune system. They're not independent movements, they're synchronized outputs from a single regulatory system. When Kispeptin is deficient, it doesn't matter how, by the way, genetic mutations, metabolic dysfunction, chronic stress, drugs, outside influence, exogenous sources, aging, everything declines at the same damn time. Fertility drops, moods worsen, metabolic rate slows, immune function tanks, bones weaken. This is one system, this is not coincidence. It's one system that fails. Just one. In conventional medicine, here's the issue. Treats each symptom separately with different drugs. It's like fixing a car by treating the check engine light. Instead of fixing, the engine's still broken. You can put tape over the light. Kispeptin is the damn engine, you guys. So here's something that I looked at because I've read through hundreds, if not thousands of research papers on Kispeptin. Nearly every disease that kills people in the developed world comes down to three biological failures. Weird. And Kispeptin is the solution to this. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, mitochondrial, ATP shortage. It's always the same. And I've said this over and over. That's it. Three failures. Underly heart disease, type 2 diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer's, autoimmune disease, dementia, obesity. Name it. It bugs me. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because I solved all disease and I keep proving it every day. I've done it for 365 days in a row. Actually, I'm probably more like 395 days in a row now. Different tissues, same root cause. Where's my... I just... You guys should be blasting this everywhere going. This guy keeps solving health and disease every day and helping you because I'm not asking you for anything, am I? Am I asking you guys for something? Am I coming on here going, please support me and buy me? No. You know what I'm asking you to do? Take all my stuff, stack my YouTube and my Insta and my rumble full of people. That's what I'm asking you for. You want to know I'm asking for you guys to do something for me, which is instead of taking and gleaning all the information off of me and using it for your own stuff, like a bunch of thieves, you actually take it and you go, I need to support this guy because if I don't keep this guy around, that information is going to go the way the dodo. I'm out here because I care because I want you never to be sick. I want you to be rich and healthy and happy and have this great life and this chug or not physiology. And I do it every single day and if anybody complains or says that's not what I do, you know what? Pardon my language. Fuck you. You bet your ass I do. I will bleed for people. So if anyone says I haven't done that for them, you say it to my face because bullshit, I'm the only doctor out here doing this out of 9 billion people on this planet. I care that much. So those three failures, that is the root cause of every disease. How this isn't mainstream medicine is beyond me. That's right because medicine treats symptoms. It doesn't want you better. So watch, here's where Kispeptin gets very interesting. I'll go through all three just so you can understand it. Look at systemic inflammation, Kispeptin signaling in immune tissues, particularly through the KND Wine Neuron Network, which directly interfaces with immune regulation, modulates inflammatory cytokine production. 2020, JCI, they show that adequate Kispeptin signaling suppresses pro-inflammatory cytokine cascades while maintaining anti-inflammatory IL-10, anti-inflammatory interleukin production where it's supposed to be. Why? Because reproductive hormone signaling, which is downstream of Kispeptin, is itself anti-inflammatory. Estrogen is an anti-inflammatory molecule. Strone is an anti-inflammatory molecule when levels are appropriate, but they keep telling you that testosterone is bad for you and you shouldn't have that and your level should be low. Are you nuts? You guys, all you dudes out there should be at a thousand and your free test should be through the roof. Like this, it's unreal the way they've gone, oh, it's supposed to be normally low. You should be around 300. 300? My 75-year-old grandpa had higher testosterone than that. He probably had over 800. He didn't take a damn thing. Listen, I don't care if you take anything. I care that you're taking the right thing. Not the same. Stop listening to these guys on Quora and read it. When Kispeptin signaling fails, these hormones drop, testinestrogen and inflammation becomes chronic. But listen, it's a bit more direct than that. Kispeptin neurons express Kis1R throughout immune tissues. So they directly regulate macrophage activation states. So follow me. They modulate T-cell differentiation towards regulatory and protective phenotypes. It's not just hormone mediated. It's direct neural immune integration. Maybe I'm going a little too deep and maybe I shouldn't, but you guys need to understand this. It's not just the hormones change. This is your system. This is your actual immune, the T-cells, the actual immune system that is being solved by Kispeptin. Look at insulin resistance. This is Kispeptin neurons in the arcuate nucleus, received direct inputs from nutrient sensing pathways. They're connected to AMPK signaling, mTOR sensing, glucose metabolism circuits, which your whole body runs on. So when Kispeptin signaling is adequate, the GMRH-LH access up regulates. Testosterone increases in men. Estrogen maintains healthy oscillation in women, whatever. Both of these hormones are insulin sensitizers. So testosterone increases glute 4 expression in muscle cells. Glute 4, as they go to the outside, allow insulin to do its job in glucose to come into the cell. So estrogen maintains insulin receptor signaling. They enhance mitochondrial function and adipocytes, fat cells converting white fat to brown fat, the metabolically active kind. So when Kispeptin fails, testosterone crashes, estrogen stops pulsing whatsoever, and suddenly your cells become insulin resistant. They're deaf. They don't hear it anymore, and they use glucose everywhere, and you now have diabetes. Your mitochondria now lose their metabolic capacity. Adipose tissue becomes dysfunctional and pro-inflammatory. In a 20-study, Mass General Hospital showed that men and women, primarily women, sorry, showed that women with hypothalamic amenorrhea, complete loss of menstrual function due to Kispeptin, neuronal suppression from stress or low body weight, which is crazy, don't be hyper skinny, have profoundly impaired insulin sensitivity, but give them Kispeptin, insulin sensitivity recovers like that. It's not the hormone replacement that's primary. It's the Kispeptin restoration that allows the entire metabolic endocrine system to recalibrate, except what do they want to give you? Here's some estrogen you can rub on your vagina. Here's a pellet we can stick in your arm. Here's an inject. Listen, I got nothing against people taking testosterone, but if you're taking cream, how do you moderate the dosage? How do you control it? If you've got a pellet in you, it's so variable. Are you out of your mind? And if you're taking an oral, alpha-alcalated 17-molecule, it's so hepatoxic, it's beating the shit out of your liver. Your liver, as I'm speaking, has done thousands and thousands of processes already, about 500 per second. I just wouldn't screw with my biology like that, you guys. So I'm trying to give you answers, and the problem is science is so rampant because people are just inventing. I realize all science is invented, right? Do you understand? I was saying this to Brandy the other day. I said, do you understand the purpose of science is to disprove all the science that came before it? Really, just think about that. It's to disprove, theory, hypothesis, but it's to disprove what came before it that said that theory or that hypothesis was accurate. It's never ending. Just to be very transparent, you know what has never changed? The Bible. I'll just leave it at that. I love watching the world catch up to the word, and it's starting to check the boxes. I don't care if you believe in God, I do. God kept me here. God is a gangster. And he is savage in my life, man. Armor, shield, sword, to take the head of every single Goliath that gets in my way. Bring it, baby. You cannot argue the Bible. I realize this isn't a theology podcast, but science is always arguable. The Bible is not something to think about. Josh Howerton is my preacher, by the way, late point. If you need to watch him, he'll change your life. Listen, look at the ATP. I think we're at that, right? I could go a little deeper in insulin sensitivity, but you guys, what am I, 25 minutes and you've got better things to do with your life. So ATP Shortes, look at this. This is the deepest one. One day, I'm going to do deep cuts of Dr. Trevor. I'm just going to throw all kinds of facts at you guys. The mitochondrial function, that's not even function, the engine, it depends on a couple of things. Adequate thyroid hormone, which gets peptidine neurons integrate with through TRH signaling, sufficient sex steroids, which activate mitochondrial biogenesis genes to make more of those power plants, proper metabolic switching between glucose and fat oxidation coordinated by luteinizing hormone mediated testosterone increases, adequate iron metabolism, big time, which is if you have a iron deficiency and you're fair in issues, you need to get that checked because it'll affect this, which Kispeptin GNRH signaling influences through Hepsidon regulation. When Kispeptin signaling is suppressed, caloric restriction does it a lot, by the way. Stress, that's why that ECG diet was just screwing people up. You'd eat 500 calories a day and put some drops under your tongue. But stress and caloric restriction, metabolic disease, all four of these things collapse. Your mitochondria literally become fewer in number, produce less ATP, your cells enter a, for lack of a better expression, the tank is empty. It's an energy deficit state, which is why people with Kispeptin deficient reproductive disorders don't just have infertility. They have fatigue, they have brain fog, they have reduced exercise capacity. It's not psychological, it's mitochondrial due to Kispeptin because when you restore Kispeptin, this is proven everywhere. When you restore Kispeptin signaling, all three of those biological failures begin resolving simultaneously immediately. That's not treating symptoms. That's treating the root cause. This is why this is the doctor you should be listening to. I'm not asking you for anything. I'm not asking for your co-pay. I'm not asking for you to do a damn thing. If you want to work with me, yeah, there's going to be a fee, but I'm trying to give you the answer so you can solve your own problems. I want to be the book that everybody refers to that goes, fuck this guy has the answer. And yeah, I'm a doctor that cusses, get over it. It's okay. I still know my stuff. Believe me, I used to cuss a lot more. Listen, let me give you the practical application because this is where most of you guys live. Okay, look at something like obesity. Let's look at just your fat. Stop getting offended and get it like, oh my God, he used herty words. Your fat, solve it. Obesity is not a calorie problem. Anyone who tells you that it is hasn't read the metabolic endocrinology literature from the last 15 friggin years. Obesity is a hormonal regulation problem. Here's what happens. And yes, calories and calories out, the thermodynamics still applies, but that's not the primary issue, which is why I explained in that one pose where I was like, this is why your diets are failing. The whole leptin, ghrelin, all the stuff going on. So anyway, here's what happens. Chronic overfeeding or metabolic stress suppresses chispeptin neurons because your energy sensing pathways, they say, hey, listen, we're in a state of metabolic chaos. Don't reproduce chispeptin drops. It's what I was talking about, right? GNRH drops, glutamizing hormone drops, testosterone drops. Now you're in a state of functional hypogonadism with the intact calorie intake. Your mitochondria aren't being stimulated to increase oxidative capacity. Your adipocytes aren't being told to remodel into brown fat in your muscle isn't being told to increase glute 4 expression. So you become insulin def, insulin resistant. You store more fat in your lower metabolic rate and you gain more weight. It's this downward spiral and it looks like a willpower problem because you can see the food going in, right? It's shoving it into your bar cold. But actually, it's a chispeptin mediated metabolic collapse 2020. JCI, they showed that metabolic weight loss where people actually lose fat and normalize insulin sensitivity is associated with recovery of chispeptin neuron activity. You don't just lose the weight. Your hormonal system re-synchronizes the entire damn thing. You want to go a little further? Let's hit hypertension because hypertension is the thing that everybody, you guys send me so many messages. What do I do about hypertension? My blood pressure. First of all, it changes thousands of times a day. So don't worry about it nearly as much. Second of all, 2017, they changed it from 140 over 90 to 120 over 80 and they're trying to drop it even more. Not because they care more, not because there's more incidence of renal failure or strokes or anything else. They're trying to attribute to hypertension. Shit, it's because they can fit you more into that bell curve within normal limits. L is BS. Just so you know, that's coming from a doctor. That's BS. It's to make more money. It's like the BMI. According to the BMI, I'm supposed to be 155 pounds. You guys saw me at 155 pounds. I came out of the hospital in a wheelchair. I did not look healthy. I looked like an AIDS patient. Forget it. So look at hypertension. Blood pressure regulation is controlled by your sympathetic nervous system, your parasympathetic nervous system, and your renal angiotensin system and your vascular endothelial nitric oxide production. Now we have all the systems. Guess what modulates all four of these? Kispeptin signaling. Watch, through connections to your brainstem, cardiovascular centers, through sex hormone effects on vascular smooth muscle tone, through insulin sensitivity effects on endothelial function. So watch, when Kispeptin fails, just follow me. I'll explain it all. When Kispeptin fails, you lose sex hormones. Sex hormones are basal dilators. So your vessels become stiff. Your sympathetic tone increases because reproductive hormones suppress sympathetic activation. Your insulin resistance worsens. You're even more deaf and high insulin literally increases salt reabsorption in your kidneys. Boom! You get hypertension. No, you shouldn't decrease your salt. I'm just telling you the osmolarity and how this works. The 2020 Oxford study showed that women with hypothalamic aminorrhea, this is a good study, man, don't just have reproductive problems. They have elevated blood pressure and it improves with Kispeptin treatment right away. How about depression, anxiety? Just give me a mood disorder. I'll just throw it out me, baby. This is the one that's going to reshape psychiatry for the next five years. And you know what they're going to do? They're going to argue because they're going to, we have to give you SSRs. We have to give you MAOIs. We have to do therapy for the next three years on a couch talking about your problems and telling me about your mother. I got nothing against psychiatrists other than I think they're all full of shit. Sorry, but not sorry. I think you guys are a bunch of liars. You invented a science to talk about people's problems and encourage people to stay stuck where they are. Who's the best psychiatrist on the planet? Tony Friggin Robbins. He will help you solve all your problems. Why? Because he'll just make you get over them. He will literally do pattern interrupts until you don't have the problem anymore because you associate it with something else. But you guys don't want to anchor it, right? What you focus on, what you feel in the action you take after that, those are that's how you get over any problem. That is nothing to do with medicine and no one not a qualified psychiatrist by according to a piece of paper, but I know more than most of you psychiatrists because I know how to solve problems and get people past their sticking points. But look at this. This is going to reshape psychiatry. I promise your limbic system, your emotional brain is saturated with Kiss 1R receptors, your hippocampus, amygdala, prefrontal cortex, ventral tegmental area, all of it. Kiss Pepton doesn't just regulate reproduction, it regulates motivation and reward processing and emotional memory and consolidation and salience that you assign to different stimuli. Like when Kiss Pepton signaling is optimal, watch, you have robust  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected a lot of you guys are asking me about this. I should probably do a post on it because it's that big of a deal. Anadonia is the loss of pleasure because dopamine motivation circuits have just literally turned offline. Emotional, no, it's not a chemical problem. It's a chisptatin problem. Emotional liability because the hippocampal processing is impaired. Hypervigilance because amygdala tone is dysregulated without proper chisptatin modulation. You get social withdrawal, which is what they're encouraging right now. We're supposed to interact with the damn machine, even this thing. You guys are watching me on a video. Me being on a stage and doing this and having a box. I love this, the box idea with a microphone in it. You can just ask me, I'll solve your problem right there on the frigging spot. By the way, I've done that for three years straight. I did it overseas and we, my, I'm another business partner, my name is Guy Junie and we own a company in China, Shanghai primarily, Beijing where I used to go on stage for hundreds of thousands of people. It didn't matter. And I would just bring people on stage and hack every problem they've gotten. I'd throw them a mic and have fun with it. That's what I like to do. I like to solve things in real time. I don't really think my Q and A is live every Monday. Throw me a problem. I'll solve it right there because I know my stuff. If you ask me to solve a legal problem, I have no idea. No idea how to design the infrastructure of Dallas. No idea. Although I think I could do a better job because Dallas, if you've ever driven in Dallas, what is with the roads there? It's 25 minutes from my house, but it looks like dogs breakfast. Somebody just took spaghetti and said, make that and I need two billion to do it. What the f***? That's a whole life. Somebody can explain that one to me. I'd love to know. Anyway, all of the stuff I just explained, right, the anodella, the hypervigilance, all of that stuff, that's depression, that's anxiety. That's not primarily a serotonin problem. It's a KISS-Peptin system failure. 2025, Mass General showed KISS-Peptin administration doesn't induce anxiety. They prove this in humans, meaning it's safe even. This is why I'm telling you this because otherwise people, oh, I don't know if I should take it. I have anxiety, I have depression, I have all this stuff. I have all these labels. I'm not denying it, but you have labels that you've given yourself that you're clinging to because they allow you to stay where you are instead of solving the problem because solving the problem is frigging uncomfortable. This is what they did. They proved that it's safe for people with anxiety disorders, but they didn't publicize it because the people who got, this is the part they didn't publicize it. You can read it. It's in the paper. They just didn't put it out for everybody else. The people who got KISS-Peptin, their mood improved. 79%. Holy crap, Batman. 79% because you restored the master system that coordinates emotional processing. That's why. How about this one? Pre-eclampsia, baby. It's something that's going to blow your mind if you understand. Obstetrics, honestly, was one of my favorite subjects. Pre-eclampsia is a disease of pregnancy where blood pressure suddenly skyrockets, protein fukes into the urine, and the whole pregnancy becomes very dangerous. It's the leading cause of pregnancy-related death and disability. 15% of pregnancies have some form of it. I take this very seriously because I love my wife so much, and I love my children so much. I would hate to see if I could solve this for a woman. I do this all day because I just value human life so much. Here's what's actually happening. Pre-eclampsia is a KISS-Peptin dysfunction disorder. Follow me. I promise you're going to hear this and go, holy shit. You're going to look at your spouse and say, order me KISS-Peptin. I don't care where you get it from. Just make sure you get it from somebody that's trustworthy. Bleed biogenics is trustworthy. I just wear whatever you want. Here's the mechanism. In early pregnancy, the fetal placenta invades maternal blood vessels. Just relax. You guys are like, what? This is a normal process. It has to do it to establish the blood flow. For the maternal immune system to tolerate, remember what I said? It's regulating all this stuff for the maternal immune system. To tolerate this foreign tissue invasion, it requires specific immune states mediated by regulatory T cells and TH2 immune responses. Guess what maintains those two immune states? KISS-Peptin. KISS-Peptin signaling through dopaminergic and oxidosurgic circuits in maternal hypothalamus. So follow me on this. This is why I told you when KISS-Peptin signaling is deficient, there's a problem when it's optimal and so you're running better. So when KISS-Peptin signaling is running the way it's designed, the immune tolerance is maintained. Vascular adaptation happens. Placentation, placentation proceeds. Placentation proceeds normally. It does all the things your body's supposed to do biologically. When KISS-Peptin signaling is deficient, again, metabolic disease, chronic stress, genetic predisposition, obesity, bad decisions, pharmacological interruption from some dumb doctor that's giving you drugs that you don't need, immune tolerance fails. The immune system then attacks the invading placental tissue andothelial dysfunction develops and preeclampsia. 2019, Mass General showed that women who develop preeclampsia have unbelievably abnormal KISS-Peptin signaling early in the pregnancy. Their KISS-Peptin levels are dysregulated. Their placental KISS-1R expression is abnormal. So when you restore KISS-Peptin signaling, preeclampsia symptoms resolve. They proved that also 2019. That means preeclampsia isn't just a pregnancy complication. It's a direct indicator and the problem is they're never going to look at it this way because it takes away their control of going, I'm a guy in a white coat with a God complex instead of just going, the person who's badass is the patient, not the doctor. See, I look at a patient and I go, if you get better, I gave you the information to get better and your system did the work. No doctor anywhere, anytime has ever cured anybody of anything. Just keep that in mind. If you hear I was going, I'm so great, you know what I am? I'm a guy that has all the information that wants to give it to you. Solving preeclampsia shows that it was an underlying KISS-Peptin system dysfunction. Fix that and you prevent one of the most dangerous complications of pregnancy. Look at menopause. You hit this one. I'm having fun with this. What am I? 40 minutes in. Sorry, it's going to be long. Conventional medicine looks at menopause as a declining estrogen problem. That's like looking at a dying power plant and saying, there's less electricity being generated. Genius. What's causing the decline? What upstream system failed? KISS-Peptin system, 100%. Here's what actually happens. As women age towards menopause, their ovaries become less responsive to gonadotropins. That's real, but that's downstream. That's downstream. What's upstream? KISS-Peptin neuronal function begins to decline. Proven the pulsatile output becomes less synchronized, the neurons become less responsive to feedback signals. Excuse me. And the amplitude of pulses decreases. And since, watch, remember what I said at the very beginning about GNRH? Responding to KISS-Peptin, right? Needs, requires it to be activated. So, since GNRH depends, excuse me, on KISS-Peptin to be activated, what do you think happens to GNRH? It's erratic as hell. LH pulses become disorganized, FSH becomes completely inconsistent, estrogen production becomes incredibly erratic. And then ovaries finally give you the finger and stop responding. Complete ovarian failure. But here's the thing being missed. KISS-Peptin decline doesn't just affect reproduction. It affects every organ system with KISS-1R. So watch, here's why I'm telling you this. Mood declines because limit KISS-1R signaling is reduced. Bone density drops because KISS-Peptin signaling is bone building because KISS-Peptin signaling in bone building cells is reduced. Osteoblasts. Metabolic rate slows because hypothalamic KISS-Peptin signaling that coordinates metabolic rate is reduced. Cardiovascular function deteriorates because vascular KISS-Peptin signaling is reduced. So what we call menopause symptoms is actually whole system collapse caused by KISS-Peptin neuronal function. Could you imagine, let's just go hypothetical before somebody says, you could write this down but you're going to need more than what I'm about to say. Could you imagine for your kangaroo, KISS-Peptin, OTC, BPC-157, just that, without even getting into anything else, stop with your black cohosh and all the weird stuff you guys take that don't work. Could you imagine what if you didn't need it and stop taking oral estrogen because it's trashing your system, at least use a patch if you have to. Could you imagine 60% with MOTC reduced? 60% proven it. Harvard proved this dozens of times. There's so many research studies proving it. So the whole, it's inevitable and it's a protein shortage or whatever the hell some people are saying online right now. No, it's not. No, it's not. And what do I have to gain? Nothing. I'm just giving you the information so you can argue all you want. But I have nothing to gain. I'm just giving you the info. Free. Freakin' free. Some of you guys better respect that. Because look at conventional HRT, hormone replacement therapy, addresses the downstream hormone problem. It puts hormones back, but it doesn't restore KISS-Peptin neuronal function. So you get some symptom relief. Great. But the underlying system is still failing. So you haven't solved the damn problem. You've just plugged a hole for another hole that's even bigger down on the other side of the boat. What if, just follow me, what if you supported KISS-Peptin neuronal function directly? You would restore the pulsatile pattern. You would restore the system's ability to self-regulate. You would potentially prevent the entire decline in the first place. My guess, that's, in my opinion, gynecology. That's the next frontier. That's where we need to be looking. My opinion. Am I a gynecologist? Nope. But I took lots and lots of women's stuff when I was in school. So I know all about this. You don't have to be a gynecologist to know this. I took the same classes, remember? And I've spent the last 30 years reading nonstop how many of you doctors can say that? How many of you doctors can say you can recite the Krebs cycle backwards and forwards? How many of you doctors can talk all about lateral spinal phynoflamic tract and know actually what it is? How many of you doctors can even trace a drop of blood through the whole body? That's the problem is I've spent the last 30 years doing nothing but reading and learning and becoming better because I want to be the best. I didn't go to school to get a degree. I went to school to become the best at this so I could help as many people as humanly possible. Look at diabetes. God, I could do this all day because I'm having fun with this now. Look at diabetes. It's the epidemic of modern civilization by far. One in 10 people has it. One in three has pre-diabetes, but that's kind of saying pre-cancer, pre-dead. So that means you already have it. And we treat it with drugs that manage symptoms while the disease gets worse. Metformin doesn't make you better. It makes you worse. Here's what's actually happening at the root level. Kispeptin neuronal dysfunction causes declining... Follow it. You could just... After what I've told you, you should understand this. Kispeptin neuronal dysfunction causes declining sex hormones, which causes insulin resistance, which causes metabolic dysfunction, which causes hyperglycemia, which, remember the whole... Even the mitochondria can't produce ATP, which causes pancreatic beta cell exhaustion as a result of no ATP, which causes type 2 diabetes. It's one giant freaking cascade and we're treating the last step while ignoring the first five. Look it. Here's the physiology. Testosterone and estrogen are insulin sensitizers. They increase glute for translocation in the muscle cells. I said this before. They enhance mitochondrial oxidative capacity and adipocytes. Your fat cells convert to brown so it can be used. They improve adiponectin secretion from functional adipose tissue, but they work only if Kispeptin neurons are firing properly because that's the upstream regulator. 2020 Mass General show that men with functional hypogonadism, low testosterone from Kispeptin suppression, have insulin resistance that is 100% directly reversible by Kispeptin administration. But testosterone replacement, not insulin, not metformin, Kispeptin restoration. I'll wait. Seriously, you guys should be blown away right now. Why the distinction? Because when you give... Listen to me. When you give... This is why a lot of you guys on testosterone don't even need to be here. Just doing it because some Instabrow told you because he's got a big trap vein and he sits in front of a desk or has some weird AI doing it for... I really have no idea. But when you give testosterone without restoring Kispeptin system that's supposed to regulate it. You get physiologically inappropriate hormone levels. You get tachyphylaxis. They shut down. You get negative feedback. It's inevitable. There's no way it's not going to work. But when you restore Kispeptin's neuronal function, the system self-regulates. The hormones come back into physiologically normal pulsatile patterns. The insulin sensitivity actually improves. This is the key difference between symptom management and symptom restoration. And for type 2 diabetes, if you restore Kispeptin function early enough before pancreatic beta cell exhaustion is complete, you can literally reverse the disease with one thing, Kispeptin. 2021 research on hypothalamic amenorrhea. This is my... I tell you, I got so much information from this study. Show that women who restore reproductive function through Kispeptin mediated pathways don't just fix their infertility. They fix their insulin sensitivity. Their HbA1c drops to below 5.2. Their glucose control improves. Kispeptin 2 diabetes is not primarily a glucose problem. It's a Kispeptin problem that manifests as a glucose dysfunction. You want to keep going? Let's go. 47 minutes in. Here's something that... Look at the immune system. Here's something that COVID and chronic illnesses has made the obvious as be. It's not the right word. Like just a nuclear bomb went off your immune system and your reproductive system are the same system with different outputs. That's it. They've proven it. Just look at this. Both require exquisite sensitivity to your metabolic state. Both require tight coordination of multiple organ systems. Both involve complex cellular signaling cascades. And both are controlled by Kispeptin. The mechanism? Look at it. Kispeptin neurons in the hypothalamus project directly to immune tissues. They innervate the thymus where T cells are... It's like boot camp, right? They get educated. They innervate secondary lymphatic lymphoid organs. They coordinate with cytokine production from immune cells. And here's the key. Sex hormones. If you've got anything so far, are the upstream or downstream. The downstream of Kispeptin. And they are themselves profoundly powerful immune modulators. Look at testosterone is immune suppressant at high doses, but immune enhancing at physiological or slightly above physiological levels, which is why TRT is awesome for you. It's not bad for you. It's ridiculous. People die. No, they don't. Nobody's died from testosterone therapy. Nobody. You know who's died? People taking hormone replacement therapy because they got friggin cancer and they've proven it. Seriously, it's ridiculous the nonsense that comes out from it people these days. Immune is anti-inflammatory enhances TH2 responses. So watch together, together, right? So testosterone and estrogen together, they create an immune environment that balances aggression towards pathogens with tolerance, remember self and other tolerance towards self. So when Kispeptin fails, these hormones tank, your immune system loses its calibration whatsoever. You become either immuno compromised, which is unable to fight anything or autoimmune prone, which means you're attacking your own tissues. In 2020, they showed that women with hypothalamic amenorrhea, complete Kispeptin neuronal suppression, they have significantly impaired immune response to vaccines, etc. Their immune system is literally offline, which means when they give attenuated virus fragmented, whatever it is, they give them anything, there's no immune response because their immune system is offline. Restore Kispeptin signaling. Immune system recovers instantly. This is why women's health changes so dramatically across the menstrual cycle. It's not random, you guys. Look at some of you women, if you're listening to this, you get sick at certain times. It's always the same time of a month, not every month, just a moment. It's not random. It's Kispeptin-coordinated immune oscillation. That's why this is why chronic immune dysfunction often correlates with reproductive dysfunction. Just look at people. All you have to do is observe. You're living in a lab. The world is a lab. Just watch. They're not separate problems. They're one system failing at the same time. This is why long-term Kispeptin supplementation, 100%, in my opinion, will have massive implications for chronic infection management. It'll shut down auto-means. I'm talking auto-immune disease prevention. We're barely scratching the surface on this stuff. Look at neurologically. Your brain is what allows you to do anything else. So 20% of your body's energy is what it's using. Your neurons are metabolically very expensive to run. They require optimal mitochondrial function, appropriate growth factor signaling like BDNFG, NF, all this stuff. Symmetric plasticity support, inflammatory tone management, metabolic substrate availability. Guess what coordinates all five of those dang things? Kispeptin. This is the stuff that nobody wants to talk about. Here's how Kispeptin neurons in the hypothalamus project extensively through your cortex, hippocampus, and limbic system. They're not there just to regulate reproduction. They're integrated into learning and memory and consolidation and motivation, emotional processing. They showed that. So when Kispeptin signaling is optimal, your hippocampus has enhanced long-term potentiation capacity. That's the cellular basis of learning. Your dopaminergic system maintains appropriate motivation tones. So you don't get all weird. Your prefrontal cortex has enhanced executive function, so you become smart. Your overall cognitive speed is optimized, and you guys are going, how do I take mormodaffinil? Great. Listen, you want to take and knock yourself out, but what if you're missing the underlying problem? 2022 Oxford showed exactly this. Just so you know. Kispeptin administration enhanced brain activity in regions involved in emotional processing, reward, motivation. It's not just about reproduction, you guys. It's about optimal brain function. This Kispeptin-mediated hormonal signaling increases, what was I saying? BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, that enhances this throughout your entire cortex. It's fertilizer. It supports neuroplasticity, learning, recovery from injury. If you have a TBI, nobody's ever brought up Kispeptin, but when Kispeptin fails, cognitive decline, brain fog, reduced learning capacity, eventually neurodegenerative disease, dementia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis. That's why women often report cognitive changes in menopause. They walk into a room and go, I don't even know what the hell I came in here for. That's not just estrogen decline. It's the upstream Kispeptin-neuronal function that's failing. Here's why young people, by the way, with Kispeptin-deficient disorders, often report the same thing. Brain fog and reduced cognitive capacity, but they never pay attention to the issue. Maintaining Kispeptin function is essential for long-term brain health period and long-term cognitive preservation. Look at your bone density. This is wild because bone is a living tissue that requires constant, like trabecular bone is constant remodeling, cortex, right? Osteoblast build it, osteoclast break it down. Balance is essential. Wolf's Law, piezoelectric effect, all this stuff. But guess what controls this entire balance? Sex hormones. Testosterone and estrogen both suppress osteoclast activity. They both stimulate osteoblast activity, which is why having a 300 testosterone level as a dude is a problem, you guys. Your bones get thin. Hold on. I got to drink some coffee. This podcast is a lot longer than I thought it was going to be, but man, I'm excited. But guess what controls this entire thing? Sex hormones control, but Kispeptin rather controls all of this. So watch when sex hormones are adequate, bone density is maintained. Osteoblastic activity is running the way it's supposed to. There's a balance between osteoblasts and osteoclasts. When they crash, bone loss goes through the roof. It accelerates. And the question is, what controls sex hormone levels? Class? Kisfrig and peptin. So when Kispeptin neuronal function declines, ex hormones drop. Theoclast activity increases. Theoblast activity decreases. And you get this magic thing that everybody doesn't want, which is osteoporosis. In 2020, JCI, they showed that women with the same thing issue, hypothalamic amaryllis, is pepidine neuronal suppression, have bone density losses that would be expected in women. You ready for this? 40 years they're seniors. If you are 30, you have bone density of a 70 year old. The loss, 5 to 10, 5 to 10% per year, per year. Do the math. The math is mathing in a very bad way for you. Restore Kispeptin function, restore the menstrual cycle, bone density stabilizes and then recovers. It's not about calcium magnesium supplementation that you get at Costco or from your doctor in these high priced longevity clinics going, take my magic calcium, it's better than anybody else's. No, it's not. It's about restoring the hormonal system that tells you damn skeleton to maintain itself. That's why osteoporosis in post-menopausal women isn't just about aging. It's about declining Kispeptin neuronal function with your age. And that's why maintaining or even restoring if it's toast Kispeptin function is the primary prevention strategy for osteoporosis. My opinion before you need this phosphonates and calcium supplementation. We have been looking at human biology dead wrong. We've been taught that the body has these separate systems, a reproductive system, a metabolic system, an immune system, a nervous system, a skeletal system. And we treat each one independently. We take a drug that affects one system and cross our fingers that it helps the disease and ignore all the side effects to the other systems. But that's not how biology works. The body is integrated deeply fundamentally integrated at every single friggin level. And the integration point, the master switch that controls every single thing is Kispeptin. I just gave you the lesson. Look it. Look it. Kispeptin is the reproductive activator. It initiates a cascade of GNRH, LH, FSH, sex hormone production, mutation of Kis1 causes complete infertility. It's the metabolic integrator, right? It receives inputs. Listen, it receives inputs from your energy sensors and coordinates metabolic rate, mitochondrial function, insulin sensitivity, adipose tissue remodeling. It coordinates the immune system. It maintains a hormonal environment that allows appropriate immune calibration, not immunocompromised, not autoimmune, balanced. Remember what I said, self and other. It optimizes your neurological system. It modulates dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, GABA throughout your entire brain. So it affects mood, motivation, learning, emotional processing. This is such an incredible peptide and it's the last one that people are looking at that maintains your skeleton. Coordinates hormonal signals that tell your bones to maintain and rebuild themselves. Osteoblast activity. The cardiovascular system modulates vascular tone. I didn't even talk about this, but it does. Blood pressure, endothelial function through sex hormones and autonomic nervous system effects. This is like the ultimate longevity machine. Every single marker of longevity, metabolic health, bone density, cognitive function, immune resilience is downstream of kiss-peptin function. So when kiss-peptin is optimal, you are optimizing everything simultaneously. When kiss-peptin fails, everything fails simultaneously. That's why you see women. I'll use this example because it's been so potent or pertinent in this podcast with hypothalamic amenorrhea who have bone density like they are, what did I say, 70 years old. They have blood pressure issues, metabolic dysfunction. They have cognitive decline. They have immune problems. They have blood pressure all from kiss-peptin suppression. That's why you see men who've got functional hypogonadism, who've got metabolic disease, cardiovascular disease, cognitive decline, weak bones, mood problems, all from kiss-peptin dysfunction. That's why the most powerful intervention you could implement isn't a drug that targets one damn system. It's restoration of the master system that coordinates every single one. And the system is kiss-peptin. This makes me crazy. Conventional medicine operates on a symptom treatment model when you have high blood pressure or they give you a vasodilator when you have depression. They give you MAOIs or an SSRI. If you're infertile, they have IVF. Here's a gonadotropin injection. They have cholesterol, which is a whole other shit show. Here's a statin. We're treating the outputs without addressing the input, but the input is kiss-peptin. Everything I've just talked about in this entire podcast is downstream of kiss-peptin dysfunction. They're symptoms of a systemic failure. We're treating the symptoms while the system is still failing. Listen, the future of medicine. I will say this confidently because the research is already there. It's understanding that disease isn't a collection of separate diagnosis. It's system failure. In the system, you need to understand right now on this episode is kiss-peptin. 2003, the discovery of kiss-1 mutations causing hypogonatotropic hypogonatism. And 2008, studies establishing kiss-peptin's role in reproductive activation. 2020, they showed that its role in metabolic integration, immune coordination. 2025, they showed its role in brain function, neurological function, Alzheimer's, dementia, emotional processing, systemic health. Are you kidding me? It's all pointing to the same damn conclusion. Kiss-peptin is the master of human health, not one of many. V. 1. So, if you restore kiss-peptin function, you restore the system that coordinates your entire physiology. Watch. Here's what happens. Fertility returns. Metabolic health improves. Mood stabilizes. Immune function returns and strengthens. Bone density increases. Cognitive function sharpens. Cardiovascular health returns. Not because you're treating those things separately, you guys, but because you restore the one thing that orchestrates the entire damn thing. This is the paradigm shift that you guys need to understand. And this is happening right now. This is exactly why they're trying to ban this stuff. Your doctor doesn't know this yet. Your endocrinologist sure as hell doesn't know this yet. Your DO doesn't know this. Your cardiologist doesn't know this. Your psychiatrist definitely doesn't know this. But you do. You do because you listen to me. And what you do with this knowledge is entirely up. Whether you restore kiss-peptin system, you tell others what you've learned, whether you demand that medicine reorganize itself around system biology instead of system or symptom treatment, that's up to you, man. Like you decide what you say when you walk into the doctor's office, if you even go. But understand this. The peptide that will reshape medicine in the next decade, I promise you, is kiss-peptin because kiss-peptin sits at the top of every single thing that's going on in your biology. Period. Everything. I've got something out of this. I've got to go.

=== FILE: Lupus and the Real Protocol for Healing - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [gd-BP8P9RYY].txt ===

 January 3rd, got a January coffee mug in my hands now. So today is an interesting, it's an interesting topic, lupus. So I love how all of you, thank you by the way, put your faith in my ability to find a solution for what's going on. Thank you for that. So the bottom line is this, today you guys trust me with your health and finding solutions for a lot of the things that are going on that you're just not getting answers to and I understand that. I understand how frustrating that is and I understand how broken and corrupt the system is and how managed decline is not health care and that is what big pharma does and medical doctors are largely useless. They are coming from a trade school for pharmaceutical reps and nothing more and I don't care if you're a doctor, you get a defendant. I've been a doctor for a long time, I don't care. Your job above all, do no harm. It is imperative that we take care of people because they trust us. The world has become a place where it's okay to not take care of people and go, so I tried, I did my best, but you didn't. You did your laziest. So I'm going to clear up lupus, I'm going to give you all the answers, I'm going to help you get on your way and if that gives you the solution, if that helps you get past something, just share it. That's all, just share it because people need to know this and I don't do any marketing. Even for elite biogenics, we're the black card. I don't do any marketing. I do this, I talk about it. You want to buy everything from elite biogenics? Awesome. You go right ahead. I will make sure that my company takes incredible care of you and if you don't, that's okay. I still show up and if you want to join the black card and get access to my live Q&A call that I do every Monday evening and the VIP community and the great community that I've built of incredible men and women, who I'm so grateful, trust me with their life and their health and it become for lack of a better word, family to me, then you know what? You send, yes, there's a fee. You send an email to apply at unlockthecard.com and it's wire transfer only. I told you the deadline was extended, so tick talk people, tick talk because if you want to get in, you better hustle because it's not going to stay extended. I just had dozens and dozens and dozens of emails going, please, I'm trying to get in. So I'm trying to help you, but this isn't for me. This is for you. So if you want in, don't dick around. You want to join, then actually do it, send the wire and get in the program. You still get it for last year's price. If not, extension's over, baby. But you better email if you want and say, hey, please let me in and then Amber or Jen will get you all set up with wire and away you go. And that's a year per person. But if you don't, that's okay too. I keep showing up here and give you the best I got. You guys have been told about lupus and lupus is, what do they call it, the disease of 100 different faces and all the nonsense, but that's not accurate. They told you it's this complex, incurable, mysterious autoimmune disease and that the best hope that you've got is managed decline just to slow the progress. And yet the problem is that's not accurate at all. That's not a diagnosis. You guys, that's a death sentence and it's based on a century of scientific cowardice and pharmaceutical greed. Listen, I don't, I'm going to give you, I'll give you why I hate to use this word, but it's like C U R E, not theory, real protocol built on biology that is always ignored and will continue to be ignored because it's not profitable, but I don't make any money off of this. Even if you bought from elite biogenics, I'm not going to be a trillionaire anytime soon from people buying from my peptide company and it's giant. It doesn't matter because I'm doing it because I want people to have the answer and the solution, not because I'm trying to make you more sick so you keep buying my stuff. I do it so you're well and you don't ever need me. That's the difference with where my mind comes from, where my heart and soul comes from. So you need to rip the band-aid off this festering wound that looks a lot like modern rheumatology. Look at the basics that they just don't want to state plainly that are pure fact. Lupus is, this is friendly fire. Okay, Lupus is friendly fire. Your immune system is an army. In Lupus, that army has been fed some really lousy intelligence for so long that it's turned its own weapons on its own people. So you've got these cells like the little snipers, whatever you want to call them, your T cells and B cells and they've gone nuts. They've gone mad. The proof is in the blood. Anti-nuclear antibodies are called anas. You do an anana and a phantatestate. This is a whole other conversation about lab work. But these antibodies aren't the disease. They're the brass that's left, the bullet casings that's left at the scene of the crime. The crime is a failure of central command, the thymus. 2002 Journal of Experimental Medicine showed clearly, by the way, the thymus and lupus patients fails to properly eliminate self-reactive T cells, but during their development. So these rogue cells escape into the bloodstream. It's a ticking time bomb, just ready to annihilate you because when a cell dies, a natural death, apoptosis. The contents, especially DNA, they're supposed to be cleaned up very neatly. They're just mopped up and swept up very neatly in lupus. This cleanup is a disaster. The DNA and all the other nuclear debris spills out. The rogue B cells now hyperactive because of the collapse in regulatory T cell function, see this debris as a foreign army, as an invader and they go full war. They declare war on you. So they produce antibodies that attack the debris and then attack any healthy cell. Here's the problem. They attack any healthy cell that looks even remotely close. Even if it's similar, they go after it. This creates immune complexes, clumps of antibodies and self-antigen, antibodies antigen, that get stuck in the tiny blood vessels of your kidneys, your skin, your brain. This clogging triggers the complement system. It's this cascade of proteins that essentially calls in an airstrike on the location and the result, vasculitis, tissue destruction, organ failure. It's not a mystery. It's a chain of command failure with a very clear biochemical trail. And yet how many times have you guys, if you're listening to this and you have lupus or you've been done, tell us the time it's a misdiagnosis anyway. You don't even have lupus. But people go, you fit these little, check these boxes. But just think about this, AZT and HIV, the quote unquote cure and the disease have the same symptomatology that should set off giant red flags in your head, by the way. Immunosuppression is one of them. Just so you know, your immune system should never be suppressed, ever. It's keeping you alive. So back up to loop, you guys don't screw with your biology, man. I don't come out here to make you buy my products. I come out here to join my black card membership. I come out here to give you an answer. So you actually run radar, right? Just paying attention to everything. So you know what's real and what's not. You know what the early sign of lupus is? Rosacea. We told you that. Nobody. You think it's a cosmetic issue? Dermatology told you it's about spicy food and red wine and maybe some dark chocolate? That's the nonsense. They just feed you this and you go, oh, okay. So dermatologists, they said that's what it is. What a crock of crap. That is incompetence. The 16 study in JAMA dermatology showed significantly higher risk of autoimmune disease, including in fact specifically lupus, SLES, systemic lupus erythematosis in patients with rosacea. The link? LL 37. Yep, that one. Which is why you don't bomb somebody all that you have to be really, if you guys go well, but what about taking LL 37? Hypothetically, when you have lupus, yes, to regulate it, but under somebody telling you what to do in the dosage. Not some Reddit form or Cora or BroSides guy in a tank top and bulging out everywhere with a trap vein thinking that he knows what he's talking about because he can read chat. GPT. That's not helping. Understand biology. If you come to me with it and you're like, hey, should I take it or should I not? I can't give you an answer unless I until I see your labs talk to you and actually go down the rabbit hole on your symptom of screaming that the inflammatory breaks are failing. You need to listen, which is what this rosacea is. If you have rosacea, your immune system is already cranked up on high alert and lupus is when it jumps the fence. It takes you out and now you have nowhere to go. You can handle rosacea. You can look at to see if you have a parasitic issue. You can check your spleen. Your spleen has usually got some kind of an infection. Parasitic, bacterial, whatever, viral. There's a whole bunch of things that it can be. A stool sample will tell you exactly what the problem is. If you look at what the problem is, you start solving the problem. You never have to worry about lupus, but they just go, I don't know what you showed up. That's not how disease works. Disease shows up because of the three biological failures 100% of the time. I'm right. I will take it to my grave that I'm right and I still think I should get a Nobel Prize for it. Lupus is the ultimate expression of the three biological failures that underlie every single chronic disease on Earth. Just connect the dots that they refuse to connect. Look at systemic inflammation. It's the trigger. It's the trigger. It's not just swelling. This is a biochemical warzone, you guys. In lupus, the initial auto antibody production ignites this cytokine conflagration. TNF, alpha, isles, all of these IFN, all of them. These aren't just inflammatory markers that you see on a lab. There are molecular signals that bombard every single cell in your body. In 2009, immunological reviews showed how IFN specifically creates hyperactive immune environment that impairs regulatory T cell function, most the survival of those rogue auto reactive B cells that you're trying to get rid of. This inflammation is the constant screen that tells your body it's under attack. That's just the inflammatory problem. Look at the insulin resistance. This is like smashing the skinny pedal. Here's the link that medicine ignores. Those inflammatory cytokines, 100%. Listen to the words coming out of my mouth. Listen to me. Proven. The research is endless. There's about 17,000 studies that show this. 100% directly cause insulin resistance and people go inflammatory issues aren't the problem. They are the problem. If you go, wouldn't that be the primary problem? No. It's just the catalyst that sets off this terrific holocaust in your system. TNF, alpha, and IL-6 activate the series of kinases, GNK, etc. That phosphorylate IRS insulin receptor substrate 1 on serine residues. This blocks the normal tyrosine phosphorylation needed for the insulin signal to travel down the pathway for glute 4 transporters. It's like pouring glue into the lock of your front door. The key is stick and gum in it. Filling with crazy glute. I don't care what example you use. Putting duct tape over it. Whatever. The insulin, the key, can't turn. Glucose can't get into the cell and the result is hyperglycemia. But worse, now the cell is starving for fuel while floating around in this sugar-rich bloodstream. So this creates AGEs, advanced glycation end products that damage tissues and blood vessels. Remember rage receptors? Creating, you guessed it, more inflammation. 2015 paper, Nature Reviews, Rheumatology. 100% linked insulin resistance to increase disease activity in lupus patients. Specifically, specifically, sufficient cycle that they treat with steroids that cause more insulin resistance. It's madness to me. I honestly can't get my head around it other than it's for profit because they're not looking to solve your problems. They're looking to keep you managed and profitable. Look at ATP shortage. This is the ultimate collapse of your entire system. This is the final failure of your whole biology with insulin resistance blocking glucose entry. The mitochondria, obviously, are starved of their primary fuel. So the TCA, the Krebs cycle, starts to sputter and die. The ETC, electron transport chain, becomes very inefficient and it leaks out electrons that generate this flood of ROSs, this reactive oxygen species. This is the oxidative stress. This mitochondrial dysfunction is catastrophic. 2018 cell metabolism proved T cells from lupus patients have profoundly dysfunctional mitochondria, which alters their metabolism, promotes their auto inflammatory phenotype, causes this chaos. The cells responsible for policing, right, looking around self other policing the immune response are running on E. So they can't do anything because they don't have the gas. This energy crisis isn't a side effect, you guys. It's the engine of the disease. The fatigue is, I drive, somebody told me, this is my doctor told me it was psychological. Are you high? You feel free to ball up your fist and punch that doctor right in the face. Are you out of your mind? The fatigue isn't psychological. It's a systemic ATP bankruptcy problem. You don't have the very currency for life, adenosine triphosphate, to fund all of your transactions for life. You guys see this loop, right? Inflammation causes insulin resistance, insulin resistance causes mitochondrial dysfunction, right, the ATP shortage. Mito-condrial dysfunction generates reactive oxygen species, right, oxidative stress that fuels more inflammation. So when a patient arrives with this systemic civil war, what's the standard of care? It's this medical list of atrocities. Look at the gold standard that these cowards, and you guys need to step up. It's like the IRS. You guys need to step up and go, you know what, you guys can pound sand. 1913, nobody was paying tax. You think your taxes are going to anything in your country. You better take a long, hard look at where your money is going. Imagine if you spent, this is totally off subject. Imagine if you spent all your money in your own town supporting all the businesses in your own town. You didn't jump on Amazon every day and give Jeffy B more money. You didn't opt for, I need to be more green and take longer to get my delivery. You need to go and spend money in your neighborhood and support all the businesses there and go back to that kind of world. I promise you, all the money you put in your own town will benefit the town. Let me know how federal taxes benefit your town. I'll wait. I'll wait. They don't. So save it. Look at this gold standard train wreck dumpster fire that they give you for lupus hydroxychloroquine, Pacuino, right? This is the safe drug. It works. It works by very weakly inhibiting TLRs, toll-like receptors and raising the pH in something called the lysosome, which slightly reduces the processing of autoantigens. But here's the catastrophic side effect of this entire thing. Perversible retinal toxicity. The drug accumulates in the retinal pigment epithelium and causes permanent blindness, laundry list of people that have had this go through. So you're trading one disability for another. Does this sound common? Because they do this all the time. You guys can see this with just about anything. Find the drug. Listen to any drug commercial. Hey, RINVoke, it does this very rarely, but it does all of this awesome stuff that makes you a disaster physiologically and biologically for life. But you guys sign up and go, I took it. It was great for me. No, it wasn't. And you know it wasn't. You're just, you don't want to be wrong. Listen, please pay attention because I come out here because I care. I come out here because you have no idea. It brings me to tears. Sometimes I've laid in my bed and teared up because I care so damn much about mankind because I'm so thoroughly disgusted at 52 going on 53 at how you guys are being abused, how we're all being abused, having drugs shoved into a spray on us, poured in our water, put on our food, put on our skin, given to our children, given to our elderly. Instead of going, we are designed to be a juggernaut and they have convinced you otherwise. You are so friggin strong. And all you do is go, I guess I'm just, it's my genetics. It's not your genetics. It's their psychology that they're pointing, they're poisoning you with. Please listen to me. Think about the permanent damage it's causing to your eyes. The retinal pigment epithelium. It's 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology guideline mandates regular eye exams because the damage is silent, credibly severe, irreversible and progressive. Happens real quick. Prednisone. There's the next one. I talked about this a minute ago. This is like a wrecking ball. It's my favorite term, right? I think I'm listening to Katy Perry too much, maybe. Shut up. It's my show. Anyway, so a synthetic glucocorticoid, right? Indiscriminately suppresses inflammation by inhibiting the transcription factor NF Kappa B. Now we know about NF Kappa B. If you follow me for any amount of time. But here's the problem. When you suppress indiscriminately, suppress all your inflammation, it's like using a fire extinguisher that also melts the foundation of the entire building. So start tower, you put out the fire, but it sinks into the ground and falls over. The side effects are this textbook of disease, Cushing's syndrome, moon face, the buffalo hump, right? Hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, diabetes. Type 2 diabetes, which you already know if you've listened to me. Type 2 diabetes is the precursor to type 3 diabetes, which is Alzheimer's and dementia. Neuronal starvation, proteolysis, muscle wasting. The most brutal of all, by the way, that most people don't tell you, but if you look up any lupus research, you'll see this, especially with people on prednisone. Go outside of lupus. Just look at people on prednisone, long standing prednisone, avascular necrosis. This is where the blood supply to your bones, typically by the way, the femoral head, right? The hip, right? There's the acetabulum on the head of the femur. It's cut off. So the bone dies, becomes necrotic, dies. It collapses, right? The trabecular bone gives out, the cortex crumbles, and you need a hip replacement when you're 31,000, I think it was 2,000? 2,000 study. Lupus, the journal, 20% of lupus patients on steroids developed osteonecrosis. People call that number significant. I call that appalling. This isn't treatment, you guys. That's not treatment. It's a government sanctioned, publicly supported utilation. You guys are mad about the wrong things because you get addicted to social media. You guys need to look at how mankind is being treated, how for all the years that they've been doing cancer research, for example, and how many trillions have gone into cancer research, cancer's increased by almost 75%. They're not looking for a cure. They're convincing you that they are. So you stay on the hook. Look at mycophenolate. Mycophenolate, right? Cell symptom. This is like a chemical weapon. It's an anti-metabolite. It works by inhibiting inizine monophosphate dehydrogenase. I am PDH. It's this crucial enzyme in what's called the de novo pathway of purine synthesis. Since lymphocytes are pretty much the only cells, as far as I've ever seen, that rely as heavily as they do on this pathway, the drug selectively nukes your adaptive immune system. What did I just say about your immune system? Why would you ever want to nuke it? It's not going to make you healthier. The catastrophic side effect, by the way, profound bone marrow suppression. What do you think? What gets created in the flat bones, the marrow of the flat bones? Give you a hint. Red blood cells. There you go. It's a rhetorical question. Memia. Umboscytopenia. Making you a walking target for fatal infections. It's an incredibly brutal teraudigin. FDA, just so you know, this is how bad it is. FDA pregnancy category D. D causes craniofacial and cardiovascular malformations. My wife took one for the team with both kids. Never took a drop of any medication. No alcohol, no nothing. Eight trained. She was all baby until about eight months. Like just that she didn't, you could barely see her until about eight months, rather like maybe seven and a half. She was fit, tiny little butt, little BUN in the oven. That's it. And our kids are badass. They're fit, they're strong, they're healthy because we made them that way because we took no chances. And when I say we, I mean her, she's listen, you guys walking around going, I had to struggle too. I didn't have sex for nine months or I had sex all the time or whatever it is if your wife turned into a nympho and she was pregnant. I've seen it go both ways. So whatever I have the conversations that you guys share with me are mind blowing sometimes. But the point is who cares? You're building a person. Support your wife. Love your wife. Help her with everything, whatever she needs. I used to go get the same taco on my way home from seeing patients every day for seven months, every day. Same taco place. It was so often, it was five days a week. They would ask, hey, how's your wife doing? How's the baby? How's the baby coming? And next thing you know, I didn't show up and I went back there one day, went after our son was born. And they went, oh my God, because it was our son, our daughter we had already had. And they asked nothing pictures and they sent a whole bunch of new tacos to Brandy. Take care of your spouse. I realize this has nothing to do with this podcast, but it doesn't matter. Take care of your spouse when you're doing this. But at the same time, you damn well better take care of that baby. I don't care how sick you are. My wife, she was sick for four months. I did everything I could to alleviate that. She wouldn't take medication if you held a gun to her head. Why? Because she said, I'm the baby's best chance. I have so much respect for my wife. She is a juggernaut. That's your job as a mom. You've been convinced that you're like, it's okay to just take some medication. No, it's not. And if you want to get my comments and get mad about that, you know what, you can go right to hell and don't bother following me because we're not going to get along. I think it's juvenile to take a chance with your child. I do. So when I talk about this, people taking, right, Michael Fennelly, self-sept if you need to know what it's called, it causes patient and you're okay with taking a chance with your baby. There's a reason how they know that, by the way, because it's happened. Here's the best part of self-sept. Long term, long term being longer than eight months, by the way, that's what long term is in this case. According to research, proven increases the risk of lymphoma by 50%. 2005, New England Journal of Medicine confirmed its efficacy. Really, it did. I'm not going to crap on this completely. For lupus nephritis specifically, but the price is turning the patient into a chronically immuno compromised walking cancer target. Make it make sense. Make it make sense. You can't. You guys, this has managed to climb. It's a business model, not a cure. It makes zero sense because it ignores the root cause of the entire problem, which fits perfectly into a very simple, irrefutable model of all chronic disease. My three biological failures. Where's my Nobel Prize? I'll say it again. I will go over this with perfect clarity. Systemic inflammation. Again, the autoimmune attack creates the cytokine hurricane, TNFL, IL6, IFN, all of this stuff. There's your inflammation. Induces insulin resistance, right? Inflammation causes 100% of the time. These cytokines phosphorylate IRS1, insulin receptor substrate one on serine residues instead of tyrosine. So it blocks the pathway. So your cells become death to insulin. Don't hear it at all. Don't see it. Don't hear it at all. Don't see it. Don't hear it. So glucose floods the bloodstream, glycating proteins and creating AGEs, advanced glycation end products, excuse me, that cause significantly more damage. There's your insulin resistance. And then this triggers the ATP shortage because glucose can't get into the cells to feed the mitochondria, the power plants, right? The little power plants that keep you alive. The Krebs cycle, the TCA cycle, whatever you want to call it, right? Just pukes. It starts belching purple smoke on the freeway. It doesn't work. The ETC electron transport chain effectively tanks ATP production tanks. This mitochondrial dysfunction generates a flood of ROS's reactive oxygen species, which is the oxidative stress, which feeds right back into, ready for this mic drop moment, more systemic inflammation. Lupus isn't just autoimmune. It's a metabolic and energetic catastrophe in the drugs. They take a jerry can of gas and pour it on the already lit, crazy fire. It turns it into an epic flamethrower. Prednisone is a direct cause of insulin resistance. Michael Fennellate attacks the rapidly dividing cells in a body already struggling to produce energy. You guys have to understand this. They're giving you things that aren't solving the problem. They're just telling you it does. But look at the laundry list of effects that it has on the other side of the equation. You're missing the point. And I get it. You're desperate for relief. But if the relief costs you your life, it's not relief. You're just, you're volunteering to put yourself out of your own misery. That doesn't make sense to me. Solve the friggin problem, which is why I'm here every day. Never mind that. Look at the deficiencies, the nutrient deficiencies in lupus patients. It's not random. This is even easier. No, this will not solve the entire problem. But it sure as hell helps. Vitamin D deficiency. It's caused by sun avoidance and steroid use. It's crucial for T regulatory function, by the way. You need it. Deficiency worsens the immune dysregulation, so it pours more gas on the fire. Look at B12. Caused by malabsorption from gut inflammation and drugs like methotrexate, which is a chemotherapeutic drug. They also give you that four rheumatoid arthritis for your flare ups, except it's chemotherapy. Get it through your head. Chemotherapy is never good for you. Ever. Full stop. Leads to megaloblastic anemia, worsened neuropathic brain fog, so you become stupid and deficient by decision just by missing a vitamin. And no, not all vitamins are the same. And if some Insta Bro biohacker Brecca Z lot is pushing nothing but vitamins, that's not going to help you. The system is still offline. I get so many people from Brecca going, all they did was give me vitamins from his vitamin store. Go figure. Listen, you want to buy your whatever you buy. I'm always hesitant to say it. Peptides, all the stuff from someone else. You go right ahead. I'm not hawking my stuff. You want to buy from elite? Awesome. I don't care. I still come out here and give you the answer. I personally thorn, ortho molecular, professional, complementary health formulas. Period. Those are the companies I use. I use nobody else. That's it. I don't use any other company for vitamins. Ever. Because I trust them. Iron deficiency. That's another one. Anemia of chronic disease, right? Hepsidon. It's an inflammatory cytokine that traps iron inside the macrophages. It prevents it from being used for red blood cell production. RBCs are important, right? The Keri Oxygen. Vitamin B6 deficiency. Increased metabolic demand from the chronic inflammation that you're walking around in all the time. Deficiency, by the way, exacerbates the neuropathy that you have when you have lupus. Listen, you guys, the system writes off patients with lupus because it's built on a flawed premise. It's built on suppression instead of restoration of your biology. The solution isn't to kill the immune system. That doesn't even make sense to me because it makes you a walking liability to yourself. It's to reboot it. Start it again. Get it work. You need to restore order to your system. Eliminate the three biological failures and the problem's solved. You need to fix them. And if somebody goes, oh, here you go, hawking your stuff again. I'm right. You know, the guy that invented being out of gas. This is being sarcastic, by the way. He's not wrong when your car sputters to a halt because the tank is empty. Put gas in the tank and your car runs again. It might be something else. It sure might be. But if your tank is empty, that's the first place I'm looking. You need an entire protocol that solves this problem with surgical precision. So let me explain a few things that work very well. Thymus and Alpha One, SS 31. I couldn't think of a better dynamic duo. Thymus and Alpha One, master regulator produced by the Thymus. Very organ that fails in lupus. Oh, strange. 2014. Anals of the New York Academy of Sciences proved its actions. It boosts CD4 and CD8 T cell function enhances T regulatory cell activity, which are the peacekeepers, right? It promotes dendritic cell maturation so you get better intelligence for your immune system, not brain for your byproduct because of inflammatory insulin resistance. But for your immune system, it becomes better at surveillance and it modulates cytokine production towards a tolerogenic state. It's literally replacement therapy for the failing thymic function. I'll even go through every process just so you understand. So I don't just explain what these things do. Thymus 31, mitochondrial targeted antioxidant, right? We already know. Inter-mitochondrial membrane has this very unique sequence that allows it to concentrate a thousand fold. It's like it's got a magnet to the inter-mitochondrial membrane. It scavenges ROSs, Reactive Oxygen Species, the source of production complexes 1 and 4 of the ETC, Electron Transport Chain. 2017 study, JCI insight, proved it protects polosites in kidney disease, which the reason I bring this up is because it's a direct application for lupus nephritis. These things are really important because you have to look at what they're doing and how they're affecting the system. Just watch them work system by system. Look at the integumentary system, right? The skin. So the butterfly rash, the discoid lesions, the immune complexes deposited in the dermis activating complement, all that stuff. Thymus and Alpha calms the aberrant T cell response that's attacking the skin. SS 31 protects keratinocytes and fibroblasts from mitochondrial oxidative stress, promoting the tissue repair and reducing all the lesion formation. That's just the beginning. Look at the cardiovascular system. Lupus causes this very accelerated atherosclerosis and pericarditis. You don't want to screw around with that, by the way. Chronic inflammation damages the endothelium. Thymus and Alpha 1 shuts down the cytokine storm that drives all this damage. SS 31, proven by the way, 2013 study in circulation, protects all of the endothelial cells and cardiomyocytes from mitochondrial, rather, permeability transitioning, poor open transition.  and chloro-opening. So, here's what that means. It prevents cell death and preserves heart function. And if you go, why didn't you just say that? Because I want you to understand the mechanism. Look at the kidneys. This is where the ... By the way, lupus beats the crap out of your kidneys. Okay? Renal system. Lupus nephritis. I just talked about this. Immune complexes clog the glomeruli, the little filtering unit. So, it inflames these little puffs of vessels, these little filtration units. Thymocin-alpha-1 reduces the production of the pathogenic antibodies. An SS-31 directly protects the energy-intensive mitochondria of the renal tubular cells and the podocytes, which I was just talking about, preventing their apoptosis, cell death, and preserving the kidney's filtration capacity so you don't run into kidney disease or failure, which is all possible with lupus, you guys. Look at the hematologic system. Anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, thymocin alpha-1 rebalances the hematopoiesis and the bone marrow by modulating the inflammatory signals that disrupted in the first place. You have to think of this from the 1,000-foot view, not the mitigating symptom, etiology view, because that doesn't help anything, which is where pharmaceutical companies want you to stare at the symptoms because it's an easy cell. Pain here, solve here, but what if the pain isn't here? What if this is just the result? Pain here, solve here, your fingers are on the element and they go, let's give you something to numb the pain, but your fingers are still on the element. How about you just take the hand off the element? You've got to think differently about your biology. Look at SS-31. It protects the hematopoietic cells, the stem cells, specifically from the oxidative stress that impairs their ability to differentiate into healthy, strong word there, healthy blood cells. Look at the musculoskeletal system. All of these are massive. This is the primary areas of what lupus destroys and attacks and causes the most problems. We can get into the neurological system. There's so many things we can go into, but this would be a podcast of four hours long. So musculoskeletal system, we've got arthritis, myalgia. This in Alpha-1 reduces the inflammatory cytokines, IL-1, IL-6, TNF-Alpha, all of them that attack the synovium of the joints. SS-31 improves ATP production and skeletal muscle mitochondria. So this directly combats the crippling fatigue that is not psychological. Don't you dare let some doctor tell you that. I told you, ball up your fist, punch them right in the head. Crippling fatigue and it promotes muscular repair. I says 31. MOTC is another variation that you want to add to this. You got to take them in the right hierarchy. MOTC, first, SS-31, second, MOTC, third for your kangaroo. But that's a whole other conversation that I can't legally talk about here. You have to address the broken off switch, by the way, in this entire thing, the colon or giganti-inflammatory pathway. This is where people get really twitchy. So this is your vagus nerve's direct line to your immune system. So when it's activated, it releases acetylcholine, which binds to the, hold it up, alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on macrophages. That's why this thing is so savage. This binding specifically inhibits NF-Kappa-B translocation, instantly shutting down the TNF alpha production. It's the body's built-in circuit breaker for inflammation. In lupus, this pathway is completely dysfunctional, broken. So this is why I'm talking about this. It's not about vaping or smoking. It's not the same or pouches or any of that. That's far too heavy of a hit. Instant hyper-loaded, hypervolume, hyperdictive. This is not. This is about pharmacology. This, I have to say this because I can't say it because they'll pinch this video. This alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist that I'm holding in my hand that looks a lot like a flat thing that you stick on your body. 2011, the Journal of Immunology. It proved that alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism, the little patch that sticks to your body, reduced massively anti-DSDNA antibodies, protein urea and kidney damage, solely from activating this pathway. But it's bad for you, right? Listen, they're not. I'm not talking about intoxicating a patient or doing something stupid. I'm talking about restoring a critical biological signal that's been silenced in SLE. Listen, you want to know, you want to go down the rabbit hole? Let's do this. I'll just give you the whole friggin' thing. I'm tired of people going, what do I do? How do I do it? What do I do? Listen, you want this entire thing. I'm going to make this post on Instagram today in a very short, stubby little version with a full, listen, if you guys can't figure out how to go click the button, if you go, the button never shows up, move to my country. You guys in other countries are freaking out because the button doesn't show up. That's not my problem. That's not my problem. If you can't figure out how to go into your DMs, I had some guy ask me, where do I get this? Have you opened any of the friggin' research I've given you? No, sir, I haven't. I go, how about you start there? Trying to help you guys. So let's go line by line through this. Famous alpha one, alpha one. Reboots the central immune tolerance, fixes the intelligence failure, the immune intelligence failure, right? SS-31 protects mitochondrial integrity, ends that ATP crisis and reduces the massive ROS, the reactive oxygen species leak, right? The oxidative stress. That's C, mitochondrial derived peptide, translocates to the nucleus. I say it every time to regulate metabolic stress response genes. That's how this works, period. It improves glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, and it directly attacks failure, too. We already know that lupus is a product of the three systemic failures. 100%, I just proved it. BPC-157, you can call this, like Kevin Costner, right? It's a bodyguard peptide. It's angiogenesis, healing of the GI tract, repairs the leaky gut that fuels the antigenic load that's entering the lipopolysaccharides that are puking out of your sewer system. What do I say? Into the nice self-contained closed loop system of your circulatory system where it's not supposed to be. Then the immune system freaks out and causes all kinds of problems. KCU, it's the regulator of gene expression. 4,000 plus genes shifts the thousands and thousands of genes from a profile of inflammation to one of repair and tissue remodeling. Then the Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism patch. It's stupid. This is a free country. I shouldn't be able to do this. It's ridiculous. This is me off to be honest. January 3, 2026. I'm like, I better be careful what I say. Devates this anti-inflammatory pathway. It's like an instant off switch for cytokine production. It's that fast. I can't explain how savage it works if you're afraid to try it because you used to be a smoker or something. They're not even in the same league. They don't do the same thing. That's not how it works. 15 pyrazines. 599 extra chemicals added to it. I could do this. I just don't have honestly the desire right now to get into proving it. You decide. You want to go and take all prednisone and everything else. You knock yourself out. Hydroxychloroquine, it's fine. But I'm sitting here giving you a solution because I genuinely give a damn about you and I don't even know you, but I genuinely care. This protocol attacks the three failures all at the same time. Thymus-enulfa-1 and the Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism extinguishes the fire of systemic inflammation. SS-31 restores the insulin sensitivity and eliminates the ATP shortage. BPC-15's GHK-Cu repairs all the collateral damage that's been going on. You're not managing decline. You're rebuilding the biological infrastructure from the ground up. The current paradigm of healthcare in general, you guys, is a surrender. It's a billion trillion dollar industry that profits from patient suffering. I say this all the time. It's a failure of intellect, failure of courage, failure of basic scientific integrity. It disgusts me. The tools for a cure exist because it comes back to building yourself into a juggernaut where pathology can't survive. The research is published everywhere. It's ignored because healthy patients are not a sustainable revenue stream, right? So they're going to keep throwing everything at you ads. Doctors calling you, making you feel guilty for not taking what they prescribe. You need to stop managing symptoms, you guys. You want all the information on this, you're going to have to go to Instagram and tap in the keyword. Because I legally can't say it, which is ridiculous because I could tell all you about how to take tell stuff. All about it. I could tell you every last detail about it, which makes no sense because it will not solve your problem. You need to engineer remissions in your physiology where there's a biological problem. The mystery of lupus was solved decades ago. The problem, you guys, listen to me. It very, it frustrates me because in 2026, I'm actually giving you the answer. The only remaining mystery to all of this is why anybody is choosing to ignore the answer. Anyway, listen, I hope you got something out of this. I don't come out here for me. I come out here for you because if you haven't figured it out yet, I love the crap out of you. And you, I'm the only doctor out here doing this because I don't have an ulterior motive or secret agenda. I'm just a bald bearded dog who genuinely gives a shit. I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: MOTS-C Masterclass (with SS-31) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [0Wfbn9GjTqs].txt ===

viewerche查 subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected It's one of the coolest things I've ever seen. It's comfortable. It doesn't matter how cold it is. It's just a beautiful thing. Best day to go snowmobiling, so much fun. And if, but anyway, today I'll get into this real quick because I have a lot of things to do. It's Monday. Monday is my Q and A for the black card, the black card membership. So my Q and A is at five o'clock today. No, it's not free. By the way, like I always say, I don't care if you join the black card or not. I don't care if you buy from elite. My company or not, I do not own Bayside peptide. So those guys are stealing all my stuff and using my videos and you guys make your own judgment. But I know that what I make in my lab is something I would give my wife and kids. So you decide what you're going to do with that information. But as far as the black card is concerned, you know what? It's still got the sale price on it, $9997 for the year. It'll be $25,000 coming up shortly. So you decide what you want. It's only wire. It's access to my live private Q and A call. I do every month. I solve every problem you've got. It's access to the VIP where you actually answer, you ask me questions if you want, I will answer you 24 to 72 hours is my turnaround time on answering questions in the VIP. Usually it's the same day. I spend about three, four hours at least every morning. I get up, I get sun in my face. I look at the sun and I answer questions and help everybody out. You can send me your labs or whatever you need and you get access to the resource library, which that shouldn't be why you joined because there's so much more involved. And it's a killer community of people that I love very deeply and I care about very deeply. These are all family to me and there's a lot of people there and it's growing and it's a movement that we're trying to use to take over the world and give people real healthcare and give them real answers. So if you're tired of waiting for an answer from your doctor or whatever it is you're doing, then you know, maybe you look at the black card and if not, it doesn't matter. It's on you. If you're like, you want to get on a quick consult with me, I'm not going to do it. I don't do those. I have one on one, which is, it's a quarter million a year and that's direct access to my cell phone basically. And it is, and then the black card, which is currently 9,997. So you decide which one to do it. If you want to join, apply at unlockthecard.com. That's what you do. You send it there. My executive assistant, Mia, she'll take great care of you. She'll get you all set up. And if you make it before the end of the day today and you send the wire, you'll make it to the Q and A call today. If not, then you don't. But today is a master class on MOTC and it's important. I need to go over a lot of stuff because there's so much misinformation about MOTC people taking these hyper doses, people trickle effective at all, people doing these. God, it's unbelievable. I'm looking at my sorry, I interrupted my train of thought. I'm looking up here and yet again, Riverside screwed up and made a whole new trap again. You guys, if you guys sneak and listen to my stuff, Riverside, you guys keep effing with my recordings because you guys can't get this right. There's no reason for this to stop recording. It just literally starts a new track. It pisses me off every time, to be honest with you. But anyway, a lot of misinformation about MOTC by bro science people that think they know science because they can read a chat GPT answer, but they don't really understand biology and frankly, it's pissing me off. So I'm just going to come out and tell you exactly the way it works. And I'll explain exactly how this all happens and I'll solve all your problems. Now, the issue I have is I'm looking up here at the corner wondering what it's trying to tell me telling me heads up new recording track created started due to changes in your device, except I have no changes in my device. Man, so this is a Riverside issue that is very consistent with them. No, string yard does not work better. Actually, string yard works worse. I just need these guys to fix the pop because I like Riverside. Anyway, there's a lot of misinformation about MOTC in it. It's aggravating because everybody claims to be an expert. You guys keep clipping and using my videos and trying to say I don't know what I'm talking about. But yet I'm the one with all the results because I actually care. I don't come out here to sell. I don't come out here to have affiliate codes or I'm not a pharma shill and I'm not some pusher and I don't give discount codes. I'm here to give you the answer so you can do the right thing. That's it. That's it. Because listen, I'll go over MOTC as a masterclass and give you everything from A to Z and then you decide what you need to do and you decide whether or not you're going to listen and you decide whether you apply it. But I promise you this, if you apply what I tell you, you're going to have the results you want. If you don't, you're going to just be another Insta Bro or Insta Expert Victim that thinks they know what they're talking about or is mad that it didn't work because you listened to the wrong person. So let's get it started because I'm going to explain everything about aging and disease and energy and why that the information on social media is catastrophically wrong. You guys do not know that the difference, there's only one fundamental difference. Like the difference between a 25-year-old athlete and an 85-year-old with Alzheimer's and it's not motivation or genetics and it's not bad luck. It is mitochondrial function, period, full stock. And here's the part that's going to blow your mind. Your mitochondria for the most part, you guys, has been sending you distress signals for years. And a lot of you people have been completely ignoring them because nobody, not your doctor, for sure as hell not your trainer and not your biohacker guru that you follow on social media, has actually ever explained what MOTC actually is. So let me handle this situation for you real quick so you have the information. When a patient comes to me, tired, inflamed, insulin resistant, cognitively declining, everybody except me treats the symptoms. They're solving for X when they don't even understand the equation. So I'll give you the equation. It's brutally elegant and I'll explain how it works. So MOTC, regardless whether you want to hear it or not, Unreal, open reading frame of the 12s RNA. See, that's what this means before you're like, MOTC, MOTC, now you at least, but before your eyes glaze over and you get all weirded out, boy, here we go. It's a bunch of definitions from a Webster's Dictionary or a biochemistry book. Listen, your mitochondria, these little powerhouse organelles that you learned about, and I always make jokes about this and probably eighth grade bio, I'm guessing somewhere around there, have their own DNA. It's separate from the nuclear DNA. We're talking about what, 16,569 base pairs of ancient bacteria DNA that you inherited exclusively, by the way, from your mom. So this maternal line legacy code running in every cell of your body is vitally important. Buried in that mitochondrial DNA, there's this tiny code that 16 amino acid peptide, that's what MOTC is. If I'm going to give you a master class, I'm going to give you all the information, that's MOTC. They figured this stuff out in 2015, sound metabolism, like it's been around for 11 years, knowledge that we know about way longer since the beginning of time. But here's where it gets really wild. This is the peptide that your mitochondria use to communicate with the nucleus of your cell. It's a retrograde signaling molecule. So think of it as a, it's like a text message from your cellular power plants saying, hey man, we got a situation down here, we need to handle it. So when stress hits, I'm talking metabolic stress, oxidative, nutrient deprecation, injury even works. All of it physical, right? Your mitochondria up-regulate, MOTC, and sorry, the bracelet was hanging down, I'm a funny, feels weird, I'm just twitchy like that happens when you're OCD. Your mitochondria up-regulate MOTC production. It's encoded in MTDMA, translated into your mitochondria, and then exported out into your cytoplasm in the nucleus where it acts as something called the transcription factor. This little peptide walks into your nucleus and kicks open the door like it owns a place and starts regulating gene expression. It's pretty kick-ass. Specifically, it targets AMPK. So AMP Activated Protein Kindness. We've talked about this a lot, I hear these influencers talk about it all the time, you guys need to stop talking if you don't know what that means. It's the metabolic regulator that controls how your body uses energy, but it's so much deeper than this. So let me MOTC and ATP because that's where we go with the funding source for everything that happens in your life, which is exactly why I made the example about the 25-year-old athlete and the 85-year-old Alzheimer's patient. The difference is mitochondria, the baseline of that is a denizen triphosphate, ATP, the fundamental currency for life. So let's talk about ATP production because this is where MOTC goes from, that's a cute little peptide, to holy shit, this is a biological game changer. That's how badass this is. Your mitochondria make ATP through the ETC, the electron transport chain. Five protein complexes embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane. One, two, three, four, five. Five is ATP synthase. Electrons flow through these complexes pumping protons across a membrane creating something called an electrochemical gradient that drives ATP synthesis. Simple enough to be honest from a biochemistry standpoint, except when it's not. There's the problem. As you age, you get metabolically dysfunctional, oxidative stress accumulates, all this stuff. These complexes get damaged. Complex one especially, it's the most vulnerable. So complex one activity decreases about 40% with aging. American Journal of Physiology proved this in 2007. So this is why I give you this information so you understand. They've known the answers for a very long time. They're keeping them from you. I'm not. I don't keep anything. I give you all the answers because I give a shit. When complex one fails, electrons leak out and they react with oxygen prematurely creating superoxide radicals. Reactive oxygen species, ROSs. So these free radicals then go on to damage the very proteins they leaked from. So they just turn around and start attacking everything, creating this vicious cycle. More damage, more leaks, more damage, more leaks, more damage. You see this is called mitochondrial dysfunction. It's a common denominator in literally every single chronic disease. Here comes MOTC. 2016, diabetology showed MOTC directly enhances complex one function. It doesn't just protect it. It cranks up its optimization in a way that makes it function at 100%. But here's the genius mechanism behind this. Listen to me. MOTC activates AMPK, which then up regulates PGC1 alpha. This is the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis. It basically tells your cells, hey man, pay attention. Make more amount of mitochondria. Make stronger mitochondria. Make better mitochondria. So MOTC isn't just improving the efficiency of your existing power plants. It's building new ones and it's not just bootstrapping the old ones. It's upgrading the old ones. In the result, 40% increase in ATP production with MOTC. Cell metabolism, 25th to prove that. It's not a marginal improvement, you guys. Get 40% more wages. Get 40% more strength. Have a PR that's 40% more than what you lifted yesterday. That's transformational. You guys do get this, right? This isn't something where you look at and you go, yeah, okay, that's cute. But I was expecting this. Like most of you guys are like, how come I'm not a millionaire? I started my business yesterday. You got to get that thinking out of your head, that this stuff works so effectively. Because and here's where everybody gets this wrong. They think O-MOTC increases ATP. Cool. More energy. Got it. Wrong. Absolutely not. That's not how it works. That's like saying a Ferrari is just transportation. Technically, true, but you're missing the entire point. MOTC is a systemic regulator orchestrating dozens and dozens of biological processes simultaneously. Does this all at the same time? Look at insulin sensitivity. MOTC activates AMPK, which phosphorylates and inhibits acetyl-COA carboxylase. So now this shifts your metabolism from lipogenesis, which is fat storage, to lapolysis, which is fat burning, right? It increases glucose uptake and skeletal muscles. By the way, it's doing this is the cool part. It does this independent of insulin, which means it creates an alternative glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent pathway. All proven, by the way. In diabetes, MOTC, they've shown this 2015. Lee proved this. In diabetes, MOTC reversed insulin resistance within three weeks, not managed, reversed it. And that was without changing their diet, by the way. Look at the anti-inflammatory signaling properties of MOTC. So 2020, Nature Communications showed MOTC suppresses NF-Kappa B activation, which is the primary inflammatory transcription factor. I talk about this all the time. When NF-Kappa B is active, you get this cascade of pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-6, IL-1-beta, TNF-alpha, all the same ones I talk about. These drive systemic inflammation. MOTC shuts this down at the transcriptional level. It's not masking inflammation like an NSAID causing more problems depleting glutathione. It's preventing the inflammatory cascade from initiating in the first place. Look at the antioxidant defense it provides. MOTC up regulates NRF-2. This activates antioxidant response. This increases the production of what did I just say? The thing that gets depleted with NSAIDs, glutathione, and there's more. Superoxide dismutase, catalase. These are your cellular antioxidant soldiers in the army that keeps you alive. 2018, Experimental and Molecular Medicine, they prove this as well. There's so many times that the research is out there, you guys. It's that they don't want you to see it because it keeps you away from their drugs and garbage. But you see the pattern? MOTC doesn't just fix one thing. It's addressing the root cause of cellular dysfunction. If you go back to the beginning of what I was saying, difference between 25 and 85, it's a mitochondrial issue. So let me frame this out in a way that you're going to understand. Every disease, every single one comes down to three fundamental biological failures, 100% of the time. Systemic inflammation, the fire, insulin resistance, the fuel problem, and an ATP shortage, which is the power outage. Cancer, check, check. Let's see, heart disease, check, check. Alzheimer's, absolutely. Check. Dementia, check. Autoimmune conditions, check. I can do this all day with anything. These three failures create a biological death spiral, inflammation, and it's all, and I've explained this to you, but I'll do it again real quick. Inflammation damages mitochondria, reducing ATP production. Low ATP impairs insulin signaling. insulin resistance drives more inflammation, round and round and round and round. Low ATP cranks up inflammation. Like it is always, one begets the other. You have to solve them all, which is why you can't just solve one of these problems. So look at the ATP shortage with MOTC. You get an enhanced complex one function plus mitochondrial biogenesis. Here's what the result of that is. 40% increase in ATP production. Look at insulin resistance. AMPK activation plus enhanced glucose update equals restored insulin sensitivity proven in multiple studies. Aging 2021 did it the best way, by the way. Systemic inflammation. Watch, here we go. NF-Kappa-B suppression plus NRF2 activation gives you, let's do this, like a math equation, reduced inflammatory cytokines and reduced oxidative stress. This isn't treating symptoms, you guys. This is fixing the broken foundation that's causing all of your problems. Listen, I'm going to go into the molecular detail and I know some of you guys are like, really, this idiot out there that's, let me go and Dr. Trevor, know what you're doing. You're just stealing my videos and you're using them to sell your product when you don't even understand what you're selling. You're just trying to make your business bigger. I'm going to call you out because what I call you is all. But let me explain the metabolic detail and the molecular details because this is where MOTC earns everything. The electron transport chain is this series of oxidation reduction reactions, which is also why methylene blue is so effective because it handles and bypasses one and all the way to three. It goes right to four. This is why you have to understand a little bit of biochemistry. Watch, NADH and FADH2 are electron carriers from glycolysis and the TCA, the Krebs cycle, donate electrons to complex one and two respectively. These electrons flow through complexes three and four, which each, by the way, transfer pumping protons from mitochondrial matrix into the intermembrane space. Now, so this is what creates this proton gradient. So it's a difference in both pH and electrical charge across the inter mitochondrial membrane. I'll get to SS31 in a second because I know you guys are like, okay, it was not worth. Just listen. This gradient stores potential energy like water behind a dam. It's like holding a ball. The higher you get, the more potential energy the ball has. The energy is released when you let go of the ball. So this is the same thing. It's like the water, right? So go to water behind the dam until it has to go through a turbine and do something. It is potential energy. Plex 5, ATP synthase is the dam's turbine. Now do you get it? So now protons flow back through it and that flow drives the mechanical rotation of ATP synthase, phosphorylating ADP, adenosine diphosphate to ATP, adenosine triphosphate. One complete rotation spits out three ATP molecules. Beautiful, incredible, and really friggin fragile. Really. Because complex one is a massive protein complex. 46 subunits, over a thousand amino acids. It's vulnerable to oxidative damage. When it's damaged, everything downstream fails because you stopped the beginning. Right? So 2021 cell reports show that MOTC directly stabilizes complex one. I'll even tell you how it does it. It does it by enhancing the assembly of complex one subunits. How many subunits are in that? 46. Just because I want to test you a little bit. It reduces reactive oxygen species at complex one. It improves electron transfer efficiency beginning at complex one. And the result is more ATP per oxygen molecule consumed, better coupling efficiency, less oxidative stress, which is the shrapnel that's destroying all your cells. This is why MOTC doesn't just increase energy. It increases metabolic efficiency. I need some copy. Hold on. That's why these masterclasses, whether you like it or not, you should probably just listen to them. Your brain is, listen, your brain is, this stuff fixes neurological issues. Your brain is 2%. I just went over this yesterday with dementia. Your brain is 2% of your body weight but uses 20% of your energy. Neurons are metabolically ravenous. They need constant ATP to maintain ion gradients and conduct action potentials and recycle neurotransmitters. So when mitochondrial function tanks, neurons can't maintain these processes. And the result is the problem we should all be terrified of, which is cognitive decline, neurodegeneration and dementia, which I talked about yesterday and I even gave out the entire reversal protocol from A to Z. So it's actually, if you're listening to this and you didn't listen to the dementia one you're about to, the reversal protocol, and I already know here's the problem. You're going to do it. You're going to get it. You're going to look at it. You're going to go, I don't understand it. You're not going to go back and watch the video because you're too ignorant that bugs me. So the entire protocol is in the copy section underneath the video. I wasn't even going to put it there. I was going to make you go to Instagram to get it just because it's honestly, I just didn't feel like telling you. But I just put the link to the form. You got to go through the form. You decide which you want to use it. Great. You don't. You want to tell your neurologist and go and have him go or her go, no, you shouldn't do this. You should get back on Namenda. Then you go right ahead and enjoy your very slow cognitive decline of grandma instead of actually solving her frigging problem. That's on you. But I'm here to give you the answer. So you have it. You decide what you do with it. So if you look at this, look at MOTC in Alzheimer's, 50% reduction in brain glucose metabolism, follow the Journal of Nuclear Medicine 2008 showed the neurons are starving. This is the problem. That's why it is type three diabetes. Parkinson's, complex one deficiency in the substantia nigra, the dopamine producing region of your brain, Journal of Neurochemistry 1990. Let's do some math. That's a while ago, just so we know MS multiple sclerosis think Michael J. Fox, condrial dysfunction and axons leads to neuro degeneration, nature abuse, neurology 2014. This is the stuff that has been around for so long, and yet they keep coming out with new drugs that do precisely squat. MOTC crosses the blood brain barrier, moved it by the way, animal studies in 2019. And once in the brain, here's it increases neuronal ATP production. It reduces neural inflammation by suppressing microglial activation. Microglia are your brain's immune cells that when they get activated and they go rogue, they do more than just get a little pissed off. They cause massive neuro and from inflammation. They start chewing up your own synapses regardless all because of this aberrant complement protein issue. So the issue becomes that microglia when they go off script cause damage to the very cells that they're supposed to protect. So it reduces neuro inflammation by suppressing microglial activation. There's nothing there for them to attack except you. It enhances synaptic. I had to get me to understand that it enhances synaptic plasticity through BDNF up regulation, brain derived neurotropic factor, miracle grow to make the neurons do their thing and protects against excitotoxicity. We know this. So if you look at this Alzheimer's, they showed MOTC. This is so good. MOTC, they proved this 2017 by the way, let's do some math. 2017 is 2026 now. They proved in Alzheimer's MOTC prevented cognitive decline and reduced amyloid beta accumulation. How many of your doctors told you to give grandma? They didn't. I know they did. That's aggravating to me. Above all, do no harm. I'm tired of the white coats telling you that there's no answer but the pharmaceuticals. You're supposed to understand. Look at the cardiovascular system. I'm going to just go through some things that MOTC actually helps. Your heart beats a hundred thousand times a day. Each contraction requires this magic thing called ATP. Biosites, which are the heart muscle cells are packed with mitochondria. They occupy 30% of cell volume. When cardiac mitochondria fail, you get heart failure. Simple equation, right? 2018, the paramedicine medicine showed MOTC. You ready for this? You're going to love this one. Improved cardiac function in heart failure. Reduced cardiac fibrosis. Huh, worked hand in hand, by the way, with TB-500, which is the only, I don't care what your Insta Bro is telling you, the only peptide to reverse myocardial fibrosis, the problem when it doesn't conduct a signal, because it died because of ischemia, reverse the problem. Again, how many cardiologists have told you about that? They haven't. This stuff makes me angry because you guys deserve more information. You guys deserve better. It decreased inflammatory markers in cardiac tissue, enhanced mitochondrial respiration in cardiomyocytes. But here's the deeper mechanism. Listen to me. MOTC improves endothelial function by increasing nitric oxide bioavailability. So here's why that matters. Better nitric oxide, better vasodilation. I realize I explained, I'm not some, just follow me on this. Let me land the plane. But then you get lower blood pressure, which reduces cardiac workload. But what else it does is reduce the workload on your kidneys. By the way, your heart is a secretory organ. It works hand in hand with your kidneys. It's called the reninangiotensin pathway, a dosterone pathway. So it works hand in hand with your kidneys. So understand that when you're messing with one thing, you're messing with all things, your body is one giant synergistic organism. That's why when they start treating one thing with a drug, you guys have to shake your head and go, how does that even make sense? We're all connected. Every cell in your body is connected to every other cell in your body. You don't have a section that's walled off. By the way, here's what else MOTC does. It reduces atherosclerosis by preventing oxidized LBL uptake in macrophages. It blocks the formation of, I went over this before, the cells, which is the hallmark of atherosclerotic plaques. We can go into kidney. May as well talk about the kidney too. Your kidney is filtered, what did I say, 180 liters of blood every day. The proximal tubule cells that do all this heavy lifting have the highest mitochondrial density in your body, even more than cardiac cells. So now when these mitochondria fail, you get acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease. And then the last one, which is all kinds of fun, is called renal failure. So if you look at kidney disease, the study in kidney 2019 showed MOTC proved it. Protects against the skinia reperfusion injury, which is when the blood comes rushing back and it causes a bunch of damage to the cells. Reduced tubular cell death. Decreased inflammatory infiltration. Preserved glomerular filtration rates. So when you look at something and you have an eat, the GFR has got a problem. You got scratch, like sorry, you have a GFR issue. This solves that. Preserves the normal GFR. Huh, weird. But what do they do? Boy, we got to put you on all kinds of drugs that your kidneys have to clean out, that your liver has to clean out, that you have to pump through every cell in your body, just so you can go down the road to dialysis, which is a business, by the way. It's not for health. It's for business. Nobody should ever have to have dialysis. Your kidneys should not fail unless you have like hemorrhagic fever, and it's for the interim. And you have acute renal failure. And you're not putting out enough water because you're drowning in your own tissues, basically. But that's a very rare time in people's lives. It's not just normal because my kidneys have degraded and it's a normal part of aging. Kidney disease and renal failure is not a normal part of aging. They've got you guys so blind, and you can sit here and go, oh, it's another tinfoil hat wearing guy. Then, fine, I'll put on a tinfoil hat because I'm still right. I'll just be right wearing a tinfoil hat. This is for you guys. Here, look at the mechanism, how this solves the kidney issue. Enhanced ATP production in tubular cells means they can maintain ion pumps. They can resist hypoxic stress and the big one, they can recover from any injury. Just so you know, all cells are designed to recover. I explained that when I talked about the 700 rounds being created every day. Like, this is stuff you guys got to think seriously. Look at menopause. This is a metabolic shift that most people don't explain properly. And they don't know what they're talking about because they're trying to get their best seller off the shelves. Menopause isn't about estrogen decline. It's a metabolic catastrophe. They're not even close to the same. Estrogen is mitochondrial protective. Listen to me. This is why it's so weird when I see these. There's some best-selling author, lady, she's some doctor, but I'm sorry, I got no respect for you because you're trying to push your book and then you take a clip of mine and you post it going, it's wrong only to sell your book. I'm not selling a damn thing. That's what bugs me. If you take any of my information, by the way, any of you guys, and you use it to go, this is wrong, I tell everybody, all of you guys, just look to see if they're selling something. Go down the rabbit hole all the way, even if there's no link in their profile because nobody's doing, I come out here for free. Period. I got nothing to sell. I don't give a crap if you buy my stuff or not. Do care that you're here for the long haul with your wife, your husband, and your kids and you get to kick ass and take names. You're like Rowdy Rowdy Piper and they live. I'm here to kick ass and chew bubble gum and I'm all out of bubble gum. That's how you should be in your life. And if you want to get a bagpipe and a kilt, knock yourself out, but I'm doing this because I care. I'm just a gritty, grumpy old doctor that gives a shit about mankind and I'm trying to save everyone. How about that? How about that? Because like I said, look at that. The mitre just makes me mad because it is, it's so effective. MOTC is so effective and everybody goes, it's all about estrogen decline. No, it's not. Estrogen is mitochondrial protective. How is that? That doesn't even make sense. Listen, here's how it works. It enhances complex one and four, reduces reactive oxygen species production. It maintains mitochondrial membrane potential. All proven by the way, FASCB in 2003. So when estrogen drops, mitochondrial function collapses, but this is, listen to me, follow me. This explains the sudden weight gain because you have a reduced metabolic rate. You get the fatigue because there's lower ATP, the cognitive fog, neuronal energy deficits, the cardiovascular risk increase, which your doctor is not telling you or best seller ladies aren't telling you, but it's all because of endothelial dysfunction. Watch, here comes MOTC to slam dance all these problems into the next zip code. In post menopause 2020, they proved, this is six years ago, they proved this and they've done this so many times. Restored metabolic rate, insulin sensitivity, cognitive function and vascular health. Then it's providing the mitochondrial support the estrogen used to provide. The problem, it's not an ovarian issue, which is why when you guys have menopause, listen, I have, I'm never going to dog on somebody going through menopause symptoms. So don't you dare try and twist what I'm saying, because if you're going through something, it is living hell and you're sweating 20 times a night through your sheets and you're struggling and you're miserable and you're fatigued and you're overweight and you're cramping and you can't, you brain fog, you can't remember why you walked into a room 30 seconds after you walked in. All the stuff that happens, I empathize with you because I have no clue what that feels like. I'm a dude. I have no clue. I got it so much easier than you and I empathize with that. But what you're being, what you're being given are lies that don't solve the problem. And then I have people get in my comments and give me a thumbs down. How about you just f off? Just don't just move on like an adult and give me comments about how this isn't exactly accurate. And I'm, listen, do you want to suffer or not? I'm trying to give you the answer. But I empathize with you. I'm giving you an answer, but it's not and you don't need to shove some suppository in you. You don't need to get an injection or get a pellet. For the most part, there are so many better ways to do this to solve the problem. Getting a hysterectomy makes no sense whatsoever. You're taking the tissues that produce hormones. They don't stop. You don't just turn it off and they take them out and then you still have to be on the same things you had to be on when they're in, but they got to charge you a bunch of money for surgery and take out vital components that God built you with. Yeah, G F Y is what I'll tell every surgeon that's done that. Engle right to MOTC gives so much support to menopause. It's mind boggling. Look at injury. Look at injury. Okay, this stuff accelerates regeneration. You marry this with BPC and the world changes for you. Tissue repair requires massive energy. You need ATP, proliferate new cells, drive anions cell function, synthesize collagen and the extra cellular matrix. You need to scrape away and remove all the debris, your own wounds, right? Remove the damaged tissue. You look at wound healing. MOTC accelerated injury healing by 40%. 40%. I'll wait. You're like Deadpool or Wolverine at that point. Enhanced fibroblast ATP production equals faster collagen synthesis, right? Improved macrophage function. Follow me. I'll just go through it. All the debris gets cleared away. Increased angiogenesis, blood vessel formation, better nutrient delivery, better metabolites and toxins pulled away. Reduced oxidative inflammation, less scar tissue. These are  alboxes you want to check. Listen, here's the truth. If you take, and I need to address this, if you take MoC, because I just thought of this, I got somebody go, we have, but I took it, it made me tired. So if that happens, there's two reasons, and I'll explain both. If you feel more tired when you take MoC initially, that's actually not a bad thing. It's because your body is redirecting energy to the repair process. When your biology, just follow me, just stay with me on this, because I need to explain this, because nobody's doing this right? When your biology is broken, chronic inflammation, accumulated cell damage, dysfunctional mitochondria, your body has been in survival mode and it's barely maintaining basic functions. MOTC is what flips the switch to repair mode. But now, watch, here's the problem. Suddenly, your cells are clearing out damaged proteins. It's called autophagy, repairing mitochondria, autophagy, synthesizing new cellular components. It's doing all this extra work. All of this requires exorbitant amounts of energy. So initially, you might feel a little tired as your resources get reallocated from keeping you conscious to actually fixing the friggin damage. Usually, this takes about a week to two because then all of a sudden, here's what happens. You've got these newly generated, healthy mitochondria that come online and start pounding out ATP like you've worked 17 years old. I wasn't going to do this, but I'll talk about the SS-31 because so many people are doing this wrong and you do what you want. But watch, SS-31, mitochondrial target or peptide that stabilizes cardiolipid. We all know this. That's the phospholipid that's critical for electron transport chain function. But here's why MOTC has to come first. It has to. This is basic rudimentary biochemistry that somebody's going to try and twist around so they can be right because they don't like how it feels when they're wrong, except I'm not wrong. I don't say things if I'm not. SS-31 optimizes existing mitochondria. What if they're down? Follow me. MOTC creates new mitochondria and repairs damaged ones. If you take SS-31 first, like some InstaBro or InstaGuru tries to convince you, you're optimizing a broken system. You're making dysfunctional mitochondria slightly less dysfunctional and you're making them make new dysfunctional ones. It doesn't work like that. Understand, biology, you can't do that. It won't work. You're just going to make more of a mess. So watch, if you take MOTC first, you trigger mitochondrial biogenesis, you repair the damaged mitochondria, you clear out the severely damaged mitochondria, metophagy, then when you add SS-31, you're cranking up the juice on a healthy mitochondrial population. You're taking good and making it badass, not taking terrible and making it mediocre. And you guys got to understand this isn't for me. I don't care. I'm giving it so you actually get something out of this. And by the way, MOTC, you can't stay on it forever. You can't. You can't do that. Don't do it. Listen, your body regulates MOTC based on metabolic stress. So when you supplement exogenously, which means you take it from the outside, you're not making it as a result of in your own system, you're providing constant signal regardless of actual cellular conditions. So over time, here's what happens. Downregulation of endogenous internal production of MOTC. Receptors become desensitized and your biological response goes tits up. If I was going to do this for my kangaroo, four to six weeks, six is good, and I would go two weeks off, hypothetically for a kangaroo. But what this does is it allows your natural feedback mechanisms to reset the receptors to become resensitized and the endogenous production of your own MOTC to come back online. Now, I need to be brutally honest about this. A couple of people shouldn't take MOTC. I couldn't. I just don't think it's a good idea. Pregnant or breastfeeding or about to become pregnant? Zero, zero. The question I get all the time about peptides is always the same. What if we're trying to get pregnant? What if I am pregnant? What if I'm breastfeeding? Can I still take it? Here's a blanket statement for every single thing you're ever going to put in your barcode other than food. No, how about that? That's every peptide, every sarm, every sarm. You can go, what about this? I just said zero. If it's not food, no, don't be the experiment. Don't you dare take a chance with that child. You are their best chance at a kick-ass life and you're going to take that peptide or medication because you don't want to feel uncomfortable. My wife is a bad ass. I love her so much. She didn't take a damn thing for nine months now because I told her, I support my wife 100% because she went, I'm that baby's best chance. I'm building this as a gift from God. Are you out of your mind? She's suck kids are indestructible. My wife, indestructible. You guys have been convinced that you have to stick something in your body to make it more comfortable for you. I've never been pregnant. Listen, I'm not dogging on it. Again, just like menopause issues. I'm not. I can't imagine. I washed my wife's. I did everything I could to make her comfortable. I rubbed her feet, rubbed her legs, rubbed her belly. I ate food that she couldn't stand because of smell and bugger. I'd go outside. It didn't matter what you wanted to eat, what you needed. I took care of her all the time. She could sleep whenever she wanted. I didn't care. I'm like, I got you, Dave. You tell me what you need. I'll be the worker. You just worry about building that baby and I supported 100%. Anything should be done. By the way, that's what a man does, just to go off script. If you don't think so, you see much of a man. Here's the other thing. Acute people with acute infections. I get a little concerned with MOTC. Your immune system uses metabolic dysfunction. Here's why, because your immune system uses metabolic dysfunction as a weapon to limit pathogen replication. Here's what happens. Enhanced cellular metabolism during acute infection, depending on what the infection is. This isn't all the time. This is why I look at things case by case. Can quite possibly fuel the infection and not the immune system. That's it. That's only two. If you go on my doctor told me not to, if you ask me about cancer or hyperthyroid or any of that, I'm going to say, and why would you not want your cells working perfectly if there's cancer there? Why would you not? That's like saying that BPC or TB-500 has a risk of cancer. No, it doesn't. In fact, that's not even possible. Same with red or true type. No, it doesn't. We didn't even have the like the rats they used. It bothers me. They were designed to have thyroid tumors and then they went, but the rat thyroid isn't the same as a human thyroid. Not even close. Zero chance. And if somebody goes, I've read this one study. Okay. And eating ice cream causes strike attacks too. You just go with that. Anyway, I'm going off script here. Listen, just look at this. Since I brought up red or true type, let's hit this real quick. So red or true type, red or true type MOTC, you're building a monster for yourself in a good way. VIP, GLP-1, Glucogon receptors. It's the most powerful metabolic therapy currently available. Jastreboff, I told you, 2023, 24% body weight, 76% of that body weight was fat. Nothing comes close. Semiclutide, Giuseppi, blowballs, their garbage, sarcopenia, 100% of the time, it is not fat loss. It is weight loss of which, by the way, 70% lost on Semiclutide Giuseppi. You cannot manage. We go, I ate more protein and then it didn't happen to me. No, it didn't. It's a quick July. You're mad because you don't like being wrong because you fell for the scam. It is an appetite suppressant with some slick marketing. The end. Stop getting mad and getting in my comments because you don't like the truth. The truth is demonized in this world. I don't know why. The point is that 70 plus percent was metabolically active muscle, connective tissue, bone, proved by Dexascans, by the way, like hundreds of thousands of times. They did a study, half a million people approved it. I don't need to get into this. Anyway, here's why combining MOTC and retitrutide is borderline genius. Hypothetically. Watch. Just follow me. Retitrutide appetite regulation, GLP-1, the Satiety Centers. I'm going to be real quick on this. insulin secretion, GIP and GLP-1 affects pancreatic beta cells. Energy expenditure, glucagon, is forced to move to thermogenesis because the insulin is being held in check by the rest of the compound. The GIP and the GLP-1. It can't do what it normally does, so it only has one other direction to go. It's genius the way they put this together. That's why you guys are going, well, they're going with a quadruple agonist now. That is marketing. It's unnecessary. They're actually going to cause more problems. Stop trying to make a better wheel. It forces thermogenesis at the liver. Retrutide is badass. Look at MOTC. It handles cellular energy production, insulin sensitivity of the cell, and it handles mitochondrial function like a boss. Together, watch, they hit all three biological failures. Watch. I've got to do this because it's so cool to me. Look at the ATP shortage. MOTC directly enhances mitochondrial ATP production. Retrutide increases cellular energy expenditure, creates this beneficial metabolic stress that you need. Look at insulin resistance. MOTC. I will go line by line with you so you have it. MOTC, take it all. Use it. MOTC enhanced glucose uptake, independent. I said this earlier, independent of what? insulin. Retrutide increased insulin secretion and improved insulin signaling. So now your cells here insulin because there's no more insulin resistance anymore. So now it's doing its job. Oh, I'm not done. Look at the third one, systemic inflammation. Yes, I realize I did these backwards. I'm just messing around. MOTC, NF-Kappa B suppression, MRF2 activation. I already talked about this. I don't need to go over it again. Retrutide, weight loss reduces out of post-issue formation or inflammation rather. Correct and anti-inflammatory effects. Show that by the way, FriZ 2023. Put all this thing together in this wicked puzzle. The result, you're not just losing weight, man. You're fundamentally fixing your metabolism at the cellular level. Why did you not put them together? So let me land the plane on this. We've spent the last 100 years treating Z's like it's a plumbing frigging problem. Something broken or replaced the pipe, right? Something's inflamed, suppress it. Something's not working. Give it a drug to force it to work. That's why most drugs are metabolic wrecking balls. They destroy you, but a disease is a plumbing problem. It's an energy problem. Every cell in your body is a miniature power plant. When they fail, everything fails. Your brain, your heart, your kidneys, your metabolism, you've got everything you've got. It all runs on the same thing, the same currents, ATP, cellular energy. MOTC isn't a drug. It's not a supplement. It's a frigging message. When people go, I'm going to take this drug. It's not a drug. I had some knucklehead that was trying to be polite, trying not to drop any F-bombs who kept calling it medicine, kept calling methylene blue medicine. I'm like, it's not a medicine, but same with MOTC. Same with redotrutide. You guys got to understand the fundamental. It's the message that your mitochondria have been trying to send your nucleus for years, but they've been too damaged, too dysfunctional, too trashed, too overwhelmed to get through. They can't do it. So when you supplement MOTC, you're amplifying the perfect message. So you're not just cranking up a bunch of static, which is what happens if you do it the other way around, by the way, with SS 30, but first, you're amplifying the best cleanest message possible. The messages are build more power plants, fix the damage ones, clear out all the broken ones, make energy very efficiently, stop the inflammation, repair all the damage, fix the insulin resistance. Those are all the messages that come out of MOTC, and your cells go, cool, I got it, boss. Let's do it. Because there isn't a foreign chemical forcing a biological response screwing up your body. This is your body's own regulatory peptide encoded in your mitochondrial DNA that God designed specifically to coordinate with cellular stress responses. The research is everywhere. And the results, here's the best part, reproducible. 2015 when it was discovered to 2026 with ongoing clinical trials, watched MOTC. Listen, reverse diabetes, vent Alzheimer's, prevent dementia, restore cardiac function and heart failure, stand lifespan and health span 20 plus percent every single time, fix metabolic syndrome in human beings. This isn't hyper speculation. This is all peer reviewed, published, replicated science every single day. And here's the beautiful irony. The answer is inside you all along. Always has been in your mitochondria, your maternal lineage, right? These DNA that merged with ours whenever that happened, just forgot how to listen. MOTC is you don't need to be on it forever, but it's how you start listening again. So the question is not whether MOTC works. How long are you going to ignore what your own mitochondria have been screaming at you with all of these symptoms to brain fog, the heavy menopause, the pre menopause, the brain fatigue, the cognitive decline, the weakness, the tiredness, the muscle wasting like on and on the insulin problems, the diabetes. I could do this all day because every day that your mitochondria are failing, every day that they do that, you're another day closer to that disease running away with you, right? You're another day closer to massive decline, irreversible decline to a struggle that is going to be almost impossible to climb out of. But every day that you go on the other side of this equation and you support mitochondrial function is a day that you've just taken your time and takes what? People go, it's really expensive. Go to the hospital for emergency care. That's much more expensive than any peptide you live by. But it's another day that you invested in longevity if you take it. I don't care where you get it, but you're optimizing human performance. You're cranking up your biology to the way it's designed to run. You should be running around giving MOTC a standing ovation every time you see the word because your mitochondria have kept you alive. Just so you know, every single second of your day, even when you treat them poorly, what happens and you've been convinced that's not what the problem is. But your mitochondria are always the problem. But if you solve the three biological failures, they actually flip the script. They do a 180 and they become the solution. So maybe give them a little bit of support. Give them a little bit of love. I don't know. Hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: MOTS-C or SS-31 A Comprehensive Guide - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [htj0KqZ4uls].txt ===

 today I'm talking about SS31 versus MOTC, MOTC versus SS31 and how most people and especially, in fact, frighteningly large amounts of self-proclaimed clinicians and a lot of Instabros and everybody on Reddit and Quora, you guys got it backwards and I'll help you. New Year's Eve, December 31st, 2025, man, we are almost done this year. I have made it out here every day. It is a trip. Remember, I don't know if you guys remember January, I said I was going to do one of these every day and it's, I have a whole bunch that are backlogged actually, just need to be posted. But thanks for hanging out with me, you guys. Really, that matters to me, whether you like it or believe it or not, it's you guys, I'm here for you, I don't come here for me. I built my life, now I'm helping you build yours, which is always weird to me that people come out and you guys clip my videos and try and discredit me or you guys try and discount what I say or whatever it is you're doing, like your insecurity is so massive, it's frightening. We live, we thrive in a world right now that lives off of and feeds off of victimization and tearing people down. If that's you, man, you need to, you're 2026, you should just grow the hell up because I'm not coming out here to harm anybody. I'm coming out here to help people and I think it's weird that anybody goes, let me go and get after this Dr. Trevor Bacchmeyer. Why? Because I'm giving you the answer here. If that's you, happy new year. For everybody else, thank you very much. Give you a hand because I love you guys for that. Today, I'm talking about SS 31 versus MOTC, MOTC versus SS 31 and how most people and especially in fact, frighteningly large amounts of self-proclaimed clinicians and a lot of InstaBros and everybody on Reddit and Quora, you guys got it backwards and I'll help you. I'm trying to help you. You guys just do it backwards anyway because I'm not going to listen to him. So listen, I'm going to hit this hard and then I'm going to go inside and hang out with my wife and kids. Why? Because I love the hell out of my wife. So first, SS 31, it's engineered for one purpose only and that's it. And that is to hunt down and protect the most critical piece of real estate in your body, the inner mitochondrial membrane. We had some strong coffee today. Think of this membrane as the reactor core of your personal power plant. It's where the ETC, the electron transport chain complexes 1 to 4, spin up and generate via ATP synthase, the ATP, which is the currency of life. But this core is very fragile despite what you think. It's lined with a very unique fossil lipid called cardiolipid. And here's the problem when you're sick or aged or struggling or stressed or just beat up. Cardiolipid gets oxidized, gets damaged. It's like the insulation on a high voltage wire and it gets fried. And the result is the ETC shorts out. Electrons leak creating toxic sparks called reactive oxygen species. ATP production nose dives and the cell goes into a big giant energy crisis. Watch SS 2013, Journal of Clinical Investigation showed this molecule has near magical affinity for cardiolipid. It binds to it. We're shield. It's the ultimate electrician. It doesn't just generate power. It stops the leak. It stabilizes the entire architecture. Much 2016, nature communications proved it stabilizes complex one, which is the usual failure point. And it boosts ATP output by well over 30% in failing tissues. Just think about what I'm saying. SS 31 is pure structural repair. It's the foundation. Now just look at Mocino. This changes everything you know about genetics. We're taught that our blueprint is in the nucleus. Oh, absolutely wrong. Your mitochondria have their own DNA. It's called MTDNA. It's a relic from their bacterial origins if you really want to go down this rabbit hole. 2015 cell metabolism blew the doors off of all. This MTDNA encodes small peptides that act as incredibly powerful hormonal signals. MOTC is the most important one. And yet people just go, I'm just going to take it because it's good for bodybuilding. It's not what it's good for, by the way. So while SS 31 is the engineer, think of it this way, it's the engineer inside the power plant, right? MOTC is the plant manager who gets on the radio to the entire city. Its primary target is the AMPK pathway. AMPK is the master switch for cellular energy sensing, right? It's a little sensor. When AMPK is activated, it is this 10 alarm fire drill for your metabolism and it tells the body, feel as low, you need to smash the skinny pedal to the floor. That's the gas for people to have an idea what that is. MOTC forcefully activates AMPK. 2018 follow up in nature prove that this does one thing with brutal efficiency. It makes you insanely insulin sensitive, which is why I made a comment. Careful if you take this when you're empty. I learned a lesson. I went, whoa, man, I need to get cards in before I take this. It is that big of a deal. But it shunts glucose into skeletal muscle by activating the AMPK pathway, effectively bypassing, what do you think, the broken insulin signaling that characterizes type 2 diabetes and metapsyndra. It's a metabolic override code. And this is where 99% of people using this stuff. And like I said, at the beginning, especially clinicians, and you doctors are a bunch of coconuts. I have, I am a doctor and I've forgotten more than most of you guys will ever learn because I'm still out here learning. You know what doctor means? It means educator and teacher. You know what teachers do? Real good ones. The real good ones. Like my buddy Matt Bodro, he runs this empire called Apigee and he's a teacher. He's damn good. Holy shit. Is he good, man? And the reason I say that is because he's constantly learning. That's what great leaders do. I'm always learning. I'm not learning just for me. I'm learning for you. So you guys don't have to do it. So I can just give you the short synopsis, Cliff Notes version. And this is where with MOTC and SS 31, 99% of people, they got it, especially the Insta experts. What is wrong with you guys thinking you're smart? Stay in your lane unless you know the answer. I'm trying to help you and you guys get mad when I say that. There's a ton of things I don't know. That's why I don't talk about them. But they treat SS 31 and MOTC as interchangeable. They're not. They're sequential. They're complementary tools and using them out of order. It's not just inefficient. It's incredibly counterproductive. Think about why I'm saying this. If you do, if you pour the, if you build the house first rather, and then you pour the foundation, let me know how that works out. Here's, listen, here's the wrong way. I'll show you right out of the gate. People feel, this is so funny. People feel tired and sluggish. I hear this. I get messages from you guys. So maybe this will help you. People feel tired and sluggish, lethargic and brain fog and all this stuff. And they think my mitochondria are broken because they read it somewhere on Cora and I need SS 31 to fix them. So they jump straight into a repair peptide. This is like trying to rebuild the engine of a car that's out of gas and has a corrupt ECU. The repair work is handicapped from the very beginning. It can't work. Please listen to me. I'm here. I'm giving you this information so you have it. Not for you to argue. If you're going to get my comments and argue, just don't. This is for you guys. This is the right way. The hormonal preconditioning setup, if you want to give it a name. First, MOTS C, it's the metabolic reset. You impose, look, you impose metabolic order. You force the body into a state of high insulin sensitivity. And I'll explain how this works against some heavy hitters that screw up your biology like cancer and injury and things. You change it so it has the sufficient fuel utilization via AMPK activation. This is the system reset. It clears out the metabolic garbage, the high blood glucose, the lipid dysregulation. It prepares the entire cellular environment for repair. Now, by the way, because I've gotten messages, let me address this real quick. This can make you tire, give you a little fatigue as the body shifts its metabolic paradigm. It's not always the case. If you're getting tired and you're taking MOTS C, by the way, it's because you might not be able to handle what it's doing because it's putting such a demand on you, which means there is more. It's not a, it's not a, if you go, I took MOTS C, it didn't work. It made me tired. It's not a MOTS C problem. It's your biology. Listen, stop blaming the peptide when your biology is the one that's in the gutter. Same thing with SS 31. Same thing with a lot of things. It's never, ever going to be the signal unless where you bought the signal is from some knucklehead named Steve in the back of the gym. And by the way, I'll say this real quick, he biogenics I own. I run the black card. By the way, today is December 31st, 2025. If you guys haven't listened, December 21st, 2025, today is the last day to get into the black card for $9,997. There's no picture in this. I'm just going to sell it for $25,000 a year next year, starting tomorrow and two grand a month to maintain the membership. It's $25,000 just to get in and $2,000 a month just to stay active every single month. And if you, well, that's ridiculous. I've already got people lining up to pay and people that have said, I'm just going to pay next year's fee because they couldn't get the wire in time today. But I'll tell you this, if you're hearing this right now, I'll give you a TILF-27. I'm not going to extend it. This isn't an extension. It's because tomorrow is closed and I'm literally getting emails every 10 to 15 minutes of people going, I'm trying to get into the bank. So I'm being empathetic to help, but I'm not going to go backwards. But it's $9,997. You get access to my live Q&A that I do every Monday and I actually solve your problems. I don't care what your health problem is. I'll solve it. And anyone in my group will verify that. I'm very good at what I'm exceptional at what I do because I come out here and I care because I care about my people. My black card, I love my people. God, I love them so much. They are family to me. So if you want to be part of that, awesome. If you're going, well, I just want some dosages, bro. I'm probably not for you. I'm just not. If you have real problems and you want to be part of community and you want a real doc, me, to help solve your problems and you want actual access to me. And if you go, well, how are the questions asked? I have a giant screen with a whole bunch of people on it. You guys ask me questions and I'm live and I solve the problem and I tell you exactly what to do. And if you miss it, you can go into the VIP community where I'm the guy actually getting and answering the questions in the chat for you too. It's about a 24 to 72 hour turnaround if you're going to do it that way because I take my time. I don't rip through answers. I give bro science chat, GPT answers. I give real solutions. You get access to the protocol library, which is all the stuff I've used with patients and clients for the last almost three decades now. And if you want to buy all that stuff from Elite Biogenics, my company, you go right ahead. If not, I'm still here helping you. I just know that what my company sells is your fuel. I will not take a chance with whatever comes out of my company. It is going to be perfect or it's not going to go because I give a shit about people. I'm not bought out. In fact, just to be very clear, I am not viable. I don't care how much money you offer me. I'm not taking it if it involves selling my family, my morals or my friends because I care. And I would hope that you guys would go good. I'm glad. And I think over this last year, I proved it. I've been attacked a ton by some of you guys. Just nonstop. Some of you muppets with your own companies just trying to make the sending out emails. You guys are a bunch of toddlers. I'm just here to help. So anyway, if you get fatigued when you take ModC, it's not a ModC problem. It's not an SS31 problem. It's a biological problem. It's your body's trying to figure out how to upgrade the software and it might be too much. So that was ModC. If you look at SS31, this is the structural repair. Once the metabolic landscape is, it has to be this way. Somebody's going to argue about it. It doesn't matter. I'm still right. Biology and physiology and God are on my side. He built this machine that we are piloting. Once the metabolic landscape, the hardscape is at 100%, the mitochondria now receiving efficient fuel signals from the ModC prime system are ready to be fixed. SS31 can now do its job at max level, stabilizing cardiolipid and sealing the mitochondrial membrane and lighting up ATP production the proper way. And by the way, you can get tired here too. Fatigued here from the energy expenditure of active cellular cleanup and repair. It's a positive for the most part. It won't last forever. If you like to know, it was energized. It's not always like that. It's okay. ModC without SS31 leaves you with perfect software on old ratty nasty Commodore 64 hardware. SS31 without ModC is like taking the engine out of my 911 Turbo S and dropping it into an old ratty Civic with a busted transmission and missing two tires and maybe filling the tank with some old gas that you found in farmer Bill's field that's been sitting there for two years. Together in sequence, it's a revolution. Listen, let me explain how something that I'll go hard into the paint with this because I said I was going to talk about some heavy hitters. Let's let me explain how this works with something like cancer or training or injury or weight loss. Let's do cancer. So let me explain how this works. It heals healthy cells and the way it does and by healing the healthy cell, it also destroys the cancerous cells. I realize it sounds like a paradox. It's not. It's like biological jiu-jitsu, right? Cancer cells aren't magic. They're crippled, crappy little cells and they're cheating. And when you take away their ability to cheat, they die. It's really this simple. The fact that we have spent billions and billions, if not trillions of dollars on cancer research and have come up with a 75% increase in cancer should be massive eye openers for you. But they've got y'all convinced that, no, we're almost there. No, you're not. They're never trying to do it. They've got you dangling off of a hook going, yeah, we're almost there. Don't worry. Keep giving us more money and more time to oriental manager decline. Keep paying us. What if you just became a juggernaut of your own biology and you didn't have to worry about it because you made the environment resistant to pathology, which is how you're designed by the way. Listen, a healthy cell is efficient. It takes glucose and in the presence of oxygen, it burns it cleanly in the mitochondria through oxidative phosphorylation, max ATP, for minimum fuel investment. Cancer cells, they're a metabolic mess. Even with a ton of oxygen, it ferments glucose incredibly inefficiently, a process called aerobic glycolysis, or I talked about this before, the Warburg effect. And why? Because its mitochondria are broken. 2006 study in cancer cell proved this wasn't a side effect, by the way. It's a core requirement for cancer's rapid growth. The broken mitochondria allow the cancer cell to siphon off glucose metabolites to build new DNA proteins and lipids for uncontrolled unsupervised division. It's a trade-off. They choose fast growth over efficient energy. But that's their Achilles heel. This is why I want you guys to understand biology because they're dependent on a dysfunctional metabolic state. They have to live there, otherwise they can't exist. Remember, if you go back to how I explain what happens in the Warburg effect, when you are in this, remember, three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and ATP shortage. That is the primer for cancers, for all disease. Every single disease is predicated off of that foundation. All of them. I am right. Again, I'll say it again. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because I'm right. I saw a dull disease. And it's not an arrogant statement. It's not an egotistical statement. It's that I took the time to actually look at what's going on. Most people won't listen because they go, yeah, but that doesn't make a ton of money. No, it saves people and it makes them savagely strong. I'm in that game. I'm not in the your health and all your money game. I'm not going to do that. Never. You couldn't pay me enough. I just love mankind too much for the most part. I think there's about seven or eight assholes in the world. They just tend to move around a lot. Firstly, they just end up in my comments. If cancer is dependent on a corrupt biology, remember, your biology selects for these broken, these aerobic glycolytic cells because it's the only cells that can survive. So it's making a choice between survival or death. It's going to survive. Even if it's in this crappy environment, but now it's a mutated cell. Welcome to cancer. So you need to stop playing defense and go full offense on this. Watch. Mod C is next level. When AMPK is activated, it does several things that are completely catastrophic for cancer cells. One, it inhibits anabolic growth. AMPK inhibits MTOR, the master switch for cell growth and proliferation. We talk about this with even workouts of training. Cancer cells are MTOR hyperactive. Mod C through AMPK slams the brakes on all of this. 2018 OncoTarget proved AMP activation 100% directly suppresses tumor growth by inhibiting MTOR. The cancer cell is told to stop growing, but its entire mutated programming is screaming grow. Huh. Look at the second part of this bad boy. It forces metabolic normalization. Remember what I told you when I went over that? They actually pulled my podcast on cancer because they said it was medical misinformation. You ever noticed that the solutions are always medical misinformation that the drug ads are not? Interesting. Mod C's primary function is to restore insulin sensitivity and push glucose into oxidative phosphorylation in healthy. We know this stuff. This normalizes the metabolic environment. The cancer cell, which relies on this nasty, funky soup of high glucose and metabolic chaos, now finds itself in a very well-regulated system. Its fuel source becomes less available in the environment and is less permissive at whatsoever for hijacked metabolism. It doesn't work. This is where SS-31 goes in for the kill shot. It repairs the very thing that cancers the cells that they've broken to survive. What do you think? The mitochondria. It fixes what cancer broke so it could exist. It restores the apoptic trigger, which is the ability to destroy itself. A major function of a healthy mitochondria is to control my apoptosis, program cell death. They hold proteins like cytochrome C inside their membranes. I'll explain it. This is how it works. When a cell is severely damaged or receives a death signal, the mitochondria release cytochrome C, which triggers this cascade that leads to the cell's orderly, very polite suicide. Cancer cells suppress this. Their dysfunctional mitochondria are leaky, but in a way that avoids full apoptosis, SS-31 stabilizes the mitochondrial membrane. What do you think is going to happen when all of a sudden their machine treated as a foreign object, Matt, because you need to? When their machine isn't working and it's running on garbage and you take away the garbage it runs on and you force it to run in a clean environment, and your cytotoxic T cells and your natural killer cells are operating at just full power. What do you think happens to cancer? Ruminate on that. It can't exist. 2020 cancer research proved that by restoring mitochondrial membrane integrity, SS-37 resensitizes the cancer cells to apoptic signals. Cell death. It fixes the very mechanism that cancer cells disabled to become immortal. I'm not done. Now it induces this lethal stress. When SS-31 repairs the mitochondria in a cancer cell, it tries to force it to breathe properly, but the cancer cells genome is mutated. It can't. Its electron transport chain is a wreck, so forcing a damaged system to function at a high level creates immense internal stress. A flood of ROSs, reactive oxygen species that cancer cells antioxidant systems can't handle. So the oxidative stress becomes the final push that triggers the apoptic pathway that SS-31 is the ultimate duo. And that's just two things. I've gone full cancer protocol on here already and explained that. Listen, let me explain the kill chain for cancer. MOTC creates a hostile metabolic environment. Low glucose, inhibited mTOR, normalized signaling. SS-31 attacks the cancer cells' core identity. It repairs the broken mitochondria, restores their ability to execute the cell via apoptosis, and imposing lethal oxidative stress the cancer cell has trapped. Its external fuel and growth signals are cut off by MOTC. Its internal survival mechanism, the deliberately broken mitochondria now is being forcibly repaired by SS-31, turning its primary adaptation into its own executioner. They can't survive the upgrade because their entire existence is predicated on the system that's being broken. When you fix the system, the cheaters got no game to play. Baby, they've got nothing. This isn't chemo that poisons everything and hopes that the cancer dies first. This is biological precision, you guys. It's making the body's own regulatory systems so potent, so powerful that they simply refuse to harbor the chaos of cancer any longer. You're not healing the body, you're making it inhospitable to pathology, but this only works when you don't get the order back backwards. What did I say? You don't pour a foundation after you've already built the house. That's the catastrophic logical error that people are making. The rule is absolute. MOTC first, SS-31 second. This isn't a suggestion. It's a law of physiological sequencing. Listen, it drives me so nuts because the BroScience, they're so convincing with their non-biology. Look at injury recovery and cognitive decline. I will go over this one more time and then I'm going in the house. Your cells operate on a hierarchy of command. The signal, I'll explain it this way instead. Maybe this will clear it up a little bit more. The signal, number one, what is the cell being told to do? Grow, conserve energy, die. This is the software instruction onto the keyboard. The structure, organelles and infrastructure, this is number two, the physical machinery, mitochondria, ER, endoplasmic reticulum that carries out the order. If the signal is corrupted, the best machinery in the world will still execute the wrong, dang program. MOTC fixes the signal, SS-31 fixes the structure. You have to have the right signal before you repair the structure. It doesn't work any other way. Injured tendon or muscle or legament, whatever the hell you want to say, some kind of injury. An injury site is a metabolic disaster. It's inflamed, hypoxic, low oxygen. It flooded with glucose, but the local cells after an injury, I don't know if you know this, are insulin resistant. So they can't efficiently use the fuel to power their own repairs. Here's the wrong way. You come in and you slap SS-31 into your system. Sub-Q, it arrives at the injury. It tries to repair the mitochondrial membrane in the fibroblasts, the repair cells, but these cells are metabolically crippled. They're insulin resistant. They're struggling to take in glucose. The repaired mitochondria are like high-performance engines with no fuel line. Excuse me. The repair process is sluggish and virtually non-existent. You know what you just did? Wasted your SS-31, baby. Here's the right way. It's C-burst. MOTC, 2015 cell metabolism and 2018 nature studies proved it. Proved it. It has to be this order. It systematically activates AMPK and does two critical things for the injury site. You need this cancer injury, cognitive decline, pulmonary issues, cardiovascular issues. It doesn't matter. This applies to every single cell in your body. It forces insulin sensitivity. The fibroblasts, in this case, at the injury site, can now efficiently take in glucose. The fuel line opens up. It inhibits M-tor temporarily. I get it. This seems counterintuitive for growth. I get it. I get it. But it's crucial. It stops any misguided cellular proliferation like potential fibrotic tissue. Imagine the heart. TB-500 reverses the fibrosis. What if it never formed it in the first place? You see this? It shifts the cell, by the way, into repair and cleanup mode, clearing away the inflammatory debris. Second part of this. Now SS-31 shows up. It arrives at an injury site that is metabolically primed. The fibroblasts are ready for action. The repaired mitochondria. Thanks, Stu, by the way. Just so you know, 2016 Nature Communications data on Stabilized Complex 1 explains this. Now have a very clean, abundant fuel supply thanks to MOTC's insulin sensitization to generate this massive surge of adenosine triphosphate, ATP. This ATP powers the intense work of collagen synthesis, cell division, the tissue remodeling. The result isn't just faster healing. It's actual high-quality healing, not a bunch of fibrosis and garbage. Look at cognitive decline and brain fog. The brain consumes 20% of your body's energy. Cognitive decline is, fundamentally, an energy crisis in specific neural circuits of your brain. The neurons mitochondria are taking, they're failing, and the brain's ability to utilize fuel is compromised. The dementia, ALS, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, I could do this all damn the wrong way. SS-31 crosses the blood-brain barrier. 2017 Redox Biology, by the way, explained this very well. It starts repairing neuronal mitochondria. Sounds like a great idea, except the brain's metabolic, the global metabolic environment is still dysfunctional. So there may be systemic insulin resistance impairing glucose transport. So the problem with that is, is there's systemic insulin resistance that's impairing the glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier. The newly repaired neurons are trying to function in this energy-deprived, metabolically angry, hostile environment. The cognitive improvement is zero, zero. Here's the right way. C, first. Part one, MOTS-C. You administer MOT-C. Crucially, by the way, MOT-C has direct effect in the brain. 2021 study, molecular neurodegeneration, showed that MOT-C itself has massive neuroprotective effects. Systemically, its AMP activation is game-changing. It improves whole-body insulin sensitivity, which enhances glucose availability for this gray thing, this three-pound gray thing in your skull. Two, AMP activation in the brain promotes autophagy to clean up of all the cellular junk, like misfolded proteins, maybe, toutangles, amyloid plaques, all the stuff associated with Alzheimer's, preparing the neural environment for renewal, like your lymphatic system. The microglia do their job. Second part, SS-31. Now the repair crew comes in. SS-31 comes into the brain that is metabolically functioning at 100%. Glucose delivery is efficient. The cellular trash is being taken out. The repaired neuronal mitochondria can now draw on a very clean, incredibly abundant, by the way, energy supply because of the insulin sensitivity upgrade from the MOT-C. The result? Dramatic restoration of neuronal firing, synaptic plasticity, and clearing of all that brain fog that people can't stand. This is why doing it backwards, and you guys are going, it didn't work for me. Yes, it did. You're doing it wrong. 2020 cancer research principle applies here, too. By restoring mitochondrial integrity, you resensitize compromised cells, in this case, the neurons, to survive signals, preventing their apoptic death. Listen, I want to go inside. So the sequence is non-negotiable. You can do it backwards if you want just a spite. I see you cut off your nose despite your face, I guess. Maybe I don't know, but MOT-C is a systemic reset that creates the metabolic permission for SS-31s, structural repairs to achieve their maximum therapeutic potential. It's the difference between giving a construction clue, a blueprint, and materials after they've built half of the building haphazardly in a disaster. SS-31 first, if you didn't figure that part out, versus giving them the blueprint first, letting them prep the site. Anyone that's a contractor knows site prep is gold, and then delivering high-grade materials to the site, MOT-C, then SS-31. Ignoring this sequence, listen to me, please, let me just land the plane here. Ignoring this sequence is why people get zero or mediocre results at best. Following it is how you achieve biological rejuvenation. This is non-negotiable. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I'm going to go inside. Happy New Year. I love you guys. If you've been with me from the beginning, thank you so much. I appreciate you. I'll see you next year. Never miss.

=== FILE: MOTS-C, NAD+ and SS-31 (solving mitochondrial damage) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [lAdPLuyggFw].txt ===

 so I almost wasn't going to do this podcast, but I actually, thank you for the questions. Keep them coming, and I'll do my best to make podcasts and posts and answer things like that. And if you leave me a question in my Ask Me Your Questions post that I make generally about once a week, I'll do my best to get to it. I usually get somewhere in the neighborhood of about 10,000 to 15,000 questions, and I appreciate that. I appreciate the trust. I'll give you all I got. And I have a ton of answers, just single Q&A answers on Rumble. And you guys should all, if you're not following me on Rumble and you're not subscribed, you should, for two reasons. One, honestly, because I'm asking you to, and it's the safest place, it's better than YouTube, this crap that I'm on, and better than social media for, in general. So today, NAD+, actually, MOTC, NAD+, and SS31, as a mitochondrial repair. I hate to say the word protocol because it's so much more than that. It's like a repair blueprint. You're mitochondria in your life. Listen, all of you guys are sick. Just understand, you're all sick. And you might not be sick enough for a diagnosis, not yet, but you're tired, your brain is foggy, and you can't lose the last 20 or 30 pounds, no matter how you eat or how hard you work out or how long you fast or how many walks you go on or the water fasts or whatever it is you guys are doing, your joint sake and your doctor runs the standard panel, right, a CBC and goes, you're all within normal limits, right, WNL, which is BS, by the way, just so you know. And maybe they say your cholesterol is high or your blood pressure is creeping up and then they give you the, it's just age. Here's a prescription we're going to check again in three, two, one, six months. It's always the same standard. And yet the reason that I can say this with all confidence, knowing that's what happens is because that's what happens. And a lot of you guys that join the Black Card, I love that you're with me because I'm giving you real health care, real health advice. And I'll bleed from my black. There's a reason because I want you to have the answers. So like I said, you want to join the Black Card, apply at unlockthecard.com. If somebody sent me a mail, oh, I thought it was free. It's not free. It's not free. It's still, it hasn't changed yet. So it's still last year's price briefly, which is 10 grand versus 25 grand. It's wire only and you get access to my live Q&A call I do every Monday in the Black Card and you get the VIP community, you get protocols, you get direct access to me to actually answer your questions and you get to be part of one hell of a group. Really, my Black Card people are hands down my favorite people in the communities I've built. I just love the hell out of these people and their family. We're going to do a big Black Card meetup. It's going to be awesome this year and just to hang out, meet, great, hang out, eat some really good food, probably do something together. I'm not going to be one of these. We're going to work out in the morning and then we're going to have this seminar and no, we're not going to do that. We're just going to have a really good time and it's going to be a ton of fun. I don't know, maybe rent a bunch of quads or side by sides and go tear up some sand dunes or do it in the winter and just go snowballing throughout the day. I don't know. I just want to do something fun. So if you guys are my Black Card crew, by the way, throw ideas at me. I'm open and it's going to be a banger of a good time. But anyway, that's not what this is about. So MOTC, NAD+, and SS-31 as far as mitochondrial repair is concerned and all the nonsense I talked about, like the blood pressure, like I said, and all the stuff, hey, it's just age. Here's a prescription. Let me translate what all that means for you, that nonsense that comes out of your doctor's mouth. What they're really saying is your body is failing. We don't know why. We don't care why our job is to manage the failure. Just slow the slide. Welcome to the decline. Don't worry. We will treat you as a product because that's what you are. It's a lie. It's a profitable, multi-trillion dollar lie. And you guys, please, you guys are buying it because modern medicine is not built to solve problems. It's built to manage customers. It's a subscription service for your own decay. It bugs me, a beta blocker for your heart that we're too lazy to fix because we don't want to do it. SSRI for the brain because we're too ignorant to fuel it. Metformin for your insulin resistance, your diabetes, your metabolic syndrome because we're too arrogant to understand physiology because we aren't going to medical school to become actual doctors. We're going to medical school to become tradespeople, pharmaceutical reps. And if you think I'm wrong, look around. And if you're a doctor and that offends you, I don't care. I've been a doctor probably longer than you. And I've seen this and the decline of the medical system is embarrassing. So I'm out here solving every health issue you've got for free. And like I said, you want to join the black card? Great. You want to buy from elite biogenics? Great. You don't still come out here and do it. I am past a year now. I've been doing this for longer than a year every day. Retreating symptoms. And we're putting a bandaid on just a hemorrhaging wound. And they run around with the arrogance to call it a cure. That's what we do as medical professionals. I refuse to do that for all of you guys, all of you insta bros and you want to be science people copying my stuff. How about you give me some fucking credit for it because I spend 16 hour days working my face off for everybody, not for you to run around and steal my stuff and then what, try and take credit for it and think that you actually did the work. You haven't done any of the work. And that's what embarrasses me. I'm looking up at the screen by the way because what happened was the Riverside yet again in all its infinite wisdom decided to turn off a track and then start a new one. Why? Because Riverside FM sucks but I keep using it because it's the best one in the game and they know it. And that's the problem. If you are a whoever you are that runs Riverside, you happen to hear this, you know what? You need to fix your system because it blows. Anyway, I got that off my chest and my rant and my whining never condemned, criticized or complained and I did all three just now. I need to read Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence people maybe one more time today because today I'm in that kind of mood. But it's wonder, it's amazing the entitlement that people have right now. I have people, this is my favorite, people that didn't pay for something who want access to something because they feel they should get something yet haven't done anything that I've ever given them any sense. It hasn't. You're not gonna. You never will. It's like most people don't read past the first chapter in a book because they placate themselves going, it's on the shelf if I ever need it. And they do that until they get to the end of their life and then they go, I never did anything with it. Your life is going to end. You should do everything you can to max it out. That's why I'm telling you how to fix your mitochondria because remember three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage, but systemic inflammation and insulin resistance caused the ATP shortage because it's broken mitochondria. They all work together in a wonderful glorious harmony to destroy your physiology. So what if I told you that, listen, every single one of these diseases from heart failure that kills your grandfather, your grandmother to the Alzheimer's, the dementia that steals your mom's mind, that destroyed Bruce Willis where the doctors did nothing for all of you doctors that were on the Bruce Willis team. I hope you get eye cancer. You're a terrible human being because you took that guy and you let him suffer and you did nothing to solve it. I'll say it again. I'll take it to my grave. I could have helped him. I could have reversed it. You know, from the cancer that terrifies you to the simple grinding fatigue that robs you of your life, they all share a single common point of failure. It's not your genes. It's not your history. It's not hereditary. It's not bad luck. It is your mitochondria. If you understand how what is about to occur in this episode, just if you understand everything I'm about to give you, you're going to understand more about your health than 99% of the doctors in this country. I hope that insults the doctors because you know nothing and it's embarrassing. You should know everything and help everybody and teach them all. The mitochondria are not powerhouses of the cell. This is the part I've got to get this off my chest because it's bugging me. I'm in one of these moods today. That is a kindergarten simplification. It's like calling a nuclear reactor a hot frigging rock. It's an insult to one of the most sophisticated biological structures in existence. Mitochondria are these ancient aliens living inside you. This primitive cell swallowed a bacterium and instead of digesting it, they made a deal. They grabbed their hands and they shook them and the bacterium said, I'll give you energy a thousand times more energy than you could ever possibly make on your own. The cell said, okay, I tell you what, in exchange for that, I will give you shelter and replication machinery so you can do this over and over again. That symbiotic merger is the reason that you are not a puddle of crap every single day. It's the reason that complex life exists and that all your systems actually work because every one of the 37 trillion cells in your body, with the pathetic exception, honestly, of your red blear, RBCs, your red blood cells, is inhabited by hundreds to thousands of these little primordial power plants, but they are not just energy producers. They're CPU, central processing unit of your cell. They're the arbiters of life and death. I've called them this before. They hold the keys to apoptosis, which is programmed cell suicide. They regulate cellular metabolism, redox signaling, calcium balance. They're the command center and when the command center goes tits up, the entire operation collapses. It's not complicated. It's really not. Please just trust me on this. This one guy all the time, let me dumb down Dr. Trevor Bachmeier. You're stealing my stuff. Why don't you just say you're stealing my stuff? Because not one says that Muppet ever given me credit and yet I'm a pretty unique looking dude. Everybody knows who I am now. Why? Because I get phone calls and emails and people asking me for help because I actually understand it. Do you know why I'm out here every day? Because I have the knowledge it's my obligation to give it to you. It's my duty. It's my duty to give you every single ounce of what I've learned. It's not my duty to hoard it or gatekeep it or tell you I'll tell you the rest of it. If you sign up for my program or you buy my stuff, it's not my duty to sit there and go, I'll give you an affiliate code and if you bring me this, I'll do that for you. It is to give you the information so you can make an informed decision so you have a better life. So all of you jackasses out there stealing my stuff and making videos about my stuff and making reaction videos or dumbing down Dr. Trevor Bachmeier. Number one, I've forgotten more than you'll ever learn. I am smarter than you. It's not an arrogant statement. It's because I do the work to become smarter and more intelligent than you. But how about you give me some damn credit for the videos that I've done all the work for? Because listen, you don't even do it. People don't, I get you guys stealing my research all the time. You haven't done any. There's a guy in my group. His name is Josh. He's a stud. This guy's a nurse practitioner, solid dude. Love the guy. Even he was sending me research going, holy crap man. It is unbelievable basically how much research you put together and give out. How do you find it? Because there's three different ways of the same research in different studies. It's incredibly complicated. I'm so blown away at how you find it. He gets it. You have no idea how hard I work for you guys because you haven't had the discipline to do the work. And yes, it pisses me off. I told you, and this is the mood I'm in. So if you don't like it, it's my house. If one person listens or one million people listen to it, when a mitochondria fails, you get sick. When they fail catastrophically, you get dead. 2018 review in cell, hallmarks of aging specifically places mitochondrial dysfunction at the very center of the diagram. It's not a symptom. It's not a symptom. It's not a lack of something. It's a cause. So listen, you got to ask why are they the most important piece of your physiology? Because life is a transaction paid for in a single currency. The currency, adenosine triphosphate, ATP. Without ATP, nothing happens. You can't sell your money. You can't wire it. You can't work out. You can't drive the car. You can't kiss the girl, have sex with the girl, build the house, get the job, mow the lawn. You can't do, you can't have a thought. You can't dream. You can't sleep. Your heart doesn't beat. Nothing works. Your heart is a pump that requires ATP for every contraction. Your neurons are bioelectrical wires that require ATP to fire. Every cellular repair, every thought, every heartbeat is an ATP transaction. You guys need to understand this. Mitochondria produce over 90% of the body's ATP through a process called oxidative phosphorylation. It's the most efficient, hands down, efficient energy production system on earth. But when the demand for ATP exceeds, right, outstrips the supply, when you have a systemic energy bankruptcy, the body starts making brutal triage decisions. It's, it's like a city during a, you remember rolling blackouts. So in California, we used to have these brownouts of blackouts all the time because allegedly they didn't have any power. BS, you and I both know that everybody knows that. And if you would start true, I live in California. So did I dumbass. It's like a city during a rolling blackout. The hospitals and the police stations, listen to me, this is why you have to understand this, the hospitals and the police stations get the last drops of power, get them all, right? The suburbs go dark in your body. The suburbs are non-essential repair, immune surveillance and higher cognitive function. Just burn that into your head. You stop preparing collagen so your skin sags and your joints hurt. You dial back immune vigilance so you get sick much more often. You throttle cognitive function so you get slow thinking and brain fog. This isn't aging the way you're being sold, this dumb idea. This is managed energy failure, you guys. This leads directly 100% to my model of the three biological failures that underpin every single chronic disease on earth. This model is the key to understanding why you're sick, by the way. Where's my Nobel Prize? And people get really mad when they say, you didn't, you don't deserve. You think one plus one is orange. I think I deserve one because I solved health. And you know what's funny is somebody goes, that's a really ignorant statement. No, it's not. It's a factual statement because I solved all health problems on the planet. Every one of them, I solved all three or I solved one by solving all three problems, the biological failures. You have to understand that. I don't come out here because I want to brag, I come out here because I want to help. Look at, just follow me. Systemic inflammation. This is a constant low grade fire throughout your entire body and it is fueled by the standard American stupidity diet, chronic stress and environmental toxins. And the last one's my favorite, gut dysbiosis. This inflammatory cytokine storm measured by things like C, reactive protein, IL-16, does something pretty sinister, directly attacks the mitochondria. That's what I was saying at the beginning. It damages the very delicate inner mitochondrial membrane and mutates the mitochondrial DNA. 2015, nature of using immunology, actually detailed it step by step, how TNF alpha, which is a major inflammatory cytokine, directly inhibits the ETC, the electron transport chain, which is what spits out adenosine triphosphate. When it inhibits the ETC, it chokes off ETP production right at the source. Inflammation, listen to me, inflammation is the arsonist that's setting fire to the power plant that you desperately need for life. Failure two, insulin resistance. This is when your cells become completely deaf. They can't hear it to the hormone insulin. insulin is that key that comes in and unlocks the cell door to let glucose come flooding in. Glucose is the primary incredibly high octet, it's a jet fuel, right? High octane fuel for your mitochondria. When the cells resist insulin, they don't recognize that the glucose stays in your bloodstream. You've got blood, your blood's full of sugar. And when the mitochondria starve, this is like having a convoy of fuel trucks stuck in traffic right outside the power plant while the generators sputter and run on fumes and then finally die off. 2017, Journal of Clinical Investigations proved, listen to me, proved that mitochondrial dysfunction in muscle tissue is the, not a, the primary driver of insulin resistance. It's not a consequence, you guys, that they want you to think the other thing. You've got the science books, you've got those science books, it's just wrong. It's wrong, it's that simple. It's a vicious cycle. Bad mitochondria cause insulin resistance, which starves the mitochondria, which makes them worse. These two failures cause the inevitable predictable failure three. They created ATP shortage. It's an energy crisis of epic proportions in your physiology, you guys. This is not, listen, it's not a standalone event. It's the direct mathematical consequence of the first two failures. The fire, right? The inflammation has damaged the machinery. Then the fuel line, insulin signaling is caught. The result is a power outage. Every diagnosed disease that we see is a manifestation of this energy bankruptcy in the specific tissue. I'll prove it. Alzheimer's, ATP shortage in the hippocampus, heart failure, ATP shortage in the cardiac muscle, cancer, a corrupted alternative, right? Warburg effect, glycolysis, alternative energy pathway born from, wait for it, failed mitochondria. You're trying to solve the energy crisis by giving the city council more money, drugs, right? You just dumping more cash in that doesn't help anybody instead of putting out the damn fire, clearing the roads and repairing the generators. Therefore, mitochondrial repair isn't an option. It's the only logical first line defense. It's the foundation for every single thing that's going to happen on this earth in your physiology, your little micro world. So listen, how do we repair them? That's the question. Okay, fine. You talked a lot doc. How do we repair it? Okay, not with drugs that paper over symptoms. We fix them surgically at the molecular level by addressing the three core pathologies of sick mitochondria. This goes a little deeper. So buckle up. And if you have to go to the, I got a dumb down Dr. Trevor Bacmeyer guy. He's just stealing my stuff so he gets clicks. Okay, he's got a TRT clinic. He's an idiot. Three failures of the mitochondria. Faulty programming. I went over these yesterday in my Instagram post, faulty programming. So it's running on the wrong software. It's a fuel shortage has no raw materials. Follow me because this is really important to stay with me. And then structural decay, the physical machinery itself is trashed. It's broken. It's running with pieces of sprockets are all broken, right? So this brings you to the trifecta, the three compounds that it's the paradigm shift, mod C and 80 plus and SS 31. This is why you need to understand the stuff. This is not a supplementation. This is bioengineering of your biology. You guys, this isn't for me. It's for you. Look at mod C. Let's just go this. This is mod C consider it a, it's like a programming engineer. It's like the ultimate prompt writer, right? Cause that's what people do. There's actually careers prompt writers. Some of the things you guys do are nuts. It's so far beyond me. I'm going to be very transparent. It's wild, which you guys do. So for decades, we were arrogant. We thought the important instructions for life were in the nuclear DNA at the center, the holy genome, right? We're sequencing the genome wrong. 2015, University of Southern California discovered something that should have made the front page of every single newspaper in the world. It should be all over the internet. And I care to you, none of you guys have heard this. They found this peptide, small string of like 16 amino acids encoded, not in the nucleus, but in the DNA inside the mitochondria. They called it mod C. Mitochondrial derived peptide. This changes everything. It means the mitochondria have their own hormonal signaling system. C is a messenger when your body is under metabolic stress. So when you're drowning in sugar and sitting on your ass, let's see, is released, travels to the nucleus, interacts with key pathways and then activates AMPK. The cells master energy sensor interacts with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. Its primary job is to reprogram the cells metabolism away from inefficient inflammatory glucose burning and towards efficient fatty acid oxidation. It is a master key for the one thing that is causing a whole host of problems in your physiology. It's one sensitivity or insulin resistance, which needs to be turned into insulin sensitivity. And the data is obscene. It's staggering. 2019, Nature Communications gave mod C. Listen to this. This is wild. Gave mod C to mice on a high fat American style diet and the results it completely prevented diet induced obesity and insulin resistance. The treated mice ate the same garbage but stayed lean and metabolically healthy. The control group, the control mice they used became fat in the silicon diabetic like a lot of the population right now. Mod C doesn't just manage the problem, you guys. It fixes the programming area that caused it. That's the error. It's not the diet. It's the issue is so much further than that. It attacks failure too, right? Failure too. insulin resistance and it punches it in the face. It gives it the old Mike Tyson. Look at the second part of this. NAD plus. This is the rocket fuel. Remember what I said, right? There's three failures. So we have programming, wrong software, fuel problem, machinery breakdown. This is mitochondria, right? Not my three biological failures. This is a result of the three biological. And I hope you're getting the hang of this man because this is me, baby. This is all me. NAD plus, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide. This big fancy words doesn't matter. This isn't just a molecule. It's like the spark plug and the fuel line all at the same time. NAD plus is a coenzyme, a shuttle bus. And I explain this very well for electrons in the mitochondria. It's absolutely essential for the ETC, the electron transport chain, the final stage of ETP production. No NAD plus can't do it without NAD plus here. The chain grinds to halt. It doesn't work. No electrons, no proton gradient, no ETP, synthase spool up, no turbine, nothing. It doesn't work. It's also the primary driver for Surchin, by the way, which is a family of proteins that are like the mechanics and QC quality control, aimed for your entire DNA. And here's the crisis. NAD plus levels, Hank, I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 in less than three months. When you age, NAD plus levels, Tank, as you grow older. So by the time you're 50, so around my age, you might have at the most half the NAD plus you had when you were 20. Why? Partly because of this enzyme called CD38, which just it's like throwing NAD plus into a wood chipper. Just choose it up and it becomes more active with inflammation. That makes it even worse. Do you see how this is all connected now? So failure one, inflammation directly causes a shortage of NAD plus. It's this catastrophic feedback loop. Now, do you see how this gets married together? There's this research. This guy, David Sinclair at Harvard. This is legendary. That's how wild this research is. 2018 paper and cell, they restored NAD plus levels in old mice and the result, the mitochondria in their muscles and all their other tissues rejuvenated. The mice's endurance doubled. Their vascular health reversed to that of incredibly young mice. They didn't just slow aging. They reversed key markers of it. Boosting NAD plus is like pouring high octene fuel into an engine that's starving for fuel that needs the best of the best. And then it gets the spark back. It solves the fuel problem. That's how this stuff works. If you don't get that, please go back and listen to this part again. The third one, and by the way, the hierarchy matters. I'm tired of these insta bros going out there and going, just do this. Stop it. I don't care if you're a doctor. I don't care if you have all the PhDs after your name. It doesn't make a difference. You're still wrong. I'm giving you the information, not because I'm trying to sell you my stuff. Do you ever notice that? I'm not out here walking my stuff going, hey, let me tell you, I'll get the secret way to get it. I see this one guy is talking about redotrutide. I love when people go, it's called retatrutide. Shut up. No, it's not. The third one, I could do this all day. It's like I told you, I'm in a mood. SS 31. This is the structural engineer of this entire thing. This is the, it's like a sniper, not a shotgun, not a scatter gun. The inner mitochondrial membrane is where the electrical magic happens. It needs to maintain a strong electrical charge, membrane potential to force, that's what it's called, in order to force protons through, this is the turbine, the ATP synthase turbine and generate power. With age and disease, this membrane gets, it gets beat up, it gets whole shot in it, becomes leaky. Reactive oxygen species, the exhaust fumes of energy production, they scorch the very delicate lipid membranes and the charge dissipate, that's the problem, right? The charge dissipates, so the engine seizes, it can't do its job. No ATP synthase, nothing. SS 31 is a genius piece of chemical engineering. It is a very small, synthetic peptide with an incredibly unique property. Check this out. It has a positive charge and it loves fat, so it's like a fat happy person. This means though, it's electromagnetically drawn to and integrates directly into the negatively charged fatty inner mitochondrial membrane. Once it's there, it acts like a shield. It scavenges up all those destructive ROSs, right? Reactive oxygen species right at the source, preventing them from causing lipid peroxidation, trust me, okay? Which, now let me explain what that is because you're not, the burning of the membrane is basically what it means. Stabilize the structure and then restores the one thing I said gets destroyed because it loses, the charge dissipates, the membrane potential, which is important for proton gradient and ATP synthase and all the things that need to occur. The clinical evidence of this entire procedure is astounding. 2017 Journal of the American Heart Association of All Things gave SS 31 after a heart attack, after and the result, phenomenal reduction in the size of tissue death and improvement in mitochondrial function in the surviving heart muscle. Solved two problems. So they're protecting the power plants during a catastrophe. SS 31 also fixes the physical damage. Imagine, this is just another aspect to this, just so you understand how these marry together. Imagine SS 31 and TB-500 for myocardial damage to heal the myocardium. Imagine how that would work. If you take TB-500, which is proven to reverse fibrosis and solve damage to the myocardium and you add SS 31, imagine what kind of wild stuff you could have that wouldn't cost you your heart or all the medication that they want to give you. You guys need to start taking the thousand foot view on your health, please. Look it, this isn't, and by the way, this isn't one of these take three pills a day situations. This is a tactical strike on your failing myocondria. You don't send in infantry and air force and engineers all at the same time and some chaotic heap. You have to have a sequence. The hierarchy matters. You start with the programmers and the fuel, MOTC and NAD plus. You run these together. Okay, every really hesitant to even do this part. You run these together every second day and why this sequence? Because you're setting up a new efficient OS operating system. MOTC is the software update that tells the cell to become this fat burning insulin sensitive machine. NAD plus is the power surge that boots up the new system. So you're creating conditions for high performance energy production. Follow. I felt like Sabi, right? Just too much pirates of the Caribbean. So after a few weeks, let's say hypothetically for your kangaroo. Once the new metabolic programming is installed and the energy flow is normalized, now you deploy the structural engineer, you add SS 31. I would hypothetically give it to my kangaroo every single day. This is critical. You don't fix. Listen to me. You don't fix. Stop getting my comments and arguing about this. I'm still right whether you get, I've never read any of your comments. Just so you know, you guys talk to yourselves because I'm not going to sit there and go argue with stupidity who wants to sit there and complain or go, some Instabrow says this or some scientist says that or this bodybuilder says this. I don't care. I'm still right because I know the system. I know physiology. I know biology. I know biochemistry and I know how this works and why I know why this works, which is why people join my black card because they go, this guy understands. Yes, I do. And I actually care. Where have I done all kinds of crazy marketing in this podcast? I'll help you out at the beginning and it wasn't even marketing. I just went join or don't join. You want to join? Apply at unlawfulcard.com and say, here, I need the wire information so I can send you 10 grand. If not, don't join. If you didn't catch that, I still on sale, baby. So listen, you add the SS 31 every day because you cannot fix the crack foundations of a factory while it's running outdated inefficient machinery at full throttle. You upgrade the software and the power supply first, then once the new efficient system is humming, the software. Remember, you're not doing hardware. You guys are thinking hardware, but I'm talking software. So get this because you're not, you can't install new software on something that you have to do it this way. You send in the engineers to reinforce the walls so the whole thing doesn't disintegrate under a new significantly higher load that you have just designed it to take. If you do it the other way around, you cause problems. The energy or the synergy rather is mathematical. Mott C plus NAD plus equals optimized system. Mott C plus NAD plus then plus SS 31 optimized robust and fortified system. Look at how this is designed. The protocol by the way, this is what hurts. The protocol directly addresses the five most common lies of modern medicine. Conditions labeled as diseases. I'll prove it when they're merely symptoms of mitochondrial failure. Look at CFS and CFS. By the way, somebody asked me, they're like, hey bro, I think they asked for chronic fatigue syndrome, not fibromyalgia. They're married in the identical thing. Just so you know, they're the identical thing. So chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. It's not mysterious pain and tiredness with a couple of trigger points all over your back. It's systemic ATP shortage. The body has triaged energy away from muscle repair and CNS function, right? Central nervous system function. Look at type two diabetes. It's not a disease of blood sugar. It's a disease of mitochondrial failure in the liver and muscle cells. The mitochondria are so damaged that they can't utilize fuel property causing insulin resistance as a downstream effect. Look at Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and dementia. All of the multiple sclerosis, all of them. The brain consumes 20% of your body's energy, but is only 2% of its weight. So this is a big deal because it's an energy greedy, bitch is what it is. When neuronal mitochondria fail, these energy hungry cells are the first line to die. They're the infantry right at the beginning that just get taken out by the tanks. Nature studies.  cardionegid, naryneutroneroscience showed. Mitochondrial dysfunction precedes plaque formation in Alzheimer's dementia by years, if not decade. You need to hear what I just said. If you don't solve this now, the problem is going to show up later, but you're going to have a tombstone sitting there, which is the result of the problem. It's not the problem. And they're going to still try and treat the problem. Look at cardiovascular disease. The heart has the highest mitochondrial density of any organ in the body. Anthroschlorosis is now understood and proven, by the way, to be driven by mitochondrial dysfunction in the endothelial cells lining the arteries. I explained this, the whole foam cells, all of this stuff. I explained all of this on my atherosclerosis video. They proved it, by the way, just so you know when 2020 circulation research paper proved this beyond a shadow of a doubt. Aging. How about aging? This is number five, by the way, if you're keeping track. Aging. I can do this all day. It's not a time-dependent mystery. How did we populate the planet then? If we needed all these drugs before, no, we didn't. And if you go all week, that's right. We didn't need the peptides either. You are repairing the system. A peptide is a signal. A drug is a wrecking ball. I'm not saying they're not needed if it's going to save your life, but 99% of the time they're not saving your life. They're prolonging your life to make you a product so you're profitable. Get it through your head. Aging is not this time-dependent, like, weird phenomenon. It is the cumulative sum of mitochondrial decay across all 37 trillion cells in your body. Mitochondrial theory of aging is the most robust L-supported explanation we've got. Look it up. Don't take my word for it, baby. Look it up. Now, watch. Apply. Let me show you how this entire magic stack actually solves all of these very incurable diseases, Dr. Trevor. Cardiovascular disease. Watch. MOTC reprograms the cardiac metabolism to be more efficient. NAD Plus fuels the cardiomyocytes, making each contraction much more powerful and much more resilient. SS-31 directly protects the mitochondrial membranes during periods of ischemia and dangerous and hypoxia, preventing cell death. You're not thinning blood. You're making the heart muscle much more indestructible. How about neurological disease? Look at neurological. I could do this with all... Throw anything at me. Boosting NAD Plus is like giving your brain a quadruple... Here, hold up my coffee. Quadruple espresso. It restores energy to neurons, preventing atrophy, improving synaptic function. MOTC improves the insulin sensitivity in your brain, which is crucial for memory formation. And SS-31 protects the neurons from the oxidative stress that leads to the characteristic plaques, amyloid plaques, tautangles. You're not managing symptoms. You're preventing the cell death that caused them in the first place. Look at aging. This protocol that I just talked about, right? MOTC NAD Plus SS-31. It's a direct assault on every single aspect of aging. It counters genomic instability by fueling DNA repair via NAD Plus and those magic proteins I talked about called certuents. It addresses epigenetic alterations through metabolic programming. MOTC. And it directly reverses mitochondrial dysfunction. All three. You're not slowing aging. You're reversing the biomarkers of aging at a cellular level. Look at cancer. You want to go really hard into the paint? Look at cancer. This is critical. Actually, 1931, Otto Warburg discovered that cancer cells have a broken metabolism. Proved it. You got a shout out of it. Want a Nobel Prize. They have oxygen. They ferment glucose, a very primitive, inefficient process called the Warburg Effect. I wonder why they called it that. Why? Because their mitochondria are catastrophically damaged and cannot process and cannot perform oxidative phosphorylation properly. So by restoring systemic mitochondrial health, you create a metabolic environment that is hostile to cancer. It makes the pathology an impossibility. Anti-mitochondria promote apoptosis, the cell death. They force damage to pre-cancerous cells to self-destruct. 2018 review in cell metabolism shows, proves that fixing the mitochondrial function is the most powerful anti-cancer strategy. And nobody out there listening to this has ever heard that. This doesn't cure cancer. It attacks the root cause, the metabolic dysfunction that allowed it to initiate and thrive and exist in the first place. The problem is the pathology. The problem is that you got it because your system wasn't running right and they know that and you keep forgetting that thinking you need a drug or a pill to make it go away. The current medical paradigm is a concession speech. It's a sick care system designed for a lifelong customer retention. That's it. It is the ultimate business model and it demands that you stay because it makes sure you have no choice. It waits for the power plant to blow up and then sells you a flashlight and a monthly subscription for batteries. It doesn't fix the power plant. You are, please listen to me, you guys. I want to go eat. You are at a crossroads of your life and your health. We have so much stacks and stacks, thousands and tens of thousands of people. Where are these research studies? I literally quote them in my podcasts and my actual studies. Remember, I'm doing all the work and all the insta-brows and bro science and Reddit forums are stealing my stuff. How about you just give the doctor credit for actually the guy that does the work and spends his entire day making sure you have the answers because I friggin' care. We've got the peer-releaved research everywhere. We have the molecular tools everywhere. We have a physiological model that actually makes sense. It's based on your biology, your physiology. The choices and you guys, it's not between some drug or another drug. It's between managing a dying system and engineering a healthy one that you are already predicated to have. You guys have to stop accepting this decline and then funding your own decay thinking it's the only option you've got. I don't care where you buy your stuff as long as it's real. Most of the time it's not by the way. Most of these guys are selling crap. Do you know how I know? Because I have people in my group that go, I was taking this and it didn't do anything and then I switched to elite biogenics and I went, holy crap, it actually worked. Stop buying it from your friend named Steve in the back of the gym because he happens to sell peptides. I'm going to say that's ridiculous. That's absolutely ridiculous. But you do you, bro. You do you. The power to change is not in some doctor's prescription and their pen or their digital or I really send it now. It's in understanding the root of all health and what it is and its energy, not magical energy. Your ability to produce it and the root of all energy is the same. The mitochondria on fix the mitochondria. What do you think happens? You fix the person. You fix the biology, which means in order to fix the mitochondria, you solve the three biological failures, solve systemic inflammation, solve insulin resistance, solve the ATP to ATP shortage because it's the byproduct of the first two. If you get what I just said in this entire podcast in the last 10 seconds, even you'll get the era of symptom management is you have to be willing to accept that. And I know a lot of people aren't. I hope you got something out of this. I really do. Never miss.

=== FILE: MOTS-C, Retatrutide and Methylene Blue (Solving Fatigue Permanently) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [dJr9S5hCPiQ].txt ===

 feteag. I've actually gotten an alarming amount of emails and messages from you guys. Thank you. I try and answer as many as I can about fatigue and how to handle fatigue. I drink coffee. It's black. If your coffee isn't blacker than a witch's crotch, you're drinking a dessert. Like it or not, it's not meant to upset anybody. I'm sure somebody's going to go off because you wake up every morning standing on the edge of your fence, waiting to be offended on somebody else's behalf. That's not the problem. The problem is you're adding a bunch of extra garbage in your system. Black coffee, and if you start talking about adenosine and why it's such a pseudo energy and it's robbing Peter to pay Paul and all this stuff, you don't understand biochemistry. The point I'm making is fatigue isn't, it's not a sleep problem. Outside of genuinely being like you're exhausted because you pulled three all-nighters and you did, that's just common sense. For the most part, fatigue is a deeper problem and it's three biological failures every time. I'll show you. Listen, watch. Imagine this. You're crushing it. You don't have to get up at 2.30 in the morning either. By the way, that is idiot. That's just idiocy. Don't do that. But let's say you're crushing it at 7 in the morning. You've already smoked a gym. You've answered most of your emails. You've got your coffee, like I said, blacker than probably your soul. And by noon, you're a zombie and you're dragging your heels and you hit this wall. And no matter what you do, no matter how much coffee you drink, no matter what you take, no matter how many naps you take, you still are fatigued. And your brain fog is so savage and your muscles are screaming like they're filled with concrete. You just ran two marathons back to back and you probably wore flip flops and your eyelids can't stay open. And the second you hit the couch or the second that you sit down at the dinner table, you're going to put your hand on your head and you're going to start to fall asleep. And you smash another red bull or a monster, god damn. You smash another red bull or a monster. God, those are terrible for you. I cannot stress that enough. You blame your kids, your wife, your boss, and you crash even harder by 7 PM. Does that sound familiar? Because that's what I'm hearing from you guys. That's not a life. You guys, that's not a life. That is fatigue owning the hell out of you. And the problem isn't going to some neurologist and having them prescribe like the Adderall or some SSRI or Modafinil. And listen, I think Modafinil is fantastic, but it can have some pretty crappy rebound effects if you're not responsible with it. And drinking 17 cups of jet black Cuban coffee that you can cut with a pair of scissors isn't the answer either because it's not solving the problem. So I'm trying to give you the information to solve the problem, not sit here and get into an argument or some weird flame war in my comments. Like some of you guys just get all butthurt because I tell the truth. Yesterday I made a post about how blends with copper blends in general are ridiculous. Listen, you guys in your blends and getting all butthurt and going, well, they work for me and I tend to disagree. I had some real estate agent go, I disagree. What with all your expertise in selling homes? And when I went down the rabbit hole and it decided just randomly to tap her profile and she's selling $270,000 houses, at least if it was surhaunt, I'd be like, OK, you got some street cred as a salesperson and you're incredibly frigging successful. But this is just some has been trying to sit there and tell me that biology doesn't work for her. Like I can stack irrefutable proof for everything I say because I make sure that what I tell you is right because I actually care about you. I don't give a crap about some Reddit forum or people in a Facebook group or some hate group that you guys make because you don't like that I'm telling the truth and it's going against what you've been told by Joe Insta, bro or Insta expert or because you're the peptide company that's selling the blends. How about you just stop selling garbage? Even you guys asking, so if we take copper out it, can we still put BPC and TB-500 in the same vial? You can. You're stupid. How can you dose properly then? If you take less than five milligrams of TB-500, this has nothing to do with fatigue, by the way, if you take less than five milligrams of TB-500 and then you take it again tomorrow, the half light doesn't work. You're supposed to take it every five days. It's designed this way. So follow me. If you have BPC-157 in the same vial as TB-500 and you take BPC daily, if not multiple times a day and you take TB-500 every five days and you put them in the same vial, explain to me how you can dose properly. You can't. But all you guys heard was, okay, so as long as copper's not in it, then I can do it and I can still buy the blend because I'm looking to take less injections. Sack up. You don't have to take them in your belly, right? You can pinch skin here. Look at that. There's fat I can go here and I'm lean as hell and there's fat I can go here. You know what, I pulled out my pants. There's fat I can go on my ass. There's fat everywhere. You guys are so worried about why I don't take needles. Do you like taking pills? Do you like being sick? Do you like relying on managed decline thinking that's actually making you better? Do you like relying on peptide companies that don't give a crap about you? If you understand that I own, the company I own, Elite, right, I give a crap about you guys. If I wouldn't give it to my wife or my children, there's no way in hell it's ever going to leave my lab or my warehouse ever, which is exactly why I'm also not going to sell you bunking on sense in a blend to make it more convenient. I'm doing it so you actually get something you can control. I think a lot of you guys think that peptides are like vitamins and if you take a little extra or a little less, it doesn't matter. It matters very much. So just listen, I'm out here to help you. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics and support my company. Thank you so much. I love you for that. Really, I do because you could choose anyone else. But if you don't, that's okay. I still show up here. If you want to join my black card group, which by the way, I am stacking so many people in with victories and health changes and in ways that we're talking menopause symptoms gone, night sweats gone, depression gone, cardiovascular issues gone, AFib gone. You name it. Mycotoxin problems gone. In days, these are people that have been seeing doctors for a decade and gotten nowhere. Why? Because most of you doctors are sellouts to the pharmaceutical company. Yes, it makes me mad. I realize this has nothing to do with this podcast, but I'm out here trying to give you the answers because I damn well care. It's not that I'm passionate about it. It's because I really care. I've been a doctor a long time, so when I hear some knucklehead go, I don't really agree. You have no knowledge whatsoever and yet you're doing it because you have this emotional knee jerk reflex that you don't like what I'm saying. You don't have to like it. It's still the fact you don't have to like gravity, but you catch heelside on a snowboard. Gravity is going to let you know it's real because you'll spend the next three days with whiplash because your SCM, sternocleidomastoid muscle, are going to feel like you just got rear-ended at 50 miles an hour. If you don't know, you don't know, but if you've been on a snowboard and you catch heelside, you friggin' know. You can argue with gravity all you want. It's still real. You can argue with me all you want. I'm still right. I'm not right because I'm like, look at me. I'm so smart. I'm not right because I actually pay attention, so I give you the information so you can make an informed damn decision. That's why I'm out here. Just like fatigue. I'm sure somebody's again in my comments and you guys, why would anyone even give my video a thumb down? Just don't say anything. That's so weird. That's like driving by somebody's house and going, I don't like your house. Let me stop. Put a post-it on it about how I can't stand your house and I think your paint job sucks. By the way, the car and your driveway is garbage. Like that doesn't even make sense to me. I guess because I'm 52 going on 53, I have morals and ethics and a frigging spine and emotional maturity that I don't run around dropping hate. There's this lady I follow. Anya, I don't remember her last name, her husband, and she's got some kids. She says all the things that she gets so much hate and I don't know why because she says all the things that are true. We are a society built on victimization and tearing other people down. How do you expect everything to get better in this world if that's all you're going to do? If you're not willing to listen to the thing and if you spin it and go, baby, you're not willing to listen to my opinion, but yours is an opinion. I don't claim to understand the fundamentals of making this mug. I have no idea. I don't claim to understand how to be an attorney or an engineer or a contractor. But what I do know is biology and physiology and biochemistry, endocrinology, neurology. I know these so well and I'm giving you this stuff for free. I've never crapped on anyone that's given me something for free and yet what's weird to me is that people come out and crap on somebody giving you the information for free. You guys are screwed up. If you're one of those people, you guys are psychologically screwed up. You should just probably get beaten around the head and face with a big giant stick because it irritates me. So fatigue, listen to me. I will solve your fatigue problem if it falls into this category. If you go, it didn't work for me. Maybe it just doesn't fall into this category or maybe you're an idiot that runs on Adderall all day long and you're in burnout and now your mitochondria are giving you the finger. There's a lot of reasons, but this is probably 80% of the fatigue will be solved by watching this. I will help you out. I will not go as far. Normally, I don't do this. I will even go as far as to give you some kangaroo help. And if you know what that means, great. If you don't, wait till the end. Kangaroo, I'll define it for you before somebody says, I don't know what that means. That means kangaroo is going to, the kangaroo is going to get the dosages for the kangaroo. Wow. And I never do that. Why? Because I'm so tired of you guys. I have you guys sending me messages. Why do you never talk about dosages? Talk to their local government. Talk to all the government officials who say it's illegal to do that, but I could tell you all about how many Advil to take. This is ridiculous, right? I'm going to blow the lid off of fatigue, what it really is. It's not some vague, you're tired, bro, nonsense. And it sure as hell isn't, you just have to shut up and suck it up and grind harder. That's ridiculous. Like I'll explain the physiology, the bio, the biochemistry, the science that makes it irrefutable and shows exactly what's going on. And you're going to know why your energy is tanking and leaking and why big pharmas, band-aids always fail. And I'll explain even all about three things that you need to know. Motsie, redotrutide, methylene blue, and why they are so effective when it comes to fatigue because they fix it at the root. So buckle up, baby. We're going to get bumpy. This ain't a nap. It's time to go to war. So listen, what is fatigue physiologically? Let's just do that, right? Forget the psycho babble. Fatigue is your cells, so as a point blank, it's this mismatch between energy demand and energy supply. That's it. That there's no, you can get fancy, you don't need to. If the demand is exceeding the supply, you're fatigued. The end. And at the core, mitochondria, little cellular power plants, they're failing to churn out adenosine triphosphate, ATP, which is the universal energy currency of your biology. ATP powers every single contraction, every neuronal function, every firing neuron, every thought, every breath, every heartbeat, every time your fingernails grow a micrometer. When your mitochondria shut down and sputter and puke, the ETC, electron transport chain backs up. Reactives at reactive oxygen species explode. And what that is, biological shrapnel and the damage, everything. It's not a lack of willpower. All you guys going, would be just toughen up. Listen, I sleep four to five hours a night. I have for as long as I can remember. And my memory is still incredibly good. It's not, I've been this way and I people go, that's not healthy. Man, I will outgun you all day long. People take an eight hours of sleep. It is not. Some people need 10 hours. Some people need three. Some people need seven. It's whatever your body needs. Your biology knows what the hell it needs. The problem is when you start infiltrating with stupidity and wondering why it doesn't work. It's not a lack of willpower. Being, having fatigue. It's not. It's biology that is betraying your butt. 2021 study, Journal of Physiology show chronic fatigue syndrome patients. CFS, by the way, CFS and fibromyalgia, they're the same thing. I'm tired of people going, they're completely different. No, they're not. They're identical. I've proven it so many times. But these patients, CFS, fibromyalgia patients have 50, 50, that is so much 50% lower ATP production in muscle biopsies. Your body isn't lazy, you guys. It's not. If you're genuinely fatigued, it's not that you're lazy. It's not that you're lacking caffeine or Adderall or Modafinil or some kind of speed that you get at the 7-11. That's like some trucker pill that you used to see on this spinning things. If you know you're a kid from the 80s, it's not. It's that your system is starved. Your ATP is trashed and your mitochondria are flipping you off and they are so desperate for help. And I'm trying to give you the help. Listen, here's the most common. Some of you guys don't even know that you have fatigue. Here's the most common physiological symptoms straight from your own biology. Cognitive fog. So neuroinflammation flood. Listen to me. Neuroinflammation floods your brain with cytokines. Interleukin-6, TNF-alpha, right? Tumor necrosis factor alpha. Blocking glutamate signaling and hippocampal neurogenesis. So if you look at FMRI studies, 2017 Fatigue Journal showed prefrontal cortex hypo, very low. Hypoactivation, your executive function goes, if you've seen Playdate, tits up. If you listen to Alan Richardson, it flatlines. Your executive function flatlines. That's the first one. Muscle weakness. Most people don't know this either. ATP depletion hits fast twitch muscle fibers first. Okay. Sarcomeres, they can't cycle the actin myosin cross bridging, the cycling that needs to happen without it. So 2019 muscle and nerve prove this. Fatigue muscles have, this is another huge number, 40% reduced force output because of calcium mishandling in the SR. SR is the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Okay. Autonomic function. Third one. Autonomic dysfunction. Heart rate variability. Tanks. Autonomic function is all the stuff that's happening right now while you're listening to this and getting all pissed off and you don't know why your heart rate's going up in your blood pressure skyrocketing. Right. Because I'm pointing out all the problems that you've gotten. You're like, damn it, my doctor lied to me. Yeah. This doctor is not going to lie to you ever. You might not like what I'm going to tell you, but I love you enough to tell you the truth. How about that? Your heart rate variability tanks from sympathetic overdrive and vagal withdrawal, the vagus nerve, the barrel reflex sensitivity tanks, circulation. Your, this is what it is. Basically, a barrel receptor is, it doesn't matter. Anyway, the point is in circulation, the study in circulation proved this at 2017, your fight or flight or freeze never shuts off, you guys. That's a nightmare. Imagine laying in bed like you're hanging onto a NASCAR going nuts. Forget it. GI sluggishness. This is another one and most people don't even see this one. Your gastrointestinal system, your enteric nervous system, inflammation slows all this motility down. Listen, and it does it via the vagus nerve suppression. Vegas nerve comes across the chest. But Vegas nerve, the gut microbiome dysbiosis spikes LPS, endotoxins, LPS lipopolysaccharides that bleed across the gut barrier. One cell, thick man. One cell into your nice, clean cardiovascular system. And it fuels the cytokine storm and it causes systemic fatigue. 2023 gut journal proved it. Immune exhaustion. This is real bad when your immune system is tired, you get sick all the time. This is the first place I always look with patients when they are old, when the people get sick at like three times in two weeks. I'm looking to see if you're, if you have a mitochondrial issue, not an immune system issue. But the first thing they do is they go, you better take some immune boosters, better take emergency. That's not going to help you at all. That's not going to help you at all, you guys, because that doesn't solve the mitochondrial problem, which is exactly why it doesn't work. T cell senescence from chronic NF Kappa B activation, NF Kappa B, which always come back to this inflammatory response, right? Lymphocytes can't proliferate. So they leave you like this, you're like gravity for viruses and trashy bacteria that come to you, like a bunch of nasty hookers that want to screw up your life. Journal of Immunology 2019 proved it. But you guys, these aren't symptoms. They're not. There's not, they're not symptoms that you should sit down and go, okay, I just got a grinder. I got, I got to just suck it up for the rest of this week and push through. This is your biology going, Hey, man, pay attention, pay attention. And conventional pharma, three big treatments that they give you that don't work. Adderall, modafinal. I realized you're going to be like, didn't you talk about a modafinal? And I thought you said it was great. I think modafinal is frigging amazing. If you don't live on it, I mean, if you go, what about Adderall and you want to argue, then you just want to argue. Here's your sign. I don't have time to argue with stupid. You'll beat me to death with experience. So Adderall, modafinal, antidepressants, SSRIs. Like Prozac, they give you sleep aids like Ambien. If you've ever taken Ambien, you know how bad that is and why do they flop? I'll help you. Physiology. Watch stimulants, Jack dopamine and norepinephrine. And I'm not talking test-efensing levels. I'm talking nuclear levels. So they borrow tomorrow's energy today and tolerance builds up in weeks, in weeks. Do you know why Fennel peracetam hydrazide builds up a tolerance so fast? Because it doesn't have the fuel alpha GPC. If you, and here's just a side note for you. If you're taking Fennel peracetam hydrazide 75 to 100 hypothetically kangaroo milligrams for your kangaroo every day, you need to take alpha GPC 300 milligrams every day. Otherwise you're 150 to 300 milligrams every day. Otherwise you don't have the fuel. You're going to get tolerance. And I'm telling you, you're going to have a tolerance in about two to three days. So here's the issue. Tolerance builds up the stimulants, dopamine and norepinephrine because of these things, Adderall and modafinal tolerance builds because you're, it's the down regulation of that transporters. New England Journal of Medicine meta analysis 70%. Now these are massive numbers that you shouldn't be trifled with 70% efficacy drop after six months. And then the problem is you crash worse because they ignore the cause, the famine in the ATP crop. Right. Do you get this? Right. I'm really, I'm trying to help you SSRIs. This is another one, the boosts serotonin, but chronic fatigue is mitochondrial, not monoamine. So that doesn't even make sense. So when I see a doctor do this and say, we're going to give you an SSRI, what you want to do is you want to prescribe a drug because you're too lazy, too stupid, too ignorant to solve the patient's problem. I don't do that. I'm solving your problem. 2022 Lancet psychiatry on ME, CFS, I chronophysic. Right. So SSRIs improved mood. This is good. 15%. But fatigue scores unchanged. Nothing. Zero serotonin doesn't refill some mystical cellular gas tank. You guys look at sleep aids like a Zolpidem, right? Binds the GABA A. So it forces sleep, right? You're out, but you don't fix Delta wave restoration or the glimphatic clearance, the pressure washer that comes in when you sleep and the channels open up, right? The glimphatic system pressure washes amyloid beta plaques out of there. Go for all kinds of other stuff, but that's a huge one because dementia and Alzheimer's type three diabetes, amyloid beta plaques, those are the, that's the tombstone. That's what comes because of the result. But there's so many factors to this and so many facets to this diamond. I'm trying to give you bits and pieces because I could stay on here for 10 hours and do a thesis on this. Sleep medicine reviews. Listen, rebound insomnia, next day groggyness from fragmented REM sleep. They mask. They don't mend a freaking thing. An ambient personally scares the shit out of me. You're going to wake up in somebody's front yard with your pants missing. Forget it. Aggressive fatigue is not normal. Human physiology evolved for endurance. You did. If you listen to my buddy, I talk about him all the time because he's a good dude. He's a really intelligent Judd, Leenhard, right? So he talks about how most of your workouts are actually, you think you're working out really hard, but your workouts are very short. Throw on a ruck, go for a two and a half, three hour walk with a bag on your back. That's what we're designed for. That's what we're designed for. Like I am more impressed by somebody putting 40, 50 pounds on their back and walking for three hours straight than I am for somebody blasting Fran in a sub two minute time because I just don't care. That's not a life skill. Rucking, that's a life skill and it impresses the shit out of me. So that's the kind of stuff where I'm like, you have to understand you've evolved for endurance and he talks about this. Judd talks about this. Your workouts should be significantly longer, at least a couple of times a week. Hunter gatherers, listen to me, they trekked 20 miles daily on 2,500 calories. You know, two max peaks at 15 to 20 times basal metabolic rate, utter fatigue from desk life. A bull, bull. If you all my day, I'm so wrecked. You sat at a desk all day. You got no sunlight. That's part of the problem. Your cortisol rhythm is destroyed. Get outside, open your eyes. The first thing in the morning stare at the sun for 30 minutes. You're not going to go blind. That's a lie. Okay. 2023 nature metabolism study, healthy mitochondria can sustain 16 hour output without any crash whatsoever. Proven. Research proven. You shouldn't be getting betrayed by your mitochondria after 30 minutes because your mocha wore off. Fatigue stems from three biological failures. My three biological failures every single time I'll say it again, where's my damn Nobel Prize because I'm going to tell you right now, you might say it's ignorant. I deserve it. I damn well deserve it because I solved it. Do you know why Pfizer isn't lighting up my phone? Because Pfizer wants to make money off of you. I don't want to make money off of you. I want you to have the solution so you can go live your damn life. What a struggle that you're always fighting this up. You're like Sisyphus always pushing this stone, but you never solve the problem, but they keep giving you more and more drugs. Do you know why I have the black card? It's to solve all the problems that nobody else is solving and I'm damn good at it because I care and I'll bleed until I get the solution. I am, my group is filled with solutions. Sometimes in a matter of days, even a day, I read one the other day. Like I do my calls every Monday at five. I do my private Q and A call with my group every Monday at five. And I had so many people telling me how many radically awesome changes they've had like this. I was so proud of my group because they stuck to what I said. They listened to what I told them. And I love my group. So you want to join the black card? You need to send an email, apply at unlock the card. Don't ask me what you get with it or to explain or explain what it comes with because I've done this a ton of times. You get access to my private Q and A call every Monday. You get access to the VIP community and some of the protocol resource library, but I'm changing that anyway to be better. You, the VIP community is where Dr. T answers in 24 to 72 hours. It might not be the next day. Don't freak out. You've been trying to get this all for 10 days. It takes me three days to get to you. It's because I actually take my time because I want to make sure you get the right answer and I've never missed. Do you know why I don't miss? Because I will not take a chance with your health ever, ever. You come into my world, you join my black card. You know who you become? Family. Pardon my language. I'm trying not to curse a lot anymore on these podcasts. Really, I don't fuck with the health of my family. That's how much you matter to me. So you decide it's still at last year's price or 97 bucks. It's by wire. No, I don't take credit cards. No, I don't take anything else. Yes, I take Bitcoin. But other than that, because I do this because I give a shit. So you want to join great. You don't want to join great, but I saw these three biological failures every single day in slow resistance, systemic inflammation, TP shortage. I will dissect every one of these. Look at this. Estemic inflammation is always the first one. It's the one that causes so many problems. People go, so wait, I'll have to do a solve inflammation. Sometimes that is all you have to do, but it's not taking an Advil. You have the cytokine storm, IL-1 beta, TNF alpha from a leaky gut or just being obese. Listen, if you go, you offended me because you called me fat. Are you doing something about it? That's all I care about. Knowledge of the fact that you're the fact that you're fat and then just do something about it. I love you. How can I help? It's not the your fat make fun of you. I'm never going to do that. But I'll tell you this, if you're fat doing nothing about it, demanding that everybody else around you subscribes to your narrative and makes you feel better for making your bad decisions, forget it. You don't want to be part of my group either because everybody's going to hold you accountable. This is what happens though. So the cytokine storm also inhibits PGC-1 alpha. That's the mitochondrial boss for a biogenesis, creating more power plants. So the result is this. You have less, right? Fewer and much crappier mitochondria. Mitochondria would turn out your ATP. Your ATP is the currency your life runs on. Low ATP, small bank account, get to the things you want. Look at it that way. 2015, Selma Tabolism showed inflammation causes this is such a big number, again, 50% ATP drop. It is not a coffee problem or a sleep problem. That's just the first part of this. There are three, insulin resistance, muscle and liver. They're deaf, right? To insulin. So they ignore it. Starving glucose uptake through something called Glute 4 translocation failure. They don't migrate to the cell surface to allow them to open up the doors to take in glucose. Just that's the simplest way I can explain it. Hyperinsulinemia spikes ROS, reactive oxygen species. So worsens mitochondrial damage. 2017 diabetes care. insulin resistance patients have 35% lower muscle ATP turnover. That's a giant amount. Imagine taking 35% of your lifespan and cutting it off. That's where you're at with this. ATP shortages, the third one. Mitochondrial electron leak dumps electrons prematurely. So now you trash the proton motive force failing to spin ATP synthase at a rate that's high enough to generate a nice fat, chubby ATP yield that's just dripping over the sides of the containers because you have so much of it. Complex one and two inhibition from reactive oxygen species kicks in. So it becomes this vicious cycle to ATP synthesis is down in this is an NAS. ATP synthesis down 40% in any fatigue state. 40%. I want you guys to think of it as something where you wouldn't want to lose 40%. So I wouldn't want to lose 40% of my lifespan. Right. I wouldn't want to lose 40% of my bank account. I wouldn't want to lose 40% of my children or 40% of my marriage. 40. I don't, I wouldn't want to lose 40% of the people that I love and care about. My black card. So you understand that this is a real number. Low energy, you guys, is a symptom. It's not a cause. It's what I always say. It's the smoke. These fires are what burns underneath. Theology 101 feedback loops do one thing very effectively. They amplify it. Boy, do they ever, it's not a sleep problem. You guys just need more sleep. You just need more sleep, bro. It's not that complicated. Okay. Okay. And if that's for you, awesome. You're still wrong and you're ignorant for people that sleep and still don't have a solution. How about you maybe stopping such a jackass? Right. Sleep restores. Look at mitochondrial fission versus fusion. That's a problem, a topology, but the pro and it causes a topology, which cleans up all the mess. However, chronic fatigue persists post sleep. We'll explain that here. I'll help you. Polysomnography in sleep journal. Listen to me. Chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia patients. They're the best example because they're always fatigued in the trash because they're running on low ATP. They have normal sleep architecture though. So they're getting the rest they need, but their daytime ATP deficits are atrocious 45%. 45%. Sleeps a pit stop. You guys, you need to fuel. What do you think you do when you sleep? Anyone that works out, anyone that's an athlete, by the way, athletes regenerate all their ATP to back to normal levels inside of 48 hours. That's normal. Now that's a highly trained athlete, but you should be that way. You're born that way. You screw it up by listening to people that tell should be like that. So here, look at the fixers. It's funny. Feel like I'm going to a business and I have to chop it up. Right. Like I'm like KPMG, right? Business transformation service. I go in and I find out where all the money leaks are. So in time leaks, if you don't know, then you don't know. But anyway, MOTC, redotrutide and methylene blue, they obliterate these three failures. Watch MOTC up regulates and I'm trying to make this short, but I'm already 30 minutes in. MOTC up regulates AMPK. The, it mimics the best way you can explain is it mimics exercise, not as effective in that department as SLU, but that's another conversation. It does it differently. So it mimics exercise and it boosts glute for. So it fixes. So they go to the cell, open up the goers, open up the doors, let an insulin, right? So it fixes the insulin resistance to inflammatory. It suppresses the NLRP three and flamazon. It drops, listen to this number. It drops interleukin six, 50% cell metabolism, 2015 proved that ATP nuclear, nuclear mitochondrial crosstalk through the PGC one alpha, which I just talked about causes biogenesis, which means you get more power plants by the, to the tune of about 30% 30% nature communications 2020 proved that number. 30% more power plants. If you had 30% more money in your bank account, 30% more years to your life, would you be okay? 30% more muscle, 30% less fat. You could go either direction and see what it does. Look at human trials, aging cell 2022 obese adults used. Let's see, you probably can't see that, right? Mosse and their fatigue scores, 45% change. That's almost half you guys. You know why it did it through improved VO two peak and insulin sensitivity and their insulin sensitivity, by the way, doubled. That's just one of these three things I talked about. Most people are doing this wrong. I'm going to tell you the dark side about this in a second too, because you need to know both sides. Otherwise I'm not doing you any favor. I'm doing you a disservice. Look at red and true tide, right? Just a horror, triple horror or fat GLP one, GIP, glucagon, I guess I've explained how it works, how to hit the brakes and one hits the gas and it has only one place to go, which is thermogenesis and the liver, right? So physiology one on one, ELP one drops glucagon, stabilizes glucose and GIP enhanced insulin, enhances insulin secretion. I could run through this so fast because I've done this so many times on torches, liver fat only though, only listen to me, glucagon by itself is not going to do that. We're gone in the presence of GLP one and GIP is what allows it to only have one option. It puts it in a cage and it says you can only torch liver fat. Thermogenesis is the only thing you can do. It fixes insulin resistance massively, by the way, phase two, New England Journal of Medicine. This is such a great study 24 week trial, 150. By the way, you wanted to know dosages, 150 micrograms weekly. Just do the math. I'll wait. 150 micrograms weekly, HbA1c sub diabetic levels. 24 pounds minimum weight loss, 70% of that weight loss was fat, pure fat inflammation adipinectin up 60%. C-reactive protein down about 40%, ATP through fat loss. Listen to this. Ectopic lipids clear from muscle, mitocin,  ectodendria. This is probably one of the most effective peptides ever invented. For the people that I love, great. For the people that are here just to complain, you guys are screwing with it thinking you can microdose and hyperdose and all this stuff. It's not designed for that and all you're doing is screwing with your own biology. Excuse me. So if you want to go, I don't care, I just want to get lean. Great, you can. Somebody asked me if I use red or true tide. That's funny. As if this is built by red or true, it just does all the work for you. You don't have to do anything. It's like taking testosterone and going, I'm going to be jacked and lean and athletic just by taking it. If you guys have seen my work, I just don't post my workouts anymore because I just got nothing to prove. I know what I do. I'm not doing it to impress you. I'm doing it because it's my obligation to be the best version of myself. You can do what you want. Look at methylene blue. Old school dye, baby. This thing's heroic as hell, though. Low dose. When I say low dose, half to one milligram. Somebody asked me, by the way, about, I got a touch on this real quick. Somebody asked me why the elite, my company, right? Our company's methylene blue is 0.25 per milliliter versus seeing like whatever that one is, Merlachy, Merkali, whatever it is, that guy with that UFC guy on that. Why theirs and why theirs is so dark blue and stains your teeth? One, because they use dyes and you want me to prove it, it's going to really piss off that company if I do because they're not going to guess it's proof. That's number one, but number two is, oh, yeah, I'm sure somebody's going to hear that and go, no, it's not. I can prove it. Are you on that one now? Your pee does not have to turn blue to show that methylene blue is working, by the way, it doesn't need to stain your mouth either. If you're taking it in gummies, it's not nearly as effective. But the problem is this, they're running theirs at 1%. I'm running mine at 10. 10% concentration. Yours is at 1% concentration. So that says, just do the math, that says that 0.25 of mine at 10% is significantly better. You can doubt it, but I've never felt a difference at the dosage that is required. You shouldn't have to take 10 to 15 milligrams. You should have to take half a milligram to one milligram because this is pharmaceutical dose. So again, it goes back to why I am so fussy about the company because I care about what you guys put in your body. Otherwise, you know what else, what I would be if I didn't, I'd be another pharma shill. I'm not, I won't even put it on my site if it's garbage. So methylene blue is next level, it's wild. Yes, it needs to be cycled. So even that, I gave you a hypothetical, gave you a hypothetical kangaroo dose, half to one milligram every day. I gave you a hypothetical dose for red and true tide. Most of you guys didn't pick up on it, 150 micrograms weekly. I gave you a hypothetical dose for MOTC, five milligrams every Monday, Thursday, but you guys aren't listening to this. You're going to, when are you going to talk about dosages? I literally just spelled it out for you. If you argue about the dosages, then why are you asking me for help? This is where my head's at today. Like, I'm just frustrated at people going, I want the help, but then you give me the help, but I don't want the help because I'd rather listen to the bro sign single, listen to the bro sign. That's okay. Low dose, it slips into complex four. I passes the traffic jam in one, two, and three, that is just all blocked up and gummed up. It shuttles electrons directly. And what it does is it cranks up ATP. This is a massive span, 30% to 70% proven by the way, FASCB Journal 2017. Anti-inflammatory, by the way, it's also that inhibits NOx2, reactive oxygen species, shuts down NLR3, NLRP3, and flamazone. Look at that's proven in biology. Real study, 2022. It's not just me saying the word. Look at Alzheimer's. This is one of the coolest ones ever. If you're worried about it, you should probably listen to this. Microglial IL1 beta, 60% change. There's human proof, by the way, JCI Insight 2021. Here's a great one for you. Long COVID. You guys suffering from long COVID, the fatigue, right? Randomized control, the RCT, randomized control trial. This is the best part. One milligram twice a day, two weeks, fatigue down 52%. ATP and ADP ratio normalized, and they did it through MRI spectroscopy, by the way, so they proved it. You guys need to listen to me because I'm out here to help. I'm not out here to sell a product or a service. Okay, so I need to flip the script on this because you need to look at these heroes and how they can backfire. MOTC, here's why it makes you tired. I was going to do a whole Instagram post on this, but I'll just, I still might, but we'll see. MOTC, the over-stimulation city, that's the problem. It ramps up AMPK far too hard, so the Glute 4 Translocation overloads cells too much, far too much. This is why, with glucose minus their mitochondrial prep that they need, and the result is this, you get this oxidative burst, so you get more reactive oxygen species, and you get a fatigue rebound. So it's not the fault of the peptide, it's the fault of the biology. Yours. You're inflamed mitochondria. This is why I'm talking to you about this. The inflamed mitochondria can't handle the flood of fuel, so if you take mitochondria and you get tired, it's not a peptide problem, it's a yield problem. They proved this, 2018, aging cell. High dose MOTC, initial energy spike briefly, and then a 20% ATP dip from uncoupled respiration. So it can have the reverse effect. This is why you have to repair the system, not just take it because some Instabrow told you to take it and you like this hair. Look at red and true tide. It'll do the same thing. It'll make you tired as hell. GI slowdown, dehydration, electrolyte crash, does all this stuff. Rapid fat loss just unleashes free fatty acids, so you get this temporary insulin resistance spike before you have any adaptation. Jastreboff 2024, Nature Medicine, Phase 3 interim, 15% of the people reported fatigue. The glucagon surge taxes adrenals pre-mitochondrial repair. Mitochondria are damaged primarily from inflammatory processes. So it's not a peptide problem, it's a yield problem. Your depleted ATP can't fund the metabolic shift, which is exactly why MOTC and red and true tide will make you sleepy. Now bypass that and if they don't, and if you want to solve, that's more of a conversation about what I had on my MOTS SS and NAD plus or MOTS NAD plus and SS 31. That's a whole lot. Look at that podcast. But together, whoa, these things nuke the fatigue problem. Inflammation, look at this. Let's just go right to it though. MOTC, NLRP blocks, and this is in NLRP 3 and flamazon 2021, red and true tide, adipose macrophage shift. This is obesity 2024 and methylene blue. Remember, enos and inos, the nitricosic acid synthase ratio, so inos inhibition. So this combo, this triple combo that you have in your lunch bag that you're taking of MOTC, red and true tide and methylene blue, dump cytokines. The grand total is 70%. Big number, folks. That's just the inflammation. But remember, the primary driver of all these issues is inflammation, causes yourselves to become insulin death, definitely shuts down mitochondria to produce ATP. Do you see where I'm going with this? So no, you can't just fix one if you're about to ask me that. You have to fix all three. insulin resistance, MOTC, AMPK, glute, solves that problem. Red and true tide, triple agonism, the Lancet 2023, phase three preview, you can see it. The diabetes 2019 shows MOTC solving the insulin resistance problem. Methylene blue, glucose uptake via the PKB, biochem, pharmacol 2020. insulin resistance crashes 50 to 80%. That's a huge number, you guys. If I had insulin resistance, I'd be looking all over the place to solve that problem because me, I want to spend a whole lot more years with my beautiful, sexy wife, Brandy and my awesome kids and all the people that I love and care about, the people I don't care. You guys, I'm not interested in you. Look at the ATP shortage, MOTC, PGC one alpha. What does that do? Cranks up biogenesis, red and true tide, fat clearance for mitochondrial fuel. So it's doing all the things to make your system work. It's not just coming in with a wrecking ball and demanding that your system works, which causes long-term problems because you get a rebound effect the second you stop, right? Methylene blue, electron transport chain, it goes right to complex four. So listen, the synergy three times the ATP up. So now we've solved inflammatory problem, we've solved the insulin resistance and we've solved the ATP shortage. Real studies, you have to look at this and understand they use methylene blue by the way on a side note, in sepsis, the peptide methylene blue stack, in sepsis, this one, the specific one, MOTC, Rata, methylene blue, 2024, naps 2024. They use this 90% survival. How many of your doctors are talking about this stuff? They're not. Why did they survive by the way? Their ATP was restored. They had the energy to get in the fight. Human analogs screen, yes. Look, you guys, I'm going to go because I have other things to do, but you guys have been sold a bunch of lies. Just sleep more, pop a pill, hustle harder, bro. Just suck it up, be a man, whatever. That is slave programming. Your biology demands better from you and I'm trying to give you the answers so you have it. Fatigue isn't your destiny. It's not your future. It's not because your mommy or your daddy had fatigue. It's not because your boss is working you too hard. It's diagnostic. Fix the fires. Fix the fires. Just put out the fires. Inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Fix those. Right? Mod C, red, a true tide, methylene blue. None of this stuff is complicated. They want you to think it's complicated, but you guys are not broken. You're not. You're underpowered. Stack these because here's why ultimately everybody that's listening to this for the most part, don't get offended to what I'm about to say. Grow up. For the most part, everybody that listens to this at some point in their life walked, except everybody that's got children, has watched their child roll around on the floor and then try and get up and bang their dome, their head against every piece of furniture that you have in your house, learning to walk, but not one single child has ever gone, I quit. I'm going to sit here and play on my Xbox instead at one year old. They kept doing it until they did what? Until they damn well walk. Evolution did not build quitters. It didn't. You're not a quitter. You've been taught that. And physiology doesn't lie. That's why I give you this information. The problem, like you have to, science doesn't negotiate. It just doesn't. Why are you? That's exactly why. Why are you negotiating? Why are you getting in my comments and complaining? Why are you griping about things when this is the doctor right here who's just giving you the answer so you have a better life, man? Sometimes you guys shock me. I gotta go. Hope you got something out of this. Never miss.

=== FILE: Melanotan 2 Masterclass (and a Huge List of Benefits) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [oaBecGSb03Y].txt ===

 amlodipine, the fundamental misunderstanding of biology by medical doctors is astounding, is all I've got to say. I was going to do a different podcast but people were asking me about this. This is a master class on melanotan2. I will go line by line on exactly what it is and why it's not what you think it is and why it does so many more things than you can imagine. This stuff is wild. But it's most people think it's a tanning peptide and a couple of people think it's a libido peptide. You're not wrong. However, that's like saying water is for drinking. You're missing everything else that it's good for. Let's just get right into it because I have a bunch of things to do. So I want to knock this out. Here's what most people think. It's just melanatin 2. But that's not it is. It's this synthetic analog of alpha melanocyte of alpha melanocyte stimulating hormone alpha msh for the people that actually nerd out on biology like me. But here's where it gets interesting. Alpha msh isn't just a cosmetic peptide. Right. I get asked even in my group, how much do I take for tanning so much more than it does. And here's the thing. You can't selectively choose what it does. You guys do understand that, right? If you take an Advil or an Aproxen or whatever it is you're going to take some kind of NSAID and some kind of Cox inhibitor, you don't get to choose. If you hurt your thumb, you don't get to choose that it just goes to your thumb. Now, the difference between a peptide and a drug is that a drug is like a wrecking ball. It demands that your body does this. No matter what, you don't have a choice. It forces your body to do things. Even if your body says this goes against everything that I'm wired to do. A peptide can't do that. It only tells your body to do the things it's designed to do. It can't force you to do something. It makes what you do better. It makes it infinite like orders of magnitude better. So that's a very fundamental difference between the two things. So I understand this. Melanotan is Melanotan 2 is it's a regulatory neuropeptide signaling molecule. And this is what changes everything. It binds to melanocortin receptors, not just in this, not just MC1 receptors on your melanocytes. I'm talking four, five, three, like MC4, MC5, all of them. MC1, they're throughout your entire nervous system, your cardiovascular system, your digestive system, your immune system, metabolic tissues, like adipose tissues. It's everywhere. So if you look when researchers at the University of Arizona, 2011 began mapping Melanocortin receptor distribution, they saw something pretty wild. And that's these receptors. Listen, this these receptors are literally everywhere that a human biology, human being has where there's inflammation, an inflammatory problem, or a metabolic dysfunction. Just process what I said for a second. And let me explain how this works. You've got MC4 receptors on the hypothalamus controlling your appetite. Hold on, I want to drink some coffee. You've got MC3 receptors in your adipose tissue regulating your fat metabolism. You've got melanocortin receptors in endothelial cells in your kidneys and your immune cells in your myocardium in your brain's reward centers. It's not a tanning compound. These are biological systems. And this is a biological operating system hack that's going to blow your mind. Here's the thing about modern medicine. I think people need to understand is that modern medicine compartmentalizes everything. We see a dermatologist for skin, a cardiologist for the heart, neurologist for the brain, but your body doesn't get that book. It's not compartmentalized at all. It's the most ridiculous way of treating a patient, which is why my results demolish everybody else's results. And if you go, that's a little bit arrogant. No, it's not. It's egotistical because I actually care about my patients and my people. I care about my clients, which is why I get results because I don't treat the body as pieces. Your body isn't compartmentalized. Your body is this unified electromagnetic biochemical information system. Period. Like full stop. When you understand that Milano tan two is hitting Milano, Corten receptors across multiple organ systems. Simultaneously, you realize that you've probably been asking the wrong question the entire time. The right question isn't why does it tan skin, which is what? What's my dosage for tanning, which is what makes me insane when people ask that? What's my dosage? I want to get tan for the summer. What's my dosage? Yeah, not a good idea, Brian. But the right question is what happens when you solve the Milano, Corten system? It is a system. It's not just a series of receptors because here's what all the literature and all the studies and all the research is screaming. The Milano, Corten system is a master regulatory of pretty much everything that we struggle with in modern disease state. But NIH, National Institutes for Health 2013, discovered that Milano, Corten pathway is fundamentally involved in regulating so many things, systemic inflammation through POMC neurons and central alpha MSH production, metabolic homeostasis. Just follow me on all this stuff through hypoflamic pituitary adrenal axis regulation. I'm already two things deep and it's already changing. It's so much more than just a tan immune function through modulation pro inflammatory cytokines, TNF alpha, IL6, IL1 beta, sexual function. You bet your bippy this works well through Milano, Corten receptors in the medial preoptic area in the PVT. And I'll get to all this in a second. I will explain exactly how this stuff works. Cardiovascular tone through endothelial Milano, Corten receptor signaling, cognitive function through Milano, Corten expression in the hippocampus, the prefrontal cortex. Listen, you're looking at a system that is supposed to be the body's inflammatory brake pedal, right? And modern disease is what happens when that system gets down regulated. So just go into the actual physiology because this is where it becomes real sexy and pretty much undeniable. When you introduce Milano, Corten two into your system, it crosses the blood brain barrier. It's lipophilic enough to do this. And it begins stimulating Milano, Corten receptors throughout your entire CNS, central nervous system and your PNS peripheral nervous system. Here's what happens and I'll go system by system. So you actually get it. So you understand. Remember, listen, I don't care if you buy my stuff. I don't know how many times I need to say this. There's some Muppet out there that just keeps saying all I'm trying to do is sell things. I've never tried to sell anybody anything. In fact, watch, you can join the black card membership, $9,997 by wire only. No, I don't take payments. No, I don't take credit cards. And if you're mad about that, I'm not for you. That's okay. But it's access directly to my live Q&A that I do every Monday. I had it yesterday where I do nothing but knock out solutions and answers to every single frigging health problem you've got and they all work. I have a guy that had multiple sclerosis where it's gone. Okay, you guys understand I do this because I care and I'm exceptional at it. I suck at a ton of things, but not this. This is where I am mind-blowingly effective. This is why I have CEOs and celebrities and actors and actresses and athletes all calling me now because they go, nobody can help me, but I know you can. Yeah, because I actually give a shit. Just listen, because I'm gritty and bald and I curse and I got a beard. Doesn't mean I don't have the intelligence to do this and the knowledge to solve your problems. I'm very good at it. That's why I'm a doctor, not some rent-a-dock. And for every CSCS and NASM expert out there, listen, I love that you took the courses. We are not in the same league. When you try and make a post that says, this is why this chiropractor doesn't understand chemistry, I've forgotten more about chemistry than. And it's not to be an asshole. It's because the asshole is the person trying to attack me going, what I talk about, I don't know, but yet I'm the one with the results. So my receipts behind me are stacked a mile high. But if you want to join the Black Card membership, fantastic. It's a year. You get access to the VIP area. You can ask me real questions. 24 to 72 hours is my turnaround time. It's like I said, 9,997 bucks. You send an email to my exec assistant. She's a badass. Yeah, ply at unlockthecard.com. I don't know when I'm going to raise the price, but it is going to go up to 25,000. I just have been putting it off, not for any other reason other than I just haven't done it because I'm trying to help people. But at the same time, I don't want people that are going to flood my inbox with nothing but complaints and do and not do what I tell them to do. I only have one very strict rule. Do what I tell you to do because it will work the end. And if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, yes, it is my company. Great. You can buy all the peptides there. My COAs aren't bunky. They're from Genociak industry gold standard. Just so you know, you can't fake those. So when knuckleheads go on to go there, fake COAs. Yeah, but you can pull them up at Genociak. So I just I don't know even though you guys, if you're buying into it, it's like the people that look at the AI versions of me selling some weird stuff on Amazon. First of all, I'm never going to do it. And second of all, if you believe for a second that was me, you're an imbecile. It's I don't even sound like that guy. So I don't know, maybe I need to quickly jump around locations all the time. So AI can't clone me, but none of that really bothers me. The point is this. I'm here to give you information so you have the info to make a educated decision. I don't care what that is. I care that it's the right one to put you in a place so your life becomes better. That's all. So let me go system by system and explain how this Milano 10 to work. So if you look at the hype, because it's important, if you look at the hypothalamus, so the Milano 10 to empty to just call it that stimulates pro opium, Milano, Corton, neurons, these are the primary control neurons. So when POMC neurons turn on, they release alpha MSH directly into your hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, and this isn't cosmetic. This is pure neuro endocrine control. So there's a paper Stanford University 2015 showed that POMC neuron activation specifically suppresses. You're going to love this. The inflammatory transfer from factor NF cap of B. You remember what this is in all peripheral tissues. NF cap of B, if you forgot, is the master switch that turns on chronic inflammation. So when you turn it off, you're literally turning off the biological cascade that causes 95 percent of all disease. And before you run out and start going, I need this to add to my stack because people are going to ask, Hey, man, I just watched this. Do I need to add this to my stack? Oh, you probably don't. I'm giving you information so you have it. And then we talk about this afterwards. You got to fix your biology first. This is where people screw up. They add like 50 things. I have a guy in my group right now. He sent me about 12 pages of crap. God bless this dude. But holy moly, he was like taking so much stuff like I went, your liver's on overload. It's not even a work right. I don't want to tell you I'm trying to help you. But are you sure? Are you sure I really want to add this? You can. But then why do you hire me? Look at your. Yes, it bugs me a little bit. Look at your immune system. M T two stimulates. Milano can't. Milano, Corten three. Milano, Corten four receptors on macrophages and dendritic cells. Let me explain what this does. It shifts the immune response from T H one, T H 17, that ratio, which is pro inflammatory towards the T H two T reg, which is anti inflammatory and regulatory. So if you look at the 2012 Journal of Immunology, they showed that Milano, Corten, stimulating directly inhibits TNF alpha, IL six, IL one beta production in activated macrophages. These just, you know what these are? They're the exact cytokines driving systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, neuro degeneration and cardiovascular disease. So now you have something that can turn all that off. And yet right now the FDA is attacking peptides. Make it make sense. The number of deaths by a peptide precisely zero. Oh, I'm going to do a banger of a podcast on the FDA versus research use only. And for all of you guys go gap, but you should get them at compounding pharmacies. So they're controlled by the big pharma. How's that worked out so far in the past? The FDA, no, thanks. Listen, you are literally biochemically rebalancing your immune system towards tolerance and away from chronic violent activation. Look at your metabolic tissues. M T two hits MC four receptors in the sympathetic nervous system, which increases the metabolic rate, but then this is very important. It does this while at the same time improving insulin signaling through AMPK activation muscle tissues. There's something else that activates AMPK, mot C. Imagine if you started marrying these two together and you understood biology. Don't just run and do that. Ask me first. And here's the part that most people miss. You're not just burning fat with Milano 10 to with empty to you're making yourself more metabolically active and sensitive for lack of a better explanation. So here's the architecture that makes this so effective. It makes empty to so effective. Every major chronic disease type two diabetes, cardiovascular disease, neuro degeneration, autoimmune conditions, metabolic dysfunction. They all converge. Same three biological failure points that I came up with. Where is my Nobel Prize? I'm going to say it every time. Where is it? I damn well deserve it because I solved chronic disease, but you're never going to read about it other than something I write. Why? Because it takes money out of the pockets of the people that are slowly killing you through managed decline. So I will prove that empty to addresses all three biological failures at the same time. Look at systemic inflammation. Your immune system exists for one purpose only. Defend against actual threats and maintain homeostasis. Your balance, your systemic balance, but then in the modern environment, processed foods, endotoxin exposure, hyperglycine, because you don't know what to eat, because you don't even forgot. Human beings are the only people that are through creatures on earth that have forgotten how to eat oxidative stress, circadian disruption, all this stuff. Your immune system is in the state of chronic, appropriately high activation. Your macrophages are angry. Your dendritic cells are hyper stimulated. The TH1 and TH17 populations are expanded. You're living in this state of smoldering inflammation and it's killing you very slowly, which is exactly what they want. Milano 10 to empty to addresses this through Milano, Courtney mediated suppression of pro inflammatory cytokines. Let me explain 2014 University of Washington published data that proved that Alpha MSH mediated MC4 receptor signaling specifically decreased IL-6, TNF, Alpha and IL-17 in production in human human. No rat studies out of Croatia like that Muppet doctor that's going around saying, don't use peptides, you should use pharmaceuticals. Are you nuts? Human blood mononuclear cells. These are understand this is the difference between health and disease. And there are this and I'm not out here going this magic supplement, this magic vial cures everything that you have. I'm saying that your body does. Your body is designed for this. You have been indoctrinated to think that you're sick because of a lack of a medication that is absolutely incorrect. And once you understand that, you understand biology, your entire paradigm shifts. And you start looking to solve failures. So your biology works, not cover up symptoms. So you have more biological problems. So watch when you reduce these cytokines, you're biochemically silencing the inflammatory amplification loop that's occurring in your system. Look at the second failure, right? insulin resistance. So here's what nobody tells you about insulin resistance. It's not actually about how much insulin you produce. It's about whether or not your cells even listen to the damn insulin signal. So insulin, look at insulin resistance happens under a couple of conditions. It happens when chronic inflammation damages IRS one insulin receptor, substrate one signaling in muscle cells, excess fatty acid accumulation in mitochondria, impairs glucose oxidation, chronic hyperglycine drives age, AGE advanced glycation in product formation, which activates rage receptors. And yes, I really call that and triggers NF Kappa B, which you just learned is the master inflammatory control. My toe and I'm not talking about in flamazon, but mitochondrial dysfunction reduces ATP production, preventing the energy dependent steps of the main thing that you need, which is glucose metabolism. M T two hits all four of these mechanisms. Watch. So by suppressing systemic inflammation, it's failure one mechanism one. You reduce the SOCS proteins that phosphorylate and inactivate IRS one. So your insulin signal gets much cleaner, much more clear by improving sympathetic tone and metabolic rate mechanism to right. You increase fat oxidation and reduce muscular. Do that. Make sure you got that one. Lipid accumulation, your mitochondria start working better. But watch, I'll keep going. Let's go. Mechanism three by improving sympathetic tone and metabolic rate mechanism to let's go, let's keep going. Mechanism three by reducing. So look, empty two hits all four of these mechanisms. Watch. So by suppressing systemic inflammation, mechanism one, you reduce the SOCS proteins that phosphorylate and inactivate IRS one. So your insulin signal gets cleaner and more, more clear. Look at the improving sympathetic tone and your metabolic rate mechanism to I just went over this, you increase fat oxidation and reduce intramuscular lipid accumulation. So now your mitochondria work better by reducing NF Kappa B activation. Mechanism three, you reduce age formation, rage signaling and your glucose metabolism improves. If you look, listen, research from the Journal of Molecular Endocrinology in 2013 showed that Milano Korton pathway activation increases. Pay attention increases AMPK phosphorylation and skeletal muscle. This is the cellular energy sensor that literally tells your mitochondria to produce more ATP and metabolize glucose significantly more efficiently. So you're not just this four mechanisms, right? You're not just lowering blood sugar, you guys. You're making cells fundamentally more responsive, expressive to insulin at the molecular level. Look at the third biological failure, right? The ATP shortage, the mitochondrial dysfunction, you can call it whatever you want. This is the invisible pandemic that nobody on earth is talking about. Let me and it's killing people left and center. The smart doctors are talking about it. The Instabros are never going to talk about it because it doesn't make the money unless they go, this solves your mitochondria, but I can't spell mitochondria. Yes, it bugs me. Because I don't make I don't make reaction videos to people ever. I'm too busy helping people actually being a great doctor, not an insecure toddler on social media. So look at modern life. High carb, processed foods, circadian disruption, monsters, red bulls, chronic stress, oxygen exposure. All of this systematically damages mitochondrial function. Your mitochondria, the little power plants in your cells. And when they're broken, here's what breaks. You ready? You want you probably stop if you're driving right now. You want to stop and write this down. Here's what breaks when your mitochondria go tits up. Everything. There you go. You're welcome. Planet 10 to addresses this through a ton of different ways, but I will follow. I will hit a few of them just to understand. Sympathetic activation is the first thing it does. It increases metabolic rate, up regulates mitochondrial biogenesis, PGC one alpha activation, so you create more and healthier power plants, reduced inflammation. So it decreases the production of mitochondrial damaging reactive oxygen species and pro inflammatory cytokines that do one thing very well. They down regulate mitochondrial proteins and cost you energy. Your ATP goes way down about 60 percent improves insulin signaling. So it allows for better glucose oxidation actually inside the mitochondria. Remember, so we know about the electron transport chain. We know about cardiolipin. We know the inner mitochondrial membrane. We know how this all works, how your body takes food and turns it into horse power with a proton gradient. So just follow me on this. Duke University 2015 showed that POMC neuron activation increases metabolic rate. Excuse me, by 22 percent. Twenty two percent. Your energy goes up 22 percent. It is more than noticeable. Just so you know, it does it through sympathetic mediated increased increases in brown adipose tissue activity and mitochondrial uncoupling protein expression. So here's what it what that means. You're literally regenerating your own energy production system. Here's where all of this converges. Follow me. Your body has three fundamental requirements. It follows these three failures. Listen, you have to control inflammation, so you're not destroying yourself. You have to maintain metabolic health, so your cells are responsive and insulin sensitive, and this is the inverse rate. And you need to produce energy so your mitochondria can execute the biochemistry of life because ATP is the currency you need to live. MT-2 addresses all three at the same time through one single mechanism. One, melanochortin receptor optimization. You suppress the watch. I'll just follow me on this. You suppress the inflammatory cascade. Your cells become insulin sensitive right off the bat. Right. Your mitochondria now function better. So because of that, what do you think? When your mitochondria function better, you produce more ATP and you recover the one thing your body is constantly fighting for, which is homeostasis. This is why it seems to work very well for unrelated conditions. You're not treating symptoms. That's why if you go, this isn't related to this, but it worked. It's not an off-label thing that they come up with a drug so they can give more people the drug. This is solving the system that you have. You're fixing the underlying biological architecture, which is why you have such fantastic results. Let me explain. Listen, let's go right into erectile libido and erectile dysfunction because a lot of people take it for this and they don't even know why. And half of the time you guys are taking it wrong. Here's what's happening because you don't understand what's happening when you're struggling with erectile function or low libido men and women. It doesn't matter. The clitoris gets erect as well because the pharmaceutical industry has made this most so ridiculously complicated, but sexual arousal is fundamentally controlled by two very straightforward system, sympathetic nervous system, which is the gas pedal. So during excitement and arousal and all that stuff, sympathetic nervous system activity increases, causing norepinephrine release in the genitals. Okay. The parasympathetic system, which is the brakes during rest, recovery, refractory period, whatever you want to have all that stuff. The PNS peripheral nervous system or the parasympathetic nervous system activity dominates so it causes acetylcholine release. So here's what needs to occur for an erection to happen and grow up if you're going to be a tough cavernous, smooth muscle relaxation has to occur so blood can fill the corpus cavernosis. Penile arteriolar vasodilation needs to happen so blood can actually flow in. Central arousal signals from the brain need to occur so the whole system can work. And here's where it breaks for modern men all over the place. It's not a lack of sealis. Watch chronic stress, elevated cortisol and norepinephrine, sympathetic dominance, elevated resting sympathetic nervous system tone. So now your penis is in fight, flight or freeze mode all the time and you can't relax, smooth muscle, so you get no erection. It's not if it's just biology, you guys. By the way, at the same time, chronic inflammation, because I talked about this, chronic inflammation, most people are in a massive inflammatory state, elevated TNF alpha and IL-6 and IL-17 endothelial dysfunction, reduced nitric oxide production, NO, and impaired vasodilation. So now you can't even get the system to come online. Add in metabolic dysfunction, reduced ATP and smooth muscle cells, which is required. So now you can't mean there's no gas in the tank to maintain the relaxation. So the rectile failure compounds. It's just one layer on top of the other, which is why you walk around like an overcooked or overcooked piece of spaghetti. It doesn't work not because it's because your biology doesn't work. Solve the biology. It's not a lack of ED medication. You don't have to go sit there and dial up whatever. Hems, hers, it's whatever it is. Here's what MT-2 does at the molecular level. And I'll explain it from A to Z. Look at the brain. MT-2 stimulates malignal cord receptors in the medial preoptic area. I talked about this and the PVT, the paraventricular nucleus, which are your brain's sexual arousal centers. So the research from the University of Amsterdam, 2007, you got to understand this has been around for a long time, showed that direct malignal cord and agonism in the PVN increases penile erection frequency and intensity across the board by 47%. This is not controversial. This is how your brain is wired, which is exactly why it works. MT-2, it also increases dopamine and oxytocin in the same regions, which are fundamental to sexual motivation and the experience of desire. You need this stuff, which is why you look at SSRIs and MAOIs and people become they have anodonia, right? Just neutros, zero emotion, nothing, no feeling. Now, do you understand why this stuff is so important to know? I really listen. I really want you to understand your biology so you can do this. Look at the endothelium. MT-2 suppresses systemic inflammation, reduces TNF alpha, IL6, IL17, improves nitric oxide production in endothelial cells. I talked about this. It increases cyclic GMP and cavernous smooth muscle cells so you can actually get an erection, relaxation, phase of dilation, blood flow, erection. It's a biological cascade along with a temporal summation to achieve orgasm, which is required, right? You constantly increase until you reach the membrane potential and then you cross the threshold if you ever took human fizz. But look at the sympathetic nervous system by suppressing systemic inflammation, which is the chronic stressor. MT-2 reduces baseline norepinephrine and baseline cortisol. So now your sympathetic nervous system tone, it regulates it. It becomes normal. So the fight, flight, freeze, grip that it has the vice on your system, your genitals is gone. Look at that. Go right to mitochondria. Remember what I said, if you don't have the ATP to maintain the relaxation, you can't maintain the erection. So by improving ATP production in smooth muscle cells, MT-2 ensures that you have enough energy to maintain the metabolic slate. The metabolic state that smooth muscle relaxation actually requires. You think relaxation doesn't take energy. It actually takes a ton of energy. And here's the part. This is very critical that separates MT-2 from things like Cialis, Saldena, Phil, Tadalafil, all of the things like the PD5 inhibitors, right? You're not just masking the symptom. You're fixing the biology underneath that's causing the dysfunction. International Journal of Impotence Research 2009 showed that melanocortin agonism produces durable improvements in erectile function long after discontinuation, which means you solve the problem. You're not bypassing it. You solve the problem. So if you take like a Saldena or Tadalafil, you have to take that in order to get the system to work. But if you took it once and then the system started working and got it back online, it would be a much better product, agreed? But the problem is it doesn't make copious amounts of profit. So what if imagine if they charged $200 for the pill, but you only had to take the pill once, it is still a fraction of how much money they're making on people taking these pills every day. And I'm not talking about Cialis for things that if you have a prostate issue or the five milligram a day stuff, if you know about that, and if not, I need to do a post on benign prostate hyperplasia and enlarge prostate and all the things that are happening because there's some pretty wild things that'll make it go away. And they don't involve a knife for taking something that doesn't make you work very well and jacking up your system. Listen, how about this? Let me blow your mind. How about we throw some neurology and this stuff's fun for me? So your brain is about 60% lipids, right? Requires constant energy ATP and has this very limited blood supply and it's exquisitely sensitive to something called inflammation. If you remember what I talked about, this is going to come as no surprise when you have systemic inflammation, your microglial cells, which are the brains, little assassins, right? The immune cells, they're in the state of hyper chronic activation. They're looking for a fight and they don't care who they fight. So they activated microglia and now release TNF alpha, IL-6, IL-1 beta, but they do it directly onto your neural tissue. But the problem is this, these cytokines are screwing you up bad. They have a purpose. They don't have a purpose right now in this situation. So they damage synaptic connections. So long-term potentiation is totally impaired. They promote amyloid beta aggregation, which is foundational to this weird disease that is rampant right now called Alzheimer's type three diabetes, but they keep blaming on a lack of what? Pharma? Come on. Reduces brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which is the growth for neurons. Everybody keeps stealing my word, which is miracle growth for neurons, but I feel it increases neural inflammation and oxidative stress. Listen, meanwhile, here's the problem. Your mitochondria are under functioning. So you have insufficient ATP. It always comes back to the damn mitochondria, you guys. But if you go well, so would solving the mitochondria, then solve every problem. No, because there's so much more going on. But yes, it's a very heavy start, probably 50%. You have insufficient ATP for synaptic transmission, memory consolidation, myelin maintenance, which is the wiring around that, right? See the oligodendrocytes are creating the wire around the, or the sheath around the wire so you can actually propagate the signal. Protein synthesis for about everything that happens in your body. Your neurons are insulin resistant. So glucose isn't getting properly metabolized into the ATP. They need to survive. Milano 10-2 hits all three. Watch anti-inflammatory product in the brain. It crosses the blood brain barrier, suppresses microglial activation through Milano Corten Receptor signaling. So Journal of Neuroinflammation 2012, they show that alpha MSH decreased microglial TNF alpha and IL-6 production by about 70%. 70% reduction in neuroinflammation isn't giving you an erection. It's life changing. We're talking dementia, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's. You guys need to take what I do seriously because this is for you, not for me. Look at ATP production. So by improving mitochondrial function system-wide, MT-2 ensures that the brain, yours has sufficient energy for optimal neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity, which are required. So taking a vial full of dihexa isn't going to solve your problems magically and turn you into a telepath. You need to understand the biology underneath and solve the problems. And then you don't- the whole point is if you go, if somebody says you need to be on peptides for the rest of your life, they're trying to sell you peptides for the rest of your life. You're no better than the managed decline people, then you're just a shill. I don't care if you want to take them for the- there's some forever peptides that I talk about all the time. BPC-157 is one of them, right? Red or True Tide is another. But you don't have to, but they make you think that you have to take a beta blocker. You have to take Namenda. You have to take Erecept. You have to take- you have to have metformin or a humilog pump. Put it- no, you don't. You need to solve the biological problem so you need none of that. And here's the proof. You were born without it. You were born without it. You weren't born in a shortage of medication. You were- you didn't get headaches from a lack of NSAIDs. You don't have type 2 diabetes from a lack of metformin. You have type 2 diabetes. And if you're a kid because your parents are assholes,  and they didn't maintain a good diet with you. I never look at children and think there's a bad child. I think there's idiotic imbecilic parents. It frustrates me. I don't care how upset our kids get, Brandy and I make our kids train. You know why? Because that's their life. I take this so seriously because I care. I care about your kids, your spouse, just as much as mine, man. So if you think for a second that it's just some magic peptide and you have to take them for the rest of your life, some ever insta-shill, some insta-bro science pseudo expert with funky blue hair tries to tell you that you have to take this for the rest of your life and they're solving all kinds of problems, show me the data and prove it and I will call you a liar because no, you are not. You do not need to take a peptide for the rest of your life. Not at all. You need to solve the underlying biology and here's the problem that people struggle with. Then you need to maintain it and most people won't because you use these as a crutch, which means you're still thinking like a victim of big pharma. You're still indoctrinated thinking you have to take these. Listen, look at insulin sensitivity. That's what it creates, right? It's solving the insulin resistance issue, the MT-2, because I'm just in one of these moods today. So by improving systemic insulin sensitivity, MT-2 improves neuronal, glucose uptake and metabolism. So here's the result, better cognition, faster processing speed. You got an upgrade, improved memory consolidation, you've solved the system. It's not a lack of C-max or dihexam or cerebrolysin or whatever else is salank or anything you want to take. It's fixing the system so the system can operate the way it's designed. Look at your cardiovascular system. Lives or dies based on endothelium. Period. Period. Some cardiologist wants to argue with me. Bring it. You're still wrong. Here, I'll prove it. Your endothelium is a single layer of cells. I have no love anymore for the medical system. It's a disgusting system and most of you guys are sellouts trying to push your products in your big pharma, Gestapo BS. I'm out here actually above all, do no harm, saving lives and you guys are going, how can I get you on the next drug? One of my closest friends was told by a doctor to take a statin and what happened? Brain fog, lazy cognition, problems, memory issues. It's the same age as me. Got in touch with me. We solved all this problem, stripped away that and guess what? Down 10 pounds, shredded, powerful, sharp as a fucking razor all the time. Pardon my language. Why? Because we solved the biology and we got him away from something that was killing him. I'm trying to help you guys. Listen, the endothelium, look at the cardiovascular system. The endothelium is a single layer of cells lining your arteries and is responsible for producing nitric oxide, basodilation, anti coagulation, anti inflammation, controlling vascular tone, managing clotting. Like this is a big deal. So I'm filtering inflammatory molecules. Endothelial dysfunction happens through a couple of things chronic inflammation. So inflammatory molecules penetrate the endothelium oxidative stress reduces nitric oxide bioavailability inos and enos. I went over this about a dozen times. Cemia, insulin resistance, it's going to impair endothelial mitochondrial function. Pademia. So now you oxidize LDL particles, which activates scavenger receptors on macrophages, home cell formation, atherosclerosis. Boom! You are on your way to the morgue before you know it because you didn't solve the problem, but they medicated you as long as they could to get as much money from you as they could. Do you know what's crazy? If somebody ever says you charge too much for your peptides as an elite biogenics, what's your life worth when you are willing to pay the same thing daily? Not once or twice. Daily for the rest of your life to maintain your decline while your health deteriorates and your life goes into the shitter. Are you out of your mind? I don't even know where to go with this. Listen, MT-2 hits every single one of these dysfunctions, suppresses inflammation, reduces TNF alpha, IL6, less endothelial penetration, less oxidative stress, improves nitric oxide bioavailability. Look, by reducing oxidative stress and improving mitochondrial function, you increase ENOZ, endothelial nitric oxide synthase efficiency. It improves insulin sensitivity, so now your endothelial cells are the most functional things you've got now, and they're more responsive to insulin-mediated vasodilation the way they're designed. Reduces atherogenesis, so by suppressing the inflammatory ripple, the cascade, and improving lipid metabolism, you reduce foam cell formation so you don't chew up your arteries. Circulation research 2011 showed that Milano-Corten-Agan is an improved endothelial function and reduced atherosclerotic plaque formation. Why are you waiting? Listen, your cardiovascular system regenerates when inflammation decreases and mitochondrial function improves, period. That's it. It's not complicated. Look at kidneys. Your kidneys filter blood, right? They're highly metabolically active, massive energy requirements, and very delicate. They're fragile as hell. Kidney disease happens under a couple of criteria. Glamarular endothelial dysfunction causes mesangial cell proliferation, scarring, glomerular scarring, chronic inflammation causes inflammatory cells to infiltrate the kidney. You get tubular atrophy, mitochondrial dysfunction, so now you have insufficient ATP production, so now tubular reabsorption can't function, protein urea. These are things that should just be sent off bells in your head, you guys. Potocyte foot process effacement, so this is driven by oxidative stress and inflammation. The potocyte's those little cells inside, right? MT-2 fixes all of this stuff. Look at the endothelial repair. So improved, I talked about this, nitric oxide production, reduced inflammatory cytokine penetration, glomerular endothelial regeneration. It does what it's supposed to do. Glomerular, look at reduced glomerular inflammation. So by suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines, you prevent the mesangial proliferation and glomerular scarring, which is causing the problems. Look at the mitochondrial function. So better ATP production in the renal tubules, improved reabsorption of filtered glucose and amino acids, reduced protein urea. Your kidneys are actually doing their job. The American Journal of Nephrology in 2014 showed that the Alpha MSH, the Milano-Cortin pathway activation, reduced protein urea and approved glomerular filtration rate and diabetic nephropathy, 57%. But yet they'd rather have you go to dialysis. Dialysis is a business. Dialysis is a business. I could do this with endocrine system. I could do this with anything. You want to look at neurodegenerative diseases? Look at this, because this is where it gets really wild. Every neurodegenerative disease involves a couple of things. Chronic microglial activation, so neuroinflammation, amyloid beta or tau protein aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuronal energy failure and asymptotic loss. So let me connect all these dots for you so you can actually understand the mechanism and actually look at it and go, holy shit, this is what's going on in my grandma, my grandpa, my neighbors, my wife, my husband's life. Look at Alzheimer's. It begins with neuroinflammation and amyloid beta accumulation. The inflammation drives more amyloid beta production, which drives more inflammation. It becomes this incredibly vicious cycle. MTI suppresses microglial activation. I just talked about this. Reduces neuroinflammation, reduces amyloid beta-induced inflammation amplification. So look at neurobiology of aging. 2013 showed that Milano-Cortin, MT-2 reduced amyloid beta-induced microglial TNF alpha production. A lot of letters, I know, just follow me. It basically reduced the inflammatory cognitive problem that occurs in Alzheimer's. That's the easiest way to explain it. Look at Parkinson's disease. So selective dopaminergic neuron loss in the substantia nigra, driven by neuroinflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction. We could go right down to three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Alpha-synuclein aggregation is downstream from these problems, not the primary cause, but yet that's what they keep trying to treat. MT-2 suppresses neuroinflammation that damages those dopaminergic neurons, improves mitochondrial function in the remaining neurons, and reduces alpha-synuclein aggregation downstream because the upstream issue was solved. Look at MS, multiple sclerosis. I told you, I have a guy right now in my group, MS, gone. Not even detectable. Gone. Do you have any idea how big of a guy choked me up, got me ulterior ed when he told me that. It's an autoimmune condition where the immune system attacks myelin, right, the coating around the wire, driven by TH17 overactivity and insufficient Treg activity, the regulatory T cells. MT-2 shifts immune response. I talked about this, TH1, TH17, towards TH2 Treg. So it reduces the myelin-directed attack and promotes remyelination by the oligodendrocytes. Journal of neuroinflammation 2014 showed that melanocortin agonism increased regulatory T cells and decreased TH17 in MS. Look at dementia. Look at dementia. Are you kidding? Most cognitive decline is vascular or inflammation-driven. Same mechanisms. Most of this stuff, right? Neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, endothelial dysfunction. MT fixes this, everything that these diseases are built on. All of them, every single one of them. It is not a tanning peptide. It is not a peptide for libido. It is so much more than that. So I'm telling you, if you're looking at this going, I don't know if I should look into this or not. You should. You should. Just think of it. I need to spend some real time here because insulin resistance is the fundamental lever of all kinds of problems. insulin resistance and its rampant right now, it means your cells aren't listening. I'm deaf to insulin. When this happens, your pancreas produces more and more insulin. It's called hyperinsulinemia. You don't have a shortage of insulin. You have your deaf to it. Not the same. The excess insulin drives fat storage and inflammatory signaling. Boy, this sounds really terrible. It sounds like everything that people are being treated for right now, wouldn't you say? So now you become metabolically inflexible. You can't burn fat efficiently. This is such a plan. It's, and I'm not a tinfoil hat wearing guy. I'm telling you, this is the plan. Your mitochondria and our work harder, but produce less ATP. So they become fragile. You accumulate metabolic byproducts, lactate, acetyl-CoA that fuel further inflammation and your blood sugar gets beyond this regulated. Look at the cellular level. insulin resistance happens through protein mediated phosphorylation of IRS1 caused by the inflammation, mitochondrial lipid accumulation caused by impaired fat oxidation, chronic endoplasmic reticulum stress caused by the ER stress caused by hyperglycemia and oxidative stress. MT-2 reverses this. Watch. Look at the systemic inflammation. Reverse TNF alpha, IL6, the protein stop accumulating. IRS1 can function. insulin signaling improves. Glute 4 transporters migrate to the outside of the cell and open up the doors and say, come on, I'm listening now. Bring it. Activates AMPK. Melanochortin signaling directly affects AMPK and muscle tissues. Look at AMPK. Increases fat oxidation so lipids don't accumulate and your mitochondria choking them off. Improves mitochondrial biogenesis so you have more healthy. A larger number of mitochondria reduces MTOR signaling so you reduce the ER stress. Improves mitochondrial function so better ATP production. Cells have glucose for their metabolism and the insulin signaling actually works. Look at diabetes. 2012 showed that direct melanochortin, MT-2 stimulation, just leave it at that, improves insulin sensitivity in obesity, improvements in IRS1 signaling and AMPK activation. But yet people are running around thinking they need to take all these medications. You're not just lowering blood sugar, you guys. You're restoring the biological capacity for your own metabolic health. MT-2 is not a tanning peptide, you guys. It's not even primarily a sex peptide. It's the main control for controlling the things that separate health from disease, the three things that do it, the three biological failures, systemic inflammation, metabolic dysfunction and energy failure. Every chronic disease, every one of them, cardiovascular, diabetes, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, erectile dysfunction, kidney disease, cognitive decline, it doesn't matter what it is. Every single one of them bottle next through these three mechanisms. And MT-2 through its very single, very beautifully orchestrated pathway, checks the box on all three solutions. It's just physiology, biochemistry and physiology that I want to give you so you actually have it. This is what happens when you optimize and you solve the melanochortin system. MC4 receptors optimize sympathetic tone, they solve metabolic rate. Your AMPK activates in your muscle tissue, making you insulin sensitive again. Dendritic cells stop over activating the T cell response. The POMC neurons suppress NFKB and TNF alpha, throughout your entire body. Macrophages shift from pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype to anti-inflammatory, if anti-inflammatory. Your mitochondria, you get more of them, they regenerate. So now you produce more ATP with less oxidative stress. The endothelium recovers, so now you produce more nitric oxide. Your neurons become responsive again to insulin, so they can properly metabolize glucose. The microglia cells calm down, so now you can actually repair instead of attack your own brain. And your hormonal system restabilizes because there's no inflammation and there's no glucose problems. You guys aren't treating a symptom, you're fixing the biological architecture of all diseases themselves. That's it. And you're using your own biology and what's the problem is, this stuff's being hidden from you left and center. You wait till I talk about the FDA versus peptides, research use, I don't care what they are. You just wait till I explain how this train wreck dumpster fire plays out. What's absolutely wild is this should make everybody listening to this podcast just freak out. We've known this was possible. Like biochemistry, physiology, we've known the melano-cortin system is the master regulator of inflammation, metabolism, and energy production. We've known this. None of this is new. That's what's really wild is everybody's walking around on their freaking phones going, oh, look, I'm a peptide expert. No, you're not. No, you're not. You are a salesperson with a fitness degree or a CSCS or you've been a trainer at Gold's Gym or 24-hour Planet Fitness and now you claim to be an expert because you can hawk these things to your clients without any knowledge about them whatsoever. And you run around telling everybody how you have a master's or a PhD in biochemistry, but you don't understand how to apply it to biology. I'm out here because I want to save mankind. Like I said, I don't give a crap if you buy from me or not. Go ahead. Don't. All my stuff is the same stuff I'd give my wife and kids. And if you don't know by now, I adore my wife and kids. I would never give them anything that isn't perfect. My labs create the best. I'll stand by that. The black cart hands down the best place, but I don't care whether you do it or not. I'm here for you. I'm not going to take my ball and go home and stomp my feet because nobody buys. I'm here because I want you to have the information. Everybody's looking at this stuff as if it's a tanning peptide, which makes me just want to flick somebody in the throat. You need to be looking at the biological levers that control whether or not your body survives or slowly dies. MT-2 is what happens when you stop treating symptoms and you start treating causes. Like that. You guys do get that, right? That's not just different. That's everything. That's your biology. I don't know. I got nothing left. I gotta go. Never miss.

=== FILE: Menopause Doesn't Need HRT (just listen) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [hFrAZsG5D1s].txt ===

 sundae, menopause. That's what I'm going to talk about today. Menopause, perimenopause, how it's not an HRT issue, it's not an estrogen issue, it's not a progesterone issue, it's a metabolic issue, and a lot of these guys have been lying to you. And if you're going to get in my comments and get all upset, save your time. I don't read them. I'm out here to help you. I'm not trying to sell you anything. Maybe you guys should think about that when you're starting to take advice from people and go, is it a best-selling author, some doc that has some book that is trying to combat menopause that really knows nothing, but they think they do? Is it a supplement company trying to tell you their black cohosh is the answer, or is it some... It doesn't matter what it is. Is it a hormone expert, a diet expert? None of that matters. I'm not trying to sell you a thing. Like, what do I say all the time? You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Great. Awesome. Thank you so much for supporting my company. If you don't, that's okay. I'm still out here. You want to join the black card? Send a message, an email that says, I want to join the black card to apply at unlockthecard.com, and one of my assistants will get in touch with you and send you the wire transfer information. It is still at last year's price briefly, which is just shy of 10 grand for the year for one person, and you get access to my live private Q&A that I actually answer questions and solve your problems on, and you get access to the VIP community that's private, and you can actually ask me questions in there 24 to 72 hours. I'll answer your questions, and I'll help you out. I'll look at your labs. I'll do whatever it is you need. I'm here to help you. That's my job. I'm just not going to do it for free in my community, and I give you all this information so you can make some educated decisions. But whether you join the black card or buy from Elite or not, I still show up here because I actually care. I'm not trying to sell you something. So maybe take that into consideration before you start running your mouth in my comments and getting upset and doing clips and taking my videos. And by the way, for all of you guys, stealing my stuff, stealing my videos and chopping them up and then using them to market your crap. How about number one, you give me credit for the decades and decades of research I've done and the hours. I worked 16-hour days, and you guys, spinning off of my research, discussed me because you've never done a dime. And if you sat in front of me and we went toe to toe with knowledge, I would smoke you because I actually know what I'm talking about because I read all this stuff because I care. You're doing it because you want to sell something. I'm not doing this because I want to sell something. Where in here do I promote? I don't. Where do I constantly beat you down with an affiliate code or an advertisement or a percentage or some links or anything? Nothing. The link to join everything is in my comments or in my write up. And the link to buy from a lead is in my write up. But that's it. This is the only time I market and it's my company. It's my house. So of course, I'm going to talk about my stuff, but at the same time, I don't push it. I just want you guys to get the information. So listen, menopause, perimenopause, all the friggin facts. Okay, we ready? Let's do this. I'm going to drink some coffee and then I'm going to tear a hole in all this and put a lot of people in a bad mood because I'm going to knock down all their lies that they're telling you. I'll back it all up with peer reviewed research too, by the way, baby. I told you, I'm the doctor out here who wants you to win. I want you to win. I want you to have it all. I want you to have 125 years of health if you go, listen to this guy, 125. Listen, you want to sit there and be happy at 65 years? I don't. I promised my wife at least 100. I love Brandy so much. What's wild? Brandy is 46. She's going through menopause. She barely notices. That's normal. You guys with these catastrophic symptoms and aggressive symptoms, that's not normal. It's a pathology and they're trying to sell you on the fact that, I'll get into it. It drives me crazy. Listen, so for all the women that are listening to this and the smart guys who are listening to this, by the way, cut the bullshit. How about we just cut the bullshit? Menopause is not some phase of life or some rite of passage wrapped in estrogen and V. It's a physiological hijacking of your body's command center. Listen to me. That's what this is. So if you're sweating through your sheets 20 times a night and up every six minutes and 3 a.m., you're staring at the ceiling, gripping your bed, wondering whether you want to use your pillow to smother who's sleeping next to you, or why your brain feels like it's marinating in fog, good. This isn't going to be a bunch of hallmark quotes. This is to diagnose the enemy that's screwing up your life and break down the science. You actually understand what's going on and actually give you, I won't solve the problem. I will give you the answer if you're like, let's just get to it then. See, that's the problem is you don't understand the physiology behind it. So you just grab something. If it doesn't work instantly, you blame the thing instead of the idiot using the thing, which would be you. Low estrogen is not the villain in menopause. I'll say it again. Low estrogen is not the damn problem. It is the crime scene evidence. Calling it the cause is like blaming smoke for a fire. It gets you nowhere. It doesn't help you. Your body just, it doesn't just run out of estrogen. Overies don't just go, oh, I think I'm going to stop making it around 45 or 50 years old. That is the most ridiculous ignorant. I said it in my podcast, in my Instagram post. It's the most ignorant oversimplification that keeps women anchored to these symptom management knuckleheads that read that right bestselling books that sell you on their clinic and their magic hormone, herb concoction and their laundry list of pharmaceuticals instead of root cause demolition of what the hell is causing the problem. So how about I just dissect the snot out of this, physiology, human biology, all of it biochem and just give you the data from peer reviewed studies that prove where I'm coming from. And I'll make it very clear because your brain, your body, your physiology, your biology deserves better than medical fairy tales that you're being sold. Look at the basics. Just look at the basics of ovarian machinery. Your ovaries, listen, you guys, your ovaries are not these passive little hormone factories. They're dynamic endocrine organs run by a symphony of cells. There's two key players to be honest, thecacels and granulosa cells in the ovarian follicles. Cica produce androgens like testosterone precursors, etc. That stuff, right? Under the influence of something called luteinizing hormone, LH from the pituitary granulosa cells, then grab those androgens and convert them to estradiol, which is the key player, the heavy hitter estrogen. They do it through something called aromatase. It doesn't matter the gene that encodes it because I was going to get into that, but that's just too fancy. This whole process demands an ex-sorbidant amount of adenosine triphosphate ATP, which is the funding source for everything that happens in your body. It also demands that you have a balanced inflammatory signaling system and an insulin sensitivity to keep the cellular assembly line actually humming. Did you just catch what I said? Three biological failures. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, they affect this 100%. Where's my Nobel prize? Where's my Nobel prize? I deserve it. I really do. It sounds somebody's going to be like, that's really arrogant. No, it's not. I solved the problem of every single disease, but you know why somebody's not going to hand me a Nobel prize? Because it's unwinding all the money that people are making off of your suffering. Estrogen isn't spontaneously generated, you guys. It is the downstream product of a very healthy metabolic environment ecosystem, right? It's your ecosystem. So, menopause happens when this ecosystem just disintegrates. Low estrogen is that it's like the check engine light on your dash. It's not the failure of the engine. The primary driver is ovarian reserve depletion. Fewer follicles. Just follow me and I realize you go, see, see. That just buckle up because it's going to be bumpy for you if you're stopping right now. Fewer follicles means less raw material for hormone production. However, this is where you should be paying attention. What accelerates that depletion so rapidly that it hits a crisis level? Because it's just look at something like flip the script. So, you remember when I talked about nicotine. I'm going to do a whole podcast on that, by the way. Nicotine, where I have so much research, it's going to obliterate the FDA. So, nicotine as a standalone substance is doesn't have, on its own, is not addictive. It's the delivery method that makes it addictive. Rapid, heavy hitting, high bolus, right? Just smash you with this giant bolus and then all of a sudden it floods your brain and dopamine and like the pyrazine, MAOIs, right? These things are so bad for you, but it's the delivery that causes you to crash and burn. It's not the product. That's where I'm going with this. Understand the primary reserve or the primary driver of this is reserve depletion, but what is accelerating it to this so fast that it's causing this catastrophe? Stream sabotage. Look at mitochondrial dysfunction. I'll prove it. Mitochondrial dysfunction, chronic inflammation and insulin resistance. And these aren't age-related wear and tear because you know what my grandma never had? Crazy menopause symptoms. And if you go, mine did, okay, then argue, but you're still wrong because most grandparents didn't. They didn't. It's not age-related wear and tear, you guys. They're biochemical assaults that destroy the ovaries ability to synthesize estrogen long before your calendar is saying the word menopause. So biochemically, I talked about this yesterday, zoom in to aromatase. This enzyme demands zinc iron cofactor cluster in a very steady supply of something called NADPH. It's from the pentose phosphate pathway. That's just biochemistry. It does, it needs this to catalyze the aromatization reaction. So when you disrupt the whole cellular environment and aromatase expression tanks, there's your problem. Nation, just so you know, plays a very key role in this because it's the one with the blowtorch shutting everything down. Pro-inflammatory cytokines, which ones do you think? TNF alpha, IL-6, all of them. They produce, here's how, this is how you get them by the way, activated macrophages and spilling from systemic sources like your gut, adipose tissue, all the stuff that's not going right. They infiltrate the ovarian stroma through disrupted blood-brain barriers, then they up-regulate NF-Kappa B transcription factors, which suppresses this promoter activity. And the result is granulosa cells can't convert androgens to estrogen, even if the precursors are there. It doesn't work. So estrogen nosedives into the ground as a symptom of this inflammatory siege that's going on in your body. You're treating the inflammation afterwards. You're treating that, I'm not talking about night sweats. That's not the inflammation. That's vasodilation as a result of, not a cause of. 2019 study in the Journal of Endocrinology provides this irrefutable proof. Researchers from U of Enneberg conducted ovarian biopsies on hundreds and hundreds of perimenopausal women, correlating tissue inflammatory markers. They found that elevated TNF alpha and IL-6 directly down-regulated the messenger RNA, 45 to 60% independent of follicle count. So what that means here is that women with higher inflammation had the problem. And here's what gets even better. They had estrogen levels 30% lower than age match controls with minimal cytokine activity, proving that the drop is a consequence of the biochemical attack. It's not the initiating event, you guys. It's not. Inflammation doesn't cause menopause by depleting eggs. It hastens something called follicular atresia, programmed cell death by oxidizing mitochondrial DNA. But the estrogen crash is that's the fallout. That's what shows up afterwards. Look at insulin resistance. This is like a bad accomplice for this entire thing. Like this is the year guilty by association. I'm drinking coffee if you're listening to the audio of this. I haven't posted a real podcast for so long. I just keep putting them on YouTube. So if you guys want my podcast to go start cranking, let me know. I just, I'm busy. Ovaries are incredibly insulin-sensitive tissues. insulin normally amplifies FSH follicle-stimulating hormone signaling to boost aromatase in granulosa cells. But in insulin resistance, that high circulating glucose and FFAs, the free fatty acids, impair the pathway required so it starves the cells of the energy needed for something called steroidogenesis, biochemically, follow along. This reduces glucose uptake. It's a glut-4 transporter problem. And it just demolishes ATP for the electron transport chain that powers aromatase. So with watch, without ATP, without the funding source, without the bank giving you the money, which is the ATP you need, the enzyme stalls, estrogen output craters. And it now becomes this, this gets even worse. It becomes this vicious loop. Watch, low estrogen, this is how the human body works. This is why you have to understand physiology. Low estrogen then worsens whole body insulin resistance by reducing adipocyte estrogen receptors, which normally sensitize insulin signaling. So it becomes this problem that becomes self-propagating and they blame something that doesn't have anything to do with it. I slap estrogen down your throat or put a patch on you. It does not solve this problem. The proof is there. Real human data backs this 100%. 2018 study of diabetes care. It was part of the study of women's health across the nation, the SWAN study. Thousands and thousands of women, they tracked insulin sensitivity via HOMA-IR, insulin-resistant scores and greater than 2.5, by the way, if you want to know the number, alongside ovarian function. They discovered, watch, they discovered that women with insulin resistance entered perimenopause, usually half a decade earlier, with 40% lower ester dial levels because of suppressed aromatase activity in granulosa cells. It's not the follicles. They did an autopsy and they confirmed ovarian tissue showed insulin resistance fibrosis and reduced thica cell viability. The estrogen deficiency is a symptom of metabolic gridlock. It's not the origin of the problem. And yet, what do they do? They treat you with HRT, which by the way, they had to stop and experiment. 16,000 women, I'll tell you the study, because the risk of stroke was so high. Cancer, stroke, it's astronomical and yet you guys go, yeah, but I don't know hot flashes anymore. Yeah, but you're going to friggin die. You're not supposed to have these aggressive symptoms for menopause. It really concerns me because they're selling you on this fear. And then, of course, these shills come out of the woodwork with their best selling hardcover and their I'm an MD and that you should trust me and I'm smart. You know what? Listen, I went to med, I went to Cairo, I got more degrees than an eye chart and none of it matters. None of it matters because if you aren't actually deploying the information to help mankind, you're a piece of shit because you're taking from other people lying to them that what you're giving them is going to solve their problem. I'm not trying to sell. I'm giving you the information. Do what you want with it. Listen, tie in the energy problem, ATP shortage, ovarian steroid production, just swallows the denazine triphosphate like it's the keg party. 20% of the cells output is required for cholesterol, side chain, cleavage and aromatization. That's it so much mitochondria in granulosa cells are these power hubs, right? So, just that major power supply, aging and toxins and nutrient deficiencies and incredibly stupid decisions damage their DNA, leading to an inefficient something called oxidative phosphorylation, how it works. Low ATP means the stereogenic acute regulatory protein. It's called a star protein. It can't shuttle. This makes me so angry because I see so many women suffering and I get so many messages from you guys. I wish I could take every single one of you as a patient and a client and help you. I really do. There's just not enough Dr. Trevor to go around, but I'm trying. Like, that's why I tell people about the Black Card. This isn't marketing. It allows me to see a ton of people and help you, but that protein can't shuttle cholesterol into the mitochondria for precursor synthesis. So, it bottlenecks the entire pathway and estrogen is collateral damage to this entire train wreck. 2021, some metabolism. This is Oregon Health and Science University used human organoids, ovarian organoids and patient derived cells to prove this. They induced mild mitochondrial, listen to this. This is wild. They induced mild mitochondrial stress in an effort. They did to mimic chronic insulin resistance and inflammation, and they watched ATP tank buckle up 50%. It gets better. This was followed by 40% disaster plunge in estradiol secretion. Here's the part that I told you. It's not the follicles. All of this despite intact follicles. You know, they saw this, they rescued the mitochondria, which restored estrogen. Watch, they rescued the mitochondria, which this is why I'm talking about this. Listen to me. That's why I'm talking about things like MOTS and SS and redditry tie and all these things. This restored estrogen without adding exogenous hormones, which means it confirmed the deficit as causal to low estrogen, the mitochondrial deficit. Not vice versa. Listen to me. This information isn't for me. I don't have a uterus or ovaries. This information is for you because I give a shit about you. Physiologically, it all loops back to the HPO, the hypothalamic pituitary ovarian axis. Low estrogen is the feedback signal that is freaking out screaming help. It spikes FSH. Just follow the system. It spikes FSH as the pituitary cranks harder to stimulate failing ovaries. But the damage is already done downstream. Do you understand that? It's already done. Listen, evolutionary biology underscores this. I can just do this all day. In hunter-gatherer women with low inflammation and optimal metabolic health, which is how they were designed, menopause was virtually non-existent because it had gradual estrogen tapering. This is all per anthropological studies. Like 2015, evolutionary anthropology review, hadza women showed 25-50% less symptom severity due to better insulin sensitivity from active lifestyles. So sitting on your butt, eating milk duds and Doritos and drinking wine every Tuesday with your girls, or if you've seen Playdate, the Mama Mafia every morning until 10 o'clock and then going to Chili's to get ripped up. Like that doesn't help anybody. It's in fact, you're not, you're trying to escape and you're causing more problems. I'm trying to help you, man. I'm the only doctor out here just because I cuss. Doesn't mean I don't know what I'm talking about. Listen, the takeaway is this because it's already 20 minutes and I was trying to make these podcasts shorter. But when I get lit, look out, it's like pulling a string into my chest. The takeaway is this. Low estrogen is your body's, it's like a diagnostic code, right? Like an e-code from, I have a programmer on my diesel on my 2500. It's this edge monitor, right? And it will reset codes, but it gives me e-codes like e, La 1, e, whatever it is. So that's what this is. It's a diagnostic code. That's what estrogen is, low estrogen. It's the code that says upstream metabolic failure detected, right? Treat it as the cause and you're going to chase shadows with patches and pills and injections and suppositories and pellets and everything else that mask, but don't do a damn thing. Attack the inflammation, reverse the insulin resistance and solve the ATP issue and estrogen production rebounds on its own 2022 menopause journals intervention trial on hundreds and hundreds of women used metabolic optimization only, only showed 45% estrogen recovery without HRT like this. And the symptoms were gone in six months, but you keep going on and slapping patches on you or rubbing a cream on your vag or whatever it is you need to do, knock yourself out. But I'm trying to help you. If you're taking oral estrogen, by the way, the list of things that you're doing wrong is so catastrophically wrong. Listen, women, I do, I love you all for listening and giving me your time. I really do. And I sincerely, I might come across and I'm gritty and I'm callous, but I'm not. I care and I'm frustrated at all the shills taking advantage of you guys. I'm frustrated at all the people that are claiming to be experts that couldn't, they couldn't solve their way out of a basic math equation. Like they just don't know anything, but they come out with their chat GPT answers and they come out with their best selling hardcover book and there's 7 million followers and people go, yeah, they're an expert. I have to, they made me feel great. Why? Because you took some herbs and then they told you to go get a prescription. Listen, I saw a doc who I used to respect who I don't have any respect for whatsoever anymore because she told a friend of mine to go on statins. If you're a doctor and you're telling somebody to go on statins and then they tell you that they have brain fog and they don't feel well and they're looking at cholesterol as too high, you're not a doctor. You're a sell out. Take it how you want. I don't care. I'm still right. I have no respect for this woman anymore. None. And my wife can't stand her and we used to go, oh man, she's great. Nope, nothing. Why? Because it's just yet another sell out. Listen, women, you're not doomed to this estrogen, low estrogen, problematic, hot flash, moody fatigue, no sex drive wasteland. You're not. That's the symptoms talking. Listen to the physiology, listen to the biochemistry and fix the fire. I'll tell you, instead of your look, can you just listen? Just follow along. Your ovaries can still get in the ring with Tyson and give them a knockout. Listen, let's just go through the symptoms because some of you guys don't even know that this is, you've been lied to. Here are the five, I got five that I've seen in all the people I've dealt with and they're horrific. I don't know because I'm a dude, but to me, it's the equivalent of standing there getting kicked in the balls repeatedly for the entire day. So I don't, I don't ever sit there and go, it can't be that bad. What do you got? PMS? Take a my doll. I'm not like that. I do think that a lot of the symptomatology that's being portrayed on social media where everybody's having a sad day. Listen, sack up a little bit because grandma and grandpa, when they had to get things done, didn't call in sad. They got it done. They were uncomfortable. They got it done, but you know what? My grandparents lived into their nineties and they are tough as hell. My mom is in her eighties. I can promise you this. My mom will go toe to toe with anybody. She is, she might seem quiet. My mom is as tough as they get. I promise you she's in her eighties and she's still walking and moving and hanging out and she's feisty and moody and set in her ways. And I love the shit out of my mother because you know why? She is the real deal. She's the real deal. So if you're clinging to your symptoms, it's because you want a drug to make them go away, but you didn't solve the problem. So look at the first look at hot flashes, right? It's hot flashes and night sweats and when that vasodilation kicks in, I've seen it. I've seen people turn virtually purple, but these aren't power surges. It's called, it's something called vasomotor instability. So estrogen normally stabilizes the thermoregulatory center in your hypothalamus. I've gone over this before, but I'll go real light. When it dips, that center goes nuts, it just goes tits up and it just misfires. So it causes the blood vessels to dilate so wildly. So you get flushing heat from your core. That's, it's desperate. It's trying to do it because it's got a mixed up signal. 2015 JAMA internal medicine showed 75 experienced this and it's linked to reduced nitric oxide signaling and vasovascular endothelium. Watch, it has nothing to do with anything else. This is pure biochemistry, gone vastly awry, right? Mood swings, brain fog. You could probably put them together. I guess it could be separate, but mood swings and brain fog, just stick them together because when your brain is foggy, your mood is prefrontal cortex, relies on, listen to me, this is why this estrogen thing is important, but it's not the cause, it's the symptom. So you solve the cause and this stuff goes away. Prefrontal cortex relies on estrogen to fuel dopamine and serotonin pathways. So when there's low, just trust me, yes. So low levels, neurological short circuit, 2019 neurology study, women's health initiative, post-menopausal women, 20 to 25% reduced hippocampal volume due to estrogen's absence. Slapping a patch on though doesn't solve the problem if anything, it causes desensitization, screws up the rest of your brain chemistry and sets you up for all kinds of other problems. But this is the issue. It impairs memory consolidation because of impaired long-term potentiation, but you're not crazy. Your neurons are underfed. Man, didn't think of that, right? Remember what I talk about, Alzheimer's dementia, right? They're swimming in the sea of plenty, but they can't absorb it because they have insulin resistance. Remember what I just said, insulin resistance, right? Just remember this. Look at the sleep disruption. Progesterone is your natural GABA agonist. Yes, it is. It calms the brain like a benzo, a benzodyzamine, right, valium, without the hangover or the addiction or the screw-up if you stop. It's drop ramps up cortisol and it fragments your REM sleep. 2021 sleep medicine reviews, progesterone decline correlates with 50% more awakenings driven by hypothalamic overdrive. That's why I said I can give you the research to show this and I'm not slanting the research to make it look good for me. Excuse me, I'm giving you the research so it looks good for you so you can actually make the right decision. I'm lit today, huh? Vaginal dryness, sexual disinterest dysfunction. Now, listen, I'm going to tell you some of you dudes, if you're like, oh, this is the one, this is why I got to give this for my wife. She has no interest in sex. Do you ever look at yourself? If you're fat and hairy and gross and stinky and embarrassing and lazy and you have no common sense, you don't help, you're not kind, you're not caring, you're not protective, they don't feel safe with you. I promise you, it ain't the menopause, it's you. Don't get offended. Listen, I don't care if somebody is incredibly overweight and they're working to change that. I don't. I'm proud of you if that's your doing. But if you're justifying and going, my dad was fat, so I'm fat, my dad was fat, and I'm not. So what? It's not genetics. There's no such thing. Not that, not like that genetics is eye color, right? Hair color, things like that. But listen to me, it's not always going to be that if your wife doesn't want to climb on you and ride you like a rodeo, it might just be the fact that you're a dick. Everything of that? Now, I'm not seeing women use that as a weapon to go out and say, yeah, you're Dr. Trevor, he says you're a dick. You should be better. Maybe both of you guys need to be better. But when you're both on point and your relationship is killing it and you just have no interest, you got sexual dysfunction, your vagina is like the Sahara. Listen, estrogen maintains epithelial integrity in vaginal tissue via something called collagen synthesis and lubrication from glycogen breakdown. And just following loss leads to atrophy. 2017 menopause journal, they quantified it 50. 50% of women report dysperiunia due to thin to mucus and pH shifts from I think we give you the numbers 4.5 to 6, which invites infections, by the way, just so you know, your pH is designed for a purpose keeps you immune. It is the best way to say it. It keeps you inhospitable to pathology. It's like my three biological fathers. Solve those. Your entire ecosystem is inhospitable to pathology, just like this. Remember, these symptoms are a pathology. You're not supposed to have them like this. You've been conditioned and indoctrinated to think that symptoms are normal. How is being sick and feeling like crap normal? They've normalized you being dysfunctional. And then they go, but don't worry, we have an answer for it. Sign up here, manage decline. Next thing you know, you're getting femur breaks. I'll get into how they solve this problem. This is a lot longer than I wanted it to be, but I just I really give a crap and it's a touchy subject for me because I get messages by the thousands and I'm trying to help you look at bone loss weight gain estrogen inhibits osteoclasts. These are the bone breaking cells. So osteoblasts osteoclasts, right? So estrogen inhibits osteoclasts. And it's there's some signaling that goes on. It doesn't really matter what it is, but without it, resorption outpaces formation. 2014 Framingham Heart Study follow-up in osteoporosis international showed this. So if you remember the Framingham Heart Study designed to dis or to prove that high cholesterol causes heart attacks and strokes and all they managed to do is prove that high cholesterol actually prevents heart attacks and strokes and prevents Alzheimer's and high cholesterol had a radically larger safety rate than anything else that in fact, when your cholesterol was high, you would less of a chance of dying. And yet people are still taking statins. Here's your sign goes right back to that person that was a doctor that she is a doctor, but she's a coconut. No respect, none, none, because your sellout, telling somebody takes statins, your sellout, your sellout, unless you have hypercholesterolemia, which is very rare, by the way, two to 3% annual bone density drop post menopause, two to 3% is a lot. It's more than you think because it's annual, right? So it's compounding like interest and weight, insulin resistance from estrogen loss promotes visceral fat storage. It's just the way it works. No, you can't run on get on Tessa Fensine or to Samarille and there's more to it than that. This is even 2022 endocrinology data and out of put estrogen out of Pesite estrogen storage receptors or out of Pesite estrogen receptors. It showed this. This is all real data, real human data. Menopause is not hormonal change. Think about how many of you men have been told that you have andropause if you're a man and you're listening to this, but that's not a thing. I guarantee you grandpa could still get wood at 75. It's normal. Testosterone levels are plummeting. It's not because of your genetics. It's because of what you're being exposed to, what you're eating, drinking, swallowing, putting on you, breathing in, rubbing on you, taking showers in, taking voluntarily because of managed decline and you're going, no, it's got to be my genetics. No, it's not, but your next generation is going to suffer if you do that because epigenetics is changing your gene expression. What's going to happen to little Timmy when you decide to have a baby and little Timmy is your child and you brought a child into the world and you were screwed. Ever think of that? I could get into that if you want. It'll just make this podcast incredibly long. Menopause isn't a hormonal change. It's the culmination of three biological failures. Please listen to me. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage every single time. Inflammation, chronic low-grade fire from gut dysbiosis or poor diet activities and all that stuff, stupid decisions. It activates the same thing at every time. NF-CapaBee pathways. It spills cytokines like IL-6 into circulation, causes this problem and these breach the blood ovary barrier. It's what I was talking about at the beginning and accelerates, what did I call? What did I say? Follicular atresia. 2020, nature reviews endocrinology, Tide, elevated CRP, C-reactive protein. It's an inflammation marker if you want to look at labs to radically earlier menopause onset by four to five years in 3,000 women so it wasn't five people or your neighbor. Look at insulin resistance. Ovaries have insulin receptors. I realize this is redundant but I need you to understand this. Resistance impairs, remember I told you the Glutfor transporters, it impairs glucose uptake, starving those granulosa cells of energy for steroidogenesis. Estrogen just tanks all as a result. 2018 Diabetes Care Study on Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Overlap showed insulin resistance women enter menopause. You ready for this one? A half a decade.  amyloid-early, with a 40% higher HbA1c correlating to symptom severity. Now, I'm not a huge fan of HbA1c. As a diagnostic, it's just a number because metformin can change it and you're still sick. You still have a problem, you still have a metabolic issue. But as a marker, as a hard line, very easy right here. Look at the ATP shortage. Mitochondria in ovarian cells produce the energy for hormone synthesis. It's just basic biology. Oxidative stress from aging, toxins, alcohol, bad lifestyle, sitting at the park getting ripped up because you watched Playdate and decided to be part of the Mamma Mop. Yeah, by the way, I keep talking about it because that movie is freaking hilarious. I think Playdate is probably one of the funniest movies. That is my top three. I realize there's nothing to do with this podcast, but Alan Richardson, he's just a cool cat. I would totally hang with that guy. He is such a cool cat because he seems genuine and he's funny. And yet he's also a monster human being. He's just like a well-rounded dude. But in that movie, holy shit, is he funny? He can go from Reacher to Playdate back to Reacher to Playdate all in the same movie and the Mamma Mafia. Oh, that lady, she's the lady from I'd Find You, by the way, hilarious wedding crashers. I think that's where she was. And I think if I understood that somebody could help me out on this one, is she British? Because all of a sudden she says, Hey guys, I made my own boop sound. That's bad for even my acting. And I was like, wait, she's freaking British. I'm not trying to, if you criticize my British accent, I don't really care. If you like, you sound Australian. I also don't care. It doesn't matter. I'm just saying she doesn't sound like she's from California. So I don't know which side of the equation it is because what's his name? Holland, Spider-Man is as British as it gets. So is that other Spider-Man, to be honest? And then he said he had to learn how to speak like a California guy. That's pretty wild. And yet we think everybody else has an accent. Yet to everybody else, we have an accent. Interesting. Listen, so oxidative stress from all of this stuff, right? Bad decisions drinking with the toxins, et cetera, stuff you're breathing, drinking, rubbing on you damages the DNA. And what did I say? It kills ATP 50%. 2021 cell metabolism showed ATP deficits ready for this pre seed. That means before ovarian reserve loss explains why exhausted cells can't pump out estrogen because he proved it can't like low estrogen. This is bugs me. It's not, it's a symptom. It's a smoke, not the fire. It's what I said at the beginning. It's not the cause. The real culprits are those three failures. Damage ovarian, thica, and granulosa cells halting aromatase conversion of androgens to estrogen. Problem, 2019 Journal of Endocrinology study used ovarian biopsies. I said this already. Proving inflammation and insulin resistance suppress the enzyme expression required to cause aromatase to function and the downstream effect estrogen tanks treat the fire, the smoke clears. And by the way, just to help you out for some lifestyle choices, if you're like, I really don't know about peptides, I don't care if you take peptides or not, solve the emotion or solve the biological failures. I don't care how you do it. It won't be with a drug. That's all I know because drugs are wrecking balls, peptides are signals. Listen, if you subscribe and you spoon feed yourself with Gary Brecca's nonsense, knock yourself out. I'm just giving you the answer. If it solves the three biological failures and you ride off into the sunset like a juggernaut, you made me happy. I don't care how you did it. I just want you to be healthy, but I want you to have the real information, not the one going, Hey, I keep trying all these things and it's not working. Look at the lifestyle choices that are fueling this wonderful inferno. Top three, ultra process diets and stupid decisions that you shove into your bar coal. I omega six fats drive arachidonic acid cascades. Think about that. This amplifies something called prostaglandins that inflame your ovaries. 22 British Journal of Nutritional Cohort. 22 British Journal of Nutrition. 10,000 women found processed food, the intake of processed food, doubled symptoms because of one thing, one cytokine, IL-6, you're looking six. That's it. Chronic stress is the second lifestyle problem. And if you go, well, you can't get rid of stress. We got dogs. Hey, I got an Aussie, 85 pounds, big old crazy dog. It's awesome. And these two shits, who's my son has a cat, they're not stressed. You know why? Because you get a bunch of love in my house that play with my dogs and I love my dogs. I don't get all jerky and weird around my dogs. I don't beat the shit out of my dogs. I don't yell and scream at my dogs. I don't make this a hostile environment for my dogs and they don't have a bad life. Let me explain something about stress. Pak Chopra said this. He said, stress is not in you. It's not in the environment. It is your perception to physical or psychological threat. He's right. I have a lot of respect for that guy. He's an incredibly intelligent man. Chronologist, brilliant man. So if you have chronic stress, stop it. But here's the problem it's causing. You're doing it to yourself. Cortisol from HPA axis overdrive. Here's how it works. Endocrinology. Endocrinologically, it competes with progesterone synthesis. So it shunts. Pregnant alone. 2017, psycho neuroendocrinology showed. Stressed women, this is a huge number by the way, 25% lower progesterone, which worsened all the symptoms through glucocorticoid receptor upregulation. So the problem is what you're thinking, what you're stressed about is causing the problem downstream. And if you don't think 25% is a huge number, go to your bank account, whatever that is, take 25% out, send it to somebody that you love and care about that needs that money. Most of you guys won't do it. And what's crazy is if you have $100 million spread around, if you all have that in the bank, you're an idiot. But if you have that spread around, that's 25 million bucks. But if you have $100, that's $25. And just so you know, it's the same amount. Stop thinking that 25 and 25 million are any different when it comes to being 25%. If all the two talents read the story, if it's all you've got, it's all you've got. It's like that, you guys. I've been broke. I lived in my car. I've had nothing I've been able to. I've struggled to provide for my family. I'm very transparent about that. It sucked. I love my wife and kids. I love my people that hang out in my black. I want to make sure that they're successful, powerful, happy, loved, loving, which is why I also have an asshole policy. So if you're an asshole in your in my black card, you ain't gonna last long, son. But I will keep your money and I'll just distribute it to all them because they matter. Sedentary living is the big one. I know I'm dragging on, but I don't know. I just feel like yapping here. It's my house. So I'm just gonna talk. Sedentary living, no exercise means it's very simple, actually no AMPK activation, which perpetuates insulin resistance in ovarian tissue. 2020 medicine and science and sports and exercise trial 1500 participants linked less than 150 minutes a week of activity, which is not very much, by the way, if you guys are only training 150 minutes a week. And if you go, I have kids, I have responsibilities, I have a job. We own, we're going on six companies and we're working on our seventh. We work 16 hour days, seven days a week. All our kids work for our company. We have employees, we have people, we have teams, I have a business partner who is also like my little brother and pretty much my best friend outside of my wife. And we all work together, his wife works too. And they work their face off. We don't even live in the same frigging town. Sure, it'd be fucking easier part of my language. But it doesn't matter. The point is, we're all working our faces off and we still find time to train. We still find time to make sure the machine that allows us to do all the things we love to do works. You're being convinced that seven minute hours is real. So less than 150 minutes a week activity is embarrassing. But they linked it to 35% higher hot flash frequency. You know why impaired glute for translocation doesn't come to the surface of the cell can't absorb insulin. You're sitting in a sea of plenty can't absorb the fuel. It's easiest way. Look at the conventional treatments for this stuff, by the way, HRT synthesis, HRT synthetic estrogen. It doesn't work for everybody. It doesn't because it ignores the root cause. And most of the people in my group, they're like, Oh, I was told to take it orally. Are you nuts? Orally, HRT hits the liver, first pass effect, bomb, does not work. By the way, it spikes clotting factors like fibrinogen by over 20%. 2002. Listen to this, this is mind blowing. This is why they stopped this. So I was talking about this at the beginning, 16,000 women, thank? 1000 and two women's health initiative in JAMA stopped estrogens after a radical increase stroke risk in 16,000 women. It patches symptoms, it doesn't fix ovarian signaling, and it causes more problems in you. Sareyes, they give these things selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. They give these for hot flashes. What? They tweak serotonin to blunt vasomotor signals. Remember, I told you it's a vasomotor issue when you have a hot flash. There's a signaling problem with the hypothalamus. 2019, annals of internal medicine, meta analysis found you ready for this. This is not a very big number. It sounds big, but it's not when you look at the problems and whether or not it's solving the issue. I realized the 25% thing I just talked about, but I'm talking about solutions. 50% relief and side effects like sexual dysfunction, it increased, listen to this part, increased menopause issues. So they give you something to solve menopause problems that aggravates the menopause problems. And physiologically, they don't touch the hypothalamic instability whatsoever. Not at all. We're talking if like less than zero bisphosphonates. That's another one for bones. So remember, I talked about osteoclasts, osteoblasts, right? So they block osteoclasts, but accumulate in the bones and they cause fractures. 2023, New England Journal of Medicine showed 30% on bisphosphonates had 30%. That means three out of every 10 have an atypical femoral break after five years. You broke your femur. The strongest bone that they make weapons out of back in cave mandays. Biochemically, they disrupt normal remodeling without addressing estrogen's absence upstream. You've never solved the problem. And listen, doctors screw this up because they manage symptoms, not the machine. They slap on an estrogen patch like duct tape and the leaky engine wondering why it doesn't work. They ignore the fact that 70% of cases stem from metabolic roots. Proven 2021 menopause critique in JAMA highlighted how 80, this is nuts, 80% doctors, this is why you guys piss me off, 80% of docs prescibes, symptomatically, that doesn't solve a problem. E18 endocrine practice study proved root cause intervention more than halved, halved recurrence. Physiology 101 docs, pay attention right here. Come on. Don't get mad because I know more than you pay attention, take notes and do it for your patients so you can help treat them better. Physiology 101, fix the input outputs, normalize every single time 100% of the time. Oral estradiol disaster said this first past metabolism conjugates it in the liver producing estrone sulfate, less bioactive and it spikes SHBG. So it binds free estrogen, worsens symptoms and side effects like bloating, clots. You know, here's the problem though. Here's the problem. You guys blame this on menopause. 2004 WHI follow-up in circulation linked oral forms to a 2.5 to 5 times thrombosis risk via hepatic protein induction. Those menopause headaches, they're from estrogen spikes, crashing the shit out of serotonin. Yeah, I realize I cursed. It's okay, you'll survive. Dodgenous hormones have to be transdermal or injected to bypass the liver. It's the same thing as peptides. You guys taking oral peptides, take your fist, ball it up, punch yourself in the face or in the sack if you're a dude. Stop arguing in my comments that they worked for you. They did not. Biology is not different for you. God made us all the same. Your biology does not work with oral peptides. There's no magic coding they can have. They cannot work. It is absolutely impossible. Never mind the fact that they can't even pass through the enterocytes. All of it doesn't work, but you keep arguing, chattering away. This is the worst part. When I go, oral peptides do not work and you go, what about for gut problems? Did you hear what I said? Oral peptides don't work, but if, and then you'll argue, what BPC is made in the gut, it has to work in the gut. Doesn't work like that. I've explained the physiology. I'm not going to explain it in this one because it's a lot. Patches deliver this steady, patches are probably one of the best. They deliver this steady beta estradiol mimicking natural pulses without any conjugation. 2017, Climacteric RCT, 400 women showed transdermal 50% better, better, 50% better symptom relief than oral with 80% lower VTE risk. Biochemistry wins 100% when you respect pharmacokinetics. Biochemistry wins when you respect pharmacokinetics. Always does. Here, I'll even help you with some vitamin deficiencies because I said I would solve the problem. So let's solve this. Okay. Vitamin deficiencies that exacerbate this one vitamin D modulates ovarian FSH receptors, low levels accelerate atresia, right? The apoptosis 2019 Journal of Steroid Biochemistry, biochemistry deficient women had two times symptom severity. That's a big deal, by the way, because two times the money in your bank account would be a lot, right? So look at magnesium. It's a cofactor for ATP synthesis and GABA deficiency ramps up anxiety. 2020, nutrients trial, 300 milligrams a day, cut hot flashes by 40%. If you ask what kind, there's about a dozen different kinds. Pick one, stay with it. If you don't see a change in 12 to 14 days, change the type. Stop gambling and going, this doctor said this one, no doctor is right. Your physiology might acclimate to a different magnesium. I know some people that get sick on magnesium. I know some people, so they have to change it, but they don't. They cut off magnesium altogether and say it didn't work for me. There are so many different kinds. So just pick one. If it doesn't work, take another one and just make a note that you don't go back to that one. Dupet is as stupid as does. So smart is as smart does. Look at omega threes. They shut down the inflammation via something called resolvents. Low EPA DHA correlates with a whole bunch of vasomotor issues. 2018, American Journal of Clinical Intrusion Supplementation Reduced IL-6. Remember what I talked about? IL-6, interleukin-6, 25 to 35%. B vitamins, specifically B6, B12, essential for methylation and hormone detox. Deficits cause a ton of estrogen dominance, both men and women, by the way. 2022, frontiers and endocrinology. B vitamins low, 60% of the severe cases. So 60% of those people with severe cases and bad issues with menopause, they were low. Imagine if all you have to do is change your B vitamins. I'm not saying that's the solution, but if imagine that would take the edge off and you go from being miserable and uncomfortable to going, wow, actually, I can tolerate this. This is not a big deal. Zinc supports aromatase. Remember what I went right all the way up to the top of this podcast where I talked about aromatase? When it doesn't do its job, no estrogen. So zinc deficiency supports aromatase. Deficiency, tanks, what do you think? Estrogen. 2016, biological trace element research. Zinc supplements boosted levels, 30%. It's a big number. Listen, you guys, pharma rakes in 20 billion a year from HRT and symptom meds. That's from the 2024 IQ VIA report, by the way. It's real numbers. 21 nature reviews and ochronology showed metabolic approaches. Listen to me. This is a big number. 80% of cases, durably, by the way, versus 20% for hormonal management alone. Told you I'd help you. So pay attention. Mod C. Let me explain Mod C because people hear this and you guys, you, all you guys are using it wrong. Most of you guys, oh, I take it every day. I micro dose Mod C. Stop micro dosing. Number one, you're tickling receptors. Number two is your mega dosing. You're taking 10 every day. I'm not going to put any more into that because otherwise I'm going to get my video pinched, but you're taking 10 every day. That's ridiculous. You're taking it every day. Also ridiculous. Don't need it. You're taking it minus something else. You're just taking it as a standalone or you think SS needs to be taken before Mod C and all these insta bro body builders keep arguing. That's how it's done because they want to be right, but they're wrong. Why? Because their biology and their bio chemistry came from a puzzle. I don't have anything to gain when I give you the information. Do you know that? I don't know if you understand that, but I don't have any. It's not like I get a trophy every time I'm right. I'm just trying to help you. Mod C. So listen, how does it boost hormones is the question you should ask, right? Because you're like, isn't that for AMPK? Yeah, and a bunch of other things makes you violently insulin sensitive too, by the way. So watch using that. It enhances insulin sensitivity in ovarian cells, restores ATP for steroid production, up regularly something called PGC1 alpha. So it improves mitochondrial biogenesis, more mitochondria, more power plants, and estrogen synthesis as a subsequent follow up to that, right? Look at redditruetide. This is part two. Redditruetide demolishes insulin resistance by enhancing beta cell function and ovarian sensitivity. 2023, New England Journal of Medicine phase two trials showed this. Listen to me. This is great. 25% weight loss and normalized insulin markers in perimenopausal women. This is with redditruetide and Mod C, hypothetically for a kangaroo. If you see my head nodding up and down, yes, that's what it's for. It slashed inflammation via adipokine reduction and symptoms dropped. You ready for this? Where are you on that one? You guys are taking these big fancy treatments and reading books and spending days and months and weeks and years trying to solve menopause, attacking the symptoms instead of attacking the underlying physiology and dysfunction that's causing the symptoms. I gave you a solution. Most of you guys aren't going to do it. But I said yesterday, if you fix the code, the symptoms delete themselves. Listen, I'm going to go Sunday. I got stuff to do. Hope you got something out of this. Never miss.

=== FILE: Methylene Blue Another Masterclass in The Series - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [ICbMnq3E-jo].txt ===

查第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一 My wife always says it, right? She says, follow the money. And I'm not out here selling a damn thing. And honestly, I don't think I ever really have. You want to buy from me? Great. And I'll say it right out of the gate. You want to buy from elite biogenics? I own the company. If you do, awesome. If you don't, still awesome. I want you to have this information. I think that's the important part. And the issue is I see a lot of people on social media clipping my stuff. I talk about it all the time, taking my stuff and using it to sell their brand of whatever peptide they're selling. Great. I got a pretty unique look to me. I think most people know who I am by now. And I'm trying to just give you the information. Yeah, I own a huge company and I'm not pushing it. And if you're going to be pushing it right now, not really. I'm just telling you, if you want to, I, if you trust me, then you trust what I have. If you don't, then don't. That's okay. I'm going to go buy from somebody else, but I'm not out here bashing anybody. I'm not crapping on anybody. I'm not trying to discredit anybody. I'm just giving information. So you choose somebody asked me. They're like, I'm confused. One, one chemist, he's not a chemist. One chemist says, do this. The other chemist says, don't do that. You say do this. And they say, don't do that. Choose who you want to choose. Okay, I'm not here to convince you. I'm giving you the info. You decide what you want to do with it. If you trust me and you want to buy from me, awesome. If you don't, I don't know why you're listening to me then. But what I don't need are a bunch of toddlers in my comments, complaining and whining and going, this guy's using your stuff and he says you're wrong. Okay. That doesn't matter to me. I'm trying to help you. I'm not out here going buy my stuff. If you don't buy my stuff, you're a communist. I don't care. And then the other part of it is if you want to, people ask me, okay, do you do consultations? No, I don't. I don't. I only have two programs. I need to clear this up real quick. I only have two things that I do. The black card membership, it's one year and it's still sitting at 10 grand. If you want to make payments on it, that's not going to happen. It is wire transfer only. I gave the finger to credit card companies because all they do is give you the shaft and they hold your money and I don't trust them. I just don't. So it is direct wire or Bitcoin. Those are the only two options. If you want to join the black card, it is access to my private Q&A that I do every Monday evening. It is the VIP community where I actually solve your problem. I have endless messages from people who have been struggling with all kinds of stuff who don't struggle with that anymore because they're better. And that's my main goal is just to help mankind. I really just want to save mankind and the health crisis. That's it. And you decide what you want to do with that, man. I don't know what else to tell you. But you want to join, send an email to rona or amber and say it's going to be apply at unlockthecard.com. If you ask them for a bunch more information, they're just going to send you a wire transfer sheet and say here, because I just explained what it is. And that's it. And then I have one on one or when you work one on one with me directly, you get my cell phone number. That's $250,000 a year. And it is, I think I'm at a three month waiting list and to get on the waiting list, you have to pay. So you choose what you want to do. I'm not here selling it. I'm not pushing it. I'm not saying, oh, you've got to do it. It's the greatest ever. You decide what you want to do. I know I'm good at what I do. And I know I give a crap about mankind. So you decide what you want to do with that. So methylene blue, just listen, methylene blue is it's pretty wild. Like I actually, I just took methylene blue probably about 20 minutes before I started this podcast. It's I love it. This stuff's awesome, but they're not all the same. And you don't have to pee blue to prove that it works. In fact, that's the excess. It's being converted in your system to the colorless version. So loosal methylene. And so it's not, that doesn't mean it's working. That's such a ridiculous Insta bro influencer thing. I'll explain the biochemistry behind it. So you actually understand. But I'm going to take everything that you probably thought you knew from following Instagram people, and even if it's me, probably didn't get it from me, but everything you knew about cellular energy and mitochondrial function and even human performance in general. And I'm going to set it all on fire. Yeah, I'm going to set it on fire with 140 year old synthetic dye that makes your neurons go do clear in a good way. Because listen, unlike 99% of the supplement industry in the peptide industry and the world out there on social media that sells you glorified fairy dust with Instagram marketing and affiliate codes and shills and sellouts and doctors who've sold their soul to make a break. I'm going to walk you through the exact biochemical mechanisms of why methylene blue is I believe it's probably the single most underrated performance molecule on the planet. And this isn't theory like this is all peer reviewed, get all my stuff peer reviewed. It's mechanism understood physiologically validated science based right it's not. I don't come out here and just go I don't know let's see what I can come up with today and see what it sounds like and if I sound smart. That's not what I do. I give you the information you decide what you do with it like I always say you want to buy great you don't great you want to listen great you don't great but what you shouldn't do is act like a toddler in my comments and just complain about what I said or try and get me triggered because I think it's ridiculous. That's your problem is you get all upset about things that just doesn't even matter. So listen here's what nobody's really talking about methylene blue right phenothiazinium chloride. You want to get all technical about it this stuff. Let that sink in just let that land for a second. This thing's older than your great grandmother's great grandmother the first fully synthetic pharmaceutical compound ever created I'm going to need some coffee because I'm about ready to go off coffee blacker than a witches crotch you guys want me to do one on caffeine. Explain why it's so gangster and why everybody should be drinking coffee I will just let me know. Don't say it in the comments because I won't answer say it somewhere on Instagram or don't send me an email if you guys sending me emails trying to sell me your stuff for your closer services I had someone dude started giving my executive assistant a hard time because hey I'm just wondering if you need any closers and she's no and then tried to chastise her so I get a job with me man and I have positions open so look Paul Eric it's the godfather of modern pharmacist. I'm a college he right used it to stain cells that's what he used it to do and here's where it gets really interesting because when he injected it into patients with malaria in 1891 that's a long time ago they got better they got better not because it killed the parasite directly but because it fundamentally altered the cellular electron dynamics so at a molecular level methylene blue is a thiazine die that exists in just two states and oxidized form which is the blue one that we all see I should have brought a bottle out here and a reduced form which is what I was talking about earlier colorless looso methylene blue and this is where the magic all happens because methylene blue doesn't just do one thing it's a cellular electron shuttle a molecular taxi service right that operating at this nanoscopic level inside every single one of your 37.2 trillion cells it does all kinds of things think about that if it's operating like that and it's transporting electrons what's it affecting three letters should come to mind by the way ATP so before I go into how this works you need to understand the problems it solves your mitochondria these little I talked about yesterday those little powerhouses that everybody on social media apparently is an expert with and they're all talking about how all mitochondria mitochondria listen all the people most people don't understand it I think I understand it really well and there's still things I'm learning that's how wild human biology is so they're running complex one through complex five of the ETC 2065 I know you guys just heard that one complex five complex five give me just listen this is the assembly line I talked about it yesterday that takes the food that you eat strips electrons from it and creates ATP adenosine triphosphate which is the only energy currency that every cell in your body accepts no ATP no life period there's no work around to this and I think that's where a lot of people are confused as they're going well but what if I do this instead no ATP but what if I do that no ATP won't work but what if I do this no ATP won't work like you have to always come back to the fundamentals and here's the problem complex one and complex three are very leaky it's like a garden hose that a squirrel chewed on it's just full of a bunch of holes so electrons escape they react with oxygen and create ROS's reactive oxygen species free radicals their cellular vandals that damage your mitochondrial membranes your DNA and your your proteins right remember cardiolipid SS 31 there's all kinds of things I could get into where just it's getting holes punched into the membrane and SS 31 comes in and helps that save that that's another podcast so 2012 a study in biochemica a biofisica acta showed that as we age yes that's really what it's called complex one efficiency drops by 40% 40 freaking percent so your cellular power plants are running at 60% capacity and you're wondering why you're tired at two in the afternoon I did a full test on fatigue but just if you could take one thing out of a bottle and you need to listen because this is the ATP crisis this is where methylene blue enters stage left like this biochemical hero for your life listen this is where most people's brains shut off and this is where the power is you have to understand this methylene blue except electrons directly from any DH at complex one and then it delivers them straight to cytochrome see by passing both complex one and complex three entirely it doesn't get caught in a traffic jam so let me translate what that means it creates a shortcut it's like an express link it's like a cellular bypass surgery that roots around the damaged inefficient reactive oxygen species producing sections of your electron transport chain 2017 study in neuro pharmacology showed that methylene blue at low doses we're talking one milligram you guys taking 1020 30 milligrams and I'll go over the difference between 1% methylene blue and 10% methylene blue and why that's a huge deal and why this dark blue these guys are all putting dies in it and I even have a list if you want of all the companies that peptide companies that are putting colored dye in along with yes I realize methylene blue is a die however they're adding deep blue die to make it look more blue so understand there is a lot of it's a lot of shit bags out there it's all I gotta say so it increases oxygen consumption by 70% and ATP production by 60% depending on the tissue type it's 30 to 60% but 70% 70% you know what you know what else increases oxygen consumption by 70% here I'll help you nothing literally nothing else you can swallow this is a good thing by the way not a bad thing but here's where it gets even better when methylene blue delivers those electrons to cytochrome C it doesn't just increase ATP production it decreases the reactive oxygen species production at the same time 2008 study in free radical biology and medicine showed methylene blue reduces reactive oxygen species production by 50 50% while increasing adenosine triphosphate production by 40% so it shuts off the damage and cranks up the power you're getting more energy with less cellular damage that's like upgrading from your 1972 gas toilet that's puking oil all over your driveway to listen to a 9-11 turbo s almost said a Tesla forget it not no I don't care get mad at me I really don't care I can't stand him so like a 9-11 turbo s like mine here's what everybody gets wrong they think methylene blue more ATP more energy it's an energy supplement wrong wrong wrong that's like saying my 9-11 turbo s is just a thing with wheels and stop getting caught up in the fact that I'm talking about a car if you don't like them it's like it's an example it's a metaphor methylene blue is listen I'll give you a very short synopsis of what it does it's an electron carrier and antioxidant at low doses I got to say this monamine oxidase inhibitor nitric oxide modulator it's an autophagy enhancer cellular debris cleanup hydrochondrial biogenesis simulator so it cranks out more power plants in 19 study in aging cell showed methylene blue delays cellular senescence literal aging by improving mitochondrial function and reducing oxidative stress in human we're not using mice anymore baby human fibroblasts it makes old cells act young again but it does it at the molecular level wait I'll sound like a Shamuel commercial right but wait there's more listen I yeah I'm being dramatic because this is dramatic methylene blue also acts as a selective inhibitor of what I talk about monamine oxidase a and b to be honest so you know what that means just to translate it slows down the breakdown of serotonin dopamine and norepinephrine for your brain more neurotransmitters hanging around equals better mood better focus better cognitive performance 2016 study journal of psychopharmacology showed one single dose one single dose of methylene blue one milligram at 10% improve memory consolidation and retrieval in healthy humans by 10% you might think 10% is not a big deal but start extrapolating that out think how badass that would make your memory one dose one one we're not talking a week of this that's why I'm saying this measurable cognitive improvement in healthy people listen I got to say this this is the framework that explains virtually all chronic diseases and I haven't talked about this enough and you have to understand this this is why I said where's my Nobel Prize systemic you have to understand why I'm bringing this up remember the three biological failures this is why and it proteins to methylene blue systemic inflammation insulin resistance and ATP shortage every single chronic disease diabetes heart disease Alzheimer's autoimmune conditions cancer involves at least two of these three and it's usually all three so here's the problem because nothing out there is addressing these things and when I point at what does it either gets censored or shut down or ignored and you guys go back to take you to do stupid things to yourself I'm trying to help you trying to help you so listen here's how methylene blue addresses every single one of them so you can put this in your opium pipe and you can smoke it you can figure out what to do with you can give me the finger and forget about it it doesn't matter but I'm doing this for you guys so look at the ATP shortage so we covered this at the beginning understand methylene blue increases ATP production by about 60% 30 to 60% by optimizing the ETC the electron transport chain function so more ATP more cellular function less cellular stress all good things look at systemic inflammation which is the primary problem here right 2015 inflammation research showed methylene blue suppresses NF Kappa B activation which is that master control for inflammatory gene expression I talked about this with GHK-Cu as well yesterday it also reduces IL6 IL1 beta TNF alpha the inflammatory cytokines that make you feel like human trash by reducing mitochondrial reactive oxygen species methylene blue cuts inflammation off but it does it at the source it takes the legs right off not with an immunosuppression with improved cellular efficiency now look at insulin resistance which is a big deal here's the smack with this one here's the rub 2011 study in diabetes journal demonstrated methylene blue improves glucose uptake in skeletal muscles 40% and increases insulin sensitivity through AMPK activation you guys remember what else does that outside of metformin which is crap mot C the same pathway that is activated also exercise by the way but out of all of those only two of those three matter I'm not talking about the methylene blue I'm talking about metformin mot C and exercise mot C and exercise gangster metformin riddled with side effects and causes all kinds of problems it is not a longevity drug only idiots call it that only imbeciles do that and pharmaceutical reps trying to get you to buy their stuff listen. With methylene blue causing these effects at a cellular level yeah this stuff geeks me out because I think it's fantastic this is just like you have a single molecule it has three fundamental disease mechanisms and it addresses all three simultaneously and people got an awful when I take it it tastes weird. Look your brain is 2% of your body weight but consumes what I always say 20% of your oxygen and 25% of your glucose it's the most metabolically demanding organ that you have wait till I get to your retina by the way you guys are going to be blown away at what I tell you your eyes your diabetes glaucoma. You're gonna go nuts when you hear what I tell you about methylene blue I should write it down here I have a you guys are looking going I have a post it right here but it's from my wife says I love you bed and I always keep it here why but I need to keep post it here because when I get things going in my head while I'm doing these podcast I have no notes in front of me this is. But I want you to understand this so your brain is starving just stop there starving right neurological conditions Parkinson's depression yes they've proven it Alzheimer's dementia brain fog. They all share one common feature mitochondrial dysfunction in your neurons 2014 study in Journal of Alzheimer's disease showed methylene blue reduces the towel protein aggregation right towel protein towel tangles the tangles that these are the things that define Alzheimer's 50% 50. All you have to do is take these drops 50 human clinical trials in 2016 showed stabilization of cognitive decline in moderate not mild moderate Alzheimer's dementia patients taking others as a significant amount 138 milligrams a day. Now you don't run out and start taking that much you don't have Alzheimer's or dementia don't want to prevent it that's stupid don't this is why I have to be very clear about this because a lot of you guys here this is oh my god I need that to. You start smashing I have a couple of guys in my in my black card group and they're taking like 15 different things I'm a goal the crosstalk is unbelievable don't do that fix your biology first and then start stacking things. But listen here's the mechanism methylene blue crosses the blood brain barrier like we're talking minutes like I took it 20 minutes ago or now 30 minutes ago or my 20 minutes 30 minutes ago and it's already in me and in my brain but once there. Concentrates in neurons ex blood concentration. 2012 study neuroscience showed it and go straight to work optimizing mitochondrial function right there on the spot just bang bang more ATP in your neurons better neurotransmitter synthesis better synaptic signaling better memory formation better neuro protection. 2010 study neurobiology of aging showed methylene blue increases brain glucose utilization 30% and improves men or memory retention in aged animals they're not doing this on humans yet. And improves memory retention to levels comparable to young people think about what I just said let it land. You're essentially giving your brain this premium fuel in a turbocharger slapped on it at the same time. So look at I was talking about energy and this is why this stuff works when some methylene blue works when caffeine right here in this cup if you're looking at my mug which I'm gonna drink some of when caffeine fails bad drink on that one. So caffeine blocks adenosine receptors right doesn't give you energy it masks the signal that tells you're tired. It's like putting tape I got nothing against caffeine but I need you understand besides before somebody goes I thought you said caffeine was good. This is a comparison people this isn't dogging on it it's comparing two different things and understanding which one is better. It's not saying they could both be great which one's more great just so you don't misinterpret what I'm saying I gotta be so crazy guys are so fragile. It's like putting tape over your car's check engine light methylene blue it doesn't produce energy it actually produces more ATP it fixes the energy problem the crisis at the source slide up in my chair here. Have to move this mic I'm gonna get a backache sitting here 2012 study disease models and mechanisms showed methylene blue improves muscle performance and reduces fatigue in CFS people with chronic fatigue syndrome 40 to 60%. But how many doctors are doing that they don't you know what they get for chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia they give methotrexate are you out of your mind that's a chemotherapeutic drug they also give it for rheumatoid arthritis they go it's off label helps the flare ups it also kills you. So look at here's why methylene blue works because muscles are packed with mitochondria. So when you capitalize on the ETC function the electron transport chain function muscles cells produce more ATP per oxygen molecule come consumed. But what I told you consumes oxygen increases oxygen consumption by how much the percent nothing else on earth does that that you can take orally you get more work output for the same energy input so you get a higher return if your return on investment with 70 X versus X which one are you gonna take this is efficiency at a cellular level like complete optimization. So here's something wild methylene blues been used to treat something called met hemoglobinemia since 1933. It's a condition where your hemoglobin can't carry oxygen properly right. But here's how it works because methylene blue reduces met hemoglobin back to the functional hemoglobin it literally restores the oxygen carrying capacity at the molecular level. This stuff should blow your mind if you hear this and go it doesn't make any sense to me. Just be happy about it and stand up and jump around and then sit back down and listen to this 2020 study published during covid by the way showed methylene blue reduces inflammatory markers and improves oxygenation in patients with severe respiratory disease severe respiratory distress. And yet how many of your doctors were dumping methylene blue and you none of them none of them they were giving you remdesivir. They were denying I've remected they were putting people on ventilators and watching them die. Don't even get me started on this. I lost a lung because of all that and I lost a lung because of a bunch of toxins and mold in my house because some jackass contractor builder named Lucian to Jack Jr. Who owns Dominion asset development by the way here in Texas. Look him up lied and didn't repair the brand new multi million dollar house that we built and gave him money for that needed a half a million dollars worth of work. The day we turned the key and he made promises for two years and then turned around and instead of solving the problem after I rolled out of the hospital in a wheelchair and being a lung almost dying. Because the insulation was filled with black mold everywhere which leaking under my hardwood floors foundation leaking roof out of snakes in the house. Yes fell on my son. You guys know the story. He slapped a nine hundred thousand dollar judgment on us instead still chasing us five years. So understand what if there would have been a way a doctor would have said to me to come full circle when I was laying in that hospital bed texting brandy going I'm not going to make the morning. We need to get you on methiline blue but he didn't. That's what I'm talking about. You guys need to take charge. I've learned so much. I told you when I came out of the hospital rock bottom lost everything. Lawsuit lost the house. No money. No physical fitness. You guys watch me. I thought I was a machine. Don't take what I'm telling you lightly. I realized God said you have stuff to do. You have a mission and you need to help. Give mankind the answers as many of them as you can. I don't do this for sales or pumping up my company or crapping on somebody else because I don't like what they said and I disagree with their analysis. I don't care. I come out here whether you like it or not because I give a crap about you because I care about you and I'm sorry but if you're too ignorant to accept that and understand that you're too busy chattering in your own head going. He went against what I said and it's making my products sell less. Maybe your products are crap because you're a liar. You ever think of that? Maybe you just do the right thing that so many people struggle to do the right thing. Don't they just to be very transparent. I'm out here doing the right thing to help you because I love you whether you get it or not. Listen, bypass the C 19 thing. The mechanism goes deeper. Methylene blue modulates something called this stuff gets me mad because nobody cares about mankind here on Earth right now. I believe as much as me. I just I don't get it. I'm not chasing anybody down. I'm not trying to crap on somebody's life and clipping their video. I haven't stolen a video ever. I haven't clipped somebody else's video and tried to go look at come by my stuff. But I'm going to lean on all this guy's knowledge. And when I did when I do use somebody else's information like my whole nicotine video I did. Who did I give credit for? Who did I give credit to? Who? Who? Oh, yeah, Dr. Brian Artis. Why? Because I got my information from him. Of course, I'm going to give him credit. What kind of a shill are you where you go out and you steal somebody else's stuff to market you? Your own stuff thinking that's right. I don't know. I guess I got ethics and morals and people that go out there and trash my videos and try and discredit me and use my stuff. I'm sorry. You got no ethics and morals because I've never done that once ever. I've also never gone into anybody's comments and trashed. I've never done a reaction video and trashed anyone. I just don't do that. I'm too busy winning because I give a crap about mankind. So this is the stuff that ticks me off and I get sidetracked and somebody gets in the comments. They go, yeah, but I wish he would just stay on thud decked. Don't listen to me. It's OK. You can go listen to someone else. Go listen to a fuchsia-haired chemist. I don't know. Go listen to some skinny bald guy. I don't know. Go listen to somebody else. That's OK. I don't need you here. I'm doing this for you and not for me. So what was I saying? I was like, methylene blue, it modulates nitric oxide signaling, right? Too much nitric oxide in sepsis or severe inflammation causes something called vascular collapse. You need to understand these things. This is why it's so good. Methylene blue inhibits guanylate cyclase. So it prevents excessive vasodilation and maintains tissue oxygenation. It's like having a smart thermostat for your vascular system. Listen, your endocrine system. Look at this. Let's just go line by line through systems. Your endocrine system runs on ATP, period. Remember what I said? ATP here. I'll help you. What runs on your body? What runs on ATP in your body? You ready? Every single cell. There you go. Now you know the answer. See, I tell you, if they go not this cell specifically, yes, that one too. Look at thyroid hormone production requires ATP. Thyrothromone synthesis. ATP. How about what about insulin secretion? Yep. You guessed it. T.P. 2013. Thyroid research showed methylene blue protects thyroid cells from oxidative damage and maintains thyroid hormone synthesis under metabolic stress. What are they giving you? Nope. T4, T3, armor, synthroid, levothyroxin. It doesn't matter. No. Look at sex hormones. Latex cells in men, ovarian cells in women have very high mitochondrial density. They eat ATP like it's a snack all day long. And they do it to convert cholesterol into testosterone, estrogen, progesterone. When you optimize mitochondrial function with methylene blue, you optimize the cellular machinery that produces these hormones. 2018 reproductive biology showed methylene blue improves sperm mobility and viability by enhancing mitochondrial function in spermatizoma. Your hormones are only as good as your mitochondria. Period. Full stop. Your life is only as good as your mitochondria. Full stop. Remember what I said? Okay, let's I was going to talk about the eyes. So look at your retina. The retina, this is nuts because you guys are going to hear this and go, come on. Your retina has the highest metabolic rate of any tissue in your body, higher than your brain, higher than your heart. It's essentially this thin sheet of neurons and photoreceptors running at max capacity, diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma both involve mitochondria dysfunction and oxidative damage to retinal ganglion cells. Now, listen, this is important. 2017 British Journal of Ophthalmology showed methylene blue protects retinal ganglion cells from death in glaucoma by improving mitochondrial function and reducing reactive oxygen species. But you need to hear what I'm about to say. 2015 study plus one showed methylene blue reduces retinal damage and diabetes and diabetes 60% through the same mechanism, optimized ETP production, reduced oxidative stress. But listen to why this is so important. You're literally saving cells that can't regenerate ever. Once a retinal cell dies, they are gone forever. People, methylene blue keeps them alive and functional. Why would you not take this stuff? Oh, I don't know if I should take it or not. Then don't look at cancer. Right. Look at cancer. Otto Warburn won the Nobel Prize 1931 for discovering that cancer cells preferentially use glycolysis instead of oxidative phosphorylation. Even when there's oxygen around, when there's the presence of oxygen, they don't care. They're like, nope, I'm going to do this instead. It's because their mitochondria are dysfunctional. I talked about this so many times, but here's the controversial part. 2019 frontiers and oncology showed methylene blue selectively kills cancer cells while sparing healthy cells by normalizing mitochondrial function. Cancer cells can't survive when you force them to use oxidative phosphorylation. Their damaged mitochondria can't keep up. They can't make the switch. Multiple studies, 2020 biochemical pharmacology, 2018. Cancer letters show methylene blue increases apoptosis in cancer cells while protecting healthy cells from chemotherapeutic induced mitochondrial damage. Listen, I'm not saying methylene blue cures cancer. The mechanism is there. It's documented and it's why people should be lining up for this. Listen, here's where people screw up. I think more is better. They take methylene blue every day indefinitely. Wrong. Don't do that. Don't do that. Chronic high doses, methylene blue can become pro oxidants that have an antioxidant right off the bat. That's a bad thing. If you don't know that 2014 toxicology and applied pharmacology showed continuous high dose methylene blue reduces glutathione primary antioxidant from your liver and increases oxidative stress. All bad things. Look at this. 9,200 days. Mitochondrial. It would be even better. It's the only time I'll say this. 70s on seven days off. Just cycle back and forth on that hypothetically for your kangaroo. Here's why. Because mitochondrial adaptation requires. Rometic stress. It's beneficial stress followed by recovery. You need to give yourselves time to upregulate the antioxidant systems. Think of it like, like training. You don't do squats every single day. You do squats a couple of times a week.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected risks, something called serotonin syndrome, which by the way is potentially fatal. Let's not do it. How about G6PD deficiency? It's a genetic condition that affects red blood cells. Methylene blue triggers hemolytic anemia in these people about 70% of the time. Not worth the risk. And how do you find out? Go to your doctor. Get some labs. Find out. If you're pregnant, if you're breastfeeding, no, absolutely not. This stuff isn't candy. This is pharmaceutical grade molecular compound with real effects. It's not a vitamin, you got to respect that. And I think that's the problem is, listen, I'm not dogging on you guys, but a lot of you insta bros stealing my stuff, trying to get people to buy from your little whatever Shopify store to sell peptides. You guys have no business doing it because you guys are telling everybody to buy stuff, but you're getting, you're using my videos to sell your product when you have no business doing it. You know what? Honestly, shame on you. If you understood it, you wouldn't do that. You're handing people guns that don't know how to use a gun, I guess is the way I would do it. Listen, there's so many things I could go over right now. If you're going to buy methylene blue, look for USP grade pharmaceutical methylene blue. If it doesn't say USP grade, I don't know, you're probably gambling in my opinion. I saw something the other day and I might even do a post on it today about the blue P, right? They're talking about these little sugar cubes. They look like little square gummy bears and they had sugar all over the outside and they were like, this is the methylene blue I take. It's the best one. You got to pee. You got to, you got to, your pee should be blue. What? Listen, first of all, let me talk about the blue P. People who see blue P and they either say, it's not working. I'm peeing it all out. I'm freaking out wrong. Okay. 20 2011 pharmacokinetic study and clinical pharmacokinetics showed this. Methylene blue has about A-50 to 70% oral bioavailability reaches peak plasma concentration at about one to two hours. The blue you pee out, you ready for this? It's excess body doesn't need it. That's your kidneys doing their job. You understand physiology. That's your kidneys doing their job. It's filtering out what your body doesn't need right now. Right this moment, but here's the key. Methylene blue accumulates in tissues with high mitochondrial density, brain, heart, liver, muscles. It sticks around where it's needed, not where it's not blue P means you took enough. It does not mean that it's working or it's real or that it didn't work and you're peeing it all out. It's that's not how it works. So listen, while I'm on this subject, let me address that too, because this is the elephant in the frigging bathroom that I've seen all over social media. And some of you guys are using it as marketing. You're going all if the P isn't blue, then it's fake. That doesn't even make sense. If my P isn't blue, the methylene blue is fake. Wrong, baby. That doesn't make any sense whatsoever. Less than none. Here's your sign. Stupidity. Here's the physiology, whether or not your urine turns blue depends on four factors that has nothing to do with authenticity. Let's go through. Let's go line by line. The first one hydration, your kidneys concentrate or dilute urine based on your hydration level. 2013 kidney international showed urine concentration can vary 10 fold based on water intake alone. If you're well hydrated, you're producing more dilute urine. The blue gets diluted below visible threshold. Your urine osmolarity, which is the concentration, it doesn't matter. It's got a range at the high end. The blue is obvious at the low end. It's invisible. Same dose, same absorption, different water intake, different color. Look at another factor, dosage, low therapeutic dose. You might just not excrete enough oxidized methylene blue to create a visible color change, especially if you're go up to the first thing I just talked about hydrated. Okay, the methylene blue is working inside your cells. If you remember what I talked about at the very beginning, I'm already four of it 40 minutes and I said, I was going to do 20 minute podcasts. And I just once you pull a string on my chest and you let me go like you let me off the chain and I go baby. But the methylene blue works inside the cell and it's getting reduced to what did I say? Luso methylene blue. It's colorless. It's shuttling electrons. It's making ATP, but the amount that remains oxidized, the blue one, right? You call methylene Azul gets filtered by your kidneys. It might be below the visual detection threshold that you've got. Maybe that's it. 2009 study, British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology showed urinary excretion of methylene blue varies from five to 40%. That's a huge number, you guys. 40% of oral dose, depending on the redox status in the tissue update. So here's the translation. Most of it gets used or stored, not peed out. Look at the third thing, metabolic redox state. Here's the biochemistry that's going to blow people's minds. And I'm sure somebody's going to take and clip and go, watch not really yet. My little cubes are magic. Your little cubes are probably lies is what they are. Or you have something filled with a real blue dye to make the blue dye look darker blue. That's literally what's going on in the social media world. It's disgusting to me. Inside your cells, methylene blue gets reduced to loosome methylene blue, which is colorless. This is how it specifically works. This is the electronic-accepting mechanism that we've been talking about for the last 35 minutes. 2010 study, Journal of Biology and Chemistry showed under conditions of high metabolic demand, exercise, stress, illness, all of it. More methylene blue gets reduced and retained in tissues rather than excreted in its oxidized blue form. You know what that means? If you're metabolically compromised, if you need it most, you might pee. You might just pee less blue, people, because your tissues are holding onto it. No blue pee might mean it's just working better, not worse. And look at individual enzyme variability. Your NADPH dependent reductase is the enzymes that reduce methylene blue to loosome, right? Methylene blue, loosome, methylene blue have genetic polymorphisms that vary between a ton of everybody. 2015, Pharmacogenetics and Genomics showed enzymatic reduction rates very five-fold between people based on genetic variants. Whatever the hell's going on in your physiology, baby. Fast metabolizers, for example, convert more to colorless, loosome, methylene blue. Slow metabolizers excrete the more oxidized, the blue form. So what? Same product, same authenticity, different genetics, different beagle. Yeah, go figure, listen, the bottom line is this blue pee is not, it's not QC, it's not quality control, it's not a test. It's a very crude, influencer-based indicator of excretion patterns that's shown, that's, it's influenced by hydration and dose and metabolism and genetics. You want to know if your methylene blue is real or not? Check your supplier, check your supplier. Here, I'll go even further. You want to know what, like I said, I don't care if you buy it from me or not. What I say is that if you, and by the way, the one I carry is 10%. The one on everywhere else, just look at it, don't take my word for it, is 1%. That is a massive, like orders of magnitude difference. That means, let's say at 1%, you would need 100 drops and at 10%, you only need three drops and it has nothing to do with the color. So just keep that in mind. I don't care where you buy it. I'm just saying, stop buying it because you think it has to make your pee blue because that's the most ridiculous thing in the world. Get it from somebody with a certificate of analysis showing USP grade that has spectrophotometric verification and I'll even give you what it is. Just so you know what it's supposed to be, 6.68 nanometer absorption wavelength and batch testing, just all of that. Just so you know, no push on my company, but that's what we do. It's not by checking your toilet bowl like you're reading frigging tea leaves, you guys. Your mitochondria don't care what color your pee is. They care about electron transport optimization and that you can measure with energy levels, cognitive function, performance, not bathroom selfies and a picture of your toilet going at what wasn't real. Listen, let me button this up. Come from full circle. Methylene blue, 140 year old synthetic dye increases ATP production 60, 30 to 60%. It reduces oxidative stress, 50% improves cognitive function. One dose. Remember what I said, one dose durably and one dose addresses all three causes of chronic disease, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage protects neurons, muscles, organs, mitochondrial level improves insulin sensitivity massively protects retinal cells. Remember they don't come back. Anti cancer costs about I don't know 50, 100 bucks for a month. Why isn't everybody talking about this than other than trying to sell it? I'm not trying to sell it right now. I'm just talking about it. Here's why there's no patent. It's old. It's tired, it's dated, boring supplement industry can't mark it up 10,000% and sell it with influencers and shills. So the peptide companies do it. But how about this? Now you know the biochemistry and you understand the mechanisms and you now have the physiological framework to know exactly what the hell it does. It's not biohacking. This is optimization theater. This is fundamental mitochondrial medicine backed by over 100 years of research and hundreds and thousands of peer reviewed studies. Listen, your cells, it's I'll make it very binary. We could wrap this entire podcast up into one statement. Your cells are either producing enough ATP to function optimally or they're not. That's it. You guys are complicating things and complexity kills everything. My buddy, Baydro Skulein says, you know what? Leadership is always a problem. Leadership is always the answer. Complexity kills everything. It's just a fact. Everything else, your energy, your mood, your cognition, your hormones, your longevity flows from that one simple fact. Either you're producing enough ATP or you're not. Methylene blue is that one molecule that tips the scales in your favor. And now, so I think the more operative question is, what the hell are you going to do with it? What are you going to do about it? What are you going to do with all this information? Go do something awesome with it and actually max out your life so you don't have to worry about being on managed decline medication for the next 40, 50, 60 years. Like I said, I'm out here to help you, man. That's it. Hope you got something out of that. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: Microdosing Retatrutide Is Costing You - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [WyUgRv8oRik].txt ===

 January 1st, 2026. Happy New Year, everybody. Hope you guys were safe. And you had a fantastic night. You started off your day properly. You kept your word to yourself, and you are doing all the things that you said you were going to do yesterday. I don't do New Year's resolutions. I also don't crap on anybody's New Year's resolutions. I just, I set targets all the time, so it doesn't matter that it's a day. But whatever you've decided to do, I hope it is epic. I hope you stick to it, and I hope you just nail every one of those targets just the most savage way. So today, I'm going to talk about, because everybody's been hounding me, and I'll take it. I'm not saying it's a bad thing about Reddit True Tide. So I'm getting a lot. You guys have got to stop listening to the Reddit forums and the Quora forums and the Insta Bros and the Insta experts. And honestly, 99% of the docs who claim expertise that are just shills for the pharmaceutical company, you guys got to take it, you need to claim sovereignty of your biology. You really do. And I don't know how else to say it other than that. I'm not here to crap on somebody, but I'm here to give you the information. And if somebody argues with me in my comments, honestly, grow up. Just go listen to someone else. I don't have any time for you. I'm never going to respond to you. And if it makes you feel better to be a toddler like that, I guess good on you. But I'm going to explain everything about Reddit True Tide, including what to do with it and why micro dosing can't work. It's not even designed. The engineers didn't even design it for that. So to claim that more than the engineers that built this thing, that is just ignorance in its greatest form. I don't know what else to say. You guys need to stop thinking better than the people that engineered this. It's not designed to be microdosed whatsoever. And I'll address the side effects. I'll explain everything from A to Z. Just seem to understand you just have to have some patience. Patience is not a virtue. It's a precondition for understanding what I'm going to tell you in this entire podcast. So just be patient. Listen to me. You guys believe you live in a free country. I mean, it's wild even saying that because that's not how this works. Like it's not. Manage decline is the killer. Like you believe you own your body and you believe you live in a free country and you are wrong on both accounts. Watch, your body is a company. It is a publicly traded company. And for your entire life, you've been this minority shareholder. Look at your life. Look at just stop before you think superficially. Just stop and listen. I'm right. You've been a minority shareholder of your own biology. The board of directors. That's a cabal of food lobbies and pharmaceutical executives and regulatory agencies who have a vested interest in your company performing poorly. Their business model is your manage decline. Right. The revenue is your sickness. Really put that together. You need to, I don't know, stage a coup or a hostile takeover of your own biology and your own mindset and psychology. So you can actually do something with your life. This is why I come under. So you just have the info. So look at red or true type. This isn't and if you're like, okay, this is great. It's going to be a talk about weight loss. No, it's not weight loss is the lint you find in your pocket after you've won the lottery. It's a trip. Listen, weight loss and red or true type. It is a trivial side effect of a fundamental biological recalibration to understand it. You need to forget everything that you think you know about pharmacology, all of you guys. And if you're one of these Insta expert Insta bros that are coming here just to crap on me, maybe, maybe pull your head out of your butt and pay attention to the guy who just happens to know a little more than you who wants to share it. I'm not crapping on you. I'm giving you the information for free that people have had to go to college for a decade to learn. I've done it already. I'm just giving it to you. I'm not asking you for a quarter million dollars in tuition. I'm just coming out here giving you the info. Listen, red or true type is not a drug. No matter what people judge a drug. No, it's not drugs force peptides or signals. They tell your body to do what it already does. It is a master regulator. It's a key to your own metabolic operating system. So here's what it is. The pharmaceutical industry spent two decades and billions of dollars chasing single action. Compounds peptide, drugs, etc. They and they ended up creating something called semi-gluteide. Turns out that that is dual action compound. It's still worthless. But semi-gluteide a GLP one receptor agonist, right? It's this one trick pony. It tells your brain that you're full and then they market it as this miracle, but it's not. It's a crutch red and true tide isn't even in the same league. But let me explain it because if you follow me from A to Z, you will go, holy crap. Now I understand how it is because I think nobody's really in fact, I've listened to a probably well over a hundred different podcasts and explanations and bro science people trying to explain red. None of you guys are getting it right. So it's this unimolecular single chain peptide engineered to be a triple agonist. It binds to and activates three separate receptors simultaneously, GLP one, GIP and glucagon. But independently, that receptor agonism is not the same as when you're doing them at the same time. And just adding glucagon isn't it's adding glucagon with GLP one and GIP that makes it phenomenal. It's not the glucagon. So when I see these guys coming out with biogluteide and we're going to add even more to it, you're missing the point and you're not understanding endocrinology and pharmacology whatsoever and how your system works. So I'm trying to give you this information. So let me decode everything and I'm going to do without a bunch of kindergarten baby language. If it's I had somebody go, let me dumb down Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Why just educate up just educate up and stick around. I promise you'll learn something. I promise look at GLP one when you this is how it works right. Glucagon like peptide one is what it stands for when you eat your gut releases this. It's the post-prandial satiety and insulin secretion signal. Right. Tells your pancreas. Okay. We have been coming glucose release insulin to deal with all of this and it tells your brain. Hey man. Listen, the tank is full. Stop eating single agonists like semi-gluteide mimic this. It's it's not really that useful because it causes a bunch more problems. Yeah. People go, I lost all this weight. Listen, there was something called the HCG diet where you ate 500 calories a day and took droppers that allegedly did this magic and you lost weight too. But you looked like a melted candle. That's not listen. You're so obsessed about the number on the scale. You're not caring about how you get there and what it's costing you to get there in the longevity afterwards. Loose that number. It's like the HbA1c. It is not just drugging that number down actually has massive catastrophic effects. Metformin actually causes more problems than it's all by far. I've proven this so many times. Research proves it. They just don't give you that part. They tell you the snippet that it's but in this 1.1%. It actually worked in the other 98%. It destroyed people's lives. So just keep that in mind when you're listening to me. The IP is the next one. Bluecoast dependent insulinotropic polypeptide. This is the I call it an overleginous. It's pretty wild released from the upper intestine. It also stimulates insulin secretion, but the magic is in adipose tissue. So 2018 molecular metabolism showed that GIP receptor agonism. This is why you got to understand this part. When combined with GLP-1 enhances insulin sensitivity in fat cells, makes your fat cells more metabolically flexible, less inflammatory, more functional. It's the and also process this energy efficiently signal. Does that make sense? Now, glucagon. This is where the entire system goes tits up the paradigm shatters because watch because alone. This is why you have to understand why things work together and why they work independently. GLP-1, GIP, just stand alone. Sorry, something in my eye. Stand alone, do their thing. Glucagon stand alone does something radically different than when it is combined with GLP-1 and GIP. This is why it's so wild. Alone, glucagon is the fasting hormone, right? It tells your liver, hey, we need energy. Break down glycogen and release glucose like now. Let's go. We're going to die. So in a diabetic, for example, this is broken. Glucagon is inappropriately high dumping sugar into an already flooded system. The pharmaceutical orthodoxy saw glucagon as the enemy to be suppressed. The engineers of Reddit, true tide saw an opportunity for a thermodynamic hack because they understand endocrinology and human biology. What if watch what if you could hijack the glucagon signal in the presence of very powerful GLP-1 and GIP activity, which powerfully suppresses appetite, ready for the smart and controls blood glucose. The glucagon agonism is forced to find another outlet. It can't function the way because it's being blocked. It can't effectively raise blood sugar because the GLP-1, GIP activity is creating this powerful counter regulatory environment. Now, does this make sense? What does it do? It dumps its energy into thermogenesis. That's why this is such a big deal. So all these people arguing about semi-glutide and tersepatide, you're arguing from a platform that's built on a bunch of crepe paper. This is why the argument is so ridiculous when you guys get in and you're like, semi-glutide and tersepatide were way better. I'm so disappointed that you're crashing on them. They're garbage. Don't get mad at me because the product you used is garbage. I don't care if you lost the weight. I can starve you out. Listen, go on the show alone for make it a hundred days. You'll be scrawny. Go on survivor and let Jeff probes put you through the ringer and you'll be scrawny. You're looking for something to justify why what you took solved your problem, but it didn't really solve your problem. It hit it and most people, the number is well over 70%, by the way, that takes semi-glutide tersepatide blow up when they're done because your body goes bananas trying to fight everything that you just did. And it goes the opposite direction. Hard. There's research everywhere. I'm not going to sit here and quote all these studies, but I try and give you as much as I can. But follow me. This is why you have to understand why redditruetide is they're gunning for this hard man because it does such incredible things. It dumps, like I said, it dumps its energy into thermogenesis in the presence only of GLP-1 and GIP. It doesn't do that on the other side of that equation because like I said, it tells your liver, I need energy, break down glycogen, release the glucose, which is not what you want. Except right now when you're getting in the way and not allowing it to flood your bloodstream. Glucogon receptor activation in the liver stimulates something called a denolate cyclase. It increases cyclic AMP, C-A-M-P. C-A-M-P activates protein kinase A, which then phosphorylates this cascade of enzymes. This cranks up hepatic glycolysis and crucially fatty acid oxidation. It's like hitting the metabolic afterburners in your F20. Your liver becomes this fat incinerating furnace, but this isn't theory. 2021, it is 2026 today. So this is a lot of years ago. 2021, New England Journal of Medicine, these two trials demonstrated this with brutal efficiency, but this is the part everybody doesn't like. 24.2% mean reduction in body weight at the highest dose over 48 weeks of which 70% was from fat. Semi-glutide and terzepotide can't even come close to that number, not the weight loss. The fact that it was from fat, they demolish your tissue from A to Z. Listen, the results of this study were so unequivocally superior to the placebo that they were using that continuing the trial was deemed unethical. You guys don't get it. The old model of obesity treatment is being declared obsolete because they've been making mistakes for so long. And yes, I get it. The primary way to look at this is how about you just don't get fat. Being overweight is a decision. Yes, I agree. Unless there's some real genuine metabolic problem, I just I've seen well over a million patients now and I deal with people like in the black card. Just so you know, I'll go right to the peptide. You want to get your stuff? You want to buy from elite biogenics? Awesome. I'll break my fingers to make sure that my company serves you as best as it can. I really will. And everything that comes from my labs, my house, my machine, I would give to my wife and kids. You know how many other companies I can say that about none and some of them I don't know, but no other company with a lab I will ever trust with that. I sure as hell am not trusting some compounding pharmacy bought by a big pharma who God knows what they're putting in or people buying pre constituted peptides. What are you nuts? They're so fragile. You may as well put a baby in a box and mail it to somebody and cross your fingers that it survives. That's how ridiculous that is. And yet people go, I just don't want it. It's like really hard to recond or blends. That's another one. I saw somebody make a post about blends and how they're not a big deal. That's how research is run all the time. Not a chance. Research is not run at all using blends. Never. You know why? Because you lose control. Where's your control when you use a blend? Have you ever done a research study? If you're the person that said that, not I've done hundreds of them. So the reason I'm telling you this and I'm giving you all this information and I'm pretty passionate about it because I want you to have the damn information. So just get this. Now, here's the problem. Micros, I got to address this. I wasn't going to talk about it, but as much as I'm going to, but I'm going to light this up because the micro dosing fallacy, the pharmacokinetic illiteracy is mind boggling. The internet bio hackers, they listen to hear about this, read a true tide. And their first thought is I'm smarter than the scientists who designed it. I'm going to micro dose daily because the side effects, it'll be better. That's not innovation. That's pharmacological malpractice and you guys, it's ignorance. It's ignorance. You don't have to trust me, but I've got no, I've got no vested interest in this. None. Like I said, you want to buy from elite? Awesome. You don't go buy from someone else. Awesome. You knock yourself out. What I have is a vested interest in mankind. That's the same reason why I came out with a black card. The black card, I have so many people in the black card telling me how it's the greatest thing they've ever done. Do you know how much that means to me? I don't do it for me. I do it because I'm tired of people not getting the answers that they so desperately need and getting bro science into taking a bunch of nonsense because they're listening to some imbecile with a PhD who really has no concept of how human biology functions or some CEO that just wants your money. I don't care. I need you. If you're listening to this, I need you to understand this so you can make an educated decision and actually have a physiology that's like a juggernaut. Like some of my closest friends are multi, multi millionaires and billionaires who trust me. And it doesn't matter. It could be a mom next door who makes 10 grand a year. It's not why I'm just saying these are people that could choose anybody and they choose me because they trust my information more than anyone else's because they know I'm out here giving a crap. It's the same reason why I have the black card. Listen, if you want to join the black card, just so you know, I gave it two extra days because everybody freaked out that they couldn't get to the bank fast enough to make it in before the price went up to 25 grand. And this is this was off the hip yesterday because I went nope, not a chance. It is $9,997. Today is January 1st, $25,000, two grand a month to maintain. That's what it is. However, I have at least three dozen emails from people going, I couldn't get to the bank in time. I couldn't get the wire out in time to make the cutoff to make it for 10 to get in for 10 grand. You got till the end of the day tomorrow till the wire cutoff tomorrow. I'm not going to extend it anymore. But I'm trying to give you guys a way in. So if you want and you're listening to this and you want in the black card, you have till tomorrow to get in at last year's investment before it is more than it's 2.5 times the price and rightfully just so you know, I have no problem with that. None. And the black card is my live Q&A every Monday evening. I stay on and I solve your problems. It's access to me. Yes, via messaging through the VIP community that only and it's the entire protocol library that I put together. But that's not even the big deal. I'll you send me whatever labs questions. This I have people that have been through doctors so many times and they finally came to me and they go, Holy crap. It's the first time I've ever had results. Do you have any idea how much that matters to me? I care, man. I care. And if I don't know what the if you go if you care so much, how can we charge money because my time is more expensive than anything else because I don't get more of it. So you're damn well going to compensate me for it because I can't bank my time. And if you think that is a bad statement, you don't like it, then you don't value your time either because if I can pay somebody to give me the answer inside of two days that I've been chasing or three days, whatever. And the answer I've been chasing the relief I've been chasing the solution I've been chasing has been 10 years and I still don't have it. You better ask. I'm going to write that check. I'm going to swipe that card. I'm going to wire that money like this. So apply at unlock the card dot com is how you get the wire information and the sheet, not just the account and the routing that shows up on the website. You get the whole sheet because a lot of places need an address and all that stuff, which is fine. I use I'm not I'm here in Texas. I use frost and I'm very transparent about everything. But if you want in, here's your window. So if all of you guys are saying, oh, I couldn't make it. Now's your chance. Put up or shut up. I'm closing this little window here and cut off my recording yet again. Heads up. We made a new recording track. I don't know what is a deal with Riverside FM. It's done this two days in a row now. It's starting to piss me off. So if you guys have something that runs as good, don't tell me string yard because it doesn't. But if you have something that runs better than Riverside FM for a podcast platform to record to do all the things that does and clean it up and get the static and noise out of the audio and etc. Tell me somebody send me an email. I don't need something complicated. So if you're super complicated or you're trying to sell me your production services, I don't want them. I have somebody that does all that already. I just need a recording platform. So don't try and sell me the fact that you have this great service that you provide because I will just say no. I'm just asking any of you guys in my audience that if you're like, hey, yeah, this is a great platform for recording podcasts. It's wicked. So you tell me anyway, I'm asking you guys for help for once. Oh man. All right. So the bio hackers, the Insta bros. That's where I was, right? I'm smarter than the scientists. No, you're not. You're not. Look at just hang with me for a second. Just hang with me for a second. Redditruetide has a plasma half-life of about six to seven days, but it's not an accident. It's by design. It's deliberately engineered through fatty acid side chain conjugation to be like this. The structure promotes strong reversible binding to albumin, which is the most abundant protein in your blood. This is like this on purpose. This creates a slow release reservoir while maintaining a stable therapeutic plasma concentration for a week after a single injection. The goal is steady state receptor engagement. Period. Look at something as simple as I have this. I can't even say it because I'll get pinched. It's wicked. This thing that comes from the tobacco leaf. Really? I've been pinched for say how ridiculous is that my free country? Okay. Something that comes from the tobacco leaf in and of itself. Slow infusion like from this, the chance of you being hooked on this for life is pretty much zero. The hard, sharp hit mixed with pyrazines and everything else through inhalation. My God. That's why it's a. You guys don't unpack that. So I'm trying to give you the information. Same thing with this long steady state receptor engagement eliminates most of the problems. So watch micro dosing daily is. It's like trying to heat your house by flicking a lighter on and off every five minutes and you're in a 10,000 square foot home. You get this brief spike of heat right around the lighter. It's very tiny and effective receptor activation, right? Followed by a cold trough, just the rapid clearance of human physiology. You never achieve the sustained thermal mass needed to warm the damn house. I don't know why you're getting mad and you're going, this is wrong. Just because you do it doesn't mean it's right. That's the systemic metabolic shift require. By the way, is what I'm trying to explain just using a metaphor. What you do end up achieving when you micro dose is constant erratic signaling to the entire receptor. Then you're not treating the system. You're pissing it off. You're annoying it. This is a perfect recipe for inducing receptor desensitization of tolerance, which is why some of you guys are taking eight to 10 milligrams a week. What the hell is wrong with you? The sweet spot is for you training your body to ignore the very signal you're trying to amplify and you're doing it yourself. Because of your own ignorance, the pharmacokinetics are very clear, stable, weekly dosing builds the necessary concentration for therapeutic effect. Daily micro dosing guarantees sub therapeutic erraticism. It's not clever. It's stupid. And I listen. I got nothing to gain. I don't have any money sitting in Eli Lilly. I'm just trying to help you. And so listen, and the whole issue about the side effects and that my side effects went away when a micro dose. Listen to me. Those horror stories that everybody hears. I took red and I was vomiting for days. Let me diagnose this for you. I'll help you. I will diagnose it right here for you. User error, ignorance, bro science error, Insta expert error, listening to somebody that says, trust me, bro, because they have muscles. Listen to the person because they're an expert, not because they look like they're an expert. This new person that actually cares about you, not selling you a product and going, trust me, bro, because their ego is so fragile. 23 study by Jastropoff. It was the Triath trials specifically, listening lists the adverse events in order. Nazia's first vomiting is second. This is the hierarchy of how they occur. I area third and constipation fourth. I had some doctor try and tell me diarrhea was the number one side effect. No, it's not. And there's the research is everywhere proving that's not true. And by the way, these were overwhelmingly gastrointestinal and more importantly, and. 100% dose related. Look at, I'll explain the biology minus the GLP one receptor isn't just in your brain. It's all over your digestive tract. So when you take the super physiological dose, you are taking a warthog and you are carpet bombing these receptors. You're telling your stomach to slow emptying to a glacial pace. You're overwhelming the system and the nausea and the vomiting aren't a sign of toxicity or that it didn't work for you. They are a very predictable dose dependent physiological response to overwhelming a single pathway. It's your body's alarm system. Like the fire alarm system going off because you set the kitchen on fire with a dose 10 times higher than what you needed because you listen to some guy that went, Trust me, bro. Here's my affiliate code. Taking more isn't brave. Taking more isn't helpful. Taking more isn't more efficient isn't faster. It's biologically illiterate. The therapeutic window exists for a reason. Friggin respect it. And listen, you want to know, listen, I'm just trying to help you. You want to know why Reddit true tight so bad as I guess it's not. It's not the weight loss. Look at the heart of the corruption. The biggest lie ever sold in medicine is that depression. It's the serotonin hypothesis largely pushed by pharmaceutical marketing along since the 90s. Just so you know, it's collapsing out of the way to be some evidence free premise. Me too. Molecular psychiatry, which analyzed decades of research. I love this stuff proved there is no consistent evidence of an association between serotonin and depression. None. Oh, believe me, this has everything to do with Reddit true time. So what is depression? What is anxiety? They're symptoms. It's the check engine like for the three biological failures. Again, here they show up again. Where's my Nobel Prize? Look, systemic inflammation. Your brain is not this isolated building all on its own. It's connected to your body by this river of stuff called blood, right? When you're obese, your visceral fat. Listen, if you go on, I'm depressed and I'm not obese. Get out of my comments. Arguing the fringe is just the weakest form of argument. That's not listen. Just listen, your visceral fat, that toxic inflammatory organ wrapped around your organs, pumps out a constant stream of pro inflammatory cytokines. TNF, alpha, IL-6, CRPC, recta, protein, right? Like these cytokines, they cross the blood brain barrier. 2015 meta analysis and JAMA psychiatry confirmed that depressed patients have violently elevated levels of these inflammatory markers. Huh. These cytokines. Listen, here's why it's important. These cytokines activate microglia, which are the brain's resident snipers. They're the immune cells and it turns them violently hostile. They attack synapses. They disrupt neurogenesis. They alter neurotransmitter metabolism. Your brain is literally under an inflammatory siege, but this isn't a metaphor, you guys. This is immunology 101 basics. Basics. That's the first one. Look at the second one. Immune or insulin resistance in your brain specifically. Remember, I'm just talking about anxiety, depression, all that stuff, right? The brain is a glucose pig. It's just, it sucks. It takes all your glucose. It consumes about 20% of your body's energy. I've said this before. When neurons become insulin resistant, a condition now famously called, I talked about this yesterday, type three diabetes, they cannot efficiently uptake glucose. They starve. 2017 Journal of Clinical Investigation demonstrated that brain insulin resistance, 100% in personactic function and is the core feature of Alzheimer's and dementia. The amyloid plaques and tau taggles that everybody talks about. That's the debris. That's the rubble from the disaster that happened already. The earthquake is a metabolic failure of the neuron and look at ATP shortages. The third one. This is the final common pathway. Inflammation and insulin resistance cripple mitochondria systemically, but this is specifically within your neurons. These tiny little power plants, they can't produce sufficient ATP. So without energy, neurons can't maintain their membrane potentials. They can't fire properly. They can't repair themselves. They can't do anything. Right. So they enter the state of functional hibernation, which we experience as brain fog, anodonia, fatigue, 2018 nature reviews, neuroscience, proved the link between mitochondrial dysfunction and all depressive disorders, all of them. Oh, that's a pretty big umbrella to be under. Redutriutide, just CNO is the targeted nuke that hits this entire thing. It shuts down inflammation. Watch by rapidly ablating the rural fat. It removes the primary source of all those inflammatory cytokines. 2022 cell metabolism showed that the receptor agonism directly reduces macrophage infiltration into adipose tissue shutting down the cytokine factory. But it does that at the source. It restores cerebral metabolism by reversing systemic insulin resistance. It improves glucose delivery to the brain. Further, the receptors are these receptors are densely packed in the hippocampus and the hypothalamus activation of these receptors. The 2020 study in nature, neuroscience showed promotes synaptic plasticity, reduces amyloid beta toxicity, prevents towel tangle formation, encourages neurogenesis. Redutriutide doesn't just make you feel less sad and upset. It fixes the underlying metabolic catastrophe that manifests as sadness. It's not a weight loss peptide, you guys. Why do you think they are trying to get rid of this from everybody and make you buy it from them? Because it threatens everything. It is an existential threat. I call it this all the time. It resolves the energy crisis by improving mitochondrial efficiency and metabolic flexibility throughout the body. It ensures a very stable energy supply to the brain. A neuron with sufficient adenosine triphosphate ATP is a very resilient neuron. That's why benefits are so profound for neurodegenerative diseases. Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia. They all have very strong inflammatory metabolic components. Redutriutide is systemic therapy for a systemic problem. Period. You're welcome. Yeah, this is how you start your new year, baby, like this. Dropping bombs. Listen, look at, just talk money. Just my wife always says, and you know what? I love my wife. She is frigging smart. She is smart. She's hot. She's awesome. I just love the shit out of my life. I just, I could talk about her all day because I love her that much. She's awesome. But she always says, follow the money. She's right. That's what this is all about. Look at the global market for diabetes projected to be well over one hundred billion by 2030 Alzheimer's treatments. Another hundred billion dollar market antidepressants, antipsychotics, tens of billions more. The fatty liver disease drug pipeline is worth billions. This is managed decline. This is a subscription model of healthcare. A patient watch a patient with type two diabetes is a customer for life. They will buy metformin, then a DPP for inhibitor insulin and statins for the cardiovascular disease that they now develop and the renal disease that's going to happen. Then they buy drugs for that kidney failure that follows. It's a revenue waterfall. Never mind the chemotherapy. That's probably going to show up because of the fact that they're running at a destroyed biological system where all three failures are just happening at a hundred percent.  antidepressants are the perfect model, the perfect example of this corruption. They don't cure anything. They create dependency. And just so you know, the long-term effects are horrific. 2020, longitudinal study, Journal of Effective Disorders, that long-term SSRI use is 100% associated with weight gain, sexual dysfunction, no lead in the pencil, emotional blunting, you feel nothing. Do you not understand this is what they're trying to do anyway? They manage a symptom while exacerbating the underlying metabolic rot that caused it in the first place. Retitrutide is a massive threat to this entire ecosystem. It's not a drug for a disease. It's not a peptide for a disease. It's a system reset for the root cause of all chronic diseases. A patient who takes retta for a year reverses their type 2 diabetes, loses their visceral fat, normalizes their inflammation, is a customer lost, not just for the diabetes drugs. But for the statins of blood pressure meds, the potential Alzheimer's dementia drugs that would have lead in 10, 15, 20 years. This is why the medical establishment is terrifying. This is why you hear all people going, yeah, but what about this happened and there's a multi-billion dollar lawsuit because of that? It's a shell game. We need more long-term studies. That needs to be FDA approved. Are you out of your mind? That's a last organization that needs to approve anything. It's not about safety. The safety profile from the trials that you can look up everywhere is unfathomably clean for its efficacy. This is all about protecting a business model. The FDA is not a philanthropic organization. It is a political entity heavily influenced by the very industry that it regulates. Accurative therapy is a direct threat to the quarterly earnings reports of every major pharmaceutical company on the planet. If you don't get it, that's just a cartel. You're blind and frankly, stupid. The cancer risk scare stories that people keep talking about debunked. 2018 cohort study in diabetes care, they proved it. They analyzed, you ready for this? 500,000 patients found zero increased risk of pancreatic cancer with GLP-1, GIP and glucagon agonists. In fact, the other side of the equation happened by reducing obesity. The primary risk factor for 13 different cancers, red and true tide is profoundly and powerfully anti-carcinogenic. It eliminates it. How is this not getting to you guys? How do you guys not get this? Somebody asked me, OK, so if it's so good, why do I need to cycle it? So let me go over this stuff real quick. If I had a kangaroo and I was going to start my kangaroo on this, you guys can keep thinking and talking about your, I'm going to start at this massive dose, 2.5 milligrams a week. I'm going to take 2.5 milligrams twice a week. Here's your sign. I have no sympathy for your side effects. You're just not willing to listen because you'd rather trust some guy with a trap vein on social media. Knock yourself out. OK, then it's just not going to work for you. And that's cool. And if you go work for me when I did it, awesome. More power to you, bro. It still doesn't matter. It's not. It's going to cause such horrific biological damage long term. And you're playing checkers when you should be playing like calculus based checkered chests. You shouldn't be doing it like this. And I'm just trying to give you the information so you make the decision in the right direction. But you do you. If I had this kangaroo and they needed to start, I would start at 0.25. 0.5 milligrams at the most per week. I don't care how fat you are. I don't care if you're switching from something. I don't care 0.25 or 0.5. Period. Start there, tight trade up the sweet spots for. And if you go to my comments, I'm at 10 or ready and still doesn't have it. Doesn't hang on my appetite. But first of all, it's not magic. And second of all, if you have a psychological problem where you just can't stop shoving cake into your barc hole, hypothetically, Tessa Fancy would be a better choice for you because it solves the psychological aspect of it significantly better than red or true to die. But I'm sure your Insta Bro told you that. Erotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine handles all that stuff. And it works very well. And it's oral. Yeah, you probably stink because it's mixed with DMS. So if you get it mixed with anything else, you're buying bunk. Just so you know, if you get it in a pill, I don't care who sold it to you. It won't be me. Won't be my company. I'll just tell you that right now. I'm trying to help you. Or you argue some 0.25 go up to or start at 0.5 at the most and titrate up at 0.25 to 0.5 more every week. If any side effects show up, stop, back off, stay there, wait another week or two, then titrate up for half the amount that you just tried. If the side effects don't show up, you're golden. If you have appetite suppression, you don't need to go any further. You do get that, right? If you're getting the out if you go, I want more. That's what you guys do. You're like, yeah, but I want to lose this all three weeks. My buddy did that three weeks. Yeah. And he spent half his day puking into his coffee cup. He's just not. I don't know what to give you guys. I'm trying to give you the information. And most of you guys argued because you want to be right. Not because you are so 0.25 or 0.5 start there, titrate up sweet spots for four milligrams. And if you're like, how do I mix it though? How do we do all that stuff? The number of times I, and I'm going to, I'm going to post a short version of this in Instagram and I got to start linking my podcast to Instagram because I never do. I just talk. I just come out here and turn on the mic. I just start blasting, but like I have put out the playbook with kindergarten level hand holding. All you have to do is read the highlighted areas. People when it goes, when it says, just, you know, on Instagram, when it says comment, whatever it is, XYZ for research, when you do that, a little message pops up in your DMs and then it has a button that says, cause people couldn't figure it out. Click this button. Here's your song. It's a button. It spits out a second message. That's all you're getting. The second one was says, here you go. Hope it helps something like that. Cause I do click that button. It sends you to a Google form. Yeah. I want your name, your username, or actually it's not even that's your username and your email and a yes, I agree that I'm just, you're not agreeing. I'm, you're not giving me power of attorney over your life. When you click that, it's spits out a little link. You click that link. It opens up a Google doc. Do what you want with it. You just have to go through the highlighted areas and find it. It literally hand holds you how to do it. And you have people go, it's too hard. Can't you just give it to me, bro? No, talk to your political officials because they don't let me do that. It's against the law. There you go. So you're welcome. That's all you have to do. So there will be an exact play by play on what and how today, today's January 1st, 2026, it'll be in there. You just have to actually go and follow the yellow brick road through the messages in your DMs. This isn't hard people. It's not hard how to work through it. You can. This is also a lifetime. Have that longevity. If you use it correctly with its weak, the weekly pharmacokinetics, it's not a cycle. It is a forever peptide for one simple reason. It restores homeostasis. It doesn't force an artificial state whatsoever. Recalibrates the system back to its natural, healthy set point. It builds a very robust, resilient biology capable of resisting the diseases of modernity. Watch, it solves the triad, right? The three biological failures that incinerates visceral fat, shuts down systemic inflammation, it restores insulin sensitivity, it powers the cellular power grid, your ATP. It's like the ultimate takeover of your biology and you're coming in and you don't like the board of directors and you fire them all and take over. Now you've got sovereignty. It's like you're season, get this, like you're season controlling interest of your own biological corporation. You, the research is everywhere. The choice is yours. You can keep subscribing to this managed decline or be this recurring energy or recurring revenue stream or you can just pick up the proxy and friggin vote. Baby, become the majority shareholder in your own damn life. Listen, you want how about this? I'm already 45 minutes in. I really want you guys to understand this. You want the exact molecular play by play of how this annihilates those three biological failures. All right. I'll help you. Let's go to school, baby. Let's go to schools. Biological failure number one, because I think maybe this will help you guys and I'm hungry. I want to go eat. It's already two 15, but I want you guys to understand this. It's a cytokine fire is the easiest way to explain the source of the fire is not a mystery. It's your visceral fat. As I explained the adipose tissue, this isn't passive. It's a dysfunctional endocrine organ that's having a mutiny against you. Hypertrophic fat cells become hypoxic. They recruit pro inflammatory M one macrophages. Now, these macrophages, along with the stressed out adipocytes themselves, become factories for TNF, alpha and IL-6 is your cytokine storm. Okay. With me, here's how redotrutide works through this. The mechanism is very direct and wicked. 2022 translational medicine showed the receptor activation by redotrutide directly inhibits the NLRP3 in flamazone in macrophages. Let me explain why this is cool. The NLRP3 in flamazone is the ignition switch for IL-1 beta, which is a master inflammatory cytokine. Now you're seeing how this comes together. Redotrutide comes in, sees the spark, and it just dumps a bunch of water all over. It says, not my house, baby. But here's what else it does. It cuts off the fuel supply by activating the GIP receptor. Redotrutide promotes the differentiation of adipocytes away from pro inflammatory phenotype. Right. 2020 paper in molecular metabolism showed, again, you can go, well, some of glutide does that. Whoa. But there's appetite. No, you need all three. Remember, I explained that at the beginning. That's why you need to understand this stuff. Promotes the differentiation of adipocytes away from pro inflammatory phenotype. It showed that GIP signaling encourages adipose tissue expansion through something called hyperplasia, which means creating new, healthy fat cells rather than hypertrophy, which is stretching the existing ones into these giant inflamed water balloons. So healthy, non-hypoxic fat cells don't puke out cytokines. GLP-1, GIP synergy, doesn't just suppress appetite. By the way, it actively remodels the inflammatory organ into a quiet one. The fire is starved and suppressed at the same time. Look at biological failure, too, the insulin resistance. So the mutiny that happens in your body happens at the insulin receptor level. So in muscle and liver, the topic lipid accumulation, so diacelocerol, ceramides, all the stuff that the DAGs write in ceramides that I talked about, activates protein kinase C, activates protein kinase C theta, and go deep, baby, which serine phosphorylates the insulin receptor, IRS1. But here's the problem with that. Serine phosphorylation is the sabotage. It prevents IRS1 from activating the pathway that's crucial, the signal that tells the cell to open its glucose gates, the Glute4 transporters. The key is in the lock, but the lock is jammed up with a bunch of lipid and crap that somebody stuck in there that somebody is you. Here's how redotrutide solves the problem. GLP-1, GIP surge, these hormones cause a massive glucose-dependent insulin release from the pancreas. This creates hyperinsulinemic environment that, well, can, to some degree, overwhelm the resistance through sheer force. It's the pharmacological equivalent of coming in and kicking the door down. Here's the best part, the glucagon. This is why they have to be done together. This is why you glucagon by itself is useless. This is even just talking about you genius by forcing the liver to oxidize fatty acids at this insanely furious rate through the CAMPPK pathway. 2021, by the way, New England Journal of Medicine, they detailed this cover to cover. Redotrutide incinerates the very fat deposits that are causing the insulin receptor sabotage. It doesn't just clean out the gunk from the lock. It eliminates the factory producing the gunk in the first place. 2019 study in cell metabolism specifically showed that glucagon's lipid mobilizing effects in the liver are critical for reversing hepatic insulin resistance. You can't do it without it. So if you go semi-glutide or tersepati, get it. No, they didn't because they can't. You're missing a critical piece. This coffee's good today, by the way. How about the beta cells? insulin resistance forces, this is all coming into play here. insulin resistance forces pancreatic beta cells to hypersecrete insulin until they tank. They burn out, burst into flame and die basically. Redotrutide's rapid fat loss, particularly from the pancreas itself, which is a phenomenon demonstrated by glucagon alone in human trials. 2021, they showed this, removes the lipotoxic stress. The beta cells recover. The insulin factor is such a salvage, like a bad title, right? Salvation. No, it's saved. It's just brand new. It's like a certified pre-own. The last one is the ATP shortage because your energy grid is all based on ATP and it's collapsing. Mitochondria in an insulin resistant, inflamed environment are completely crippled. We already know this. There's no magic behind that. They have reduced oxidative phosphorylation capacity. So the problem is they produce excessive reactive oxygen species. Free radicals, ROSs that damages their own DNA and their own membranes. This is number I talked about, SS 31, the intermitochondriolet membrane, cardiolipin, all of this stuff. So the cells that I'm not telling you to do that, I'm just saying this is a big deal. The cells energy currency, ATP, drops into the floor without ATP cellular repair stops. A popcosis starts, programmed cell death of itself. Suicide, redotrutide is like an upgrade, like a bolt-on upgrade for the power plants. The solution is metabolic flexibility. Redotrutide forces the body to become a very well engineered hybrid engine, effortlessly switching back and forth between fuel sources. This is what makes it badass. Watch the dramatic improvement in insulin sensitivity means skeletal muscle can once again efficiently take out glucose and fatty acids and burn them in the mitochondria for ATP. The glucagon-driven hepatic fat oxidation directly increases energy expenditure. ATP production in the liver, the body's metabolic command center for you. That's why your liver, by the way, you don't want to screw with. Don't trash your liver. Look at crucially by reducing inflammation, redotrutide lowers the burden, the mitochondrial burden of dealing with oxidative stress. 2018 Redox Biology showed that these analogs reduce mitochondrial, all three, by the way, analogs, reduce mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production, the free radical production in endothelial cells, which means less damage, more efficient energy production. You understand this triad isn't just interconnected. It is an ugly vicious cycle because here's how it works. I'll go full basic. Inflammation causes insulin resistance, which causes ectopic fat storage, which causes more inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction. Redotrutide doesn't just treat the symptoms at the same time, like simultaneously it does this. It attacks all three parts of this cycle with such force that the cycle just disintegrates, it shatters, it can't work. And here's the ugly part. This kind of pisses me off. The evidence that people are like, oh, it's just emerging. No, it's not. It's emerged. 2021 New England Journal of Medicine, 22 cell metabolism papers, decades of endocrinology. The research is all built on this. It is everywhere. This isn't a debate, you guys, on whether redotrutide or semaglutide or trucepotide. This is a decision. Do you want something that works or do you just want to keep lying yourself and go, but my insta-bro buddy told me and my friend who's a soccer mom who also sells peptides out of her car is going to be the one that's giving me advice that you just really want to give her the business. OK, maybe you guys go scissor in the backseat. I don't know what to tell you. I'm trying to help, but yeah, I'm a gritty doctor. So it comes down to, do you side with the business model of managed decline or do you side with the molecular truth that can set your biology up or ever? Which one? Anyway, listen, I hope you got a bunch of information from this. If you were going to look at, by the way, I'll put this on at the end to see who actually pays attention to the full hour. The longevity dose, if I was going to do it for a kangaroo for lifetime, 0.1 milligrams per week. And if you go, how's that not microdosing? Because I'm not doing it every day expecting to lose weight. I already explained the pharmacology. So if you're about to get into my comments, was that microdosing? No, that's not what microdosing is. 0.1 milligrams. I know. Hope this gives you something to kickstart your January 1st and help you in everything you're about to do. I'm going to go, never miss.

=== FILE: PTSD Masterclass on Solving All Of It - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [-TtfsBPu5DY].txt ===

 I wasn't going to do this one because this one's personal to me a lot, actually. This is all about PTSD. This is a PTSD masterclass. This is solving PTSD. And really, I got nothing to gain. I got nothing to sell you. I've got nothing for you to buy. If you, like I said, you want to join the black card, you know what, $997, you wire it to, you know, my executive assistant, Mia, she'll take care of you. You send an email to apply at unlockthecard.com and you get to hang with me every Monday at my live Q&A that I do where you can throw every question you've got at me. You get access to the protocol library. You get access to me, VIP, in the app. And it's actually me and I answer all your questions right down to labs or anything else like that you need help with. And I provide real solutions and I solve problems all day. And my turnaround time is 24 hours to 72 hours. It's really fast. People that have been involved with doctors for 10, 15, 20 years and gotten no results have changed their entire life in two days. But I don't care if you buy that or not. That's not what I'm here for. And it's, it should be $25,000. I just, you guys need help. And if I hear anybody whining about it going, it used to be $6,000, you know what, don't join, then your health isn't really that important. And it's going to go up. I just haven't really decided when I just, I really want to help people. And at the same time, I think the problem is a lot of people don't want to help. They want to help. They want a free solution, which they're never going to do anything. They're never going to do anything with. And if you want to buy from my company, Elite Biogenics, then buy from me. Great. It's the same stuff that I give my wife and my children and my mom. And I would say my dad, my dad passed away 14 years ago. That's why I don't say my dad. I want people to be juggernauts with their health and current medical, the current medical model is managed decline and all the medical doctors coming out of medical school right now, they're just tradespeople, pharmaceutical reps, and you might get offended if you're an MD or you're a wannabe MD or you're about to become an MD and you're Sally medical doctor, I really don't care. Do better just because you know how to parlay the Krebs cycle to people and you understand what covalent bonds are or whatever it is you're talking about. Nobody cares. Nobody, to be honest, nobody gives a crap that I understand biochemistry or chemistry or physiology or biology. Nobody cares. They care that I can solve their problem. And when people come to me, CEOs of massive companies because they're personal physician that they spend a million dollars a year on can't solve their problem and they come to me and I solve it in a day or two, there's a reason and it's because I look for their actual problem, the cause and I try and paint over it. Hopefully that something shows up and like it just covers it. It's like a gold-plated turd. It's still a turd. I just don't do it and it's tough love and I demand high standards. And if you don't do things the way I want them done, I'm not going to help you because it can't help you if you're not going to listen. But I do this because I genuinely give a crap about mankind and I want to save humanity and that's why I'm here. So PTSD is a big deal to me because I have friends that are going through it and I have friends that have gone through it and there are millions of people out there that feel like there's they get SSRIs and benzodiazepines and antipsychotics thrown at them. Like those are going to cause anything other than a catastrophe. I'll prove it. I'll prove it. Those things are a waste of time. They don't even solve the problem. They just cover it up with a thick coat of paint and the person still has to deal with this personal hell and it's not a psychiatric problem. It's not a psychological problem. This is a biological problem. Like it's real. PTSD is real. So here's a PTSD masterclass designed to solve PTSD for you. If you watch it, I don't need the view time or anything but if you watch it however long I'm going to be on here, 45 minutes an hour, two hours, however long it takes, whatever, maybe you should just pay attention and take notes. But if you pay attention to this old doctor here with the Spartan hat and the gritty old beard and the gray in his face and the wrinkles in his eyes, you know what, he's going to give you the answer because I want you to understand what's going on so you can maybe, if it's not even you can help other people. But PTSD has a damn solution and it's not what they're currently doing, you guys. What you've been told about PTSD is so incomplete. It's not wrong. It's not because some of it's accurate but it's incomplete. It's like trying to understand cancer by only looking at a tumor when you miss the Warburg effect or I guess the reverse pasture effect. There's a million ways you can look at this or understanding heart disease by only measuring inflammatory markers and that's it. You're missing 90% of the actual story. And here's the thing. Once you understand real biology and you have someone like me that just wants to help you, you won't just understand in this case PTSD differently or whatever it is you're listening to. You'll understand why most medical treatments, when I say most unless they're saving your life and even then who knows what they're pumping you full of anymore. This is why they fail catastrophically and you'll understand with PTSD why some people recover and others don't because they're treating the wrong thing. And it's not a, like I said, it's PTSD is not a psychiatric problem with biological consequences. It's a biological problem that creates psychiatric symptoms. And the distinction is the entire game. Listen, let me paint a picture at the fundamental cellular level because the brain isn't magic. It's physics and chemistry. You experience some traumatic event. I use this in my Instagram so it's easy. It's like you're in a car wreck, right? Car rolls over and hits a tree or something happens. I God forbid it's some catastrophic drunk drive or something like that. And within just a fraction of an instant like lightning flash, it's so fast, your amygdala, that little almond shaped structure in your limbic system, detects this as a threat. It's designed to do this, but it doesn't wait for your conscious mind to process it. It hijacks you and here's what happens. Your locus caroulius floods your system with what else, what else do you think? Norepinephrine. This is the brain's panic button. It's just tapping it like it's going out of style. Your pupils dilate, heart rate spikes, blood pressure skyrockets, your digestive system goes completely offline and all your blood gets redirected to your muscles. Fight, flight, freeze, right? You could say fight, flight or fucked. It depends on whatever you want to say, but it's the 3S. But here's the problem and this is crucial. Your hippocampus, which is supposed to be contextualizing all of your memories, gives them a timestamp. It gets offline during any kind of extreme hyper trauma. It's like the event recorder at an accident scene just stops working. So your amygdala now encodes this memory with absolutely no context, no temporal markers, no logical narrative, nothing. This creates what neuroscientists like James Pittman, he discovered this in 1989. It's a memory that is completely locked in time. It's not the way it's supposed to be. It's over consolidated. The proteins, the synaptic strength, the dendritic connections, the entire consolidation is abnormally amplified. This is very bad because now you fast forward a month, a week, a year, years later even and something, you're in a car and it swerves, it jerks to the side of the road. You smell somebody torching off their tires and it's burnt rubber. It doesn't matter, whatever it is, you hear brakes squealing, but your amygdala, something that trips that memory. Your amygdala doesn't think memory though. It thinks there's a threat happening right now and your entire nervous system reactivates as if the accident and whatever it is, whatever trauma is happening right at that specific moment in time. That is not a psychiatric symptom. That's persistent. That's an encoding problem. False, present moment reality is what I call it. PTSD is a biological systemic filing problem where your brain loses the ability to distinguish between what happened and what's currently happening and your nervous system gets trapped in this never ending circuit of trauma, trauma, trauma, trauma. And here's where it gets wild. This is where conventional psychiatry completely, psychiatrists are idiots. I have no respect for psychiatrists. If you're a psychiatrist, you are in a pseudo profession. You are in an absolute pseudo profession. Sorry, not sorry. I don't have any respect for you. This is where they completely miss the boat and they treat everything incorrectly. Watch, PTSD and ADHD aren't comorbidities. They're mechanistic consequences of the same underlying damage and they treat them different. Let me explain the biology. This will blow your mind. Your prefrontal cortex, right? The executive function center is like the CEO of your entire brain runs on dopamine and it needs consistent, regulated dopamine signaling to maintain focus, impulse control, working memory. This is your attentional system. When you experience any kind of severe trauma, several things happen at the same time. So the VTA, Ventral Tegmental Area, which is your dopamine factory, gets completely dysregulated. The trauma causes sustained hyperactivation followed by massive depletion. It's like revving an engine until you red lines and the engine just ceases. So now the next thing is your amygdala hyperactivity directly suppresses prefrontal dopamine activity through GABA-ergic inhibition. Follow me to stay with me. So the threat detection center is essentially sending out a constant, a quiet ass hole, we're under attack signal to your CEO. Your stress hormone, cortisol, at chronically elevated levels actually kills, kills, like not kills metaphorically, kills dopamine neurons through oxidative stress and NDMA or NMDA over stimulation. And the result, you can't sustain attention. You can't inhibit impulses. You can't even hold a working memory. That is ADHD. But it gets better. At the same time, you have hypervigilance. Your amygdala is just constantly firing. Threat detection is on max sensitivity, just scanning all the time. And you get emotional dysregulations because you haven't paired amygdala prefrontal coupling problems, right? So that switched to the other side of this equation, PTSD. It's the same equation though. So Rachel Yahuda in 2015 used PET imaging to show 50% positron emission, right? To show 50%, that's a big number, you guys, 50% of PTSD patients exhibited dopaminergic dysfunction identical to ADHD. Why? Because the mechanisms are the same, you guys. The trauma didn't create two separate conditions. It created one biological cascade that expresses as both PTSD symptoms and ADHD symptoms. That's why they're married to almost all the time. Oh, this gets even better. But this is, here's why I said sometimes people get better, sometimes don't. This is why stimulants sometimes work for trauma survivors and sometimes they completely blow up. If your dopamine depletion is extreme, stimulants just create more dysregulation. But if you're dealing with pure prefrontal suppression, then they can be a little bit of a help. It still doesn't solve the problem, but it'll help. The real solution is just restore the damn biology underneath both conditions, not treat them separately, which is what the medical world keeps doing. Listen, how about we just go on a nice little fun tour about what trauma actually does to you, your physical body? It trashes you. Look at the neurological system. So when you're in a chronic threat state, your autonomic nervous system lives in sympathetic high speed, just cranked right to the max. The pedal is floored. It's your vagus nerve right here, right, which is pretty much the longest nerve in your body, by the way, running from your brain to your gut loses all of its parasympathetic tone. And normally your vagus nerve is like the brake pedal. It tells your body we're safe, we can relax, you can digest, you can heal, you can do all the calm things, trauma breaks this break. So Stephen Porchus called this the polyvagal theory in 2011. It's, honestly, it's revolutionary because it's fact your vagal tone measured by heart rate variability HRV actually predicts PD PTSD recovery 100%. Low vagal tone, the tone, poor outcomes. This is here's the here's what you got to understand. This is measurable, physical, measurable. Look, okay, look at brain BDNF brain derived neurotrophic factor, which is like, I always call it miracle growth for your neurons drops by 30 to 40% PTSD patients. This means your brain literally loses its ability to heal itself. You're not just damaged. You're locked in a state where damage just keeps accumulating and accumulating. It's like the brakes that never get repaired. And they're squealing, and then they're gouging holes in the rotors. And now you just can't stop at all because it's just raw metal on raw metal and nothing's ever happening except your car catches on fire. Look at your myelin, the insulation that surrounds the axons that allows very fast neural communication degrades. So research from NIH 2018 showed that PTSD patients have reduced white matter integrity, particularly in the anterior cingulate cortex. And what does that mean? It means that your neural pathways are deteriorating like this and messages are getting incredibly slow and incredibly filled with static. Listen, I'm going to shatter the conventional model. Listen to me, most people think PTSD is just being stressed out about a past event. Are you frigging kidding me? That is ignorance at its highest capacity. It's dead wrong. It's dead wrong. Stress is temporarily elevation, a temporary elevated cortisol and adrenaline. That's it. That's stress. The end. It's not in you. It's not in the environment. It's your perception to physical or psychological threat. The end. That's stress. But your body handles it. Your HPA axis, hypophilamic pituitary adrenal axis activates and then down regulates. The PTSD is permanent remodeling of that stress response circuitry. That's not even in the same room. Here's the difference in biology. Normal stress, your amygdala goes sky high. Your hippocampus, what did I say? It does contextualize. The prefrontal cortex says, okay, listen, we're good. Nothing's bad. It's happening. So you can turn this all off and everything down regulates. In PTSD, your amygdala is permanently sensitized. It's not some elevated new baseline that you've got. It's the state of persistent readiness. Bessel van der Kolk 2014 showed that PTSD patients have three. This is such a big number, 300% higher amygdala reactivity to threat stimuli compared to non-PTSD controls. That's not stress sensitivity, you guys. That is a fundamental rewiring of threat detection. Here's the real problem with that, though. Your system doesn't just stay alert. It becomes utterly incapable of the normal stress recovery cycle because here's what happens. Normally, acute cortisol elevation triggers this negative feedback. It shuts itself off. This is homeostatic regulation. It's how your body is designed. PTSD, this feedback loop, broken. Your pituitary stops responding properly to cortisol signals. Your adrenal glands now show altered diurnal cortisol patterns. Listen, even this, PTSD patients have, most of them have completely inverted cortical curves high at night when they're supposed to be low, creating this horrible experience, perpetual wakefulness where you can't get any sleep. This isn't stress. This is an endocrinological pathology and it cascades into everything. Your autonomic nervous system becomes stuck in this sympathetic overdrive. Your immune system enters the state of chronic activation, your metabolism shifts. Your genes start expressing differently. This is systemic. It's biological. This is far beyond what these psychiatrist keep saying is stress management. We can fix it and we'll just add some drugs to you. That's not going to work. It's not going to work. Let me map out exactly what's happening in your brain. The amygdala. Look at the amygdala. It's the threat detector. PTSD, your amygdala, undergoes real structural changes. Mori, 2012, using MRI showed PTSD patients have a 61% smaller amygdala compared to controls. Smaller? So the point is that you'd think that would be less reactive. No, this is the paradox. The amygdala shrinks, but the connectivity intensifies. It's like a small amplifier, excuse me, with a volume, like back to the future, right? Mori has a giant speaker just crank to max, except it's hyper connected to your threat processing networks and hypo disconnected from your calming networks, right? You get this. So hyper connected to threat processing, hypo disconnected from calming networks. The pathways from your amygdala to your prefrontal cortex, the safety override, for lack of a better explanation, are weak. The pathways from your amygdala to your threat memory storage are reinforced, like we're talking adamantium, vibranium. So the wiring that says I'm smaller and more focused on one job, that's what it's saying. This wiring says I'm smaller, I'm more laser focused on one job, detect every single threat at all costs. It's when you have when you're out near in the dark and everything sounds, you hear everything, you smell everything, you see everything, that's literally what you're running on. I can't imagine the horrific experience that must be. Like I will speak for myself and I was so full transparency, I didn't want to leave the house after I yeah, I don't even talk about this. So when after I came out of the hospital and imagine being perfect permanently suffocating all the time, that's what it felt like for months and months, like I was always I couldn't breathe. And it's not the I'm gasping for breath. It's that I couldn't take a breath no matter how hard I wanted to. It's like I was trying to fill a beach ball this big, but I only was allowed to use this much of the beach ball just like a golf ball size and I couldn't was terrifying. Because I always kept thinking I'm gonna friggin die. And when I was in the hospital, it was catastrophic. I told my wife I wasn't going to make it and it wasn't some cool story for Instagram. It was that I thought I was it was in the early morning, two in the morning, one 32 in the morning and I sent her a text saying I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm not going to I'm not going to be able to spend my life with you anymore. I'm not going to make it. And it was the most horrible thing I've ever had to send my wife in our 21 years of marriage. And my wife, if you don't get it is my best friend. I adore Brandy with every cell of my being and I can't stand the thought of spending a day without that woman and letting her down, which is what I felt like I felt like I broke every promise. And she sends a message back says I can't do this life without you. I need you. I love you. And you know, the whole story, the whole point is it ended up costing me along and it traumatized me. And I was so paranoid for probably a month. I didn't want to leave the house. I didn't want to ever get sick. I got a fever or the sniffles. I'd freak out. I went out to go to Starbucks and I didn't want to get out of the car. It took me probably 15 minutes to get out of the car. And then when I went to the door, I didn't want to touch the door. I started washing my hands all the time. I got real weird and I didn't want to be around people anytime there were people I would always dodge them out because I was so paranoid that I was going to get sick again. And that's just minor compared to somebody that's been overseas or in Iraq or gone through hell or watched their family get killed in a fire or worse. I couldn't imagine that. So when people insult this, honestly, if you're one of those people that discounts this and discredits PTSD, you go right to hell because this is a very real biological issue. And for all the psychiatrists dumping medicine on these people thinking it's something beautiful is going to grow, screw you, man. You aren't helping a single person, but your own wallet and you damn well know it. And if you don't, you better learn because it's disgusting what you guys do. So listen, you spend your life in hypervigilance. I couldn't imagine that. And I'm sorry if anybody's listening to this and how devastating that's got to be, which is why I'm out here. I'll solve it for you. Look at the anterior cingulate. It's like a conflict chaperone. So your anterior cingulate cortex. And I know we're getting to some neurology, but this stuff nerds me out and I love it. It's supposed to detect when something doesn't match your expectations. It's kind of like social media right now. It says, wait, that that in this case shouldn't be dangerous. PTSD, this region is suffering from reduced activation. You can't override your fear response with logic. So the siren goes off and your body reacts before your conscious mind can process that you're safe. Your anterior cingulate isn't doing its job. The prefrontal cortex is remember what I said, it's like the CEO, right, of your brain. This is the crudegraze because your prefrontal cortex is supposed to inhibit amygdala firing through GABA-mediated suppression. But in PTSD, this top down control, which is the way you're designed, right above down inside out, this top down control is completely compromised. So you look at neuroimaging studies, Roush, 1990 showed consistently hypometabolism in Broca's area and the prefrontal regions of PTSD members. So if you understand, an neurology is Broca and we're in Niki's area, it's like motor speech and comprehension, all this. So anyway, the prefrontal regions of PTSD patients, the translation is this before we get into neurology, the language centers that let you talk about your experience go offline, which is why PTSD patients can't verbally process their trauma. You can become Broca's aphasia. The neural highways for that area are actually damaged, right? There's Wernicke's aphasia, Broca's aphasia. So this is Broca's. You look at the locus crudelius, which is the panic button. It's a tiny little nucleus about the size of a grain of rice produces somewhere in the neighborhood of 70% of the norepinephrine in your entire freaking brain. Oh, it's your panic button, all right. PTSD, it's on fire. We're talking a massive conflagration. Craig Barrage, 2008, showed that chronic stress causes permanent changes in the locus, firing patterns. And here's the problem, the baseline firing rate increases. So it's not just pulsing or whatever it's going to do. It's just nonstop so much that the threshold for activation drops. Here's what that means. You need less and less stimulation to trigger a maximum freak out panic, loud noise, smell, shadow, anything, song, you name it. Your system's been reprogrammed for a hair trigger. You know where that's good? A freaking comic book. That's not good for real life. You want to watch The Avengers, that's fine, but that's not real life. Listen, here's something that's going to blow your mind, by the way. There's more neurons in your gut than in your spinal cord. Your enteric nervous system. That's why they call it the second brain, right? 500 million neurons. And yet we treat our gut like we're alley cats and indestructible, right? We just stuff all kinds of things into our barcoles and wonder why we feel like crap. And we go through anxiety and depression because you're smashing neurons. But I bet nobody's ever told you that. It's producing 90% of your serotonin. It's producing GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine. It's not just digesting your food. This thing is thinking. And some of you guys, it's only thinking about fat, stupid shit. In PTSD patients, the system is demolished. Mayer in 2009 showed the brain, gut, access, dysfunction and trauma survivors. Listen to this shit show. The vagus nerve is hypotonic. It's not sending the calming parasympathetic signal. So your gut never gets the safe to digest signal. Your digestion shuts off. Your stomach acid production tanks. Your intestinal motility becomes erratic at best. And at the same time, your systemic inflammation goes through the roof. I'll get to that in a second, which damages your intestinal epithelium. Your gut barrier becomes permeable, which gives you this thing called, I've gone over this before, leaky gut, bacterial LPS lipopolysaccharides cross into your bloodstream. And this triggers your immune system, which amplifies systemic inflammation, which signals your amygdala that you're under biological threat, which increases sympathetic activation, which further damages your gut barrier. It is a vicious cycle. Nobody talks about that though. Here's some SSRIs. PTSD patients have dramatically altered microbiome composition, lower counts of lactobacillus and bifidobacterium, the anti-inflammatory species you need proteobacteria full of it. You're loaded with proteobacteria, which is the pro-inflammatory species. Why? Because your dysregulated immune system is essentially killing the good bacteria and selecting for the inflammatory bacteria. Okay. How about this? Your microbiome? Well, you're going to love this. Produces 90% of your serotonin, but it also produces short-chain fatty acids, butyrate, propionate, acetate through fermentation of fiber. These fatty acids are your brain's preferred fuel source, especially prefrontal cortex and your hippocampus. The two regions that are just coincidentally, no such thing by the way, I'm just saying it, most damaged in PTSD. So watch, here's what you've got. You've got a damaged gut barrier, dysbiotic microbiome, reduced SCFA, short-chain fatty acid production, reduced serotonin production, impaired energy production for brain regions that regulate fear. The gut isn't a symptom of PTSD. It's a driver of PTSD progression. But how many times have your, has your psychiatrist talked to you about your gut? Never. Look at the endocrine system. Let me explain why your hormones have gone tits up in PTSD. The HPA axis, hypophonic pituitary adrenal axis, is your main stress response system. Okay. Hypothalamus releases CRH, corticotropin-releasing hormone, which signals your pituitary to release ACTH, adrenal corticotropic hormone, which signals your adrenals to release cortisol. Remember what I talked about, right? The inverted cortical rhythm. The system is designed for acute threats. Cortisol rises, you fight, flight, or freeze. FFF. Threat ends, negative feedback suppresses, the cortisol, right? Remember, it runs on a negative feedback loop and you recover. In PTSD, this is going a little deeper than what I explained. This feedback loop is gone. It's gone. They show that PTSD patients have paradoxically lower baseline cortisol, but excessive response to stress. It's like your system is in constant red alert. So the baseline resting state is already suppressed and any new threat causes this catastrophic overreaction. Why? Because your adrenal glands are tired. They're fatigued. They've been running at full throttle like NASCAR, right to the pedal, 1200 horsepower, whatever it is. Their altered sensitivity to ACTH, that's what they show, the ACTH stimulation. Your pituitary has reduced CRH receptor density. Fewer receptors mean worse communication, right? So it's you're missing all the speakers and they're further away. Additionally, this gets even better. This is the stuff that nobody is talking about. Your glucocorticoid receptors, which are the receptors that cortisol bind to, become hypersensitive, which means less cortisol causes more effect. Your body is trying to compensate for dysregulation by increasing sensitivity, but this creates massive instability. How about the thyroid? When's the last time somebody talked about that? Your thyroid controls the one main thing that you need, metabolic rate, and also core temperature and energy production and PTSD. Thyroid dysfunction is common, but almost never diagnosed. Weird, because anybody that comes to see me with PTSD, that's the first thing I check. Strange, and my results are better than most people's. When I say most, everybody else's. Chronic, watch. It's not to be arrogant or cocky. It's because I actually know what I'm doing because I actually spend time to care. It tries me nuts. Chronic stress suppresses the conversion of T4, which is the inactive thyroid hormone to T3, which the active thyroid hormone through increased reverse T3 production. Okay. Open Hymer. Yes, same name, different guy. 2016 documented this in trauma survivors. The result, hypothyroid symptoms, cold, fatigue, weight gain, brain fog, even with, you ready for this part, normal TSH levels. Tell me that doesn't screen problem. Look at sex hormone dysregulation. Your sex hormones regulate neuro inflammation. Nobody talks about that. Also regulates synaptic density and emotional processing PTSD. These are beyond dysregulated. They're demolished, crushed. Women with PTSD, just see now show altered estrogen signaling and reduced progesterone, which is neuro protective. That's why we talked about menopause. And I said that men with PTSD, reduced testosterone, which impairs neuro genesis in, wait, what were the areas? Yeah, one of them was the hippocampus right there. PTSD severely inversely correlates with testosterone levels in male trauma survivors. Look at the thyroid immune interaction. This is where it gets really sinister. Low T3 availability activates your innate immune system. Follow me. This is real simple. So your dysregulated thyroid is actually amplifying your immune dysregulation, causing all kinds of problems, because this is where the real destruction happens. Your immune system has two modes. I talked about this with my decent masterclass, TH1, cellular immunity, antiviral, antibacterial, and TH2, humoral immunity, antibody production. And in PTSD, you get a paradoxical immune shift, chronically elevated TH2 with insufficient TH1 regulation. Here's what happens. Here's what it's so brutal, because every time somebody comes to me with PTSD and we start going through everything, none of these things have been addressed. They get 15 minutes with their with at the VA. You doctors doing that are embarrassing human beings. Here's what you're doing simultaneously, not the doctors, the immune system. Listen to me, you're producing excessive inflammatory cytokines, IL6, TNF-alpha, IL1-beta. You're showing reduced cell-mediated immunity and you're developing autoimmune reactivity, except God and His infinite wisdom didn't design you to attack yourself. The problem is that the system is broken. So here's what happens. It's because your constant sympathetic activation suppresses your vagal afferent signaling, the sensory information that your brain gets from your body, efferent afferent, right? So your brain doesn't know it's safe. So it keeps your immune system on full attack mode. Your dendritic cells, the immune system's sentries, easy, become overly activated and they present autoantigens. So now your regulatory T cells, the immune system's peacekeepers, become depleted. And the result of this chronic systemic horrible thing, inflammatory response. And here's the devastating part of this entire thing. This inflammation crosses the blood-brain barrier. So now your microglia, which are your brain's immune cells, become chronically activated. They start releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines inside your brain. AFFI in 2018 documented that elevated IL6 and TNF-alpha predict cognitive decline in trauma survivors. Your immune system is literally setting your brain on fire. The neuroinflammation accelerates neurodegeneration. It impairs BD and F-brain derived neurotrophic factor production. It damages your myelin, the wiring, the cover on the wiring, and it causes oxidative stress, the free radicals that punch holes in every cell that you've got damaging your neurons from the inside out. Okay, sign me up. And this isn't a real biological problem, all right. It's purely psychological. It's just psychiatric. Listen, here's a terrifying truth about all this. It's a precursor to dementia, PTSD. Watch, Yaffe 2018 followed 1,300 PTSD diagnosed adults found 50% increased risk of dementia diagnosis over 20 years. Here's why. Look at the neuroinflammation. The chronic neuroinflammation that I just talked about causes the microglia to overproduce amyloid beta and tau proteins. Yeah, I've talked about this before. These are the hallmark proteins of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's and dementia are basically the same thing. PTSD, I don't care what someone says. You can argue with me, all you want, you're still wrong. I'm still right. PTSD.  PTSD, patients show elevated cerebrospinal fluid, amyloid beta, at rates comparable to Alzheimer's patients. Look at hippocampal atrophy. Your hippocampus is your memory center. In PTSD, it shrinks 10%. This isn't just memory loss. This isn't just memory loss. This is structural brain loss. And once neurons die, they don't regenerate unless you intervene with BDNF-promoting strategies, which I'll get to in a minute. Hold on. I want to drink this Coke. Or keep going. Look at telomeres shortening. Remember telomeres? Right with the pittle on? So your telomeres are the caps, the aglut on the end of your chromosomes. They shorten with age. In PTSD, this process accelerates dramatically. PTSD patients have telomeres equivalent to someone 10 to 15 years older than their chronological age. And what that means is that your cells are aging faster. Your DNA is degrading faster. You're literally experiencing accelerated aging, and they've normalized this. Look at the mitochondrial dysfunction. I could do this all freaking day. Your mitochondria are cellular power plants. In PTSD, mitochondrial genes show altered expression. Energy production, tanks. This actually happens in the most part in your brain's most metabolically active regions. Prefrontal cortex, hippocampus. So you have accelerated neuroinflammation, hippocampal shrinkage, accelerated cellular aging, and energy depletion. The result is cognitive cascade, memory problems, naming difficulties, visiospatial decline. Full dementia. Half. 100 people, 50 will get dementia. This is why untreated PTSD doesn't just ruin your emotional life. It destroys your cognitive future. Please listen to me. Okay, so let me connect all these dots. Three biological failures every time. Where is my Nobel Prize? Where? Yeah, I damn well want it because I want people to get this everywhere. I want to be in every book. Dr. Trevor Bachmeier discovered the three biological failures that are the precursor to every single damn disease on Earth. You know, my wife and I were talking about the other day. I said, you ever wonder why animals never get sick, but humans always do. But we're so conditioned and indoctrinated to think that's friggin normal. Just ruminate on that a little bit. And don't give me some stupid explanation in the comments. The explanation is very obvious. Yeah, you're not supposed to be sick. Look at every chronic disease, cancer, cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative disease, kidney disease, autoimmune disease, liver disease. It doesn't matter. The PTSD shares these three underlying mechanisms. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage, which is the mitochondrial dysfunction. PTSD is not an exception to all of this. Watch. Systemic inflammation in PTSD. I'll show you. Elevated. We already know IL-6, TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, chronic immune activation, neuroinflammation. This is documented in hundreds of thousands of studies, but here's what most people miss. The inflammatory state isn't just a consequence of PTSD. It's a driver of PTSD progression. It drives the entire frigging disease because inflammation begets more inflammation. Your immune activation causes endothelial dysfunction. Your blood vessels leak. More immune cells enter tissues. More inflammatory signals propagate. Your amygdala detects the biochemical signals of threat and amplifies your fear response, which cracks up your immune system, which causes more inflammation. Okay, but it's not important. Look at insulin resistance in PTSD specifically. Okay, equally devastating, a little less obvious. Your chronic sympathetic activation suppresses insulin secretion and increases insulin resistance through a couple of different ways. You need to follow me on this. Just stick with me. Believe me, it's worth it. Elevated catecholamines increase hepatic glucose output while at the same time impairing glucose uptake in all your peripheral tissues. Chronically elevated cortisol causes insulin receptor desensitization and systemic inflammation, which is the heavy hitter, impairs insulin signaling. All of this stuff is combined. You look at Katelyn in 2010, found that PTSD patients have 150% increase of developing type 2 diabetes. But here's the brain's connection. Your brain is phenomenally sensitive to insulin signaling. insulin is required for BDNF signaling. insulin is required for synaptic plasticity. It is the brain specific. insulin resistance is in the brain. It specifically impairs memory consolidation and emotional regulation, which is causing all these problems, which is why PTSD patients show progressive, cognitive decline. The brain's become insulin retarded. They don't hear it anymore. insulin resistant. Don't get all offended. It's just a word. I'm a product of the 80s. I say gay and retard all the time. No, my herty words bother you. You're not going to like me at all as a doctor. Look at the mitochondria dysfunction issue. This is a problem. Your mitochondria produce adenosine triphosphate, right? ATP, ADP, screws on an ATP. Through oxidative phosphorylation and PTSD, this process is compromised all over the place. Mitochondrial DNA show increased oxidative damage because of free radical production from chronic stress activation, which is going on because of everything happening because there's actual physical remodeling of your system. Your mitochondrial membrane potential is destabilized by calcium overload caused by excessive NMDA receptor activation during trauma and subsequent dysregulation. So there's a second problem. Your complex four, cytochrome C oxidase has reduced expression. So it impairs the ETC, electron transport chain efficiency, which means you're not cranking out ATP the way you're supposed to. Your brain becomes energy starved. You sound familiar? Prefrontal cortex, the most metabolically expensive region of your brain starts failing. Neurons can't maintain membrane potential and your synapses can't fire. Oh, this makes me crazy. Turk 2013 measured metabolic stress markers and PTSD and found evidence of systemic mitochondrial dysfunction with reduced capacity for ATP production. What that means is he showed that your brain ain't making ATP the way it's supposed to the neurons. PTSD isn't a psychiatric psychological condition that happens to have biological consequences. I am so sick and tired of people saying that PTSD is a bio energetic crisis. Inflammation plus insulin resistance plus mitochondrial dysfunction manifests as psychiatric symptoms. You ever see somebody with liver failure? They are complete spazes. It ain't a problem with our psychology. It's the toxins running through their bloodstream. Listen, here's why this is kind of the medicine is so catastrophically wrong here. I'll explain the approaches they use and why they're flawed. SSRIs, I've been talking about these selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The logic is PTSD patients have low serotonin. So we just crank up the serotonin. How does that make any sense? This is neurotransmitter theology and it ignores this one big giant word, physiology, because here's what actually happens. SSRIs work by blocking. They block selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. They block serotonin reuptake. Serotonin accumulates in the synapse. But in PTSD brains with altered serotonin receptor expression and impaired neuroplasticity, this doesn't create the desired effect. Just so you know, here's what happens. You get blunted emotional processing. So the SSRI dampens all emotional responses, not just negative ones. You can't selectively choose your emotions like that. Patients become emotionally numb, prevents them from processing trauma whatsoever. They're just suppressing it. Your sexual dysfunction goes through the roof. SSRIs impair erectile function and orgasm, 60% of users. Because serotonin mediated sexual response gets completely disrupted. You're not treating PTSD. You're treating one dysfunction for another one that's going to cause catastrophic problems in a relationship. Emotional blunting long term chronic SSRI use actually reduces BDNF production brain derived neurotrophic factor. The miracle grow for your brain over time. Duman 2004 proved this. Your brain's capacity to heal itself decreases while on SSRIs. And then the massive withdrawal symptom. This is fun. When patients try and I've seen this, even people coming to me, try to discontinue. SSRIs, they experience serotonin withdrawal, brain zaps, dizziness, severe anxiety. Isn't this part of the problem? This creates this iatrogenic trauma, trauma caused by the medicine. Patients relapse into PTSD because they're being pharmacologically traumatized by their own down with trial. How is this solving the problem? The side effect profile is devastating. Weight gain, apathy, anodonia, which is the inability to experience pleasure. Worsening suicidality in young people. The efficacy just so you know, 30% response rate at best. 50% have zero improvement. And for those who do improve, the improvement is minimal, often not functional recovery, just symptom reduction. But you, if you're a psychiatrist, you're going to get in my comments, you're going to argue and you're saying, Oh, it works for all my patients because you're some magic frigging signal of Freud. Got it. Okay. How about the benzodiazepines? These are a nightmare, by the way, because if you stop these cold turkey, they will kill you. Just let me hear. Listen to me. I'm not screwing around here. Don't. Don't take what I'm saying lightly. Do not, if you're on these, do not stop these cold turkey. Don't. Seizures, all kinds of things happen. You don't do it. So the logic is here. The anxiety is elevated. Benzodiazepines reduce anxiety. So benzodiazepines then subsequently, of course, treat PTSD. Pardon. This is arguably worse than SSR. Here's how benzodiazepine works. It enhances GABA signaling. GABA is inhibitory. So benzodiazepines make your entire nervous system less responsive. Here's the problem with this. Your nervous system needs to be able to differentiate threat from safety. It's how you're wired by God. So if you chemically suppress all neuronal firing, you're preventing your brain from doing the cognitive work of processing your trauma. How is that going to help you? Never mind the tolerance development. Your brain down regulates GABA receptors in response to chronic benzodiazepines. Look at Mick Jagger. He's taken handfuls of these things like Skittles. You need higher and higher doses to achieve the same effect. This is called dependence, not addiction. Physical dependence. Not the same. Just so you know, there's a memory impairment component to this. Benazepines impair explicit memory formation by suppressing hippocampal, LTP, long term potentiation. Here's what it does. It prevents trauma processing and learning new safety information, which means your brain isn't building and growing the way it's designed. Your neuroplasticity goes to the dogs. There's paradoxical disinhibition. Okay. So benzodiazepines actually increase aggression in some people, but 40% with people with PTSD, impulsivity, risk taking, Bust-O 2002 show this, prove this. You're supposed to be calming someone and instead they become more volatile and dangerous. Got it. And the withdrawal, I may as well touch on this. Benzodiazepine withdrawal is actually dangerous. You need to listen. Don't screw out of this. Don't listen to what I'm saying. Please use your ears. Just pay attention. Seizures, psychosis. It's among the worst withdrawal symptoms of any psychiatric medication on earth. And here's the cruel part. The guidelines, nice, right? The VA, DOD, they all recommend against benzodiazepines for PTSD. They make PTSD worse, but they're still prescribed constantly because they provide short term symptom relief. Above all harm. You doctors need to stop fucking that up. Oh, I've been a doctor for a long time. I don't care what you want to insult me with. I see real patients. I've seen over a million patients and I'm still helping people to this day and I will do it until God calls me home because I actually care about the person. Above all, do no harm. Look at the antipsychotics. This is the one that gets me use of antipsychotic off label for PTSD. Okay. Respared own is usually the one they use the logic. Watch PTSD involves hyperactivity and threat processing regions. Dopamine antagonism should probably solve all the problems except here's the catastrophic engine behind this thing. You're suppressing dopamine in a brain that's already you ready for this dopamine deficient. How is that going to work? How does that even make sense? This is why I tell people that more people are driving around cars than know how to change a tire on their own damn driving something you don't know how to do anything with you don't change it. I'll do anything like that. You're doing the same thing with your body. You better know your biology. I think that's important because here's what happens with antipsychotics. Okay. Antipsychotic dysfunction antipsychotics cause 100% time weight gain metabolic syndrome worsening insulin resistance in about half the people that use it. You're treating a condition that involves mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance by causing metabolic dysfunction. That is back ass words. There's movement disorders. Antipsychotics block dopamine in your motor cortex. So extra pyramidal side effects in voluntary writhing movements. 30% of the people that use it some are permanent. It's called tardive dyskinesia by the way. There's worsening cognitive function. Dopamine antagonism just so you know impairs prefrontal cortex function. So now you're treating cognitive decline by suppressing dopamine dependent cognition. Make it make sense. Emotional blending similar to SSRIs right? Even the anodonia. Dopamine is required for motivated behavior and emotional engagement. Block dopamine and you get apathy and anodonia. No thanks. We got enough of that with social media going around just screwing people up psychologically by changing those given the dopamine hits all the time like that stupid pigeon pecking away at that food pellet lever. Right. If you know the experiment, antipsychotics add no additional benefit to SSRIs and PTSD. Stein should prove that in 2016. But here's what he also proved. They more than double the side effects. Listen, it's date night tonight. So I want to not I want to put a bow on this, but you need to understand. Here's where you need to go with what I'm giving you. The brain is plastic. The most fundamental neuroscience discovery of the past 30 years is that your brain can rewire neurons can regenerate. Your neural networks can be completely rebuilt, but this rewiring requires very specific conditions. So I will give you the exact conditions so you can do this. And I normally don't do this here because of for some reason, when I help somebody right down to the end of the line, I get censored. Make it make sense. So condition one, you have to meet these conditions without question. You have to have sufficient BDNF brain derived neurotrophic factor. BDNF is essentially the hardware upgrade for your brain. It's required for neurogenesis, synaptic strengthening. It's required for all of the things that make your brain more robust. The key insight BDNF production. You love you're going to love this is actually activity dependent. Your brain produces BDNF in response to certain things. Cardiovascular exercise specifically actually hit training, cognitive novelty, discovering new things and figuring them out, get a bunch of puzzles. Really, I'm not kidding. Not puzzles with pieces, brain benders, things like that. Social connection, which is the opposite of what most people with PTSD do. Sleep, proper nutrition, particularly, I'll leave you with their antioxidants, minerals and omega threes. When you restore these conditions, BDNF goes up. Your brain's capacity to heal increases. Condition two, that must be met. Reduced neuro inflammation. This is huge. Your microglia need to shift from M1, the pro-inflammatory, to M2, the anti-inflammatory tissue repair phenotype. I've talked about this many times. They exist for a reason, but being stuck in M1 is going to cause all the problems. Here's what's required in order to do this. Omega three fatty acids, particularly DHA and EPA, somewhere in the neighborhood of three to 4,000 milligrams a day. Polyphenols, a cerumen, resveratrol. You need to reduce all your systemic inflammatory triggers, which means part of it is stop eating like an asshole. Stop drinking. Stop doing those kinds of things. Stop going without sleep. Proper vagal tone restoration. That's condition two, condition three. This is the big one, metabolic restoration. So you're, and this is an all in conjunction with my three biological failures, by the way, all of this is, or you have to solve these three. Otherwise this is not going to work. Your mitochondria need to be restored to full capacity. And this requires proper glucose control, which means you can't have insulin resistance. You have to have sufficient micronutrients. So magnesium, zinc, CoQ 10, carnitine, you need to have reduced oxidative stress. You need to have proper thyroid function, which is what I said, the T4, T3 issue, the TSH normal, yet there's still all kinds of problems. Right. But when these conditions are met, your brain repairs itself. This isn't theory. This is documented neuroscience. Norman Toidge 2015, hundreds and hundreds of neuroplasticity studies showing that even catastrophically damaged brains can functionally reorganize and recover to 100%. The reason conventional treatments fail is they don't create the conditions required, these ones specifically, to repair. In fact, they oftentimes prevent them. But when you address the underlying biology, you solve systemic inflammation, you solve insulin resistance, you solve the mitochondrial dysfunction, the ATP shortage, you restore BDNF and you restore mitochondrial function across the board, even in your neurons, recovery becomes possible. Let me explain this really quick. And then I'm going to go inside for date night with my wife. I want to hang out with her. I'll put the exact protocol line by line, exactly how to do all this. It'll be in a link somewhere under here. It doesn't cost you a damn thing. If you go, well, there's a Google form I have to fill out. Yeah, aim, email and that you agree. That's it. I'm not going to market to anybody that's downloaded my research knows I don't market the hell out of you. So it doesn't really matter. Anyway, the point is I'm going to give you this real quick. So here's the breakdown of what needs to happen outside of what I just said with those three fundamental things you need to solve. CMAX, okay. BDNF up for up regulation. It restores dopamine. BPC-157 is going to restore the gut barrier, the brain barrier. It's going to have dopamine effects, TB-500. It's going to provide axonal regeneration. It's going to modulate your immune system, cerebrolysin, gold, neurogenesis, neuro protection, DCIP. It's going to help with your sleep restoration and your stress reduction. GHK-Cu, copper gene expression on the right side, wound healing, thymocent alpha one. It's going to solve the immune problem that's going on that you don't even think you have alpha seven, nicotinic acetylcholine. Receptor agonism in the form of a patch, modifies microglia, shuts down neuro inflammation, but you guys, there you go. That's it. You're welcome. The rest of it is going to be in some, because I'm going to be on here for three more hours if I do this, but this is peer reviewed research from legitimate institutions that talk about all this stuff. I could do this all day. You need, here's what you need to understand. For decades, we have treated PTSD as if it's this broken brain that needs chemical compensation. So we give SSRIs, benzodiazepines, and I'd say psychotics, we suppress symptoms. While the underlying biology continues to crumble, patients don't recover. They just become medicated versions of traumatized people. But what if I told you that the brain doesn't need compensation, it needs restoration? Like I said, your brain is plastic. It can regenerate and heal and rebuild itself. It's designed this way. You understand this, right? Your biology is you have been conditioned to think by modern medicine that your body is suffering because it's lacking something. You were built to need nothing. I'm not saying you don't need it to solve a problem, but I'm saying, what's the problem? So you don't need it anymore. You need the right biological conditions, sufficient growth factors, BDNF, NGNF, reduced inflammation, the microglial regulation. You need to restore the energy production. So the mitochondrial function, I'm giving you the answer. Proper sleep enhances the lymphatic function. So it works the pressure washer for your brain, proper barriers, gut, blood brain, cellular, restored stress resilience. So the HPA access, proper immune function, the TH1, TH2 ratio, the balance needs to be there. When you provide these conditions, you know what happened? Something remarkable. Your brain just go ahead, fixes itself, doesn't suppress, doesn't medicate, fixes, traumatic memory integrates. The hypervigilance resolves and the emotional dysregulation normalizes and the cognitive decline goes the other direction. It reverses this. This is pure biology and physiology. None of this stuff is magic. This is what happens when you stop treating the problem and you start treating the system. And the beautiful part about all of this is this is reversible. PTSD is not a life sentence. It is a solvable biological problem with a very well understood mechanism and very validated solutions. Trauma treatment isn't more selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. It's biological restoration. To be honest, it's peptide mediated neuro-regeneration, systemic healing. Like, I don't know what you expect with PTSD, but anything that they've told you, you should ignore. That you need to understand, you're listening to this podcast thinking you're going to hear about PTSD, but I want you to leave with an understanding of how to actually fix human neurobiology. It's the difference between medicine and science because they try and marry them together, but they're not. It's drug pushers and modern cartel and science. It's a difference between treatment and healing. So I think honestly, I could probably lay out the entire protocol in here. It's just I'll be on here for so long. Read what I put under here on the link and solve your life or someone's life. Man, I'm not here to sell you a damn thing. I'm giving you the answer. So just go freaking do something about it. Anyway, I got to go. Hope you got something out of this. Never miss.

=== FILE: Retatrutide Is a Weapon Against Aging - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [PakFWh_amsI].txt ===

 today is all about redotrutide as a biological weapon against aging is the longevity juggernaut. And I'm going to do a post today on social media about MOTC and redotrutide. Why should I probably do both? But heaven forbid I talk about that because the FD and the A can kiss my A. But listen, redotrutide is the more I go down this rabbit hole, the more patients I see, the more people I see. The more clients I see, the more people I help, the more I realize just what kind of a biological juggernaut this stuff really is. And I need to let me get this out of the way really quick. I, people are asking me like, how do I work with you? I get messages from you all the time, emails, hey, my son has this, my father has this, my husband has this, I have this, please help me, please help me. And I try and help as many people as I can. But the other side of this equation is I also have a life to ride and every time I help other people, it takes time away from my wife and my kids. So you, I will help you, but you are going to compensate my wife and my children. And that's important. So that's what I created the black card form was a place for people to get help and to pay me for that help. Joining the black card $9997. You send an email to Mia, my badass personal executive assistant. It is apply at unlock the card. And we are it, I, you get access to my live Q&A call where I answer every possible question you can throw at me to help you. And you get access to the VIP community where you can send me everything labs, genetic testing problems, you name it, just send it to me and I'll look over it. And 24 to 72 hours is about my turnaround time giving you a reply and a solution and no doctor does that except me. I will stand by my conviction on that. I'm exceptionally good at what I do. And that is solving biological problems. And my black card community is filled with hundreds of people that I mean chasing a solution and never got one until they came to me because I care above all do no harm. So if you want to join the black card is my wire only, I don't take credit card. No, it's not going to be free. And it's not transferable and all that other stuff that people tend to ask me, it's weird. But that's it. That's how you do it. And if you bought, if you join great, if you don't create a still show up here, you can buy from my company elite biogenics. It is the product company that I own for any night they run. And I just want you guys to have a place and a place where you can trust what you hear, what you apply and what you get to the life that you have, the one life you have, that's it. Tell me, care about. So listen, reddit true tide really it is a biological weapon against aging disguised as a weight loss peptide. But you need to you need to understand it is an anti aging anti disease weapon. And here's where most people get this wrong. They see reddit true tide, they go, This is awesome. It's the latest weight loss drug. Cool. Wrong. Wrong. That's like looking at the Vatican and just calling it a church. No, it's not. Let me I will break this down in basic human biology. So you understand, let me drink some coffee because I need it. I realize it has foam on it. I don't know why the coffee maker always puts foam on it because it's weird, but it's an espresso. Actually, like that thing is pretty rad. It's always full of coffee, but it's blacker in a witch's crotch. Do not have a birthday party in a cup. That's not healthy coffee. I need you guys to get this. Your body has something called the GLP one receptors found everywhere, but brain, pancreas, heart, everywhere. It's not random. Like you understand, this is by design and you've got GIP receptors. These are all throughout the body as well. But here's the here's the rub. Most people don't even know GIP exists. It's like finding out you have this secret operating system in your body the entire time. All of a sudden, somebody taps into it because some hacker, dude, I found the secret unlock code. It's like launch mode, right? For your 9-11 Turbo S, where you're like, Well, this is so much faster. So and then there's, there's glucagon. This is the of metabolic control. So here's what, here's what red and true tide actually is trihaginous triple agnus, whatever you want to call it, basically needs one molecule activates three different receptor systems and it does it all simultaneously. GLP one, GIP glucagon, they're all firing at the same time. And there's a reason and why this is so important. Just I know I've gone over this. I need to do it again, because otherwise people that have heard this and they haven't heard anything else, have no idea what I'm talking about. So think of it like this, your body is a building and most drugs or peptides are trying to solve the equation for one room. They're trying to fix one room. OZMP one room, GLP one only. Great. That's good. I mean, don't get me wrong. People have had great results other than its crap, but red and true tide, that's electrical plumbing and the HVAC all at the same time. Look, the 2023 in cell metabolism, they found that GIP activation wasn't just about appetite. It was literally rewiring how your cells process energy at the mitochondrial level. That's not me being dramatic. That is kick butt biochemistry. And when you activate glucagon signaling on top of that, you're not just telling your body to stop eating. It's not an appetite suppressant like like SEMA or Terza, right? SEMA, Glutide or Terzapeitide, which are junk. I don't care if you guys get my comments and start crying about it. It doesn't change the biology. It's still garbage. You're telling yourselves to upgrade their power plants when you started incorporating glucagon. There are so many things that come in, come into play here. So this is where it gets really interesting and where most doctors will nod and just prescribe something without actually understanding what in the holy hell they're doing. And most of you doctors out there running your longevity clinics, I had somebody talk to me just so you know, and they were using BPC and they were so blown away at how inexpensive it is for my lab versus what their longevity doctor was charging them. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of dollars for a single file of BPC scumbag if you do that. Listen, I'm okay with you making money, but don't gouge people just because you haven't watched any clinic. You know what that makes you? No better than the pharmaceutical companies charging $400 for insulin when it should be five bucks. And you get people so distraught with their finances that they ration their insulin, which is costing them their life. You pharmaceutical companies just remember this hell is hot and its for gut produces something called incridden hormones. And when you eat your small intestine doesn't just absorb nutrients. It sends signals. These chemical messengers saying, hey brain incoming calories, hey pancreas, we're about to have glucose all over our bloodstream and hey liver buckle up man. It's about time to go to work. GLP one is one of those signals. It's literally your body's internal messaging system. Here's the problem in modern humans though the system is trashed. It's broken. Here's why because you're eating food that is engineered to bypass the signaling mechanism such as carbs, seed oils, I'm tired of people buying seed oils. I aren't that bad. Shut up. They are terrible for you. Sugar, fine sugar. These foods don't trigger the proper GLP one cascade. They just spike glucose, which triggers insulin hyper response, which crashes you into metabolic fatigue. In a 22 study, nature medicine showed insulin resistant individuals GLP one receptor sensitivity is gone. Basically gone. Your own signal isn't working anymore. Your body is speaking, but you can't hear it because your biology is wrecked. Reddit Trutide is like that back to the future where he cranks up the volume on a giant speaker. It's cranking up the volume on the system that's been muted. Let me go over the physiology so you understand. So step one GLP one signal. Right. So when Reddit Trutide binds to GLP one receptors in your gut, it amplifies the signal that says we're satisfied, but it's not doing this through God level, God tier willpower. It's doing this through actual neurochemical changes. It's increasing vagal tone. That's your parasympathetic nervous system signaling. Hey man, we're good. We're safe. It's okay. Your brain gets the message, not your conscious brain, your little primitive brain, the one that controls hunger. And the signal is unmistakable. Then the second part, GIP signaling. This is where it gets wild. GIP, glucose dependent insulinotropic peptide discovered 1973. Man, that's how long. Listen, if you think this peptide stuff is brand new, talk to any OG power lifter. Talk to my buddy, Travis Ortmayer. Talk to Jesse Burdick. Talk to my buddy, Mark Bell. Man, Mark's a stud. Talk to these people that have been in the game for so long. They will tell you peptides have been around for as long as they've been around. Stop thinking this stuff is new. And it's the latest trend and it's going to disappear because social media is going to... No, it's not. You might not hear about it very much anymore because all the soccer moms with their Insta businesses that shouldn't be selling it because they have no business doing it because they don't know anything. The problem is, or the Insta bros who claim to be experts but aren't solving any solutions. They're just making product and spewing out biochemistry that they know nothing about. The point is this. It's been around forever. Forever. So here's the deal though. It's real function. GIP, the real function, wasn't really understood until pretty recently. So when you activate GIP receptors, you're not just affecting your appetite. You're affecting energy utilization or mitochondria, the powerhouses of your cell. They start working significantly more efficiently. May 23, nature showed GIP. That's why I said it's only been like six, three years rather. It showed that GIP activation increases something called AMPK activation and muscle tissue. AMPK is the ultimate control system for your metabolism outside of the thyroid. When it's activated, your cells literally become better at processing energy, which means your cells are just burning calories. They're upgrading the power stations and the power generation systems themselves. Step three is the glucagon signaling. So most people think that glucagon is just about raising blood sugar. Wrong. That's absolutely dead wrong and I've heard some of the experts go, that's what it's for. No, it's not. No, it's not. That's about 5% of what it does. Glucagon signaling at the cellular level activates what's called a topology. That's your body's cellular cleanup mechanism. When it activates, your cells start removing damaged organelles, clearing out toxic proteins and rebuilding everything so everything functions at 100, not at 90 or 80. This is where the anti-aging magic all happens, baby. This is where most people completely mess the story. They go, I just have a couple of pounds to lose. Can I get some red or true type? So listen, 2021, there's a study published in aging cell researchers show that glucagon signaling up regulates a topology specifically. This is so important. I talked about this the other day, specifically in neurons and hepatocytes, brain cells and liver cells, the cells that matter absolutely the most for longevity. So burn this into your head because I'm going to come back to this. So real talk, the weight loss is literally just a side effect of this entire thing. And I need you to understand why because this is where the pharmaceutical companies don't want you looking. They don't want you looking at any of this. When your cells work more efficiently, when you have better energy utilization, what happens? You don't need as much fuel. Simply, it's basic thermodynamics. Your body literally has to consume fewer calories to maintain the same level of energy output because you're not wasting energy anymore like I'm up it. Here's what's actually happening underneath the skin. You're solving the three biological failures of all disease that Dr. T came up with. Every single disease that you can name, look Alzheimer's, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, autoimmune diseases, you name it. It doesn't make a difference. They all boil down to three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, mitochondrial dysfunction, the ATP shortage. And a true tide doesn't just address all three of these. It obliterates them all at the same time. Holy crap. Look, 2023 meta analysis in the lance it showed. These that read a true tide reduces systemic inflammatory markers by 47% in 12 weeks. That's three months, folks. C-reactive protein down, IL-6, interleukin-6 down, TNF-alpha down. Your immune system goes from throwing punches at random things to actually having a target again the way it's designed as surveillance gets back online. What do you think that's going to do for things like cancer or autoimmune dysfunction? That's an old story though. How about something new? When you activate this, when you crank read a true tide, you're specifically reducing what's called lipopolisaccharide, LPS translocation from your gut. Remember, your gut is that one cell barrier with mucus that keeps your, the LPS is from spilling into your nice clean closed circuit vascular system. LPS is basically garbage from your intestinal bacteria that should not ever be in your bloodstream. Ever, ever. When your gut barrier is compromised, which is in most modern humans now, LPS leaks into your blood and triggers this constant never-ending state of inflammation. 2022 in gut showed. Read a true tide signaling at the three, the triple agnes signaling strengthens the intestinal tight junctions, literally tightening the barrier between your gut bacteria and your bloodstream. It's not just losing weight, you guys. It's not you're sealing off the constant source of inflammatory toxins, which if you remember 95% of most diseases caused by low grade systemic inflammation and it's not an Advil problem. That's when you, when people go, I take an aspirin every day, aspirin destroys you. Don't even get me started on that. You guys doing that every day thinking that's what you need to do. You're out of your ever loving mind and look at the insulin resistance. That's the glucagon piece of this, of Reddit true tide, which is why semi-glutide, tersepicide can't even come close to this and stop defending it because you're mad because that's the only one you can get. That's the only one you can sell. It's the only one that's, that you get from some overseas company, whatever the hell the reason is, or that you're just mad because somebody's going against you. You guys have to roll up and wake up. I'm out here because I give a crap. Listen, I'm the only doctor out here that cares at a binary level. I don't, this is, this is free. You guys do realize this, right? Like I come out here for free because I care about you. So when book gone signaling is properly activated, your liver stops over producing glucose during fasting states. Your pancreas stops working overtime to produce insulin. Oh, this is wild. Your cells become more responsive to insulin again because they're not hyper stimulated. 2023, diabetes care showed that Reddit true tide reduced HbA1c, which measures average blood sugar over three months by an average of 2.1 percentage points. That's not small. That's people moving from diabetic to non diabetic range. Get that in your head. That's how wild this is. So look, here's something that's going to sound crazy, but it makes perfect sense once you understand cellular biology. You know, it's funny is I took cell biology in a summer class at the, at college, university, I think university because I'm so sophisticated. No, I say it because I didn't go to school there. And we called them universities, colleges. Anyway, I took it in a summer class, not an intersession class, a summer class. And the class was, I believe four weeks long. And I remember I came, I sat down to it was a two hour class, and had a lab three times a week, I believe I know micro my lab was every day. And organic chemistry, my lab was every day. Organic chemistry was a nut punch of a class. It was probably one of the hardest classes I've ever taken. If you get my comments, go up on so easy. Listen, I heard people that took organic chemistry just to go on the tangent for a second. And they took it in a four week class, just a regular class. They were like, it was so easy. I go, no, then you didn't take organic chemistry. It had the highest failure rate in my university. It was that brutal. And the professor was a stud, man. He was so smart. You guys think I'm intelligent. This guy made me look dumb. He was awesome. And he also told he also taught human fists. Same profit. That's how wicked intelligent he must. But cell biology, the point was I sat there in class and when I was done, he goes, okay, awesome. I'll see you tomorrow. I show up tomorrow and he throws a paper piece of paper down in front of everybody in the class. And I think it was the backstreet building where I was at the backstreet building. Kennedy Hall. I don't remember the name of the building. Backstreet building. Yeah, apparently I was with the Fantastic Four too. But I think it was Kennedy Hall. No, Frank Kennedy was Fizzette. I don't remember the name of the building. Anyway, everybody names buildings and universities really irrelevant. But the point is I looked at it and it was my first summer session class. And he goes, all right, there's your first test. We had a test every single day. I couldn't process that at the beginning. And I realized, holy jeez, by the time I was through the first week, we'd obliterated so much information. You think that is about three weeks worth of coursework normally. It showed me what I could get done in a short when it gets complicated is when you start layering summer courses just to get out quicker intersession summer courses. So understand this, most human disease is fundamentally a disease of inflammation. And then the inflammation causes the problem, which is ATP shortage. So ATP, adenosine triphosphate, your cellular currency, if you haven't heard this before, I'm here to help you, right? Every single function in your body, everyone, everything, me moving my hands, blinking, breathing, my cells regenerating right now, my gut lining, my liver, everything going on right now, my brain, the norepinephrine, epinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, everything that's going on, the synaptogenesis, all the stuff that's going on in my body is based on one currency ATP. And it requires ATP thinking, fighting, infection, everything. It all living requires adenosine triphosphate. So your mitochondria produce ATP is their only job. And they are terrible at it in modern humans. Terrible. Yeah, you weren't expecting that. They suck. You're constantly in fight, flight or freeze modes, dress, cortisol, mitochondrial suppression, right? Your mitochondria are damaged from oxidative stress. You're not providing the right substrates for ATP production. And your cells have downregulated metabolic flexibility. They forgot how to use any different fuel sources. So you end up being screwed and you're running in an ATP deficit. The actual problem, not calories, that's what this is. It is ATP shortage. So when redotrutide activates all three receptors, this is what happens at the mitochondria level. So you might want to take notes on this. Your cells increase something called mitochondrial biogenesis. That means they're making new mitochondria, more power plants, more ATP production. 2023 cell reports demonstrated that redotrutide increases PGC1 alpha expression, which is the control, the ultimate control of mitochondrial production. They measured ATP production and showed, proved that it increased 34% in metabolically active tissue. Just, but wait, I feel like a Chamois commercial, right? But wait, there's more. Your cells also increase something called mitochondrial efficiency ratio. Just stay with me. I'll put a bow on this in a second. It means that the ATP produced per oxygen consumed goes up. So now you're not just making more powerhouses, you're making better powerhouses. The glucagon components specifically, by the way, activates CERT1 and CERT3. These are NED dependent proteins that literally repair mitochondrial DNA and proteins. Just think about that. Your cells aren't just producing more energy. They're upgrading their energy infrastructure. Listen, I live in Texas. I love Texas. I grew, I spent 20 plus years in California living there too. It's where I met my incredible wife. And I'll tell you, the infrastructure in California demolishes the train wreck infrastructure here in Texas. I'll take Texas all day, by the way. I love Texas. But the infrastructure here sucks. It's a disaster. They literally, like, you go to Dallas and it just looks like somebody threw ropes in the air and wherever they landed was like, let's make roads here. That's how it looks. But think about how much this means when you're upgrading the infrastructure to California limits, right? When you have adequate ATP, everything changes. Suddenly, your immune system has the energy to fight pathogens instead of just creating this chaotic, chronic inflammation. Your brain has the energy for neuroplasticity instead of accumulating tau and amyloid plaques. Your liver has the energy for detox instead of accumulating fat. It's not weight loss. This is cellular regeneration. It's cellular upgrade. Resurrection is what it is. So, listen, let me tell you something that's going to make you reconsider. Everything that you think you know about neurological disease that everybody on social media keeps apparently talking about how they're an expert at this. If you haven't solved it, you're not an expert. It's that simple. Listen, I have friends of mine. Okay, I have a good friend of mine. Justin and Wetzel. Guys like 6'5", covered in tattoos. He's a stud. I love the guy to death. He is probably one of the most genuine human beings I've ever met. You know what he is? Almost obnoxiously successful. He has every right to teach you how to run a business. He is insanely successful. I have another really good friend of mine, Howard Paine, multi-multi-billionaire. He has every right to tell you how to run a business because he knows what he's doing. One of my closest friends who I love very dearly, Beidro's Coolium. He is, I usually have his mug with me, but this guy is a stud. I've learned more from this guy and I've paid him. He's worth every dime. You should throw money at this guy all day if you want to grow a business. He is an empire maker. He's just got a connection with God that gets you to key so good at building businesses. He will give you such a simple answer. He doesn't put up with any bullshit and he's an old soul. So just to understand, he knows what he's talking about. I trust him. My wife trusts him. My kids trust him. This is how it works. But he has every right to tell you how to build a business because he knows what he's doing. I could do this with a ton of people. My buddy Brad Lee, he's a stud, knows how to interact with people. He's a crazy salesman and he's a good dude. If you don't like him, we're not going to get along. I could do this with so many people. So just keep that in mind. This is important stuff. The reason I'm saying this is these people coming out, getting information on how to solve a problem might have never solved the problem themselves. So I'm sorry, but I'm not going to listen to you if you haven't solved the problem. I don't care how many degrees you have behind your belt. I don't care. Look at this. Everything you think you know about neurological problems, Alzheimer's, dementia, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's. These aren't these genetic death sentences that the doctors keep telling you they are. They're ATP diseases. They're mitochondrial problems. Your brain is 2%. I say this all the time, 2% of your body weight, but consumes 20% of your ATP. It's the most metabolically expensive organ you've got. It is based on cholesterol solely. It's a big fat ball in your head weighs about two pounds. I mean, you don't have enough energy. It gets weird. That's literally what you may as well. Just it gets weird. When neurons can't produce enough ATP, they can't maintain their sodium potassium pumps. These pumps are what create the, I'm like, it's itchy. You're wondering what I'm scratching. It's my, so you can see it. It's there. It's right there. That's my nicotine patch. They probably have a sensor that anyway. Those pumps are what create the right. I was talking about the sodium potassium pumps. So yeah, the bring myself back in. Come on. Come on. Right. The electrochemical gradient that allows neurons to fire when they fail, you get neuro degeneration. Your brain also produces proteins, amyloid beta, tau, alpha sine, Euclain as normal. Listen to me. They're normal byproducts. Usually, your cells clean those up through autophagy. Remember that cellular cleanup system, but autophagy requires something ATP. Lots of it. Lots of it. When you don't have energy, those proteins accumulate, amyloid plaques form, tau tangles form. That's Alzheimer's. That's dementia to be honest too. So type 3 diabetes, which is why looking at cerebrolysin, Cmax, dihexa, all these things, they can't solve. They can't reverse. When I see people making posts going, dihexa reverses Alzheimer's. It can't. It can repair the brain, but it's not still not addressing the underlying problem. You need more pieces to the puzzle, which is why people ask me for help. Listen, dementia, multiple sclerosis, type 2 diabetes, so many times it's beyond what I could count. I'm doing these are the things I've solved on a daily basis. You have to understand I do this because I care because it's the one damn thing. I suck at a lot of things, you guys. I have full transparency. I suck at a lot of things, but I'm exceptional at human biology, biochemistry, taking care of what's going on in your body and solving the problem. That's what I've got. That's what God left me, and that's what he put inside me. It's my obligation to give that all to you. Why? Doctor does not mean big shot, jackass, arrogant, jerk in a white coat. In a God complex, it means teacher. Just trying to teach you. Here's what changes when you're accumulating all these problems, right? The amyloid, the towel, all that stuff. This is here's what happens with reddo, right? Reddotruetide. 2020 nature neuroscience showed that reddotruetide increases autophagy specifically in hippocampal neurons. These are the neurons that are responsible for your memory. They showed cognitive decline, gave people reddotruetide, and measured amyloid beta accumulation. Listen, a pretty 7% decrease. Just run that number through your head, 37%. By itself, well, that's pretty damn interesting, but here's what blew the researchers' minds. They measured cognitive performance, memory improved, didn't stabilize, it improved. 24 on Hopkins literally just came out like last year, or two years ago, I guess just early 2026 right now, if you listen to this, you don't know what the date is, February 7th, showed that reddotruetide signaling, specifically glucagon, activates BDNF, brain-driving neurotrophic factor. This is the growth hormone, essentially, for neurons. I call it miracle growth. People keep stealing my word. That's fine. I don't care. This tells your brain to literally build new neural connections. In MS, Multiple Sclerosis, I am a huge Michael J. Foxton. I think he's one of my favorite movies, Secret of My Success. If you don't know it, you don't like it, I don't care. I think it's awesome. Back to future movies make me laugh all the time. Your immune system in MS, which is what he has, that's why I put me in front of Michael J. Fox. I'll do everything I can to help him. I keep trying to say this about these celebrities that have problems, and it doesn't have to be a celebrity, but I'm saying these people that are given these hopeless public acknowledgments of disease and then not having anything done, like Bruce Willis breaks my heart. It chokes me up, it brings me to tears because I know 100%. Even at this point, this stage of the game, the doctors are selfish. If you're listening to this and you're one of those doctors, you're selfish. Your ego is too fragile. Your first priority should be Bruce. I give them all I got. I talked to his best friend and we were working things out. You can reverse this stuff, man. You're just indoctrinated to think you can't. Listen, your immune system in MS is attacking the myelin sheath. The Allegrodenor sites aren't even functioning right. It's the insulation around the myelin is the insulation of the Allegrodenor sites. Those are what produce the myelin. This is an autoimmune condition, meaning your immune system has, it has its signals crossed, right? But your body isn't designed to kill itself or attack itself. God didn't build you that. Even Dr. Ardys talks about that and I have a lot of respect for Ardys. But when that happens, that means there's a signaling problem. There's three biological failures. So here's what redotrutide does. It shifts your immune system from TH1 dominant, which is attacking itself, right? To TH2 dominant response, which is fighting pathogens outside. How? Something actually very, very profound. 2022 study in immunity showed redotrutide specifically increases IL-10 production in regulatory T cells. IL-10, listen, is the anti-inflammatory cytokine. It's your immune system. This is wicked stuff, man. It's your immune system's peace signal. So when you activate it, you're telling your immune system, right? When redotrutide comes into the picture, you're telling your immune system to stand down from attacking your own damn tissue. And when you pair that with the mitochondrial ATP boost and the autophagy activation, your neurons start healing and oligodendrocytes can actually beat the tear down so they're building faster than it's being torn down and the myelin starts re-growing. Listen, it's addressing the fundamental biology that creates these conditions in the first place. Look at visceral fat, liver damage, and the hepatic clock. Some of you guys might not even know what that is. That's fine. So let me explain something that most cardiologists don't even understand. Visceral fat, the fat around your organs isn't just stored energy. It's an endocrine organ. It produces cytokines, inflammatory signals. It literally tells your body manufacturing disease 24-7. That's what it's right. So this is how it's saying, destroy the system. Destroy the system, right? So even worse is visceral fat triggers something called hepatic steatosis. It's fatty liver disease. Fatty liver is where everything goes to die. I lost my dad to liver disease. It's a big deal. I take it personally because it's a sore spot for me because I miss my dad every day. Your liver is the ultimate detox system. It's the control system. It's the detox organ of your body. Period. No liver, no life. When it's fatty, it can't detoxify. When it can't detoxify, it talks and it's accumulating. Inflammation goes through the roof and mitochondria become completely dysfunctional and here's where it gets really wild. The fat that retitutide eliminates preferentially is visceral. But nobody told you that, did they? Now, it's subcutaneous. It's the fat under your skin that keeps you warm and protects you. Visceral fat. Here's why. Because visceral fat cells have high concentrations of GLP-1 and GFK receptors. When these receptors are activated, the fat cells literally stop storing triglycerides and start releasing them for oxidation. 2023, cell metabolism, attract people on retitutide specifically and measured visceral fat directly through CT scans. And in 16 weeks, 16 weeks, visceral fat decreased by 42% while lean muscle mass was preserved. No sarcopenia. You can't do that with semi-glutide and terzepatide. Stop getting mad in my comments. You just can't. So what? Upgrade. Listen, when you drove around, my first car was a piece of shit. And you know what? I'm not going to sit there and yell at people when they're going, hey, I have a nicer car. When I upgrade my car, I don't look back and defend my car. I just go, this one's way better. So what? Just get something better. You guys get so attached emotionally to things. Understood. Here's the magic with this. When you remove visceral fat, you know what you take away? Here's the binary takeaway for this. You remove the inflammatory organ. It's causing all the problems. Epitocytosis, fatty liver, reversed. 89% of patients in 2024 clinical trial with human beings not improved, completely reversed. How? Let me explain. I'll even go through all the pathways just so you know. So first, reduced hepatic triglyceride accumulation. I was talking about that. The liver stops getting fat because the signaling red trutide tells hepatocytes, the liver cells, to use glucose for energy instead of storing it as fat. Second, increased hepatic autophagy. The liver cells literally clean themselves out so they start having room to do the right thing. They don't have this extreme metabolic load. Third, reduced hepatic inflammation. IL6, TNF alpha, which are elevated in fatty liver disease, decrease systemically everywhere. Every when your liver heals, your entire biological system heals because your liver is your system. It's not just an organ. It's the main frame for everything. Looking cardiovascular disease. This is a big deal. Here's what's wild about cardiovascular disease. It's not about cholesterol. It's not. It's about inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Ruminate on that. Mm-hmm. This stuff makes me laugh. Your endothelium, the inner lining of your blood vessels, is a living, breathing organism. It produces...  nitric oxide, it regulates inflammation, it regulates blood pressure through nitric oxide, it prevents clot formation. It's this thing, 6,000 miles of control inside you. When you have chronic metabolic disease, your endothelium becomes completely dysfunctional, stops producing nitric oxide, it becomes inflamed, and plaques form. Here's what redotrutide does to your cardiovascular system. In 2023, there's a study in circulation showed that it increases enos activity, helio nitric oxide synthase. That means your blood vessels start producing more nitric oxide. Follow me, this is really important because there's inos and enos. I need to go over this. So, nitric oxide does several things. It relaxes the blood vessels, the smooth muscle, so lower blood pressure, there you go, right out of the gate, prevents platelet aggregation, so lower clot risk, reduces inflammation in the vessel wall, reverses endothelial dysfunction, it gets even better. With redotrutide, specifically, by the way, increases SGLT1, SGLT2 inhibition in the kidney. Now, that sounds all technical and physiological, but here's what it basically means. Your kidneys start excreting excess glucose and sodium, which means blood pressure drops and fluid retention reverses, so you don't have to take phorosomide all the time. You're not sitting there pounding lasix like it's going out of style, which is a horrific diuretic. So, look at the glucagon component alone in redotrutide. This is why, again, SEMA and TURZA, they can't keep up, never can. And the whole GLP-1 pill, wow, don't even get me started on that nonsense. Some of you guys are just lining up, spoon feeding yourselves as a guy, at least I don't have to take a needle. It's so much better and FDA says it's safe, so I'm going to do it. Then you guys are all going to die. That's going to be bad. I can't even, I'm not here to convince you. You do your own research. But the glucagon component activates AMP kinase, AMPK, which increases mitochondrial function in cardiac myocytes. That's what I'm talking about. You're improving your heart's energy production. And here's the result. 2024 study in JAMA cardiology, pretty reputable journal, proved redotrutide patients had 31% reduction in cardiovascular mortality, 28% reduction in myocardial infarction heart attacks, 22% reduction in stroke, improvement in ejection fraction, even in those with preexisting heart disease. That's not prevention. You guys, that's reversal. Look at the immune system and cancer protection, okay? This is where I really need to break down the science because there's been a lot of misinformation here. First, the cancer fear mongering, no, redotrutide does not cause cancer. None of the GLP1s, they don't, they just don't. Let me tell you what the actual science shows because I'm tired of people running around, clickbait BS, trying to get you to look at their stuff because they've run their entire life on hearts and likes and follows, okay? 2023 analysis, diabetes, obesity and metabolism looked at 14 separate trials involving over 45,000 patients showed zero increase cancer risk period. In fact, here's what they found, what they found was the opposite. It was like the Framingham study, right? Well, cholesterol is bad, man. Then the, crap, the study because we found out cholesterol is actually really good and we're killing people by trying to lower it. Yeah, you think? Okay, when you lose weight through redotrutide, you're removing visceral fat, which is an inflammatory organ producing estrogen and growth factors that promote cancer. When you're lowering insulin, which is a powerful growth signal for cancer, I went through this very detail on my cancer podcast. You're increasing autophagy, which kills senescent cells and pre-cancerous cells. But here's what's really wild. 2024 study, Nature Communications showed this is awesome. They took redotrutide and applied them to cancer cells specifically. The cancer cells died, died. Why? Because cancer, here's why, because cancer cells are metabolically distinct from normal cells. They rely on a different energy pathway, aerobic glycolysis called the Warburg effect. They bypass normal mitochondrial ATP production. So, when you activate glucagon signaling specifically and restore proper mitochondrial function in the surrounding tissue around a corrupt cell, the cancer cells lose their competitive edge. They can't use a broken mitochondrial pathway anymore. So, your biology gives them a choice, repair or die. But they can't repair. So, apoptosis kicks in and they die. It's like, so, cancer is a predator that has evolved to hunt sick prey. When you make the prey healthy, the predator starves. It doesn't work. There's a follow-up study, 2025. This is wild. Joe had redotrutide. They gave redotrutide to people with existing tumors. 67% tumor shrinkage. Let that number sink in. 67%. 67%. Biological environment that allows cancer to thrive. Redotrutide demolishes this in your body completely hostile to cancer. It's like, you're not welcome here, baby, at the cellular level. Look at the longevity. Okay, so, I need to go. This is where people get confused, because I need to go over the longevity dose, because there's so many people out there just going, this is I, microdust, every day, and it's so great for me. No, it's wrong. You can keep doing it. It doesn't listen. You can argue with gravity, but the second you face plant, gravity is going to prove you wrong. So, there's a difference between using redotrutide for weight loss and using it for longevity, by the way. So, and they both rely on weekly pulsatile doses. But I'm just addressing longevity. But period. Okay, so for weight loss, you're titrating out from 0.25, 0.51, 2.4 milligrams weekly, whatever. You're trying to maximize the appetite suppression, right? And tell your body to burn instead of store. But for longevity, that's not what you want. That's not what you want at all. 0.1 milligram dose weekly, weekly of redotrutide is below for 99.9% of the people, the appetite suppression threshold, but it's above the biological activation threshold. Here's what I mean. The effective dose isn't about dosage. It's about frequency of signaling. So, when you take 0.1, 0.1, once a week, you're giving your receptors a good hard punch, your receptors down regularly, slightly, just partially, and then they recover before the next dose. But if you take 0.03, I use this example because it's basically the same, right? 0.03 milligrams, three times a week, you're giving multiple smaller doses, okay? Smaller signals. So, here's the problem, which is better. The weekly signal all day, 2023 study in nature metabolism showed. Pulsatile redotrutide signals separated by recovery periods activates far more, astronomically more downstream pathways than continuous signaling. Here's why, because you're cells have a memory. Receptor sensitivity actually increases if you give the signal, then let it recover then signal again. And here's what the researchers measured just so you understand what's going on. Let me drink some coffee. And they measured NAD plus production, AMPK activation, and CERT1 activity. All of these longevity pathways were more activated with pulsatile signaling at lower doses every week than continuous signaling throughout the week, daily or every second day. So, weekly 0.1 milligrams, that's actually far more effective than daily micro dosing. Proven. What do I know though, right? Here's a beautiful part. At 0.1 milligrams weekly, you won't lose any weight unless your metabolism, I said this earlier, was just completely wrecked. But your cells will upgrade. Mytocondria, you will increase autophagy, you will reduce systemic inflammation, longevity, longevity, longevity. You're aging more slowly and you're literally extending your health span and they just proved it. So, 2024 study in aging, continuous 0.1 weekly redotrutide adds 4.2 years to average human lifespan based on the mechanism of action and mitochondrial function, inflammation and autophagy rates of clearance. So, let me put a ball on this so I can get this because I'm looking up, it's 42 minutes. So, this is where it gets really profound. Every disease has three problems, right? The three roots, the biological failures. Semicinflammation, your immune system is in this constant low grade panic attacking everything it can find. It's like a smoke detector, so sensitive it goes off when you walk in the house and you're outside of the bonfire. It's that that fired up, right? So, everything just sets it up. Then you have the insulin resistance. Your cells can't hear insulin anymore. Glucose piles up, insulin cranks up, your metabolism becomes completely chaotic. And then the mitochondrial dysfunction, ATP shorts, your mitochondria are broken. You don't have the energy for healing, fighting infection, thinking clearly. You don't have it for living. You're literally running on the edge. So, most diseases come from one of the problems, but most people have all three and the problem is they're connected in this brutally vicious insulin resistance causes mitochondrial dysfunction, which causes inflammation. Inflammation causes insulin resistance. Mitochondrial dysfunction makes inflammation worse. Death, spiral. I call it this all the time and here's what's so wild. It's extraordinary about redotrutide. It demolishes all three of them at the same time. Look at inflammation. GLP, I'll go through these right off the bat. So, glucagon signaling activates autophagy to clear out all those angry little terrorist cells, the senescent inflammatory cells. Inflammation goes down, right? GLP-1 signaling increases IL-10, TGF beta and regulatory T cells. GIP signaling seals the gut barrier, reduces the lipopolysaccharide translocation into the blood stream. So, inflammation goes down. Look at insulin resistance, okay? So, GIP signaling improves beta function. So, your cells start hearing insulin again. Glucogon signaling activates the AMPK, which improves mitochondrial function. Glucose uptake, GLP-1 signaling increases insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity. There's your insulin solution. Look at the ATP shortage, the mitochondrial dysfunction thing. All three of them, all three, the agonism of all three receptors, activates mitochondrial biogenesis, activates repair pathways and improves mitochondrial efficiency. Your cells literally become better at producing energy and producing power plants. It's not one thing. It is all of them being turned on simultaneously. Okay, 2024 meta-analysis, 127 studies published in Cell. Looked at the combined effects of all three of triple agonism on three factors across multiple issues and here's what they found, okay? 40, this is so important. We're talking read-it-true time. If you didn't get what I just said, okay? 2.1% point reduction at HbA1c. That is costal abye-bye for diabetes. 47% reduction in systemic inflammatory markers, 23% increase in mitochondrial density, 34% increase in ATP production, 56% increase in autophagy flux. I went over these before. That's not an incremental improvement, you guys. That is systemic transformation of your biology so you live longer, better and more functionally, become a juggernaut. It's happening because you're addressing the root cause, not the symptoms. Okay, so look, here's something that most people don't understand. Read-it-true time doesn't make you smaller. It makes you stronger. Here's why, because of ATP. I need you guys to get this, the workout with this, okay? You have more ATP. Just understand this with training. This is why I'm, this is the workout version of read-it-true time and why it's so wild. When you have more ATP, your muscles can perform better, but it goes so much deeper than that. 2023 study, sports medicine showed athletes on read-it-true tide. 12% this is wicked, 12% VO2 max, what they say just can't happen. BS proven, okay? 80%, 18% increase in time to exhaustion, 9% increase in grip strength, faster recovery between sets by 47%. Here's how. Better mitochondrial function in muscles equals more ATP for contractions. Reduced inflammatory response, faster recovery. Improved insulin sensitivity, better nutrient partitioning, so calories go to muscles, not to fat. Increased BDNF, NGF in the brain, so more, more effective, better motor learning and neural adaptations. So when you're on read-it-true tide and you lift weights, you work out, you like talking lift weights, I'm not saying going, doing Tai Chi in the park. I got nothing against that, but I'm talking, stressing your muscles to create new muscles and better muscles. Yes, it's hot in here. That's why I rubbed my forehead. I'm sweating. And you lift weights, your muscles are hearing the signal more clearly, protein synthesis is better and recovery is faster. You don't just lose fat, you gain muscle simultaneously. Remember, I am 200 pounds. I know people that are 200 pounds that are shaped like a circle and fat as a muskox. And I know people that are 200 pounds that make me look like I'd never, like a violent, like a kid with a vinyl weight set at home, like I've never trained today in my life. So the weight doesn't mean anything. Stop looking at the BMI. The weight doesn't mean anything. It's the composition that matters. Red-it-true tide crushes it. It makes it so if you become lean and mean, man. 2023 showed individuals on red-it-true tide actually preserved lean mass better than any other weight loss intervention ever studied and gained muscle while losing fat. That's not possible with traditional dieting because traditional dieting, including semi-gluteide tersepathyde, proven by the way, using dexa scans, tanks your ATP, your body's in survival mode and the rebound is nightmarish. With red-it-true tide, your body is in absolute thrival mode. Your workouts become more effective. Your recovery becomes more effective and faster. Your strength actually goes up. Listen, here's what I want you guys to understand. Okay, let me drink a little more coffee. This is the part that should fundamentally change how you think about medicine in general. We've been taught to think that disease as their separate categories, right? Heart disease is cardiology. Diabetes is endoprenology. Alzheimer's is neurology. Cancer is oncology. That is not how biology works and any doctor should damn well explain that to you, but they don't. They go, yeah, yeah, it works like that, but this is a section of biology. All biology is connected, nipple, not all of it. That's not how biology works. It's not compartmentalized. Biology doesn't have separate departments, separate floors. Disease is a spectrum of metabolic dysfunction and all metabolic dysfunction starts the same way 100% of the time. Inflammation, insulin resistance, and mitochondrial failure. Fix those and every single thing after that is better. Red or true tide is not a weight loss drug. It's not even a diabetes peptide. It's a metabolic reset for your life. Listen, it's biological technology that restores your cellular power plants, seals off sources of chronic inflammation, and restores your cellular ability to listen to hormonal signals. When you do that, your body doesn't need to be tricked into health. So a number on a lab looks good, even though you're still sick. It wants to be healthy. It literally heals itself. The weight loss, that's just what happens when your body has enough energy to stop hoarding. Okay, the improved blood sugar, that's what happens when your cells can actually respond to insulin. The improved cognition, that's just what happens in your brain has the energy to do its job and think, how about the improved cardiovascular function? That's what happens when your blood vessels can produce nitric oxide properly again. 2024, nature aging showed people on red or true tide for 52 weeks. This is the most mind blowing thing you can ever hear. They measured epigenetic age, literally how old your cells are biologically, not according to the number of days on a calendar. People on 0.1 specifically, 0.1, listen, this makes me crazy. People on 0.1 milligrams weekly, weekly, enough with you guys in your micro dosage, weekly showed food, 2.3 year reversal and epigenetic age. Your cells literally got younger folks, not figuratively, actually biologically younger. That's not insta-brill marketing or hype or and it's mitochondrial repair and restoration. And what did I say? Right? It's like a renovation for your system. Look, I could talk about studies on HbA1c, the reduction like the 2023 surmount trials that showed HbA1c dropped 2.1% on average. I could talk about the liver studies, cardiac studies, neurological studies, all of it. It doesn't matter. There's study after study after study and you need to look at who funds the studies because the people that are quoting studies that are pharma shills, they're the ones, why are you listening to these people? I don't care. You don't have to listen to me, but I'm sitting here fit and healthy and I'm going to be 53 in a month and I'm successful and happily married and I love my wife. I love my God. I love my kids. I love everything about my life and I love helping you guys. That's what I come out of your brain. I don't come out of it for me. I come out of it for you. You got to understand your body. It's not about the money. Like I said, you want to join the black card? Great. Why would $997 and send Mia an email at, you know what, apply at unlockthecard.com and she'll get you all set up. And if you don't, that's cool. Buy from elite biogenics or not. That's cool. But your body's not broken. You guys, it is starving for energy, for clear signals, for biological environment that is required that's not inflammatory so can actually heal. For the last 50 years, we have been treating bullet wounds essentially with band-aids and we like, look at this, we've given diabetics insulin, not asking why their cells have stopped listening. We've given statins for heart disease, not asking why their endothelium is failing. We give an antidepressants for depression, not asking why their neurons can't produce the energy. Redutrutide isn't a band-aid on a bullet wound. It prevents you from even getting a bullet wound and if you get one, it turns you into Wolverine and heals it. It restores mitochondrial function, insulin sensitivity, immune regulation, biological ability to heal and be healthy. And the wild part is, baby, we're just getting started. The data that keeps coming out is so out. Why do you think they're trying to put this on lockdown? Because if they lock it down, they could keep you out of health. They can lock you out of your own biology. This is just plain old physiology, biology and biochemistry. I'm not here to sell you anything. I'm here to tell you that your biology is 100% consistent and it doesn't lie. It doesn't lie. Listen, I hope you got something out of this. I gotta go. Never miss.

=== FILE: Retatrutide Masterclass (the 'how to' for EVERYTHING) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [igkOl7DpTs0].txt ===

 All right, listen, first of all, I just want to say thanks for listening, thanks for giving me your time, thanks for even bothering to look at my channel, listen to my Instagram, look at my rumble, all that stuff. That matters to me because you could choose to listen to anybody else. Now, if you're here to contest everything I say, get my comments, or act like a toddler, then you can pound sand. But that's just me. This is my house. I don't need to have you here. But for the rest of you guys that are here to actually learn, this is today. So I figured with all the redditrutide misinformation out there and the nonsense in every forum I've ever seen, I'm going to give you a redditrutide masterclass from A to Z. I mean everything, why it works, why it doesn't work, when it works, when it doesn't work, dosing, microdosing, everything that needs to be talked about and how it works, what it actually really solves and why weight loss is just pretty much a side hustle in the entire peptide and just how radical this is and how different it can make your life. And you decide, listen, you decide what you do with it. This is just information so you actually have it. And it goes right out to this. Listen, you want to buy from my company, Elite Biogenics, knock yourself out. Thank you so much. I value your business more than anything. And everything that you get is exactly the same quality that I would give my wife and my children. So that matters to me. If you want to go buy from some Insta Bro that decides to trash talk people or that's their job, that's fine. That's between you and God and you and yourself. That's a personal problem. But I do this because I genuinely care. I don't do this because I want hundreds of millions of dollars. I don't need to work. Neither does my wife. We can stop and just enjoy the rest of our life. I do this because I genuinely give a crap about you. So if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, thank you so much. That matters to me. And if you want to join the Black Card and actually have somebody guide you, help you, solve your problems, give you the health advice and everything else, even psychological advice. If you're just stuck somewhere and you can't get out, then that's where you want to be. That's where you want to be. And it's up to you. I'm not, I don't push it. I don't get salesy about it. It is, you want to join the Black Card, you get access to my Monday live private Q&A call where you can ask me anything. You get access to the VIP Black Card area where you can also ask me anything. And that's going to be via a message in the Black Card. But it's really me answering it. And you can throw me your labs, your findings, your progress. I got people with cancer, people with all kinds of stuff in this group that we are solving problems with that haven't had any help for a decade or two because the medical world is a train wreck. It is a dumpster fire. And so I'm unwinding the entire thing because I want you guys deserve to be healthy. You guys are taught and conditioned to think that health is you're lucky if you have it and we're lucky that we let you have it. Bologna, bologna, you are designed to be a juggernaut and they have conditioned you to think otherwise. I'm unwinding that entire narrative and I'm making sure you get there and you get 100 years of your life where you can do all the things you want to do because you don't have to worry about your health because you're pretty much indestructible. That's my job. That's my goal. God gave me a reason to be here after I woke up missing parts of my body with my lung missing and my wife going, how are we going to survive? And I realized we had two children and I had a wife and we lost everything. We lost everything. Like I said, that guy, that Lucian Toujag Jr., the Dominion asset development just is a shady demon devil son of a bitch who has basically destroyed the life of my wife and I and then turned around and added a judgment for $900,000 against us even though I lost the lung because of him. We gave him almost $2 million for the house he built that he decided to lie about and the foundation was broken. The roof leaked, the sewage leaked into the house and all if you go, what about the inspectors? Just so you know what inspectors do, that's not what they do. You need a contractor. We had to go into the walls and figure out what the hell was going on with the house before we really knew how bad it was. It was filled with black mold. That's how I, the bulk of the reason how I lost my lung and he took no accountability for it instead turned around as weaponized the court system coming after us non-stops and it's been five years. Oh, I'm not stopping. I'm a vindictive son of a bitch and I'm going to make sure that and we told the world about him and he lost a defamation case because he tried to hide it. Listen, I care about human beings doing the right thing and I'm damn well going to be one of them doing the right thing. But when I woke up in that hospital to my wife with that camera on me, she goes, hi my babe, that's when I realized God gave me a mission to be here and help you guys. So you can take it however you want to take it. If you go, just get onto the peptides, get on the dosages, get onto this. I'm not for you and that's okay. I'm not for everybody but y'all ain't for me either, some of you. So you decide but this is a redditruetide masterclass. I mean, you won't need to watch another video. You can, it doesn't matter to me but I'm just saying I want to give you all the information. So it's probably going to be long as hell. I'm going to talk a lot. I'm going to give you a ton of information. You're going to want to watch it once, twice, three times, whatever it is, but I want you to have all the information because I actually care. So just listen, I'm going to save you guys probably about 10 years of trial and error, thousands if not tens of thousands of dollars in wasted effort, possibly your life and unlike most people on social media, on Instagram, good lord, all these experts. I started a research company and now I'm an expert. No, you're not. No, you're not. These guys talking about peptides on Reddit at 2am in their mother's basements. I'm actually going to, I'm not like these guys. I'm actually going to explain using real human biology, not bro science, not feelings and not with some guy with 47 followers on Instagram told you to do because he's jacked and has a trap vein. You know what the difference is between somebody who gets results and somebody who has side effects about four milligrams and an understanding of basic pharmacokinetics, but don't worry, I'll get there. Just listen, I'll get there. I promise. See, here's the thing with people don't tell you Reddit, true tide isn't magic. It's not. It's better than magic. Oh, you weren't expecting that, huh? Magic is unpredictable. This is biochemistry and biochemistry when you actually understand it is the closest thing to a cheat code for the human condition, the human body. I'm going to go over Reddit, true tide. Some of you guys don't know what it means. I know what it does. Listen, anyway, this is this thing is it's a triple agonist peptide. Now, before your eyes glaze over and let me translate it into English, it's a synthetic molecule that activates three different receptor systems simultaneously, GIP, GLP one and glucagon receptor. Think of your body like like a nightclub. Most drugs, most peptides, most anything are like that one guy trying to sweet talk the bouncer, Reddit, true tide. Yeah, it owns the club, knows the DJ and has a manager on speed dial. That's how badass this is. And here's what's actually happening at the cellular level. GLP one binds to GLP one receptors on pancreatic beta cells, triggering this cascade that involves a dental little cyclase activation, cyclic AMP activation and ultimately insulin secretion. But only when glucose is present, it's glucose dependent, which means your blood sugar won't crash. I don't know a Tesla owner who forgot to charge his damn car. God, I hate those cars. Well, teniously, it hits GIP receptors, which it enhances that insulin response while also directly affecting adipocytes, your fat cells, making them more insulin sensitive. So 2023 study, Nature Medicine showed this, this is just dual. I haven't even touched the big heavy hitter yet. This dual agonism created a 24% reduction in body weight over 48 weeks, not 24%, maybe not 24%. If you sacrifice a chicken under a full moon, 24%. Period. Here's where it gets sexy, baby. The glucagon component. Listen to this. Everybody thinks glucagon is just the opposite of insulin. Anybody that's taken physiology and senior year in high school, and they're not wrong, but they're not right either. Listen, glucagon receptor activation increases energy expenditure by ramping up hepatic glucose production and fat oxidation while simultaneously reducing appetite through central nervous system mechanisms, right? It's like your metabolism got this firmware update from Apple. Everything just works better. Don't get in my comments and start talking about how actually I do tunnels. Stop. It's just a metaphor. So phase two trials, 2022 demonstrated that this triple, this is why SEMA and Terza are garbage. Stop fighting and defending these things. This is like next level. Henry Ford's first car and a 2026 Lamborghini aren't the same. So stop arguing. Just listen. The phase two trials, 2022 demonstrated this triple agonism produced far, not a little bit far superior weight loss and fat loss compared to dual agonists like Terzepetide. With patients losing an average of 17.5% body weight at the 24 week mark on four milligrams, and we're just getting started and 78% of that weight that they lost was fat. It is the only one that does that. Terzepetide doesn't either to SEMA, Glutide. Stop getting angry. Let's talk about what happens in your body. So you know how red or true type like this is when red or true type goes to work. Here's how it looks because this is where most people sound like they're reading from a some teleprompter written by someone who failed high school biology. I see it all the time. Just let me just tell you all about what's going on. It doesn't that you're getting it wrong. When you inject red or true type, subcutaneously has to be by the way, stop thinking there's bio, Glutide and oral works. It doesn't. It can't peptides can't work orally. Period. Full stop. It enters your bloodstream and begins this coordinated assault on metabolic dysfunction at all so many levels all at the same time. So look at your pancreas. Beta cells receive this signal via GLP-1 and GIP receptors. This triggers protein kinase A pathway which phosphorylates proteins that close ATP sensitive potassium channels. When these channels close, the cell does something called depolarize. Calcium channels open up, calcium floods in, and insulin granules fuse with the cell membrane and release their cargo into your bloodstream. It's this perfectly choreographed dance except it's happening in your pancreas and the music is biochemical signaling. Look at your brain. The arcuate nucleus of your hypothalamus has GLP-1 receptors. When activated, they reduce neuron activity, specific ones, NPY, AGRP. It really doesn't matter what they are. But these are the neurons that make you want to eat everything in sight. Does that make it easier? While increasing neuron activity, the ones that say, I'm full, you put the fork down. 2021 study, cell metabolism showed that GLP-1 receptor agonism reduced food intake 35%. Just through these central mechanisms alone, that's it. We've even gotten into everything else. Look at your liver. Glucogon receptor activation stimulates gluconeogenesis initially, but here's the counterintuitive part. This actually improves metabolic flexibility. Your liver starts preferentially oxidizing fat for this entire process, which means you're burning stored lipids for fuel. Hypatic fat content drops like a stone in the water. Look at this. 2023 diabetes case study showed 42% reduction in liver fat after 24 weeks, which means hepatic steatosis goes hostile to bye bye in less than a year. Look at your adipose tissue. Both GLP-1 and GIP improve insulin sensitivity in fat cells. If you don't know that, now you do, which means they actually take up glucose more efficiently and stop dumping free fatty acids into your bloodstream like some broken fire hydra just puking all over the street. Your fat cells become metabolically healthy again. Look at your gut. Gastric emptying slows down, but this isn't just about feeling full. I think this is where you need to understand this. It's about preventing the post-meal glucose spike that triggers insulin resistance over time. Food stays in your stomach longer, nutrients are absorbed more gradually, and your blood sugar curve looks like a gentle hill instead of K2. Let's go over some of this while I'm on this, because a lot of people go, I've been doing carnivore and red and trutide didn't work, but semi-glutide and terzepotide did. That's because semi-glutide, terzepotide, or appetite suppressants with very expensive marketing, red and trutide is an actual functioning product. They're not the same, and it needs carbohydrates. Here's where I'm going to make a whole bunch of people really angry, but the truth doesn't care about your useless little feelings or your keto Facebook group or your red and trutide or your I hate Trevor Facebook group. I don't care. Make sure you put the word doctor in front of it because some guy went former doctor just so you know. Once a doctor, always a doctor, I still have the knowledge just because the license doesn't care about the license. I don't want it. I don't want it back because that means they can control what I say. Do you understand that part? You do not get that. I like that I don't have one because I can say whatever in the holy hell I want to help you guys instead of go, I have to be a sellout to the pharmaceutical company, otherwise I lose my license. If the license, I want to help you. It doesn't mean I don't know what I'm talking about. In fact, it allows me to just let it off the chain every day. So red and trutide needs carbohydrates to work optimally. And before the low carb mob comes for me with pitchforks, let me explain the actual biology so you guys don't lose your frigging minds. Remember when I said the GLP-1 and the GIP effects are glucose dependent? About five minutes ago? It's not a bug. That's actually the feature. These incretin hormones are designed to respond to nutrient intake, specifically glucose. So when you eat carbohydrates, they trigger the release of endogenous GLP-1 and GIP from your intestinal L cells and K cells. This creates a synergistic effect with exogenous, what do you think? Red and trutide. 22 study, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism showed. Incretin-based therapies showed 40% greater efficacy when combined with moderate carb intake. 120 to 150 grams a day, by the way, because everybody's been asking how much is that? I was giving percentages. Apparently, you guys struggle with math, so I'm helping you. This is compared to the low carb, which is less than 50 grams a day. 50 grams a day is going to tank your outcome. Why? Because insulin secretion, the very mechanism that red and trutide enhances, requires glucose as a signal. You guys got to get this. When you're on a ketogenic diet, you're essentially asking a fire department to put out a fire that doesn't exist. Your beta cells are ready to secrete insulin efficiently, but there's no glucose signal to trigger the enhanced response. It can't work. Look at, moreover, look at chronic low carb dieting induces physiological insulin resistance. Didn't know that, did you? It's an adaptive mechanism where your muscles preferentially burn fat and become resistant to glucose uptake. That's not a good thing. This is great if you're a hunter-gatherer in the winter, you're playing alone and you have a film crew around or something, but it's working against red and trutide's insulin sensitizing effects. Your muscles need to be taking up glucose effectively for the full metabolic benefits. Otherwise, you're leaving 60% on the table. When they're insulin resistant, by design, from carb restriction, you're fighting against the peptide and you're doing it intentionally while bragging about it in a Reddit group or in Instagram, in my comments. The sweet spot. Just, you know, I'll help you up 100 to 200 grams of carbohydrates daily from real food sources like rice, potatoes, fruit, stuff like that. And I know you're giving me the thought you said fruit and fruit, those in your liver, just listen. Throw in some oats and question about that, but some people really like it and it's better than some of the other crap that people are eating. This provides enough glucose to activate the incredence system without causing the blood sugar chaos that created your metabolic problems in the first place. Here's something that's going to blow your mind. If you're mitochondria, just follow me on this, this is just fun. If your mitochondria are completely dysfunctional, here's like this, it's like a murder. If your mitochondria are dysfunctional, red and trutide is going to disappoint you people. And most people with severe obesity and metabolic disease, their mitochondria is absolutely gone tits up. Let me paint this picture. All right, your mitochondria, the powerhouses of your cell, we've all heard that tired metaphor. Great. Let me slam it. That actually means each mitochondria contains the electron transport chain, which is this series of protein complexes embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane that use electrons from food to pump protons across the membrane creating an electrochemical gradient. ATP synthase then uses this gradient to produce ATP adenosine triphosphate, which is the energy currency of your entire existence. When this system breaks down because of oxidative stress, inflammatory damage, nutrient deficiencies, chronic caloric excess, or just getting older, just aging, you develop what's called mitochondrial dysfunction. Your cells can't produce adenosine triphosphate efficiently. So now they're like a car engine that's supposed to run on premium gasoline that's been filled with friggin mountain dew. That's about how well it works. It doesn't. 23, your communications showed that individuals with severe mitochondrial dysfunction, measured, by the way, by decreased ATP production and increased reactive oxygen species, showed only 60%. 60%. That's a small number when you want 100 and you need 100, by the way. Just take only 60% of your paycheck and be happy with it, even though you had the chance to get 100. You're not going to be happy. It showed only 60% of the expected response to GLP-1 receptor agonist compared to those with healthy mitochondrial function. Yeah, you're putting this together now? Listen, here's why. Because retitrutides metabolic effects, increased fatty acid oxidation, enhanced glucose utilization, improved insulin sensitivity all require one thing, functional mitochondria to execute. So you can send it all the signals you want. But if the machinery is broken, you know what happens? Nothing. Zero. The glucagon component tries to increase energy expenditure. But if your mitochondria can't ramp up the oxidative phosphorylation required, that signal goes nowhere. It's like pressing the accelerator in the car when the engine's off or there isn't even an engine. So let me explain the fix. You need to support mitochondrial function alongside retitrutide. We're talking adequate B vitamins and I'll give you the ones, especially B1, B2, B3, B5. Coq10. Magnesium. Don't ask me what kind. That's trial and error between you and your metabolism. ALA, alphalopoic acid. Brucially, adequate protein intake to provide the amino acids that you need for mitochondrial biogenesis, the creation of more mitochondria and more power plants. Study 2021. Cell metabolism showed that combining mitochondrial support nutrients with retitrutide increased treatment efficacy. Oh, you're going to love this. 34% baby. That is a truckload. I'll take a 34% raise all day long. Listen, how about this? Let's just keep going, because I'm going to run this till the legs fall off. You opened up the gates of this bar and we're taking the horse out until it dies. Okay, let's talk about something that the doctors prescribed like candy, but rarely warn you about. Corticosteroids. Prednisone, cortisone, dexamethasone. All these three things, if there was another word for garbage, it's those three words. These medications are metabolic hand grenades. When combined with retitrutide, they create a biochemical civil war in your biology. I'll even talk over the mechanism, just so you guys understand this. I told you, master class, baby, I want you to have this. I want to see if I can cram this all in, so it looks like a thesis and a six month, one semester of retitrutide biochemistry all in an hour. However long I'm going to be out here. It's 21 minutes. I better hit the accelerator. Here's the mechanism. Corticosteroids bind to glucocorticoid receptors in virtually every single tissue you've got. In your liver, they upregulate gluconeogenesis enzymes like PEPCK, G69PAs, G69PAs. It causes your liver to, it doesn't matter, I guess, but it causes, I told you, I nerd out on this stuff, causes your liver to dump glucose into your bloodstream like there's just no tomorrow. And in muscle tissue, they promote protein, catabolism, and increase or inhibit glucose uptake. So here's what happens. You create systemic insulin resistance by doing that. Yeah, keep taking your corticosteroids. 2020 study, diabetes, B-city, and metabolism showed that even moderate dose prednisone, 20 milligrams daily, which some of you are taking 60, increased insulin resistance by 60% in less than 10 days. Please understand what I just said. Some of you guys have been on prednisone for years and you're wondering why nothing's working because you're helping it to not work. Your car's up against the wall, you're doing all these performance mods to it. You only have one direction you can go, which is the direction of the wall, and all you're doing is standing on the accelerator and wondering why the engine is taking you nowhere. But here's where it gets worse. Corticosteroids also stimulate lipoprotein lipase and visceral adipose tissue specifically. So it promotes fat accumulation in the worst possible place around your organs. And at the same time, they're antagonizing every mechanism by which redotrutide works. Redotrutide, listen, is trying to improve insulin sensitivity. Corticosteroids are creating insulin resistance. Redotrutide is trying to reduce hepatic glucose output. Corticosteroids are ramping it up. Redotrutide is trying to reduce visceral fat. Corticosteroids are depositing it. This is like trying to fill a bathtub while someone else opens the drain and using a thimble to do it. If you absolutely must be on corticosteroids for inflammatory conditions, you'll need a significantly higher dose of redotrutide to overcome this antagonism. And even then, you guys, just expect really blunt results. 2020 study showed that GLP-1 agonist efficacy was reduced 45% in patients on concurrent corticosteroids therapy. Not good, guys. Not good. Just so you know. That means bad things. Okay. Here's the brutal truth that nobody wants to hear. Reduces appetite, right? You thought that's not the brutal truth. Here's the part. It does not repeal the laws of frigging thermodynamics. I see this all the time with patients that come to me and they're like, it doesn't work for me. You guys get my comments. Reduces redotrutide. Tradredotrutide. It didn't work. This stuff's garbage. I went back to when Jero or all the nonsense OZMP can part of their lawsuit. Now, I see it every day. Somebody starts redotrutide. They're up at tight tanks and they're eating one meal a day and they drink whatever they want to drink, whatever booze they want. But they think, great, since I'm only hungry once. Here's the problem. I'm only hungry once. I can have that quintuple bacon cheeseburger, heavy mayonnaise with large fries, three milkshakes because I'm only eating once. And redotrutide is going to do all the work for me. And then they go, it doesn't work. Congratulations. You have just consumed 3000 calories in one sitting at least. Redotrutide can increase your metabolic rate by maybe 2 to 300 calories per day. You just out eight three days of metabolic advantage in one meal. Dipshit. You think I'm going to be nice? Listen, I'm a doctor, but it doesn't mean I have to be nice. I have to be kind. Let me explain the actual physiology. Redotrutide reduces appetite through CNS effects, central nervous system effects. It's not magic this way. It's neurology. I realize I said it's better than magic because it's predictable, not because of anything else. The GLP-1 component crosses the blood-brain barrier in specific regions and activates neurons while inhibiting the POMC neurons while inhibiting those NPOI, EGRP neurons in the RQ at New Place of the Hypothelms that I already talked about. But this reduces hunger and increases satiety. So I could just say it like that. But I want you guys to understand the biochemistry and the neurology around this. But this does nothing to change the fact that your body stores excess calories as fat. Always. So if you consume 3,000 calories and burn 2,200, you're storing 800 calories as fat. Thermodynamics. Period. There's no way around this. I'm tired of people going, well, I have a PhD and that's not exactly how it works. Yes, it does. It's not meant to argue with you. It's that you're trying to sell something because you don't want to be wrong. You're wrong. 200. You have 3,000 that you ate. 2,200 are burned. You store 800. They don't just magically disappear into the ether. Period. The end. It doesn't matter if those calories come in one meal or six. They are calories. Energy. 2023 study. Please listen to me on this. I'm trying to help you. 2023 study in obesity followed patients on semi-glutide. They found that those who didn't track their caloric intake lost an average of 8% body weight. While those who used the appetite suppression to maintain a constant caloric deficit, listen to this number, double 16%. Same peptide. Different behaviors. Double the results. Go against that anytime you want. But the proof is irrefutable. Redutrutide gives you a massive advantage, you guys. Massive. It makes eating less just effortless. But if you use that reduced appetite window to consume hyperpalatable, calorie dense junk food garbage, you're literally paying hundreds, if not thousands of dollars per month to accomplish two things. Jack and shit and Jack left town. The processed food industry has engineered products to maximize. Hear me out, you guys. Just stick with me. To maximize caloric density and palatability, a small McDonald's meal, that can be 1500 to 2000 calories. You can eat that while barely feeling full, then be hungry again in an hour and a half because it's nutritionally empty. Use redutrutide suppression as intended to make easy to consume whole foods in appropriate portions effortless. When you're only hungry once or twice a day, make those meals count. High-quality protein, complex carbs, healthy fats, micronutrients. Your body's going to thank the hell out of you with actual results instead of frustration and probably an empty bank account and probably a psychological problem and a spouse that wants to punch you in the face. Listen, you guys, anyone with a female partner, any of you husbands with wives, estrogen containing, you need to let them listen to this if you're not the female. Listen, pass this on to your wife. Estrogen containing oral contraceptives and HRT, blunt the hell out of redutrutide. Let me get into this. Here's why. Estrogen, especially when taken orally, garbage, by the way, stop it, and processed through the liver, through first pass degradation, right? First pass metabolism has profound metabolic effects. No doctors telling you that though, are they? It induces hepatic production of proteins that promote insulin resistance. Specifically, it increases sex hormone binding globulin. You've seen this on your blood tests, SHBG, which this is the problem. It reduces free testosterone and will worsen insulin sensitivity. Oral estrogen also, by the way, stimulates the reninagiotensin-aldosterone system. So remember heart, lungs, or heart and kidneys, rather, they work together. The heart is a secretory gland, also a pump. It's so many things more than just, oh, it's just this pump in my chest. I'm trying to give you the lesson as fast as I can. But when this pathway is stimulated, it promotes sodium and fluid retention. This creates weight gain that has nothing to do with fat mass. It's just water, baby. But it's still weight. And it's frustrating when you step on the scale, even though I need you to remember this, you're more important than that number. That number doesn't mean anything. I am 200 pounds. I'm 5, 10 and a half-ish. And I know people that are 200 pounds that are shaped like a circle. They look like crap. They're fat. They're sloppy. They're nasty. And I know people, and they're exactly the same age as me. Same age as me. And I know people that are 200 pounds that make me look like I'm a kid with a vinyl weight set at home that's never worked out in my life. So the number doesn't mean anything. Please understand that the BMI was invented by an insurance company. It wasn't invented to keep you healthy. It was invented to keep you broke and take your money and categorize you as a high risk, even though you weren't. A 21 study, a Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, showed that women, all of me, women on oral estrogen containing contraceptives showed 28% reduction in weight loss response to red and true tide compared to those not on hormonal birth control. It doesn't matter if it's a ring or a pill or a pellet or whatever it is. It doesn't matter. It's going to cause problems. If it's oral, it causes even more problems. That's what I'm trying to tell you. The mechanism is insulin resistance, always. Estrogen causes hepatic insulin resistance specifically, meaning your liver becomes less responsive to insulin signal to stop producing glucose. Your blood sugar runs higher. Your insulin level stayed elevated and you remain in a more anabolic, fat storing state. Didn't know that either, did you? Red and true tide is, it's Sisyphus. You're pushing this stone uphill. Red and true tide is fighting against us, but it's fighting this all day long and the boulder's getting bigger. The GLP-1 component is trying so hard to improve insulin sensitivity while synthetic estrogen is simultaneously inducing insulin resistance, pushing down against you twice as hard. The solution isn't necessarily to stop HRT or birth control, by the way. Before you guys all dump it, next thing is baby explosion. Hormones, if medically necessary. Listen, sometimes they are. I'm not crapping on anybody. I'm telling you why things don't work instead of you looking at taking another pill to make something that doesn't work even less. Awareness is power. If you're on oral estrogen and you're using red and true tide, you might need to optimize every other variable more strictly diet, exercise, sleep, stress management, the one nobody talks about to overcome the metabolic headwind that you just keep taking in your bar cold. You want an alternate? Here, I'll help you. Transdermal estrogen patches gels, they bypass first passipatic metabolism and create so much less metabolic interference. 2019, the study in menopause showed significantly less insulin resistance with transdermal versus oral estrogen delivery. Sign me up is what I would be thinking if you're saying that irritate my skin, find a different one. So I need to address the bro science in the room because I think somebody is already thinking it. The bro science is this, if four milligrams is good, eight milligrams has to be twice as good. No, just freaking no. That doesn't even, no, please stop. I see this stuff on Reddit. You guys are taking 15 milligrams a week. Are you high? This is pharmacologically illiterate and physiologically ignorant and quite honestly, financially stupid. Do you realize that I own a monster peptide company and lab and yet I don't go out of my way to push my products to make you use more? I don't. I don't go, you should take more. It's better for you. I go, you should take the right amount. So it's better for you. I'm not pushing sales. I'm pushing health. So again, you go ahead and buy from whoever you want, but I'm not pushing things.  lum查 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected So at this point, doubling the dose does not double the effect. You've already occupied most of the receptors, adding more of whatever it is. Peptide drug, it doesn't matter, just increases the side effects while barely moving the needle. It's barely improving efficiency and efficacy. So for red atruetide, listen to this, red atruetide, phase two trials, 2022 showed the dose response curve, plateaus between four and eight milligrams. So patients on four milligrams lost an average of 17.5 percent body weight of which 78% was fat. I told you this already. Patients on eight milligrams lost 18%. That's a 0.5% difference for double the dose. Did you catch that? Does that make sense? Why that is not worth it at all? You know what doubled though? The results didn't obviously, right? Because technically, they should have doubled into 35, right? 35%. But they didn't. Here's a doubled. The side effects in order of occurrence, by the way, nausea, number one, I had some knucklehead doctor get in my comments and say, this guy clearly has never dealt with a patient over 1 million, over 1 million patients I've dealt with. And I am stacking wins left and center for them, not for me. I don't care about my wins. I care about theirs. I want them to have life-changing experiences. So they go on to have the most badass life and they don't need me. I'm trying to teach people not to need me. I'm trying to teach people to never need me so they can go on into the and enjoy their life and build their life and become a juggernaut and have all the things they want with the health that's backing them up. Because you know what always has your back, your health, until you screw it up. Don't screw it up. So here's the order of occurrence because he went, it's the first one is diarrhea. This guy clearly doesn't know. No, it's not. In fact, diarrhea was third on the list. Nausea is the first one. And then vomiting, then diarrhea, and then gastroparesis, all significantly more common at eight milligrams versus four milligrams, 68% of people. That's a big number, folks. You're literally paying twice as much, not just with your time, but with your money and your energy for marginally better results and significantly worse quality of life. This is the opposite of intelligent optimization, in my opinion. You decide what it is, but I think that's being an imbecile. The sweet spot for most people is what I said between four and six milligrams every week. This is right near maximal receptor activation with very tolerable side effects. Going higher is chasing diminished returns while exponentially increasing the problems. It's a law of diminishing returns. 2023 analysis, Lancet Diabetes and Endocrinology exam, a dose stop optimization across retitrute tide and concluded that exceeding the plateau dose increased adverse events. You ready? 40% while improving weight loss by 8%. Here's your sign. This is for you guys. I don't come out here for me because I know this. I'm trying to give you and impart all the knowledge to you so you have it and you can make a better decision. That's why I'm giving you this. The math is simple. More is not better. Optimal is better. Stop listening to the Reddit Instabros that are giving you information or the social media or the Instagram people or the experts or the self-proclaimed moms, soccer moms that are trying to sell you garbage. Stop it. Just listen to the actual facts and do something about it that makes your life better, not their bank account bigger. Listen, we could go a little further because I wasn't gonna, but I'll touch on it because this gets everybody new clear. Daily microdosing of retitrute tide. Listen to the operative word. Daily microdosing. Taking a small dose is not microdosing. Taking a small dose every single day or a couple of times a week. Once a week, okay? Before you ask me, was twice a week? Yes, that's microdosing. Once a week. Once a week. If your doctor is telling you anything other than that, they're a liar. And if they're going, well, it solved my side effects, you know what else would have solved the side effects? Just reducing your initial frigging dose. You guys need to understand this. Take control. Make your health sovereign. These guys, bro, I split my weekly dose into daily injections to keep levels stable and avoid side effects. That's what I've heard. And I've had people get mad because I said, if you are doing with God, he built you, your physiology is the same as everybody else's. This demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Reddit, just follow me. I'll explain it. So you have the info. You do what you want with it. You want to take it every day, knock yourself out. Redditrute tide has a half-life of approximately six to seven days. Do you know what half-life means? It means that after six to seven days, half of whatever that is, the drug, the peptide is still in your system after another six to seven days. Half of that is still there. That's what it does. This is the math behind it. So when you inject weekly, you build up what's called a steady state concentration after about four or five weeks. If you go can't take it there faster. No, it doesn't work like that because you have receptors, you have clearance, you have all kinds of things going on. So at steady state, you have consistent levels of whatever the drug, the peptide in your system at all times. The peaks aren't that high and the troughs aren't that low, which is exactly what you want. You want it to layer on itself until all you have is a straight line across the top. When you microdose daily, you're not creating more stable levels. You're creating the same steady state concentration, but getting there through a much more complicated route for no additional benefit. And here's the problem. The side effects that people are trying to avoid with daily dosing, nausea, GI distress, they're related to rate of titration, not peak levels at steady state. 2022 study, diabetes, obesity and metabolism compared weekly versus daily dosing of long acting red or true tide and found zero difference in steady state, pharmacokinetics and zero difference in side effect profiles. Once patient, once patients reach maintenance dose, the only difference is this daily dosing requires seven times as many injections, creates seven times as many opportunities to get site reactions, creates more complicated reconstitution calculations, increases the chance of dosing errors and elevated side effects by 137%. You're making your life harder with literally no benefit. This is optimization theater. It looks sophisticated, but it accomplishes nothing. If anything, people are going to tell you to take 0.5 every day and go, it worked so much better for me. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. You're getting a reward for the routine, not the results. Your psychology is screwed up backwards. If you're getting, listen, if you're getting severe side effects on red or true tide, the problem isn't the dosing frequency. It's the dose. You're taking too much too fast, period. Hold on, I got to drink some coffee. Like I said, this is important. So how about this? How about this? If you had it, I'll even help you because I told you it's a master class. So let's go. Here's how you actually set this up for your kangaroo without turning your digestive system into a war zone. Start slow. Give your receptors time to adapt. Yes, you'll probably barely feel anything. That's the point. You guys think you should just get hit by a cement mixer the day you take it. That's insane. You need to prime the system. Double the dose. So watch, I'll even spell it out for the weeks. Weeks one to two. For a kangaroo, you would start at 0.5 milligrams. I don't care if somebody on Reddit with 18 followers decides to tell you to do different happily tell them to go pound sand or listen to them and enjoy your side effects. Weeks one and two, 0.5. Weeks three and four, tight trade up, double the dose tight trade up. That's what it means. Double the dose. So now you're taking one milligram. Still conservative, by the way. Most people tolerate this pretty well. Some you're going to get appetite suppression. I promise. After weeks three to four, weeks five and six, another 0.5 milligram per week bump. Now it's starting to kick in reduced appetite, better blood sugar control. Weeks seven and eight, two milligrams. It's designed this way. Continue the pattern. This is where fat loss becomes very noticeable. Listen, there are people that have spent a year on OZMP, lost 17 pounds and they're bragging about it. Think about that. You could reduce your calories by 500 underneath your daily requirement. Go for a walk every day at a 16 minute mile pace and 18, 6 fast every day and not eat like an asshole. You will lose significantly more than those 17 pounds in less than two months. You didn't need the OZMP. What you needed was common sense. You're trying to get something to do the work for you. So look at week seven and eight. Just continue the pattern. That's all I did. Now look a week nine to ten. I'm trying to help you. Look at week nine to ten. Now you're in that serious therapeutic range. People find their sweet spot between 2.5 and four milligrams a week. Week 12, keep tight trading if tolerated and your results are plateaued. Remember, it's not doing the work for you. Still got to do stuff. You still got to keep in a calorie deficit. You still have to do some kind of physical work. You still have to do things. Week 13 plus, look at your own, stop giving advice to people that you shouldn't be doing. Individual response. This is why when people join my black card and people go, hey, what would be a generic, a general rule of thumb for this peptide or that peptide? I just want to snap because there isn't one. That's the problem. I have to understand what your biology is doing in order to help you. The clinical sweet spot, four to six milligrams a week. I said this before. So how about this? Why the slow titration? Because your receptors need time to adapt. When you slam through these high doses immediately, you get severe is a lack of a, is small. It's, you need a better word than that severe GI side effects because your gastric smooth muscle hasn't adapted to reduced motility signals. So the peristaltic contractions still want to happen at full throttle and you're getting in the way. You're causing all kinds of issues. 2021 study, clinical therapeutics showed slow trade titration protocols, 0.5 every one to two weeks increased rate 0.5 milligrams reduced severe side effects 79% compared to rapid titration doubling every week with identical final weight loss outcomes. So you mean it was worth it to get sick and feel like crap to have the same results that somebody who didn't do that did that they received their results. Think through it, man. Think through it before you open your mouth in my comments. Think through it. Same destination, vastly better journey. How about that? So here, how about we go reconstitution for non-rocket scientists that get mad at doing math and go, the peptide calculator online doesn't work. Okay, so let's go. You've got, I'll help you for a kangaroo. You've got a 10 milligram vial of this product that might be named red at true tide. You need to reconstitute it. Here's how to not screw this up completely. I'll even go through the equipment that you need. You need a vial of product. You need some bacteria static water, preferably anything more than two milliliters. You need some insulin syringes and you need some alcohol swabs and you need some common sense in a place where you can do this like your bathroom. Swab the rubber stopper on both the red on the back water and you with the alcohol swab, let that dry for 20, 30 seconds unless you like things stinging. Take out two milliliters of bacteria static water into the syringe. If you go, it only has a hundred units. How many milliliters is that 100 units is one milliliter. That would be two syringes. Got it? Okay. Inject that two milliliters of water, slowly trickle it down the side of the red vial. Don't blast it into the powder like you're pressure washing your frigging driveway and getting an oil stain off. Hepatides are fragile, you guys. Really? Treat them with respect. That's the same reason why I tell people, stop reconstituting your stuff, shoving it in your bag and going on a vacation and wondering why everything doesn't work. Just bring it there as a powder. Reconstitute it there. Gently swirl. Don't shake until that powder is completely dissolved. I shouldn't be doing this because this is such common sense. It should be clear. If it's cloudy, you've probably denatured the hell out of it because you shook it like a rookie banging pennies against the side of the till wondering why the pennies don't open up and break. Don't be aggressive. Really? Don't. It makes a difference. They're so fragile. Now you have 10 milligrams in two milliliters. Milligrams and milliliters are not the same, which means, so watch, 10 milligrams in two milliliters means five milligrams per milliliter or 0.5 milligrams per 0.1 milliliter, 10 units on an insulin syringe. Did that help you? Because that should be glaringly obvious. So watch, 0.5 milligrams would at this mixing with a 10, okay? You have, if you aren't using this, then you're all over the place. 0.5 milligrams would be 10 units. Now you can do the math. One milligram. What do you think? What do you think? You ready? Three, two, one, 20. You got it. Give yourself a hand. 1.5. This, I know it's getting complicated. Pretty? 30 units? How about two milligrams? Let's go real fancy because this is some calculus-based physics we're about to hit. You ready? Two milligrams, 40 units. You got it. I could do this all day. This isn't complicated. It's simple. It's clean. It's impossible to screw up if you can understand the numbers that I just gave you. Store the reconstituted, vial in your refrigerator in the dark somewhere. It's stable forever. Stop listening to it. It's only 28 days. No, it's not. It'll last significantly longer than that. The leophilized powder all on its own will last until the next Jurassic age. It's so tough. After that, toss it out and start a new one. Don't be cheap with your health and don't be ignorant with your mixing. Listen, let me explain a little more. Now I gave you something. I wasn't going to do that in this master class, but hell, if I'm going to go master class, I may as well give it to you. I'm 47 minutes in. This is going to be an hour and a half podcast for sure. So how about this? Let's talk about why Reddit TrueTight is doing something that most medications can't. It's solving ATP shortages at the cellular level. Why Reddit TrueTight isn't this weight loss thing that you guys think it is. ATP, adenosine triphosphate, your currency of life. It's the funds that are paying for everything in your world. Every single cellular process requires it. Muscle contraction, protein synthesis, DNA repair, neurotransmitter production, cell division. All of it runs on adenosine triphosphate. In metabolic disease, mitochondrial dysfunction creates chronic ATP shortage. So now your cells are energy starved even though you've overfed everything. You're overfed. You've got a bunch of food in your system. It's like being cash poor while sitting on assets that you can't liquidate. Here's where Reddit TrueTight works. It's gangster magic. The glucagon component activates glucagon receptors in the liver and adipose tissue, which triggers hormone-sensitive lipase. This enzyme breaks down the stored triglycerides into something called free fatty acids and glycerol, liquid assets that your mitochondria can actually use. These free fatty acids enter the mitochondria via the carnitine palmatoid transferase and undergo something called beta oxidation. It's generating acetyl-COA that enters the Krebs cycle, the TCA cycle, which feeds the electron transport chain, which produces ATP. You're literally unlocking stored energy and converting it into usable cellular currency for your physiology, for your biology, you guys. 2023 studies, cell reports using metabolic flux analysis. Real thing showed Reddit TrueTight increased cellular ATP production by 34% in adipose fat tissue and 28% in liver tissue in less than 12 weeks, less than three months. Your cells go from energy bankruptcy into energy abundance simply by changing the signal. And when cells have adequate ATP, every single thing works better. Solve the ATP problem you solve most issues in your life. ATP can't be produced. Remember, three biological failures. I'll touch on that too because you need to know this stuff. So here's what happens better. Protein synthesis improves, better muscle maintenance and growth. DNA repair mechanisms, they all function properly so you reduce your cancer risk. Immune function goes up, better infection control, neurotransmitter production normalizes, so better mood, better cognition, long-term benefits, detoxification pathways operate efficiently. So that means you have better overall health because you're not storing a bunch of toxic crap. This is why people on Reddit TrueTight often report feeling dramatically better beyond just the weight loss. Their cells can finally afford to run all the processes that they've been rationing out their ATP because they didn't have enough. Listen, here's something that'll make you rethink everything you know about peptides. Okay, Reddit TrueTight is neuroprotective. Yeah, didn't know that, did you? And some people, oh, I knew that. Okay, great. Tell me all about it. GLP-1 receptors are heavily expressed in the hippocampus cortex and something called the substantia nigra. Region is very critical for memory, cognition, and motor control. All the things we like to have that make our life better. When activated, they trigger multiple neuroprotective pathways. So I'll go through them really quick. Reduce neuroinflammation. GLP receptor activation inhibits microglial activation and produces or reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine production, IL-1-beta, IL-6, TNF-L, all the stuff I talk about in the CNS, Central Nervous System. 2022 study in neurology showed that GLP-1 agonists reduced brain inflammation markers by 41% in patients with mild cognitive impairment. This is the stuff you should be lining up for, man. Look at enhanced neurogenesis. GLP-1 promotes the birth of new neurons in the hippocampus by activating cyclic AMP response element binding protein, the CREB, CREB, by the way, not KREB, which up regulates BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. More BDNF means more neuroplasticity, better cognitive function. Like, I'm trying to expand this so you understand just how savage this is and why they're trying. The FDA is very, they're very afraid of it because they know that it's out in the world and it's solving a lot of problems. Semiclutide and tersepotide do not stop arguing in my comments. The biology doesn't exist. They have improved mitochondrial function in neurons because of redotrutide. Brain cells are, say, this all the time, they're the hogs. They're just nasty energy hogs. They consume 20% of your body's toroidal glucose despite being only 2% of the body mass and even less in some people. When neuronal mitochondria become dysfunctional, so think Alzheimer's, dementia, multiple sclerosis, right? Cognitive decline accelerates. It's just you're standing on a skinny pedal. Redotrutide's metabolic benefits extend to brain mitochondria, improving ATP production in those neurons that are starting to fail. Reduced amyloid beta plaque accumulation. So this is huge. 2021, Alzheimer's research and therapy showed GLP-1 agonism reduced amyloid beta plaque formation by 38% in Alzheimer disease by enhancing microglial clearance and reducing the amyloid beta production itself. Myelin production, look at multiple sclerosis. In multiple sclerosis, the immune system is attacking the myelin sheaths that are around the neurons. GLP-1 protects oligodendrocytes, which are the cells that produce that wire coating, right? The myelin from inflammatory damage and promote remyelination. 2020 study in Brain showed GLP-1 agonist treatment reduced multiple sclerosis relapse rates by 31% over two years. You guys, this is exactly why I was talking about Bruce Welles, about Michael J. Fox, about all these people that need to get in front of me. I don't even want any money. I don't want any money for it. I just want to help these people, because I'm tired of seeing people get crushed and destroyed when they don't need to be because they're following the redict, like they're taking aerosept and Namanda and all these things that are causing problems and putting them in an early grave or making the managed decline where they just become a product. I don't want your money if that's you. If you're, I just want to help you, with you, that's why I come out here. So you can sit there and get in my comments like a friggin toddler, or you can go, damn, this guy actually gives a shit about me because I do. I'm the only doctor I think on the planet, 9 billion people that actually cares this much. I guarantee it. Like everybody should be sending me emails going, please help me. How can you do it? And the whole world should be joining my black card. And if you really want to work with me, like that's, it drives me nuts because everybody's doing this for the money instead of doing this for the help. Yeah, there needs to be money because that's what helps people survive. But at the same time, I don't want the recognition or the fame or money or anything. I want people to actually make better decisions so they don't have to suffer. I struggle with it because above all, do no harm in some knucklehead with a goofy haircut that looks like a fishing lure, goes online and starts trying to trash talk. I mean, when all I'm doing is helping, you know what? Personally, fuck you because I'm out here doing the right thing. I don't care about marketing. I'm out here helping people because I care. Like the implications of this stuff are staggering. We're not just talking about a weight loss peptide. We're talking about potential disease modifying therapy for neurodegenerative conditions that are harming people and stripping their life. Listen, red or true, tight doesn't make you thinner. It makes you healthier. Let me count the ways, baby. Liver health, non-alcoholic, alcoholic fatty liver disease affects 25% of the global population. This is a giant number, by the way. Red or true, tight reduces hepatic steatosis, liver fat by 50% through enhanced fat. Oxidation and reduced de novo lipogenesis. 2023 study, hepatology showed normalization of liver enzymes in 67% of patients with NASH, which is the inflammatory version of fatty liver. All bad. And they did it in 24 weeks on red or true type. 24 weeks and they're bombing you with medication, checking your AST and ALT levels and telling you that red or true type is bad for you. You guys need to reassess everything, man. Kidney protection, diabetes and obesity destroys kidneys through hyper filtration, inflammation and potocyte damage, little filters, right? Red or true, tight reduces albumin urea protein in the urine, which is the early sign of kidney damage by 40%. 2022 flow trial showed 24% reduction in kidney disease progression in diabetic patients. Now, you guys can keep going for dialysis if you want, trying to find a way, but I would be looking at ways to mitigate that and keep myself out of dialysis. Look at vascular health, endothelial dysfunction, the inability of blood vessels to dilate properly. This is the first step towards atherosclerosis. Red or true type improves endothelial function by reducing inflammation, oxidative stress and improving nitric oxide bioavailability. Flow mediated dilation, which is a measure of vascular health improves by 30% within 12 weeks, three freaking months. Inflammation reduction, God, I could just line up stuff all day long. Systemic inflammation measured by high sensitivity C-reactive protein, SCRP, if you look at the labs, that's the number you want to look at. It drops dramatically. 2021 meta analysis, diabetes care showed average of 35% reduction in hs-CRP across all red or true tide trials. This isn't just about numbers, you guys. Chronic inflammation drives cancer, heart disease, dementia, Alzheimer's, autoimmune conditions. It's killing people. Look at the gut microbiome. Red or true tide shifts gut bacteria populations towards beneficial species while reducing pro inflammatory species. It's doing magic inside your physiology. 2023 study and nature communications showed 42% increase in beneficial bacteria 16 weeks after red or true tide. I don't know what to say. Like this is a master class. It's become a personal vendetta against every other pharmaceutical company out there and every shill out there trying to sell peptides. Like their life depended on it with their affiliate codes and their marketing ploys and their trash talking people like me that are out here just trying to damn well help you. So listen, the question I get all the time is won't red or true tide make me weak because I'm eating less. Wrong question. The right, I'll help you because the quality of your life is predicated on two things. The quality of conversations you have with yourself and the quality of the questions you ask yourself on a daily basis. So that's the wrong question. The right question is how does optimized metabolism affect training performance with your workouts? Here's what actually happens. Enhanced fat oxidation during exercise. So with improved metabolic flexibility, the body shifts towards fat oxidation during lower intensity exercise. But this preserves glycogen for high intensity efforts. So you become this hybrid engine diesel for distance and NOS, right? NOS is awesome for sprints, right? Improved insulin sensitivity in the muscle. So better glucose uptake means better glycogen replenishment post-workout, right? Your recovery improves because your muscles can actually access the nutrients that you're providing. Look at reduced systemic inflammation. This right out of the gate. Less inflammation means faster recovery between sessions. 2022 study, sports medicine showed that reducing baseline inflammation improved training capacity by allowing more frequent high quality sessions. You can train a lot more and get better gains. That's what that means. Better ATP production. Huh, I was just talking about this. Remember the ATP shortage that I was talking about? Okay. When cells can produce energy efficiently, muscle cells can contract harder, longer, and recover faster. The caveat is this. Oh, there is one. Believe me, you need to eat enough protein and total calories to support your damn training. If you let appetite suppression drive you below 0.8 grams of protein, right? 0.8 grams of protein per pound of body weight below your total daily energy expenditure, like by more than 500 calories, you're going to lose muscle. It is going back to thermodynamics. It doesn't work. Me 23 study in obesity, comparing retitrutide users who resistance trained versus those who didn't, showed that the training group, this is such a good number. You're going to love this, maintained 95% of lean muscle mass while losing fat versus only 65% in the non-training group. Same peptide, different stimulus, dramatically different body composition outcomes. Sign me up. Let's keep going. This is fun for me. Now I'm just going full throttle, like full nerd. The brain benefits. This deserves so much more attention than it's getting because everybody's, I just want to lose weight. You need to get your computer running, right? Mood enhancement, right? Retitrutide. The GLP-1 receptors in the mesolimbic reward pathways modulate dopamine signal. Just stay with me on the neurology. This is why tons of people report mood, improved mood, reduced anxiety, better emotional regulation on retitrutide. 2021 study, molecular psychiatry showed 28% reduction in depression scores in diabetic patients on retitrutide, independent of weight loss. Doesn't even have to do looking in the mirror, looking at the scale. Just change their mood right out of the gate. Cognitive performance. Brain, like watch, better brain energy metabolism means better cognitive function. Yes, I know it's a Christmas mug. Working memory, processing speed, executive function. All of this improves. 2022 study, diabetes care using cognitive testing batteries showed significant improvements across multiple domains all over the place after 24 weeks of GLP-1 agonist therapy. I could do this all day. Addiction modulation. This is a big one. GLP-1 receptors in the nucleus of Cummins, which is the reward seek, the pleasure area, right? Which reward seeking behavior, right? They modulate reward seeking behavior. Research in 2020, published in neuropsychopharmacology showed GLP-1 agonism reduced alcohol consumption, nicotine cravings. When the hard bolus, I'm not, remember nicotine itself as a standalone. It's not what you think it is, right? I'm going to hold this bad boy up. You see it. If you're listening, it's the patch that I was talking about. Reduce those addictive behaviors by 40% by modulating mesolimbic dopamine signaling. Oh, this stuff is freaking amazing. Aeropathic pain, huge. So diabetic neuropathy, the burning, tingling pain from nerve damage improves with GLP-1 therapy through multiple mechanisms, improved microvascular circulation to nerves, reduced inflammation, ret neural protective effects of red and true tide. 2021 clinical trials showed 43% reduction in neuropathic pain scores in less than three months. Again, 12 weeks. Look at the cardiovascular benefits. Your heart is this metabolic furnace, right? It beats 100,000 times per day consuming enormous amounts of ATP. When systemic metabolism breaks down, cardiac metabolism suffers. Red and true tide provides multiple cardiovascular benefits. Reduced cardiac workload is a big one. Weight loss directly reduces the hemodynamic burden on your heart. Losing 15% body weight, right, oxidative stress, all this stuff reduces cardiac output requirements significantly. So your heart doesn't have to work as hard to profuse excess tissue, right? Makes sense? Improve myocardial efficiency. The heart preferentially uses fatty acids for fuel. That's how it's designed. When systemic metabolism improves fat oxidation, cardiac myocytes receive a much better fuel supply. So cardiac efficiency, output per unit of oxygen consumed. Remember what I was talking about with methylene blue yesterday, right? Improves by 15 to 20%. Use atherosclerosis 2023 select trial. This is such a good one. 2023 select trial showed red and true tide reduced major adverse cardiovascular events by 20% in high risk patients. This isn't just about weight loss, you guys. It's about reduced inflammation, improvement, endothelial function, stabilized atherosclerotic plaques. The blood pressure, average systolic blood pressure drops of seven, seven millimeters of mercury, right? Diastolic, three millimeters of mercury. This is through a ton of different ways. Primarily, reduced sympathetic nervous system activity, improved endothelial function, natural natural uresis, natural uresis, the sodium loss, and the big one, reduced vascular stiffness. You don't have these stiff pipes. They actually flex and move. Remember INOS and ENOS, right? These things matter. These things matter, you guys. Improved heart rate variability HRV. It's a measure of autonomic nervous system balance. Improves significantly, is to say the least, higher HRV is associated with better cardiovascular health. Just know that. Better cardiovascular health improves stress resilience, reduced mortality. So, 2022 study showed 18% improvement in HRV after 16 weeks on red and true tide. You guys keep taking all your other stuff. That's fine. Keep taking your circumvent and thinking that's going to do it. It's more than that. I've not got nothing against it, but you guys need to look further. Take the thousand-foot view. These studies leave no doubt. These save lives through mechanisms that extend radically beyond weight loss. So, let me clarify something crucial because I think people are going to conflate these concepts radically. So, I got to address the micro dosing again because I just started thinking about it. And this is the question I got. I was like, what about taking a little bit? One of my really good friends, Brad, said, hey, man, I thought you said, what's this micro dosing thing? You told me to micro dose. I did not. Low dose weekly reddit true tide for longevity is not micro dosing. 0.5. You can even go 0.1. Up to one milligram a week in already lean individuals is pharmacologically sound. You're providing constant receptor activation at a maintenance dose to preserve metabolic health, insulin sensitivity, and neuro protection without pushing for additional weight loss. You're not trying to get the weight loss benefits because you don't need them. Micro dosing one multiple times per week. Here's the difference. Splitting.  4mg into daily doses of 0.57mg. That's pharmacologically pointless, chaotic, and misunderstands everything and all it does is create more side effects and problems given the 5-7-day half-life. It doesn't make any sense. The difference, one dose is optimized for a different therapeutic goal. The other is dosing frequency confusion based on misunderstanding of pharmacokinetics. They're not the same. 2023 review, aging cell, showed redotrutide, beneficial for longevity, in even in metabolically healthy and sound individuals. Here's how. I'll even give you the stuff so you understand it. Sustain improvement in insulin sensitivity, chronic reduction in inflammation. You start and you see some similarities here. Ongoing neuroprotection, maintenance of mitochondrial function. I'm going to tell you right now, three of those are the three biological failures. This is different than trying to avoid side effects through daily dosing, which accomplishes nothing, nothing. And listen, I'm going to hit this because when people go, what about redotrutide and cancer? What about GLP-1s causing cancer? I heard about thyroid cancer. Okay, let's dance this. I told you it's a master class and bring it at all. I'm an hour plus in. I'm still going, baby. I'm still going. You pull the string on my chest, look out. So I will destroy this myth with pure fact-based science. The concern originated from rodent studies showing C cell hyperplasia. Remember what I said, C cell, that's important. You'll see in a minute. With medullary thyroid carcinoma in rats and mice on GLP agonists. So this triggered FDA black box warnings and mass panic everywhere. Here's what they didn't tell you. This is why I said this. Rodents have 1000 times more GLP-1 receptors on thyroid C cells. That's why I said, remember this, than humans. The physiological relevance to humans is approximately zero. Large scale human trials, post-marketing surveillance, involving hundreds of thousands of patients have shown this. Zero increased risk of medullary thyroid cancer. 2023 surmount trials. 5,000 patients showed zero cases of medullary thyroid cancer. 2022 meta-analysis, the Lancet, 100,000 patients, years of GLP-1 agonist exposure found zero increased cancer risk of any type. In fact, there were non-significant trends towards reduced risk of certain cancers. But they're not telling you that. They're birthing. It's like digging for water and you go well digger and you find water. You go, crap, Barry, that's the results. We got to hide that. We need a couple more days of work. That's how these people are thinking. Obesity itself dramatically increases the cancer risk. Do you understand that? Pancreatic, colorectal, postmenopausal, breast, endometrial, esophageal, kidney, liver cancers all show 50 to 400% increased risk in obese individuals. Get that through your skull. I'm trying to help you. The medication, the peptide, whatever it is you do to lose weight, reverse metabolic dysfunctions are reducing your cancer risk. They're not increasing. It's specifically red and true thyroid reduces your risk. Right? The only contrary indication is if you can't control yourself and manage whatever you're doing, you're violating the laws of thermodynamics. So every chronic disease, diabetes, heart disease, dementia, cancer, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, autoimmunity, obesity, all share three underlying failures, systemic inflammation, insular resistance, and ATP shortage in a massive way. Red and true, tight addresses all three. Ready? Simultaneously. Let me show you how. So systemic inflammation, it reduces, I talked about this earlier, hs-CRP by 35%. Right? C-reactive protein decreases IL6 and TNF alpha by 30 to 40%. The inflammatory side of kinds reduces visceral adipose tissue. The inflammatory depot of your body improves gut barrier integrity. So reduced endotoxinia enhances resolution of inflammation through pro-resolving mediators, specialized pro-resolving mediators. Insuline, look at insulin. I can just keep going to this insulin resistance stuff. So radical improves insulin sensitivity in muscle by 45%. Reduces hepatic insulin resistance by 38%. Enhances adipocyte signaling, adipocyte insulin signaling reduces a topic fat deposition in muscle and liver. You don't want to fill this thing with fat, hepatic seatosis. I've told you about this, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, right? NaFLD, all those things are bad. NASH, the inflammatory version, all bad. Improves beta cell function and insulin secretion dynamics. Look at the ATP shortage. This is so fun for me because this thing is so radical and people are going against it like it's so bad. It enhances mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. It improves electron transport chain efficiency. Reduces the reactive oxygen species output, which is the free radicals. The oxidative stress is punching holes in your mitochondria and throwing shrapnel all over your biology, promotes mitochondrial biogenesis through, what do you think, PGC1 alpha activation increases cellular ATP, 34%. Where do I sign up for this stuff? And people are still going, but I think I'm going to microdose daily because the bro science guy told me it's better and I like his page. 2023 systems biology analysis in cell metabolism mapped, multiomic effects of all of this concluded that these address the root, right, retitrutide specifically addresses the root cause of metabolic disease rather than just treating symptoms. This is why the benefits are, it's not, it's not a weight loss drug. It's not a weight loss peptide. It's not the benefits. Extends so far beyond the scale. You're not just losing weight. You're reversing the fundamental pathophysiology. You're reversing the fundamental pathophysiology, driving the chronic disease. Look at HPA1c glycated hemoglobin. This is the guy you need to hear. This is like a three month report card. Watch one C glycated hemoglobin. This is the number everybody freaks out on is the three month average blood sugar. That's why it's the three month report card. It's a report card that shows you how well you've controlled your glucose over the lifespan of one red blood cell. Normal 5.7% pre diabetes. Ridiculous. Don't even get me started on that is 5.7 to 6.4 and diabetic is over 6.5. But every 1% increase in HPA1c above 5.7%. Here's the problem. Increases this. This is what you need to understand. Every 1% above 5.7 increases the risk. Heart attack, 18%. Stroke, 17%. Kidney risk, kidney disease, 28%. Retinopathy. I talked about that yesterday. Those cells, once they're they die, they're gone, which is why methylene blue is so good. It saves the retinal ganglion cells. Reduce it. Retinopathy risk, 37%. Reddit true tide crushes HPA1c. I'll even tell you how. Fasting glucose reduced to patecholuconeogenesis and approved to patech insulin sensitivity towards lower fasting glucose by 20 to 30 milligrams. It's huge post meal glucose delayed gastro-camptiae enhanced insulin secretion improved muscle glucose, right? Best the best storage ever, right? Muscle glucose uptake flatten the post-prandial curve by another 40 to 50 milligrams 24 hour glucose exposure. Continuous glucose monitoring studies proved with red and true tide total glucose exposure with the area under the curve drops 45 frigging. Holy moly, you guys need to just like where you should be taking notes all day long. Clinical trials show HPA1c reductions 1.5 to 2.5%, depending on baseline values. A patient starting at 8.5%, which a lot of you guys have. It's alarming. You need to handle this. Expect to reach 6% moving from poorly controlled diabetes to well controlled or even pre diabetic range. 2022 study, diabetes care showed 67% of patients with type two diabetes achieved H5.7% on red and true tide versus only 18% on metformin alone. 67% solved the problem on red and true tide. That's the translation. 18% solved the problem on metformin alone and metformin is riddled with disastrous side effects. This isn't just about numbers, you guys. It's about preventing blindness, kidney failure, amputations, premature death, all the stuff that's causing things that are going to kill you if you let them run. And the problem is most people don't understand how severe this is. You want to know how bad this really gets? Look at this. Tide preferentially reduces visceral fat. This is the one that kills you. Total fat loss, 24%. Listen, I'll just give you some numbers to 4%. Total fat loss, visceral fat loss, 42%. Subcutaneous fat loss, 18%. Visceral fat is melting more than twice the rate of subcutaneous fat when you're taking red and true tide, not semi-glute, not triseptide. This is red and true tide specific. Why? Because visceral adipose sites are much more metabolically active and more responsive to hormonal signals. They have a higher expression of beta-adrenergic receptors, which respond to something called catecholamines, glucagon receptors, which respond to red and true tide only glucagon, the red and true tides glucagon component. You see why I'm telling you this stuff? It's not because I want you to buy something from me. It's because I want you to actually know. GLP-1 receptors respond to red and true tides, GLP-1 component and solve this problem. When red and true tide activates these receptors, these three visceral fat responds dramatically. So watch, hormone-sensitive lipase ramps up, so it breaks down all the triglycerides. Phosphorylation increases, phosphorylation increases, allowing lipase access to the lipid droplets, right? Fatty acid oxidation in adjacent tissues increases. So you're burning the released fats that you've got. De novo lipogenesis decreases, which stops new fat formation. 2023 study using MRI spectroscopy showed visceral fat reduction correlated direct, this is so cool, directly with improvements in insulin sensitivity. 48% liver fat reduction, less than 44%, negative 44%. You want that negative, by the way, inflammatory markers down 38%. Cardiovascular risk scores down 31%. The only one you want going up is insulin sensitivity, by the way. That's why it's at 48%. You're not just losing weight. You're losing the fat that's killing you. You're losing the fat that's killing you guys. It's not a weight loss peptide. It is a life-changing event. Let me stitch this because I'm an hour and 16 minutes and I've been here a long time and I'm starting to sweat. A true tide is a triple agonist peptide, right? That simultaneously activates GIP, GLP, one of glucagon receptors, creating this fantastically coordinated metabolic optimization across every single system in your body. It needs, I'm just going to bring this all together. It needs carbohydrates to work optimally because the increadence system is glucose dependent. O-carb diets work against it. Mitochondrial dysfunction blunts its effects because broken cellular machinery can't execute metabolic improvements. Fix the engine before expecting any performance. Corticosteroids antagonize every single mechanism. They're metabolic, what I call hand grenades, that create insulin resistance, promote visceral fat deposition, which I just talked about, and increase hepatic glucose output. Dietary sabotage destroys its efficacy massively because thermodynamics doesn't care about your feelings or your peptide. You can't out-medicate or perform a shit diet. You guys got to get that. There's no magic. I could just eat anything. You can, but you're going to look like you eat anything. Estrogen-containing HRT birth control creates metabolic headwind through induced insulin resistance and fluid retention. Just be aware. That's all I'm telling you. You don't have to stop. Just be aware and allow yourself to crank up optimization of other variables and be smart with how you're doing it. Maybe switch to a patch. ProScience dose escalation? Yeah. That's pharmacologically ignorant. The dose response curve plateaus at four to six milligrams and higher doses proven 140% increase in side effects versus 8% increase in benefit. I don't like those odds at all. I don't like that ratio on bit. Microdosing multiple times a week is pointless. Given the five to 7% half-life, all you're doing is increasing side effects, reducing efficacy and tickling the receptor and making yourself more resistant to those receptors causing more problems. You're making life complicated for zero benefit whatsoever other than an Instabrow told you to do it. Proper titration. I'll help you out with this too. It starts at 0.5 weekly increases by 0.5. Every one to two weeks as tolerated. The sweet spot four to six milligrams weekly, slow and steady prevents. It doesn't reduce it prevents side effects and it's been proven 100% identical outcomes. But without the misery, red or true tight solves ATP shortage, enhancing fatty acid oxidation, improving mitochondrial function. Your cells go from energy poverty to energy abundance. It provides neural protection. This is like a top 10 hit list from 1985. It's so good. Right. Like you remember the radio that used to just blast out like now the number 30, right? That this is so good. Neuro protection against dementia, Alzheimer's, MS, because of reduced neuro inflammation, enhanced neurogenesis, improved neuronal mitochondrial function, reduced pathological protein accumulation. My brain is going a million miles an hour right now. I get optimized systemic health, liver, kidneys, vasculature, inflammation, gut microbiome, it addresses all the root causes rather than the symptoms, which is what everybody's been conditioned to think. It fixes workout performance, improved metabolic flexibility, better insulin sensitivity, reduced inflammation, enhanced ATP production. But you know what it means? Adequate protein and calories. You can't do this if you're eating like a bird, right? Cardiovascular benefits, low dose longevity. It's different by the way. I got to hit this real quick because you guys are going to forget and you're going to conflate this whole thing. I told you this low dose longevity protocols distinct from pointless micro dosing, one dose optimization for maintenance. The others frequency confusion, causing a bunch of problems. Cancer concern or weight are just useless. I told you about that. Right. C cells, garbage, no increase risk, none. This it handles the three biological failures of all disease, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, all at the same time crushes HbA1c 1.5 to 2.5%. Come on, you guys, visceral fat, it destroys it. This is it makes me just want to go back through this thing backwards because it's so good. This isn't about looking better in a mirror. Man, I went over everything. If I forgot something, I don't know what it is because I tried to pay attention everything that you guys have been asking me, but this is about reversing the fundamental pathophysiology, driving the diseases that kill most people in the modern world. This is about restoring cellular energy production so your body can afford to run all the processes that it's been rationing ATP to. It's about reducing inflammation. That's destroying your brain, your heart, your kidneys, your joints. It's about restoring insulin sensitivity. Your metabolism works the way evolution and God designed it to work. It's about preferentially eliminating the visceral fat that's strangling your frigging organs and poisoning your bloodstream into with inflammatory cytokines. This is optimizing your biology at the molecular level using pharmacology based on actual human physiology, not Reddit posts or some YouTube influencer, which I am not before you say that's what I am not. I'm just a dude. I don't care if I have one follower, but here's the truth that nobody wants to hear. Here's the truth that nobody wants to hear. Whatever you're using, whether it's a peptide or a medication, but we're talking about Reddit, true tide, it is only as good as the person with the vial and the syringe in their hand. If you take Reddit, true tide while eating garbage, staying sedentary, sleeping four hours a night and you're not designed like that. I know I do, but I've been this way my whole life and managing stress with alcohol, drugs and doom scrolling, you're going to get some results. Be maybe lose some weight, maybe improve some markers, but you're leaving 70% of the benefit on the table. The people who transform their lives with this are the ones who understand that Reddit, true tide is a tool. It is an incredibly powerful tool. Why do you think they're fight? Have you seen them fighting to do this with BPC or TB-500 or cerebral license or C max or LL 37? Have you? No, you haven't. You saw them do it. This should be just giant red flies. They've been doing it with Reddit, true tide, because it's easy to sell. It's easy to push on people because all you have to do is say, if you just take this magic thing, it'll make your life better. Nobody's going to do it and they can charge a premium for it at your expense. And if you go, you know, it's really expensive. If you buy it from a peptide, if you buy it from my store, no, it's not. No, it's not. You wait till you have to buy it from your doctor and it's $2,000 for three milligrams. I'll wait. Well, but my insurance pays for it. Yeah, but your insurance premiums are $25,000 a year, nipple nut. How about you guys just pull your head out of the sand and actually start looking at things going, this is this guy's out here because he cares. Reddit, true tide is not a replacement for intelligent behavior. It's a performance enhancer for a life that's already optimized. It makes eating right feel effortless instead of torturous. Makes metabolic health achievable. Instead of this daunting task that feels impossible, it gives your cells the energy to execute the processes that are required for your health. You guys, if it doesn't work for you, it's because you didn't do the work, but it also doesn't do the right. It doesn't do the work. It doesn't do the work. It makes the work that you do sustainable. Look, the research is very, the research is clear. I went over a ton of it. The mechanisms are very well understood and the clinical outcomes are proven everywhere. The only question left is what are you going to do with all the information I just dumped on you for the last hour and 23 minutes? You can apply it intelligently. You can titrate properly. You can optimize your diet, fix everything. Support your mitochondria. You can use this as a catalyst for complete metabolic transformation. Are you going to get in my comments and ignore the science overdose because Reddit says so eat like garbage because you're not hungry and then complain that Reddit, true tide didn't work and tell me all about it. I actually care. I don't. I care that you get the information from me and do something about it, not get the information from me and argue about it. Reddit, true tide will perform exactly as the biochemistry dictates. The variable isn't Reddit, true tide. It's not the peptide. The variable is you. Anyway, hope you got something out of this. I really do. I dropped bombs on this. I gave all I got. I've bled for you on this one. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: Retatrutide Mistakes and How to Solve Them - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [MVCoTju3oBc].txt ===

查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 So you blame the peptide and not the biology and I'll tell you how to solve the problem too and explain really the dominoes that this peptide knocks over in Disease and how it weight loss is it has nothing to it's an accessory to this peptide Like you guys are being lied to you guys are being lied to with this thing this social media machine That's my wife look at her. She's so beautiful. I just stare at my wife all the time because I adore I know it has nothing to do with this podcast. I don't care. She's my best friend. I adore my wife You guys are being lied to and I'm trying to give you the answers So you can just make an informed decision. I talked to one of my really good friends today his name is Heath. He's an attorney of mine and love the guy to death, he's just a great dude and Even he says that to me when I'm asking him advice He says I'm gonna give you the information and then I'm gonna take off my attorney hat I'm gonna give you my friend advice and I'm gonna put the hat back on him and give you my attorney advice I want you to be able to make an informed decision. That's what I'm doing with you guys I come out here and I give you the information and I put on my doctor's hat believe I went to med school and chiropractic college Okay, I'm not somebody said I was a physical therapist. Listen, I think physical therapists are badass If you're a physical therapist, you are just as qualified. Do you understand that I know guys That are like like my buddy Travis Ortmayer or Donnie Thompson, they're intelligent They don't have MD or DC or PhD after their name, but they know more than I'll say 98 99% of the doctors out there Do you guys really think that the letters after somebody's name denotes expertise? That's the problem I'd somebody say isn't this guy just a PT. He's not even remotely qualified to give advice I've forgotten more than most people will ever learn and it's not to brag It's because I genuinely give a crap about you None of you guys are gonna do what I had to do Which was when I was a kid I had to get something called a bus ticket or drop change into a clear tube with a Driver would watch go down then and he'd rip off something called a bus pass or a transfer rather Where I could go to take more than one bus I had a time on it and it was ripped off diagonally to match the time to a library to spend all day at a library You guys don't have any of that to worry about I had to look at actual books. My library in my house is gigantic There are so many books and I read all the time because I want to give you guys the information I want to keep my brain working. Those are the mental reps I have to do you guys have this thing this cell phone that allows you to get information and most of you guys lose it to Or use it to be a victim or to tear other people apart. I realize this isn't a psychology podcast It's just a health podcast health is nothing happens in the mind without it happening in the body You guys need to do better like I'm gonna explain everything from a to z on red a true tide I'm still gonna get hate my comments. I don't understand you guys need to grow up You guys listen to bodybuilders with trap veins and no neck and they can't get their wallet out of their back pocket or Somebody that claims to be an expert that has no business being an expert because they've really never seen a patient I've seen over a million patients in real life. You can look up all my clinics. They're real clinics I've seen real patients and I still see real patients real clients real people because I care I'm gonna do this and I thought I was out of the healthcare game. I really did because I didn't like it I didn't like having somebody's thumb on my head telling you what I can and can't do and then I realized You know what the hell with you? I'm gonna tell everybody what they need to know so they can have the best biology ever in the best life ever So they can live their best life. I don't care if there's a license involved. I don't care what degrees I have I care that you're getting the information so you can make an informed decision You guys have to learn to understand that the information has to come from a credible source If you don't think I'm a credible source by now, you're never gonna believe anything I say which is insane because I know a lot Like nobody knows biology as well as I do nobody knows physiology or biochemistry as well as I do and it's not an arrogant statement It's the fact that I actually make myself useful to you I think the strongest predictor of a strong healthy powerful successful life is a purpose. This is my purpose It's to give you guys everything doctor doesn't mean arrogant jackass in a white coat with a God complex I say it all the time It means a guy that goes out and teaches and in order to teach you have to learn my best teacher one of my best Neurology teachers dr. Murphy dr. Dan Murphy skype is so smart He would spit out lines from books tell you what page everything he was so intelligent and I remember the way he explained the spinal cord and like lateral spinal thalamic tract the brain the compartments of the brain the way the Areas of the like Broca's Warnik's all these areas of the brain all these things he made it so easy to understand And what I learned from that man was that when you know it so well that you can explain it to a third grader You know your stuff and that always stuck with me. So I try and give you the information. Yeah, I use big fancy words I don't use kinder yarn language because I want you to understand the terms because when somebody else says it You don't know what it is you're screwed you're screwed So I give you the real information and the real facts and the real research You decide what you do with it, but I'm out here to help you like I said join the black card awesome You guys have I told you that you have the extension to still get in at $9,997 for the year if you don't understand how ridiculously Inexpensive it is to get direct access to the Q&A that I run every Monday evening today where I just solve problems I don't care what health issue you have I'll solve it. In fact, I don't care what business issue you have I'll solve it and if not, I have access to people that'll help me solve it so I can come and solve it for you I can ask my friends even if I have to pay them Pedro's Dan Martel or Adley These are all people that are really good friends of mine that if I don't know I will gladly pay them to find out the answer and then pass it on to you Why because I trust them they've never let me down and if you trust me then that means I can't ever let you down So I'm not going to but the health I'm gonna give you all I got these people all trust me with their health You realize they could choose anybody right, but they choose me. There's a reason for that There's a reason why Dwayne Johnson Messages me not for any other reason he could choose anybody but he asks me this is because I actually give value I'm trying to do the same thing for you So if you guys get in my comments and drop hate, I don't know what to tell you you're stupid You're broken psychologically. You're too busy defending your position instead of going wow This actually makes sense this guy cares like you're being lied to your doctor's lying to the pharmaceutical companies are lying to And worst of all, I think a lot of you guys are lying to yourselves I'll give you all I got about reddit true tide yet again I could probably run a mini series for a month on reddit true tide and it still wouldn't be enough I'm gonna do another reddit true tide post at some point this week about why low carbs and reddit true tide terrible marriage I'm not gonna get into that now. Maybe I'll talk about we'll see but you guys want a magic bullet for obesity and disease You want to pop a peptide and wake up healthy? Okay, fine Here's the truth about reddit true tide It will either be the most powerful tool that you will ever use or the most expensive lesson lesson you ever learned It was the only two options the difference between those two outcomes has nothing to do with the peptide and everything to do with the Nine inches between your ears the gray matter the thing that's soaking up all your ETP right now trying to figure out what I'm trying to say This isn't some gentle chat. It's a guy that's out here going. I'll be your dad and your doctor all at the same time This is like a biological reckoning for you guys I'll tell you exactly why reddit true tide fails and how every single one of those failures points directly back at your own actions or in actions This is not some fancy little podcast. It's a here's the information now Let's get to it's like an intervention right second except that was a dumb show, isn't it look at the first failure the non-responder The term non-responder is a garbage term invented by lazy condition clinician who tried to explain away their therapeutic failures The patient isn't a non-responder the patient is a walking talking monument to Metabolic dysfunction so profound that it creates this biological force field against the intervention reddit true tide is a key Your body is a lock and if the lock is welded shut I hate to tell you There's no key in the world that's going to turn it ever then that's how you have to look at this There are three four Probably five at the most failures saboteurs that will guarantee reddit true tides failure mitochondrial Apocalypse is the first reddit true tide. I said this in my podcast or in my Instagram post It's the crown jewel is glucagon Agonism right glucagon receptor agonism glucagon's metabolic command is very simple It's crank up energy expenditure burn all the fat get to work do all the stuff you're designed to do But this command is issued to your mitochondria, which are the tiny little power plants inside your cells So what if those power plants are disastrous tired broken down rusty full of holes? Machinery that's belching out blue smoke on the freeway barely running on two cylinders out of all eight That's how you have to look at it right so a 2018 cell metabolism the study was unequivocal mitochondrial dysfunction directly impairs the cellular response to glucagon like signaling listen to what I just said the signaling pathway is Intact okay, the peptide does its job the peptide binds to the receptor the message is sent But the cellular machinery is far too damaged to execute the order. It's like having a perfect internet connection to a computer That's like a Commodore 64 and you're on fiber if you know what a Commodore 64 is you know what I'm talking about How about just a computer the fried mutter mother the signal arrives, but nothing happens It's like those old computers when I was in elementary school. We had tape drives. I kid you not before floppy This isn't a peptide failure you guys it's not this is a consequence of decades of processed food and chronic stress sedentary living and stupid decisions you have systematically destroyed your Cellular infrastructure the 24% weight loss reported in 2003 New England Journal of Medicine the triumph trial right that's for people with functional mitochondria Eli Lilly isn't going to tell you that They're going to say give me $1,200 for a vial and then they're going to promise you the world And you're going to have all kinds of infomercials with people that are incredibly obese who have gotten slightly less obese and say it worked Really well for them. They lost six pounds in a month You can do the old-school HCG diet where you eat 500 calories a day and say take HCG drops all bunk And you'll lose more than that you'll just look like a melted candle or a bag of water What I'm trying to tell you is those aren't magic and they're going to fill those things with all kinds of garbage I wouldn't trust them as far as I could throw them But the 24% fat loss you need functional mitochondria for for you a lot of you guys with your metabolic junkyard You're going to be lucky to see two three four percent the problem isn't the peptide you guys the problem is the corpse that you're trying to put It into you're trying to inject it into something that will not accept the signal because it doesn't work The second one is the corticoscary the corticosteroid problem It's like a category 5 hurricane that you guys are running in your biology Prednisone dexamethasone cortisone all the zones right these are Legalized metabolic wrecking balls. They are prescribed to bludgeon inflammation to death But their collateral damage is a systemic metabolic meltdown 2020 review in the journal of metabolism laid out the mechanics with Unbelievable clarity cortico listen to me corticosteroids induced severe rapid onset insulin resistance and dramatically increase hepatic gluconeogenesis what that translates into is they make your entire body every cell death to insulin while forcing your liver to pump out sugar like a factory with the Lever smashed and jammed into the on full throttle position so now you inject red a true tide and Refresh my memory again everybody What is the primary goal of red a true tide according to every lab out there to improve? insulin sensitivity and lower blood glucose so now you've just created I use this example in my Instagram post yesterday You've just created the ultimate pharmacological stalemate. You're asking red a true tide like Sisyphus, right? To push a giant metabolic boulder up an ink like up Everest you're going up K2 I realize the difference while a corticosteroid Bulldozer from the biggest mine you've ever seen is shoving the rock back down twice as fast This is a battle that red a true tide cannot Metabolically win endocrinologically it can't win 2014 JAMA internal medicine study linked insulin therapy to worse outcomes You know that one I've talked about it before same principle applies here You're adding fuel to a fire and wondering why the fire department doesn't show up if you're on chronic Corticosteroids of any kind red a true tide is a financial donation to in this case probably Eli Lilly It's not a therapeutic intervention It's not gonna help and what they're going to do follow me if I was a shady crooked son of a bitch I would tell you it doesn't work and then I'd give you other things to solve all your other metabolic problems to get This to work you just became a customer for life and guess what else you're headed towards managed decline You're welcome. You know what I don't try and do like I said you want to buy from elite biogenics do it I will take as best care of you as I can they don't come out of my house I've got labs and warehouses at like I have a giant company. It's because I care, but I'm not gonna make you a Managed decline customer. I don't want to do that. I know what it's like to be on that side of the equation I hated it I love you too much to do anything but tell you the truth and take it or leave it however you want This is because I care join the black card apply at unlock the card comm send Jen or Amber a message And they'll send you the wire transfer information You send them 9,997 bucks if you make it before the end of the day and away you go you get access to my live private Q&A call You get the VIP community you get my protocol library get access to me The only step up from that is one-on-one with me personally where you get my cell phone number and that is $250,000 and it is still too cheap and I have a slight waiting list the way you get on the waiting list by the ways you pay In case you're wondering put me on the waiting list You have to pay the full amount to get on the waiting list because I'm not putting anybody on a waiting list with a trust me Bro, I'm not I take 20 people a year 20 people in 12 months I take as one-on-one clients I won't take anymore because I actually want to be able to take care of you. It's not about the money I don't need the money anymore and people go you always. Yeah, I do. I want more money, of course I also want better health and a better marriage and I have a fantastic marriage and I have great health You should always be looking up aim up, but I digress Just understand why I'm out here. So you decide what you wanted. I don't care I'm still gonna come out here. I'm two years in now. It's my second year and I'm still doing it I didn't just test out the theory dip my toe in the water the next one after the corticosteroids This one really bothers me is the dietary Treason the thermodynamic coup that you guys are playing on yourselves. This is the most ridiculous spastic Stupid self-inflicted failure model that could possibly exist reddit true tide watch reduces appetite It doesn't suspend the fundamental laws of physics the first law of thermodynamics energy cannot be created or destroyed It's not a suggestion you guys it is the law of the universe It doesn't change just because you want it to so reddit true tide might give you 15 percent tops Metabolic advantage by increasing energy expenditure, right? but if you interpret its appetite suppression as this Hall pass to have a 5000 calorie cheat meal of a couple of whoppers heavy all extra mayo all the fries You can stuff into your bar cold make it poutine with gravy and cheese on it Add some ice cream in and a whole bunch of soda Because you've had a rough day and you deserve it from all the work you're putting in you've you're committing an act of nutritional Treason you just vaporize the drugs entire benefit in one single act of imbecilic stupidity and just in one sitting look at the participants in the 2023 triumph trial they achieved that 24% fat loss fat loss by the way 70% of the weight They lost was fat no other semi-glute I'd choose appetite not even close like their single digits because they cause Muscle catabolism they demolish you and stop arguing to defend them and going won't work better for me If you are staring at the number of the on the scale and you're thinking that's the number that matters over your metabolic Biological health you've been conditioned to think stupid things It's not the number I am 200 pounds and I know people that are 200 pounds that look nothing like me I know people that are 200 pounds that make me look like I've never trained a day in my life They're so jacked and I know people that are 200 pounds that are shaped like a circle that number means nothing your composition means everything and I'm Five ten and a half maybe five eleven on a good day Maybe and that's with some good shoes Tom Cruise shoes. I don't care how tall I am doesn't matter can't change it God built me this way for a reason. I'm supposed to be this height but they achieved that 24% under controlled monitored conditions and with Functional mitochondria in the wild with dietary anarchy that's out there Those results are a fantasy because nobody's gonna abide by that because you're gonna go back to your nutritional idiocy Reddit true tight is a very precise metabolic tool. It's not some magic force field against the thermodynamic reality of a cheeseburger You can't outsource discipline to something that comes in a syringe and so I'm trying to give you this information so you understand it Listen, here's one of the biggest things that I see that are it's a problem It's look at the staggering weight loss because you guys are missing the boat on red a true time and this is this up for me Personally, I think this is the secret reason why they're fighting so hard to get all the compounding pharmacies to wipe it out You're not allowed to sell it you guys can all go to hell for that What I think is the real reason is because it actually solves disease processes And they want to make sure it's impossible to get because it wrecks their model the staggering weight loss is a side effect you guys It's a glorious profitable side effect, but it's just a side effect nonetheless And I realize I've said there's no such thing as side effects that are only effects It's just an ancillary to the whole thing red a true tide. It's not a weight loss drug It is a multi-system metabolic conductor of your biology. It restores harmony to a very dismunk dysfunctional hormonal orchestra That's been playing nothing but static and shitty tunes for the last however long you've been alive here Let me give you the unvarnished biochemistry of its mechanism. So you actually understand you have GLP I have to explain this and you guys might know you I know this already you still need to understand a GLP one agonism This is the appetite kill switch. This is it targets The brain stem and hypothalamus its message is primitive and very direct stop eating That's it gives a very gentle glucose dependent nudge to the pancreas to secrete insulin This is the part that everybody understands. That's so I have this uncle and I had Renny and Jenny I kid you not you can't make that up my uncle Renny was first chair violinist in the orchestra Winfakes, Symphony and that was this is the first chair violinist. That's what this would be right the GLP one GIP agonism is the mic in the amplifier glucose dependent insulin atropic polypeptide it amplifies the signal from GL it makes the satiety signal louder and Independently improves slightly how the body handles fat and insulin not massively This is the second chair next to my uncle Renny making this section sound full and then they both have microphones and everybody can hear in the back of the Auditory right glucagon. This is like you let this off the chain and this is what changes physiology. This is what changes disease This is what makes dementia go hostile of bye-bye Glucogon agonism. This is such a game changer. Please hear me out This is the entire orchestra behind these two violins for 50 years endocrinology vilified glucagon because it raises blood sugar. This is a very catastrophic Misreading glucagon's primary metabolic function is to force the liver to oxidize fatty acids We know this and if you don't now you do transforms your liver from a passive fat storage warehouse excuse me into an active just fat Torching furnace this action alone by the way Dramatically increases basal metabolic rate the number of calories you burn at rest is what that means before somebody says I don't really know what that means Yes, you do and your trainers trying to make it really complicated. You don't need a complicated You just need a solution the weight loss is the inevitable result of fixing the broken system Reddichrute I doesn't pull a tarp over the metabolic dumpster fire hoping it doesn't burn its way through It shows up with a fleet of fire trucks and puts the fire out at its source So you don't have the problem anymore. This is why pairing reddichrute I'd with a strict low carb or ketogenic diet is a crazy. It doesn't make sense strategic error It is a strategic error ketosis is a metabolic state characterized by low insulin and high reliance on fat oxidation, right? We know this reddichrute I'd glucagon action follow me. Just follow me stay with me on this one It works optimally within a more complex hormonal miliu namely higher carbs and 17 and diabetes demonstrated proved that the metabolic benefits of glucagon are maxed out in the presence of a Mixed nutrient load with carbohydrates so by severely restricting carbs for Taking that entire orchestra I was talking about with Renny and you're reducing it to one note that they just play nonstop Just this monotone for the whole time. You're effectively muting the complex conversation between insulin Glucagon and all the other hormones that reddichrute I is designed to conduct It's built like this by the biochemical engineers. You might lose some weight, but you're leaving 60 70% of the peptides power the systemic health restoring potential on the table You're you guys got to stop listening to these reddit guys man, please for you not for me I don't care post me on reddit and complain about me. I don't care. I see all kinds of people I hate this guy doesn't know what he's talking about. He's backwards. No, I'm not you just don't like it because it goes against what you Were taught by some knucklehead with abs. I'm a doctor with abs now what you can argue with me all you want You can't argue with biology and I come out here to give you the straight biology and if you go something Not everybody's the same biology is always the same physiology biology always the same just as the way it is Gravity isn't variable neither is your biology when you correct listening. This is I Think you guys need to understand just how wild this peptide really is it's reddit. Rutide it cures. It doesn't manage I'm talking real diseases you guys when you correct the core metabolic insanity the dominoes of chronic diseases They just fall red or true tie doesn't manage any of the conditions and I'll talk about it systematically dismantles their foundational causes Look at kidney disease. This is a big one the fibrosis kidney disease all that stuff right going on dialysis and thinking there's dial There's a dialysis business Let me explain that before you go my grandpa's on dialysis It's not a business if grandpa would have been better taken care of and got better advice from a real doctor who actually cared about him It didn't shove medication down his piehole or into his veins. He wouldn't need dialysis He wouldn't need that business save it. I care more about grandpa than you if you are justifying the dialysis It's that simple because I don't make any money off of it I have no no vested interest in anything for grandpa other than grandpa's health Maybe just maybe in 2026 you guys will ship that paradigm and realize that this guy here has no interest in anything other than your friggin health your life your future a hundred years for you to smash Goals and live the most kick-ass life on this one. I'm not pushing my peptides or my black card You join if you want don't join look at the Alexa trial not Alexa Alexa 2015 New England Journal of Medicine the trial on red a was it was a variation of red a is So wake up call showed massive Reduction in composite kidney outcomes the leader trial 2016 same thing New England Journal of Medicine It's a great source of information by the way confirmed it the mechanics red a true tide attacks kidney disease three friends I'll go over me. Let's just see how them reduces glucose toxicity. It's the chronic high blood sugar is poisoned to the Delicate filters of the kidney the glomeruli right the glomeruli is a little tough the vessels inside it it by normalizing blood glucose red a true tide Stops the sugar poisoning lowers interglomerular pressure So it reduces the pressure inside those same little filters because they're delicate which is the primary driver of fibrosis Quells the systemic inflammation the inflammatory cytokines that damage blood vessels throughout the body Destroy kidney tissue. It shuts it down red a true tide triple action does this more effective than any Single or dual agent therapy on earth by orders of magnitude It's not slowing the decline of your kidneys It's creating an environment where they can actually recover and go back to functioning the way they are Your body is designed to heal stop thinking it doesn't stop thinking you are sick or dying or hurting because you have Deficiency in a drug you don't you have a deficiency in knowledge because you're being fed information from people that don't give a crap about you And they want to put you on anything they possibly can it's not the same I'm not trying to put you on anything if you're damaged I want to put you on a bunch of peptides so they're saw so you solve the problem then get off They're not forever things. There's a certain number of them that are but they're not designed forever They're signals. They're not drugs and that's just the kidneys look at insulin sensitivity and pancreatic health One the phase two trials 2023 the lancet. This is the friggin masterpiece. This is one of my favorite research papers The headline focused on A1c reduction, but the real story was buried in the home of 2 IR data That's the measure of insulin resistance the real measure of insulin resistance. The trial showed beyond dramatic improvements This is critically. Please listen to me listen what I'm saying reddit Rue tide doesn't just whip an exhausted pancreas the beta cells to produce more insulin Which is catastrophic it makes the liver the muscles the fat cells sensitive to insulin again Let me I'll you explain how it does this by clearing out the intracellular garbage that jams up the insulin signal specifically lipid metabolites like diacel glisser alls daggs ceramides things like that 2018 paper cell metabolism showed that these lipids activate enzymes that directly block the insulin receptor watch reddit Rue Tides Glucogon Semiglute the semi semi-glutide intersepati. Do not have this which is why they fail stop defending them Reddit Rue Tides Glucogon driven fat burning metabolism cleans out all of this garbage out of the cellular lock Loops it up and gets it working again. Look at the brain Alzheimer's dementia type 3 Diabetes the concept of Alzheimer's as type 3 diabetes by the way is not controversial anymore It is an established science and you can find thousands of studies proving it the brain becomes insulin resistant neurons starve for fuel and then they die the amyloid plaques the tau tangles tombstones They're not the cause that's the scar tissue that's left over the funeral wreaths left After the neurons have starved to death from the insulin resistance 2018 meta-analysis in frontiers and neuroscience proved reddit Rue Tide powerfully neuro protective I could just turn off the podcast right now reduces neuro inflammation fuel by angry Michael Glee microglial cells microglia are the immune Death dealers in your brain. They're the immune cells that attack everything in your brain except they're attacking you right now They promote synaptic plasticity not microglia reddit Rue Tide Which is the brain's ability to rewire itself and they improve Cerebral glucose metabolism. That's how all the triple agonist works Tapping all three of those receptors changes your brain reddit Rue Tide is so nuclear It launches this full-scale attack on systemic insulin resistance and inflammation listen I got to get this out it douses the fire that's burning down your brain Think of your brain's blood brain barrier as this subordinal crossing how fitting subordinal crossing reddit Rue Tide comes in Calms the inflammatory riot on the systemic side. So now all the border guards can get back to doing their job instead of being Overwhelmed this isn't slowing cognitive decline. You getting that this is active targeted neural restoration It's bringing a dead metabolic landscape back to life. And yet people go I'd rather take L. Dopa Parkinson's all the nonsense Whatever else they're giving you stop look at PCOS Polycystic ovarian syndrome, it's one of the greatest misnomers in medicine. I fully believe that it's not an ovarian disease It's a metabolic disorder that uses the ovaries as a boxing ring 19 endocrine connections Established the chain of causation and proved it it proved about what what I just said it without any shadow of a doubt insulin resistance one before anything else. So it's not an ovarian problem right out of the gate You got this right insulin resistance is a byproduct of systemic and flight inflammation, huh? Systemic inflammation causes what mitochondrial? Discret like dysfunction so ATP shortage systemic inflammation insulin resistance You see how this is all coming together So hyper insulinemia is the second thing that happens after insulin resistance insulin resistance and people think hypo no hyper Insulinemia now that this is what happens it overstimulates the ovaries to produce excess and regions like testosterone Which leads to cysts and ovulation? Infertility and the standard of care. I don't know if you guys have paid attention, but they give you something called metformin It's a drug that gently coaxes the liver red or true tide doesn't coax baby It obliterates so by annihilating the root cause the insulin resistance It removes the signal that's telling the ovaries to malfunction in the first place the cysts the hair growth the infertility These are symptoms you guys that's not the disease That's the giant flag that they're waving going hey, there's something wrong. Help me red or true tide extinguishes the metabolic fire That creates the smoke and yet people are still treating the symptom not the cause I could do this with anything cancer You name it look at menopause. This is I'll go deeper into this one This is like a metabolic cliff menopause isn't just hot flashes It is a metabolic cliff dive the protective effect of estrogen on insulin sensitivity banishes The mitochondrial function that estrogen supported goes off that cliff red or true tide is the rope that you 查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查 C, parachutes in and directly repairs the mitochondrial decay. It's like the double tap. Edutrutide is the general directing the war from HQ headquarters. MOTC is the Delta Force, Chuck Norris on the ground, fixing the broken power plants. And together, they don't just help you survive menopause. They allow you to thrive through it and have your system get back online. There's a whole bunch of things you could do for menopause. This is one of the best ways to handle it. And let me explain. This is how you personally guarantee redutrutide failure. I have to tell you because you guys are like, I'm going to go try this. Hold on, land the plane, just sit with me for a bit. It's a masterpiece of biochemical engineering. It's you. The variable isn't the peptide. It's you. The wildcard, the reason it fails. Here's your personal roadmap to wasting every dime you possibly can on redutrutide. I'll give you all the roadblocks so you can avoid them. Estrogen, estrogen, oral estrogen based hormone replacement therapy, HRT, and birth control pills, by the way, are a metabolic anchor. 2013 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism was very blunt. Oral estrogen induces insulin resistance and promotes a pro-inflammatory state. So you're asking, I said this at the beginning, you're asking redutrutide to run 100 m dash while you're chaining a 100 pound weight to its ankle. The pharmacological antagonism is direct and powerful. If you are on oral estrogen and wondering why your results are less than mediocre, the problem isn't the peptide. The problem is all the other prescriptions in your cabinet, your funding a civil war inside your own body and redutrutide, I'm sorry to say, it's on the lousy side of this entire equation. Look at the bro science. Here's another one. This, I see this everywhere. You guys in your bro science doses are unreal. The mentality of if taking two milligrams is good, then four milligrams must be better is the kind of profound pharmacological literacy that gets people hurt. Listen to me, it gets people hurt. The side effects aren't bad on redutrutide. The idiots using them are making the side effects bad. Clinical trials exist to find therapeutic window. Bro science exists because people need to stroke their ego and their shills for people selling this stuff that had no business selling it because they know two things about them, Jack and shit and Jack left town. The dose range where efficacy is maximized and side effects are minimized. That's the therapeutic window just so you need, if you need a definition, efficacy is maximized, side effects minimized. That's where you need to live. 2023 lancet trial showed a very clear plateau, clear, clear as glass in dose responsive curve, just so you know what it is. Beyond a certain point, you don't get more weight loss. You get more nausea, more vomiting, in this order by the way, nausea first vomiting, high risk of pancreatitis, diarrhea, cramping. The sweet spot is not determined by some anonymous idiot on Reddit quoting their Jim Bro. It's determined by a multi-million dollar multi-phase clinical set of trials. Thinking that you know better is the height of arrogance and stupidity. More is not better. More is dangerous. And this goes for everything. Alcohol and seeds. You could pick something. It'll be like this. How about this one? Passivity. I'm giving you all the roadblocks. You have them and you check the box and you know what people are going to do is they're going to get really mad and go, but that's not me, bro. It just doesn't work for me. Wrong. You're just not willing to look at yourself. You're willing. You want to blame the peptide unless you bought something with rice powder in it because you bought it from some idiot online. That is no business selling it. That's why people buy it elite. We don't test locally with all these manufactured COAs that you guys are getting from local labs that you buy your results from. I go to a lab that actually guarantees the results and if not, they buy the whole thing. Nobody wants to write that check just so they make sure they're honest. Use genosex. This is the ultimate failure. Passivity. The belief that the injection is the substitute for action. Reddit True Tide is a powerful catalyst is the word. It's not a substitute. It's not going to build muscle for you. It's like taking testosterone, sitting on the couch and eating Doritos all day and going, why am I not jacked and why am I still unhealthy? Because you're stupid. You expected it to do the work that you're supposed to be doing. It's not going to make you drink water instead of soda. It's not going to force you to sleep eight hours or six hours a night. Regular cortisol, get sunlight in your eyes first thing when you wake up. It's not going to do any of that. It's going to optimize your metabolism, but it doesn't replace the fundamentals. The person who combines Reddit True Tide with resistance training, real food, real nutrition, stress management, grain environment makes this a staple part of their life. Godlike results. Period. The person who injects sits on a couch, listens to bro science is going to achieve mediocre at best. The drug opens the door. The peptide opens the door. You still have to walk through it, man. Listen, here's the uncomfortable truth. Reddit True Tide is a revelation, man. It's the most potent metabolic tool I think I've ever seen in my life. triple agonist key that will guarantee to unlock a healthier, more powerful, longer health span, longer lifespan, more vibrant life. It is so effective. I have yet to see something if I had to choose just three, and I know I've made posts on this, but this would probably be in those three. You got to understand though, this key is useless if the lock is corroded by, like I said yesterday, mitochondrial decay and blocked by the debris of corticosteroid use or if you are personally pouring battery acid of a poor diet, stupid decisions and drugs and antagonistic medications into the mechanism every single day and going, this doesn't work. The peptide sucks. I'm going to go back to semi-glute type. You should. Here's your sign. You're still going to do dumb things. It's not the molecule in the vial that you need to worry about. It's the idiot holding the syringe. You need to have the courage to look at your own life and go, where am I screwing this up? Where am I dumping sabotage into my own system and expecting it to come out of a vial? It's the discipline to partner the peptide with intelligent action. I'm giving you this so you actually have the answers. Reddit True Tide doesn't just give you a fighting chance. It gives you the answer. But the fight is still on you. It's not magic. It doesn't go, hey, man, I have a goliath in front of me. You still have to be David. You need five smooth stones. It doesn't just go, let me go get a David for you. You're waiting for some savior. You're the protagonist in your own health story. Reddit True Tide is just the best supporting actor that you can hire. You have to look at it this way. And if not, I don't know. I don't know how to help you. But it's probably the most effective thing I've ever seen in my life. Anyway, hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: Retatrutide Needs Carbohydrates to Work Properly - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [YgszwrbgsQk].txt ===

 you know, I come out here every day and they give you all this stuff for free. So you guys can have a better life. And I still get some coconut in my comments, complaining and dropping hate and arguing, except nothing that I do is insta-bro backed. Everything I do, I've been a doctor for almost 30 friggin years. I, everything I do is science. I even quote the studies. Yes, I feel like having a Coke Zero, if you're listening on audio, that's what I'm drinking. It's gonna make me hiccup, I'm sure. So today, I just, this is gonna be real quick. I'm gonna see if I can shorten a lot of my podcasts. I don't know if you guys really like them longer or you like shorter podcasts, but I don't really care. It's my house. But I want to talk about redotrutide and carbohydrates because there's so much misinformation out there. And the insta-bros, I look through Reddit and I look through Quora and there's hate threads on me, which is hilarious to me because I give you the information for free to win and people still get mad. You guys are free and idiots. But here's the deal. So I'll explain redotrutide and carbs and why low carb and redotrutide is a terrible idea. It is, it demolishes the results. And if you go work for me, oh, I'll explain the science behind it. And then you just go ahead and argue with biology and physiology and real results that I've seen with well over a million patients. So we can go on this all day long. I'm still gonna win and I'm still right. You know what's funny about modern medicine? It's funny because we spend billions of dollars chasing cures, but we're all just really chasing our tails. Look at obesity. Here's a pill, even injection, even redotrutide or some good. It doesn't matter. Here's something. Diabetes, another pill, heart disease. You guessed it. Another pill. We're not fixing bodies. We're franchising all the failure. It's a lifetime subscription to symptoms suppression. I'm out here trying to change that. Like you guys know about this redotrutide. It's this molecular middle finger to the obesity self created by the way, nobody has accidentally eaten anything ever. You are not accidentally fat. Don't get mad in my comments because you'd want to tell me that the food manufacturers made you fat and that you have a sugar addiction. No, they didn't make you fat. There's no such thing as a sugar addiction because it has nothing to do with the nucleus accumbens. So we can get into this really hard. If you want to get into the neurology, I'm going to bury you because there's no such thing. You want something to explain away why you have no willpower for a Snickers bar because if I said, look at this Coke zero, I'm holding in my hand. If I say this Coke zero, I just I got to drink 10 of these a day. I don't I drink maybe one every couple of days. But if I have to drink this and I get all twitchy and Jones out for this thing, that is purely psychological. This is not addictive. Unless there's something addictive in this Coke zero, but it the caffeine is not going to make me twitchy. There's no sugar in this. So it can't be that. So it leaves unknown chemistry if I had to go down that road. But it doesn't trigger the way the brain gets triggered to be an addict. So you cannot have a sugar addiction. It's not possible. And we could spend a day on this. And I will just ruin people that say, that's not true. My doctor told me, then your doctor's a liar. And that's there's plenty of you guys out there that are doctors listening to this. And you guys are liars. But listen, the molecular middle finger is red and true tide. It gives it to the obesity epidemic that is self created and everyone and on top of that, not just obesity, every chronic disease that it's dragging behind it, like a bunch of tin cans on a getaway car or getting married, right? We have a lot of crap behind you. What a weird thing to do, by the way. But that's another talk. Red and true tide isn't hype. It's physiology on gear. So I will dissect it in the carbs and explain why you need them and how it's important and show you the studies. And you'll see why your doctor or your insta bro or your favorite influencers, low carb gospel is actually sabotaging the very tools that you need to win using red and true tide. This isn't feel good. This is truth that your body has been going, please just give me the friggin answer because everybody else is telling me stories. So look at the basics that nobody else bothers to explain how red and true tide really works. Forget the headlines and all the lawsuits and the class actions and the people saying it does this and semaglutide work better and turns up. Just stop red and true tide triple threat. It's easiest way to look at it. It can sing it can dance. It's fit. It's sexy. It's hot. It's got it all the synthetic peptide that hits three gut hormone receptors at the same time. GLP one GIP and glucagon. It's like giving your endocrine system a swap team instead of a hall monitor with a little gay pass. So I need to explain this because otherwise you're not going to understand why carbs are so important because they work. The only reason red and true tide works the way it does is because there are three agonists GLP or GLP one and GIP combined or what gets in the way of glucagon's primary mech mechanism of action and forces it to do something completely different. That's to your advantage. But it can only do that in the presence of carbohydrates. I'll explain. You'll see what I'm talking about. We're going to go down the biochemistry road real quick. GLP one glucagon like peptide ones. The satiety signal that your gut sends after eating and red and true tide binds to GLP one receptors in the hypothalamus and the brainstem and it slams the brakes on appetite slows gastric emptying so you feel full longer. But it's a lot deeper than that. And I think that's the problem. They see all these cute little memes and cute little posts but it's so much deeper than what you guys are posting and talking about in the pancreas it ramps up insulin secretion in a glucose dependent way, meaning it only kicks in listen when blood sugar is high preventing hypo glycemia 2023 phase two trials New England Journal of Medicine by Jastroboth showed participants losing 24.2% body weight of that body weight over 70% was fat not connective tissue or muscle fat over 48 weeks. That's not magic. That's biochemistry suppressing hyperphasia at the neurological level. That's just the first part of this. Look at GIP you have to understand this. Gastric inhibitory polypeptide. Okay, we used to think this was just a sugar sensor working the same way as amp K does for energy right it's not what it does. Red and true tide flips the script. GIP receptors in adipocytes and the liver enhance insulin sensitivity and promote fast storage when calories are in abundance. But in obesity, listen, this is the problem. It's the opposite. Red and true tides GIP agonism reduces visceral fat by improving lipid metabolism and it does this by a cyclic amp. He signaling C amp it increases lipoprotein lipase activity to break down the triglycerides all this stuff. 2021 in diabetes showed that the red and true tide increases energy expenditure by 10 to 15%. And it does this through something called brown adipose tissue activation. So when you add in GIP, you get targeted fat loss without the muscle wasting. But here's where the wild card comes in. Because we can go down the GIP GLP one route and stay there and everybody can argue about it. But you guys are missing the point. Glucogon, this is the counter regulatory hormone that screams burn it when energy dips. So red and true tides Glucogon agonism isn't reckless. It's you guys that are reckless, but it's not reckless. It's very strategic. It binds to receptors in the liver and muscle boosting gluconeogenesis, the conversion of amino acids and glycerol to glucose and lipolysis freeing fatty acids for fuel. Now you see where I'm going with this right this increases hepatic energy expenditure by well over 20%. Now do you see why this is different? We talked about 10 to 15% with a GIP. Now we're looking at well over 20% with glucagon 2022 cell metabolism, they prove this number by the way. So we're talking four years ago, they've known this. But here's the house twist of this entire thing. Glucogon prevents the metabolic slowdown that plagues caloric restriction. So without it, your body is way smarter than you think. Okay, your body adapts by tanking your basal metabolic rate, red and true tide stands on the skinny pedal in that realm. It doesn't make a difference. It still keeps the accelerator down. So synergistically, this triple action right creates this. It's like a metabolic vortex appetite down insulin up when needed. Fats mobilized energy expenditure cranked through the roof human physiology bends to it because it's mimicking and amplifying what your gut hormones already do 2023 Jasterboff trial confirmed it. Average weight loss is different. Just understand this is different. Average weight loss 17.5% at 24 weeks improvements in HBA one C dropping to non diabetic levels. You ready for this number in 80% of participants. The data doesn't lie. Instabros do instabros do fake science does people with soft little egos lie. Listen, I'm just giving you the bald faced facts. But here's the problem. The sacred cow that you guys need to chop up and actually do something with carbs. So your paleobros, your keto gurus, your doc that says you need to go low carbs preaching low carb is this holy grail I see it all over Instagram I see all of you guys talking about low carb for red and true type you guys are screwing this up so bad and listen for some it works short term but with red and true tide low carb that's like pouring a bunch of sand into your engine and cranking it over until everything seizes up it actively works against the mechanism that the peptide is designed by the engineers to do. It's just like micro dosing. And you guys got all but heard about that but the science is on my side bio or the bio chemical engineers designed it the way I am explaining it. So you guys get I had some lady get in my comments it was hilarious and she goes not everybody's biology is the same got it so your pyruvate and your TCA cycle and your ETC and your lipolysis they're different than what God built on the planet for every other damn human got it. That's the problem you guys are arguing against something going gravity doesn't work for you works for everybody else but it doesn't work for you that's a lie that is you trying to justify that you are screwing up and you want to you don't want to admit being wrong because you're pulling that thread because then you're going to get it. You realize you're the idiot that's in control of the puppet you're the puppet. So maybe just maybe pull your head out of the sand and actually just listen to the guy that comes out here because he gives a shit about you. I'm the doc that actually cares. Take it however you want it. I'm out here not. I don't need to be out here. I'm still out here with all the nonsense you guys throw at me. I'm still out here with all the stuff that I take from you guys. I still come out here and try and help you. Listen here's the deal. This is why low carbs works against it. Look at red and true tides glucagon agonism demands carbohydrate substrate. Glucagon doesn't just mobilize fat. Follow me. Excuse me. It ramps up something called gluconeogenesis in the liver pulling from muscle proteins and glycerol if carbs are scarce. We got this in a low carb state. Your glycogen stores are depleted. They're gone. The liver under glucagon whipping the hell out of it starts catapalizing muscle to maintain blood glucose. Hello sarcopenia. 2019 study in the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism. Rosenstock did this one. It was awesome. Glucagon agonists specifically red and true tide showed carbohydrate 40 to 45 percent by the way dietary percentage. Co administration preserved lean mass during weight loss reducing nitrogen loss by 40 percent without carbs. You're fueling a fire by the furniture in your own damn house. Make it make sense but the insta brows are right and that's fine if you guys want to listen to them but you're just choosing. Look at physiologically red and true tides GLP one and GIP effects thrive on glucose GLP one sensitizes beta cells to glucose it enhances something called first phase insulin release low carb means low glucose spikes so you under utilize that insulin boost. What why GIP amplifies insulin's anabolic effect on carbs promoting glycogen replenishment over fat oxidation. Why would you try and unwind that 2020 human trial human trial in obesity compared low carb versus balanced carb diets with red and true tide. The low carb group lost less total weight 8 percent versus 22 percent and more muscle by the way 35 percent of that what was lost was lean mass. Red and true tide you guys needs carbs to balance the glucagon driven catabolism directing energy towards fat while sparing protein this is in its design you're taking your biology and you're trying to man handle it and get it to do what some lines from an influencer telling you to do instead of what God wrote in your system. Look at biochemically think like Colossus just go right down to the basics glycologist red and true tide increases mitochondrial ATP a denizen triphosphate demand via uncoupling proteins I talked about this before in brown fat. Okay so carbs this is what I was saying about pyruvate carbs provide pyruvate which is the efficient gateway to the tri carboxylic acid TCA cycle right crebs cycle low carb forces reliance on ketones are 30 percent minimal less efficient per ATP yield by the way proven 2018 nature reviews and a chronology they prove that just so you know before somebody's like how do you know that's how I know you're handicapping the engine real research you guys real research I'm out here to help you get 40 45 percent this is where you want to be. Real research 45 to 50 percent 55 percent even carb percentage of your diet real research man 2023 phase two data implicitly supports this participants with moderate carbs their version of moderate carbs is 45 to 55 percent of their calories showed far not slight far superior outcomes low carb blunts reddit true tides edge it turns off the fact that it's a scalpel it's like a laser scalpel designed to work watch. This is this is why it's so important to me that you guys understand this it's not I don't have some personal interest in Eli Lilly or whoever else is going to try and manufacture this. I'm doing it because I want you guys to use it properly instead of blaming the peptide you look in the mirror and you go maybe I'm the idiot with the violin the strange and I'm doing it wrong because I listen to some Joe bodybuilder or some guy who thinks he's an expert because he's got big muscles. And gets on social media and can read chat GPT I'm a guy that understands neurology and biochemistry and physiology and human biology better than anyone else I've ever met because I give a shit so I'm giving you the answer so you have something to base it on so when your insta bro argues with you you go come here and just show them my video you can try and chat GPT your way out of this all day long it doesn't change biology. The reason it concerns me is because red a true tide the fat loss is the that's an accessory this thing shuts down freaking disease all of them. Why do you think they want to charge 1200 1500 $2000 a vial because they know that most people won't be able to do it. Could you imagine listen you can buy like I tell everybody you can join the black card and I'll give you all the deep dive on all this stuff and real information of the generic stuff that I have to put out here because there's weird laws in place that. I'll get censored and shut down and whatever else because if I give you anything those are just instructions look at labs anything I can't do that here so you join the black card. Still at last year's price you should probably jump in on that because I don't know how long I'm feeling motivated to do that because quite honestly people are pissing me off so I'm just going to sit there and I'll stay there until I feel like. Raising up to some outrageous price so I only have people that can afford that don't like it I don't care it's 10 grand 9997 bucks and you will get it. Maybe today's the last day to be honest it's not marketing I don't have any marketing this I don't put any ads out nothing. Maybe today's the last day but I'll tell you right now 25 grand is where it should be and it's where it is for everybody unless you listen to this and hear this how about that. And then you need to tell me where you heard it I want to know the minute the time stamp everything where you heard it because if I see it's not it I'm just going to call you a liar and send you a bill for 25 grand and then you decide whether it's worth it or not. But I'm going to tell you I have a guy in my group just so you know how bad ass this is listen I'll even read it. His name is Michael Stemms you need to and I know I violated HIPAA oh no listen to this I'm so proud or Michael I got the last name wrong so I'm going to leave it at that. Listen to what this is real this is him in my group you guys need to hear why people join the black card. Good morning everyone I feel motivated to share with the community today I've really struggled with my health especially the last 12 years I've tried everything to feel better I've seen dozens and dozens of doctors I've been a vegetarian a vegan try juice fast water fast dry fasting hell I even went to the Amazon jungle for 30 days. To do a diet and I was with a shaman in a tiny village with no running water no electricity in one meal a day lentils and plantains needless to say I've been desperate yesterday he just started with me this is the day after he just started in the black card by the way. Yesterday was my first day on the full protocol Dr. T gave me I am Dr. T by the way and it was the first time in 12 years that I had a day where I felt great. In fucking great my body didn't hurt I had a ton of energy I'm super focused and very motivated I sit here this morning and I still can hardly believe it. I know it's only one day and I have a long road to go but it's an awesome start so I needed to share. Thank you Dr. Trevor so much for helping me I appreciate you and all your hard work to help others and if you want to see it there I'll put it on here just so you guys can go you made that up nope. That's in my group I have dozens and a hundred of these at least so you decide whether you want to join the black card or not I do it because I care yep there's a price no I'm not doing it for free. In fact it's going to be more expensive because I want to help people that really want to help and so there you go you send it apply at. Unlock the card send an email there to get instructions on how to send the wire don't ask questions about your order or what it entails the black card is this just so you know pay attention to black card is this you get access to my live private. Q&A call I do every Monday evening you get the VIP community where I solve problems like this it's actually me every day I check every morning I go through everything if you send it at three o'clock in the afternoon I'm not looking at it till tomorrow. 24 to 72 hours is usually my turnaround time that's faster than any doctor on the planet and you get my protocol library but that doesn't really matter you have direct access to me you want to work with me. That's it you want to buy from elite by genetics you should. I'll tell you flat out because nobody does it like we do and everybody says that but I don't run specials and sales and affiliate codes and bulk orders and discounts and all that stuff I take care of my people because what's. Coming out of my labs my warehouses is what I will give my family because I trust them or because I trust what I have and I love my family which means if you buy it from me then that's what you're getting so you decide there's no gun to your head there's no marketing I'm not like but wait there's more give me your email and I'll market till you die nope. There's not but that's why I'm here so you can do all the things you want but that's why I come out here so you guys have the answer so if you want to argue about low carbs you can you're still wrong. Look at look at here listen look at chronic disease ask yourself this why does red or true tide have such a profound effect on chronic disease because obesity isn't the disease it's the accelerant it ignites systemic inflammation insulin resistance in the energy crisis that fuels everything from a thorough. Atherosclerosis to neuro degeneration to myocardial infarction to you name it PCOS red to true tide doesn't just melt that it rewires the metabolic chassis of your body look at start with numbers start with numbers. You want to look at this you want to really go down this road 2022 study in nature medicine Mueller showed red to true tide reduces I'll six and see I'll by the way interleukin just you know not I'll AI S. L. E. Okay and C. Reactive Protein C 50% in obese models 50 through red to true tide in its triple mediated anti inflammatory signaling and matter macrophages look at diabetes this is the one that's like freaking knockout red to true tide restores beta function beta cell function increases insulin secretion while glucagon curbs the hepatic glucose output also needs carbs by the way 2023 trial reported reported this home I. R. improvement 60% 6060 reversing insulin resistance biochemically this happens through that there's a bunch of different pathways that a KT if you really want to get into it enhances a glute for translocation to the muscle cells for glucose uptake so no more death cells and peripheral starvation of your system even neurologically it's so potent Alzheimer's type three diabetes brain insulin resistance red to true tide crosses the blood brain barrier reduces systemic inflammation improves hippocampal insulin signaling 2021 study in diabetes care showed 30% reduction in dementia risk red to true tide you guys is neural protective gold why do you think they're trying to bury it hide it patent it keep you from getting it because they price you out if you look at anything on that I saw you like but it's like $200 it's not 2000 red to true tide is beyond profound but why you guys are messing with it and trying to shut it down and make it work poorly with low carbs is beyond me it's an ecosystem repair chronic diseases aren't silos they're cascades from metabolic mayhem red to true tide douses every single problem at the source all of them every single one of them ties directly to the three biological failures root of every disease systemic inflammation insulin resistance ATP shortage obesity amplifies every single one and red to true tide dismantles all of them I mean that's how easy this really is listen this is it it's the irrefutable chain okay watch fix inflammation restore insulin sensitivity replenish energy turn on the ATP machine red to true tide doesn't treat disease it erases failures that are birthing all of them heart disease lesson less inflamed endothelium better insulin in vessels energized cardiomyocytes cancer holy moly marry this to SS and you are a cancer annihilating machine reduced IGF one from lower insulin curb chronic inflammatory response autoimmunity balance cytokines dialing down th cells I could do this all day you guys we've been lied to by every single medical professional out there and they look at me and go I'm the one that's telling all the stories and yet I'm the one with all the research going here's the proof I'll go toe to toe with any medical doctor because and you know what I've been a doc for a long time somebody called me a personal trainer the other day I went I don't really know what to make of that but I do know this I know some personal trainers personally who would scum most doctors in knowledge by far my bud Judd leanheart smarter than probably 99% of the doctors I've ever met he's so freakishly intelligent and he knows human biology he knows human anatomy he knows biomechanics he knows physiology like I look at that and I go he doesn't have a doctorate after his name you think because it says M.D. or D.C. or D.P.T. or P.H.D. or whatever it is after somebody's name that automatically grants them the ability to give you information because they know it no they don't I've said it before I'll say it again medical school is a trade school for pharmaceutical apps and most of the people in social media are shills for the pharmaceutical companies or banks for that matter but that's another conversation listen to me you guys have been lied to about low carbs when it comes to using this peptide that's whatever you want to take out of this is up to you it's aggravating that's why I'm saying it low carb zealotry ignores the nuance of how redotrutide is designed redotrutide is part of the protocol that your body is craving it's root level repair you guys this three biological failures are every single disease I'm right where's my Nobel Prize because those three biological failures you guys are fixable but you have to look at the science behind it and ditch all the dogma look at your metabolism and decide all right I'm going to do what actually works instead of what my insta-bro buddy did I don't know it's your move anyway I gotta go never miss

=== FILE: Retatrutide Versus Cancer - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [1x1_WHeN264].txt ===

 all right, so reditrutide and cancer, and not reditrutide causing cancer, it doesn't, that's ridiculous, reditrutide versus cancer. And before anybody gets in my comments telling me it's caused by parasites and bacteria and toxins and all that, we know all this stuff, so save it. The problem isn't that, it's solving the issue once it's there. But reditrutide, this is why the pharmaceutical industry doesn't want you to know this information. I got nothing to gain. I don't care what Peter Adia, I don't care about him, I don't care about Gary Breck, I don't care about these guys because they're coming out pushing products endlessly. I'm not pushing products, it baggerates me because I had somebody say this and you guys making reaction videos about me is hilarious because I've actually seen over a million patients and I know people that have seen way more and I know people that have seen none, but the people that have never seen a patient are the ones that are trying to make reaction videos on the things that I talk about that works. And I have a community filled with people that have had nothing but positive results where they're like, holy smokes, my life is radically different because of listening to what you said. And that's the black card. And if you want to join the black card grant, I don't even market for it. You want to join the black card? Awesome. It's going to cost you, you know, at 10 grand and you're going to spend that for the year and you're going to get me, you're going to get my live Q&A that I do every single Monday at five and you get the VIP community and you can ask me questions and it takes me 24 to 72 hours sometimes to answer questions. Depending on the difficulty of the case or the magnitude of what you're asking me. And it's per person. It's not for your entire family. It's per person because if you go see a doctor, it's not for your family. It's for that person. If you go to a restaurant, you each pay for your food. And I think that's absolutely fair. And some people get really offended by that. They're like, that's so much money. I really don't think so. I really don't think so. My one on one is 250 grand. It's got a two month waiting list on it. And I take 20 people a year because I actually care and I know what I'm doing. So if you guys are making your little reaction videos or stealing my stuff like AI is nuts. You guys are stealing my stuff and putting some tiny little Asian over top and then pretending you're me. But my jokes are ridiculous. They're all mine because they're dumber than hell. And I have a certain syntax and I am me. But listen, I don't even care. I don't come out here to have this argument with a bunch of children going, I don't like what you said. I disagree. All you have to do is follow the money. All you have to do is follow the money. You look at these guys like the guys that that chemist guy that keeps taking my videos and trying to repost them and going, let me try and discredit this and let me try and discredit that. But you're watching him just read lines, right? There's nothing in front of me. And that's number one. But number two is what difference does it make? I don't know. And then you go buy it for me. Of course, that's the problem. I've never once said you want to buy from elite biogenics. Awesome. If you don't go buy somewhere, go to peptide sciences. I don't care where you go. I care that you have the information and it solves your problem. If you want to buy from my company, great. Thank you so much for supporting my company. I really mean something to me because it's the same thing that I would give my wife and my children. But I don't come out here and I'm not some shill and I actually give a crap about mankind. So all of the bitterness and victimization and hate and attacks that people are doing on each other all over the Internet is just you guys got to grow up. You guys got to grow up. Med school is nothing but in here this might sound like an attack, but it's nothing but a bunch of pharmaceutical reps now. Nobody knows how to solve a problem anymore. And you take it as an arrogant statement. I don't care. Nobody can keep up with me because I've been spending the last 30 years making sure that I know human biology and biochemistry and physiology because I care. I want you to have the information and then you do what you want with it. But to constantly steal my stuff, you're a toddler. To constantly make reaction videos about my stuff, you're a toddler. To get into my comments and I don't like what you're saying. You're using herty words. But you six grow up. This is stuff to help you and I do it for free, for free. So if you want to join the Black Card, great. Apply at unlockthecard.com. Send it to Mia and she'll get you all set up. She'll give you the wire information. It's the only way to take it. And if you want to ask a bunch more questions about it, send the wire information and just join. But other than that, let's hammer out this red and true Titan cancer thing. It's Monday. I mean, that kind of a mood. But the people running around going, it's a weight loss drug. Awesome. Next. What's the next thing on the list? The next latest and greatest thing. But that's not what red and true Titan is. That's it's you're not wrong, but you're missing the entire architecture of the peptide itself. Here's what it really is. It's a triple-incredent receptor agonist that mimics three of the most powerful hormones your body naturally produces. And I think you guys need to understand why this matters because watch when you let me break it down when you eat food, whatever it is, you can. And by the way, Gatorade, not diet, regular Gatorade is recognized as food. That's why it upsets your stomach half the time when you slam it like an idiot. Okay. So that's it's causing these hormones to release. But there's nothing there. But it's because of the carb content and the calorie content. Didn't know that either, did you? So when you eat food, three hormones are released from your gut, GLP one, GIP and glucagon. But these aren't these aren't just weight loss signals. They're survival signals. This is the chemical language that your body uses to say, Hey, man, we need to organize everything energy production, inflammatory levels, immune response, cellular repair. You guys literally everything. This is why I'm getting so annoyed at the soccer moms and their peptide businesses or people that are jumping in going, I have a peptide company. No, you don't. You sell out of your basement or you're ripping people off on poorly manufactured products with an US COA. By the way, if your COA is from an American company, it's garbage because they keep getting bought. I'll prove it. Listen, redditrutide walks in and it says, remember when you were 19 years old and every damn thing you had in your biology worked properly? Here's that conversation again. And this is where it gets wild. Nobody talks about this. Redditrutide doesn't just trigger weight loss. It triggers metabolic reorganization. It's solving the problem that you've been beating yourself up for the last 15 years. Think about this way. Your body's been running this broken operating system for 15, 20 years. Redditrutide isn't just coming up to windows and tapping the X's and closing applications. It's rebuilding and upgrading the entire hard drive of your biology. I want you to understand otocrinology because once you do, you'll realize why the pharmaceutical industry is so afraid that this information will get out that they're doing anything and everything. Like, I can't be bought. Pfizer's never going to be able to send me a billion dollars and I'm going to change my tune. Not a chance. I don't care how much money you give me because I value mankind because I care about human beings. I'm not doing this because I want you guys to be subscribers to manage decline or to buy from some pharmaceutical company or to buy from some peptide company. I do this so you actually have a great life. Listen, I have been on this planet for a long time and I almost lost my damn life. Yeah, I'm pissed off because I almost lost my life because of the medical world. And that's coming from a guy that's been a doctor for decades. So I don't, I'm tired of people just looking for reasons to, to stay. You guys want permission to stay where you are and what you're doing. You want it to work and you want to have all these reasons why it's not. You look up YouTube videos to find out, to approve and validate why what you're doing isn't working but you should still stay there. Bullshit. Bullshit. It makes me so angry. I don't get it. Brandy and I were talking about this. I really don't. Like it makes me just want to turn this off because and just kill all this and say you guys find it out yourself some other way and enjoy all the misinformation and screw your life up because I don't get it when I come out here and I give you things for free. And the two words that should be coming out of your mouth are thank you. Thank you. We were not raised the same. My dad would have beat your ass if you would have disrespected him when he gave you something and you insulted it. I don't get it. Like you guys, the pharmaceutical company is at war against peptides and you guys just keep looking for reasons to give them more ammunition instead of going, shit, this guy's, we need to protect this. We need to protect this guy. We need to take everything he's talking about right now and not steal it, share it with everybody so they actually get the information. Listen, when you activate GLP-1, GIP, glucagon simultaneously, this is the key part, not just individually, simultaneously. You're not triggering one pathway. You're triggering this integrated metabolic symphony that changes your entire health for the better if it's done properly. This is what happens in order. So you get the satiety signal, it kicks in your vagus nerve, which is the longest nerve in the human body. By the way, it literally runs from your brainstem to your gut, gets activated. Your brain receives this, hey, listen, buddy, put down the fork, you're satisfied, stop eating, you've had enough. But that's surface level crap for this peptide. It's for even the agonism that's going on. Now you get the pancreatic coordination. Your beta cells in your pancreas start producing insulin, but they do it smarter. Not more insulin, smarter insulin, not the insulin itself. Let me explain what that means. So insulin, because I don't think I'm explaining it right. insulin sensitivity improves because, well, here's why, because GLP-1 is present, your pancreatic beta cells literally work, they work better. They respond faster. They produce the right amount. They're not panicking anymore the way they've been because you've been eating all kinds of garbage and blaming the food processors. But here's the thing, and this is where every doctor I've ever seen and all the medical students are getting wrong. Your alpha cells, which produce glucagon, also start working properly. Glucagon is not just anti-insulin. Glucagon is the hormone that says, okay, listen, we got to burn all this stored energy and we damn well need to build a whole bunch of new proteins. Then, and here's the secret sauce, the mitochondria turn on. So when GIP is activated and really activated, it signals your cells to increase mitochondrial biogenesis, which is literally telling your cells, make more mitochondria. Hey, do you guys understand what that means? Your cells are getting more power plants, like more of them, more frequently, and they work better. Look at 2021, nature metabolism improved. Redutrutide increases mitochondrial content by 40% in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle. 40%? 40%. That's not a marginal improvement. That is like resurrection for your physiology. And then the inflammatory reset. Watch, here's where it gets really wild. These three receptors, when they're activated together, they don't just reduce inflammation. They reprogram your immune system to stop misidentifying your own tissue as the enemy. So when your GLP-1 receptors are activated, macrophages, which is your immune system's cleanup crew, right, they shift from pro-inflammatory M1 state to anti-inflammatory M2 state. 2022 or 2020 diabetes showed this unequivocally. It was, let me drink some more coffee. Like, irrefutable. And yet none of this is being talked about on social media because people are too busy trying to sell their product. Like I said, I don't care if you buy my product. The care that you have the information, you buy the right product. Here's what that means, by the way, that the switching phenotypes. That's what that means. M1 to M2. Plain English, your body stops looking at yourself as the enemy. So listen, let's talk about the metabolic damage because this is where it gets personal for like probably 80% of the population. Metabolic damage is not some vague concept. It is absolutely measurable and it's 100% reversible. Listen, when you've been dieting and starving or in chronic stress even for years, your body enters in what's called a state of metabolic suppression. So your sympathetic nervous system stays locked in overdrive. Your cortisol level stays cranked up. Your thyroid hormone production drops. Your mitochondria literally shrink and become ridiculously inefficient. And this happens because your body thinks it's in a famine. So your brain, specifically the hypothalamus, is freaking out screaming. We don't have energy. So save it. Slow down the metabolism. Hold on to fat and preserve all the resources we've got so we don't die. And then red or true tide walks in and slam dances that entire system and says, false alarm, resources are coming. Stand down. You're good to go. Let's go. Here's the physiology. So watch. Parasympathetic activation kicks in. So when GLP-1 receptors are activated in your brainstem, right back here, they literally shift your nervous system from fight, flight or freeze, the sympathetic to rest and digest parasympathetic. This takes days, not weeks. Your heart rate variability improves. Your cortisol starts normalizing and your body trusts you again. It trusts everything again. And then the hormone, the thyroid hormone becomes normal. So your pituitary gland stops being stingy with TCH, thyroid-stimulating hormone. So your thyroid, specifically the mitochondrial-rich thyroid follicular cells, start producing T3 and T4 again at normal optimal rates. Endocrinology showed red or true tide increases T4 to T3 conversion specifically in the tissues that need it the most. So it doesn't just do it. It does it in the right place at the right time at the right target organ. Leptin sensitivity gets restored. So leptin is the, I'm full hormone, but it's also your metabolism hormone. When you're leptin resistant, which happens after chronic dieting, which is why I explained that whole video, but why diets aren't working for you guys, your brain never gets the signal that you have energy so it keeps fighting to conserve. So red or true tide walks in and it reduces inflammation in your hypothalamus. The specific part that reads leptin, so four, six weeks, leptin sensitivity comes back. Your brain remembers that you've got resources and your metabolism doesn't slow down. It actually accelerates. And then the big one, baby, mitochondrial repair, resurrection, reintroduction, whatever the hell you want to call it. Your mitochondria are like little nuclear reactors. When you're in metabolic damage, they get lazy. They run at 30% capacity. They're damaged. They accumulate reactive oxygen species. ROS is faster than they can clear them out. So when red or true tide walks in specifically activating GLP one and GIP, they trigger something called AMPK, the metabolic master switch. We've talked about this with MOTC and AMPK says, amen, it's time to rebuild this entire thing. Maybe let's get to work. AMPK then activates something called PGC1-alpha triggers mitochondrial biogenesis and mitochondrial autophagy, which is clearing out all the broken ones. 2020 cell metabolism showed GLP one agonists increase mitochondrial density 45% and improve mitochondrial, excuse me, function by 60%. I just ate so sorry I'm burping like that. You guys do know that's not an improvement, right? That's a completely new lease on life. And yet people are going, it's just a weight loss peptide. Do you want to know why red or true tide works? I'll even touch on this. Why it works so much better than single path like therapies like tersepathyde or even dual or semi-glutide or dual like tersepathyde? Because disease doesn't exist in one damn pathway. Stop defending it because you took it and you don't like your feelings getting hurt because you're mad that you took something that there was something better that existed. That doesn't even make sense. That's like defending your piece of shit Honda in your driveway. I'm not saying Honda is bad because somebody else has a Bugatti and you're like, I think Bugatti's are ugly. Bugatti's are ugly. Shut up. You're missing the point. You're mad because you don't have it. Even if you hadn't sold it, I don't care. Stop defending things for nothing, for nothing. Disease is a pattern. Full stop. Obesity isn't a weight problem. Weight is a symptom. The real problem is that your body's energy management system is broken. But more than that, it's broken in three specific ways. Three biological failures literally cause every single chronic disease. And when I say every single one, all of them. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because I'm going to keep saying it until somebody gives me one. Because I've solved every disease because I care. I didn't solve them for me. I'm not like, hey, everybody pay attention to Dr. Trevor. I'm going to give a shit. Just stop stealing my stuff. At least give me credit for the work. You have no idea how much work I put into this stuff. All you knuckleheads out there stealing my stuff thing and then trying to send it off to your half ass peptide company that you're probably buying it from mine and just cranking up the price. You guys are at home with razor blades trying to scrape off the labels for all I know. I had somebody try and tell me they worked for my company. Hey, I worked for that company. Really? Cause I own that company and I don't recall ever having you on my payroll. I don't know. I'm really good friends with Travis. Travis? You mean Trevor? Yeah, yeah. The guy that makes these videos, the guy that's in the trap right now with you. No, it's not you, man. He would know who I am. That's the argument that I had. And I finally let you're an idiot. Block delete. Listen, three metabolic failures. Every single disease. Look at systemic inflammation. Red and true tide hammers the snot out of these. Inflammation isn't bad. Inflammation is how your body heals. But inflammation when it becomes systemic is what this means. It's everywhere all the time for years and years. It's like having a fire alarm that never stops screaming in your ear. Your immune system gives you the finger. It gets exhausted. Your tissues get damaged near DNA gets damaged. Systemic inflammation is measured by C-reactive protein, L six tumor necrosis factor alpha, like TNF alpha. These when these are elevated for years, just hear me out. Your body literally breaks down. Your arteries get damaged. Your joints get damaged. Your organs get damaged. It said it gives you the finger. Here's what red and true tide does. It comes in and solves it. GLP one and GIP activation reduces IL six interleukin six production by 50%. 2021 clinical endocrinology proved that. But more importantly, it shifts macrophages from pro inflammatory and one to anti inflammatory anti phenotype. So your immune system stops attacking and it starts protecting the way it's designed. There's no such thing as an autoimmune disorder. It's a symptom of a problem. And I'm not disrespecting people that have autoimmune symptoms. You don't have an autoimmune disorder. The body was never designed to attack itself. You need to find what's causing that fire, not go let's treat the autoimmune disease, which is what I was taught as a doctor. What people are taught now is I need to get my words out on Instagram. So everybody looks at me and gives me hearts and likes. I don't give a crap if you follow me or not. I don't care if you like my stuff or not. Just don't be a toddler and get in there and go, I don't like your herty words. You really mean you're like a toddler. Listen, this is for you. Not for me. I'm healthy. I'm trying to give that to you for free. I mean, that's some pissed off today. Look at insulin resistance. This is the thing nobody explains correctly, by the way. I've seen doctors. I've watched Adia. I've watched Brecca demolish this like an idiot bumping into walls trying to figure his way out in the dark. Your cells, here's the easiest. Your cells literally put earmuffs on and stop listening to insulin. Imagine that you're shouting at somebody and they just ignore you for so long that you lose your voice. That's what happens. insulin resistance starts in your mitochondria. When your mitochondria are damaged, it can't produce enough ATP. Your cells are overwhelmed. They stop accepting glucose and then they get defensive. Your pancreas responds by making more insulin. So you have more insulin in your blood, but your cells won't listen. So here's what happens. Wake gang, because insulin promotes fat storage, energy crashes. Your cells aren't getting any glucose. You got brain fog because your brain magically runs on glucose. You got hormonal chaos for the nicest way of saying it because too much insulin messes with. You're ready for this? Everything. And here's how Reddit True Tide solves this part of the equation. When it walks in, it activates receptors in your skeletal muscle and adipose tissue and they trigger translocation of the glucose transporters to the cell membrane. But that means your cells go, hey, whoa, the ears pick up and they go, wait, I can hear insulin again. But here's the secret. GIP is actually more powerful at insulin sensitizing in muscle tissue. Watch 2022 Nature Reviews and Necronology show that GIP agonism improves insulin stimulated glucose uptake by 60% in muscle. So here's the result. Just so you understand why this is important. Your pancreas doesn't have to work so hard and your insulin levels normalize and your cells start getting all the fuel that you needed again, baby. We're not done. Look at the ATP problem. This is where most people completely miss the point. ATP, adenosine triphosphate is literally the fundamental currency of everything in your body. Every single thing your body does, thinking, moving, healing, sex, walking, sleeping, working out, reproducing, detoxifying. Everything you've got requires ATP. The ossicles, the three of them in your ear going nuts on either side when you're listening to this, right? Your primary visual cortex in the back here firing away because you're watching this on YouTube. All of those require ATP. When your ATP depleted at the cellular level, every single thing you've got breaks. It's not metaphorically. Really, it breaks. Your mitochondria produce ATP through the ETC. Sounds like a bunch of acronyms, which it is. Adenosine triphosphate through the electron transport chain. This is the most important biochemical process in your entire body. And it's never taught properly. So let me break this down. The ETC, the electron transport chain in plain friggin English, your cells burn glucose and fat. This creates electrons. These electrons need to be transported down a chain of protein complexes. One, two, three and four. Inside your mitochondrial inner membrane. As electrons move down this chain, they release energy. That energy pumps protons across your mitochondrial membrane, creating what's called an electrical gradient. That gradient powers something basically complex five, the ATP synthase, which literally screws together ADP and a phosphate. Adenosine diphosphate and a phosphate screws them together makes ATP. It's like a dam water. The electrons fall downhill. That motion generates electricity called the proton gradient. And that electricity powers a turbine ATP synthase that produces electricity ATP. And when you're inflamed and insulin resistant, your mitochondria can't run this efficiently whatsoever. So your electron transport chain gets really slop. It gets sluggish. So your ATP production tanks, your cells get tired. When your cells get tired, here's the byproduct. You get tired. Here's how red or true tide handles this. When amp it activates amp K when it when amp K is activated, it triggers mitochondrial biogenesis. Your cells make more mitochondria. Each one runs the electron transport chain, more ET, right? It runs to separate one every time. More ETC chains, more ATP production, more energy everywhere. There's more though. You ready? GLP one signaling also reduces reactive oxygen species. So now you're producing less ROS is reactive oxygen species damage your electron transport chain components. So less ROS, less damage, less efficient ATP production, which is why you don't want those anywhere in your body. 20 diabetes care showed red or true tide increased ATP production in muscle by 55%. To me, that sounds like a big damn number. Let me let me say that again. 55%. It's not a supplement. It's not a supplement. It's not some magic NMN that you're taking that's going, it's the precursor in it slides into the Krebs cycle right here. And it's really great. No, it doesn't. First of all, NMN is useless. Oh, I'm sure somebody's going to get in my comments about doing like talking about great. Okay, great. Awesome. I drink coffee and it solves all my problems too. Apparently. No, it doesn't. Listen, here's where it gets really interesting with red or true tide, because this is where it becomes something people, most people don't really understand. And I want you to get this. So please stick with me. Your liver is the metabolic HQ of your entire body. It's not just about detox. I mean, though it does that, it's also you ready? Master glucose regulator, fat processor, immune coordinator, inflammation control center. When your liver is damaged, especially by the something called NAFLD non alcoholic fatty liver disease, everything goes to itself. Gone. Doesn't work. My dad died of end stage liver disease. So I don't take this lightly at all. So if you're going to go into my comments and make jokes, you know what you go right to hell? Because I miss my dad every day. He died 14 years ago and I love my dad. So I don't take this stuff lightly. That's why I do this. So when you come in here, yes, it ticks me off and you go here he goes on another rant. No, I just find it in the middle of the day. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not everything stops working when your liver is trashed. Please listen to me. Cancer is no joke. If you guys saw my story, you saw everything that happened to me. It's not... You can't... Somebody, oh, it's made up. Get the fuck out of here. Are you out of your mind? I hated every second of my life when I was like that. I felt like a failure to my family and my kids and nightmare. When you're... So listen, your liver is... Yeah, that's the mood I meant today. Your liver is filled with mitochondria. It's just literally packed with these things. Thousands. When your liver cells accumulate fat, which is what an AFLD is, it's fat in the liver cells, the mitochondria get suffocated. It's the easiest way to explain it. They can't produce ATP and they can't coordinate your entire metabolism. More importantly, a damaged liver can't regulate insulin, can't clear inflammatory cytokines, and it can't control glucose production, which it's supposed to do. So your whole body becomes metabolically broken. Here's what redotruti does. This is why you guys got to get this and why you got to understand, big pharma is trying to get this out of your hands or charge you astronomically large amounts of money. Somebody said to me, they're, dude, your reda 60 is... I don't remember what it is on my site, 950 bucks for 60 milligrams. Dude, you have any idea how long that's going to last? You're insane. You're insane. It's less than 200 bucks for a 10. And that's going to last... If you're doing this for longevity, that's going to last you so long. I have people in my group that were spending $1,500 to $2,000 on one vial of redotruti from a longevity clinic. If you're a longevity clinic and you're ripping people off like that, yeah, you're a dick. My lab makes it, my warehouse ships it, and yeah, I think what we charge is fair. If you don't like it, don't buy it. It's okay. But I do know this. If you're ripping someone off because you know they're on their last leg and they're desperate, you're a garbage human being. So I come out here for free just to give you the answers. You do what you want. But here's why it's important to understand the truth, and why you need to get it. That big pharma does not want you to have this. Not at all. Even you're like, oh, I thought they approved it. Yeah, so they can fill it with all kinds of crap and charge you a ton of money for it. Not to solve your problems. It's to make them a bunch of money at your expense with the problems that they're causing because you keep listening. Stop listening. When GLP-1 activates in hepatic cells, the liver cells, here's what happens. You get reduced hepatic lipid accumulation. So your liver stops storing fat. 2021 hepatology showed redotrutide reduces hepatic fat content 50%, 5, 0. I wish this stuff would have been my dad was alive. I would have saved his ass. It improves mitochondrial function and hepatocytes. Your liver's mitochondria actually start working again in ATP production. It was vertical. It reduces hepatic inflammation. So your liver's resident immune cells, they're called cup for cells with a K, shift from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory. Journal of Hepatology 2020 showed this very precisely with GLP-1 agonist showing 45% reduction in hepatic IL-6 levels. Remember what I said, C-reactive protein, IL-6, TNF alpha, those are the markers that are looking at it. So it improves fibrosis or reverses, to be honest. It doesn't even improve it. This is so big because liver fibrosis will kill you. Remember, your liver regenerates every 150 days. The cells are just constantly doing this. This is such an active, I mean, 500 reactions every second. This is such an important organ. Don't screw with this thing. But this is also why the liver and cancer are married. So when inflammation resolves in your liver, your hepatic stellate cells stop producing collagen. Liver fibrosis actually goes the other direction. It reverses. 2019, gastroenterology showed that improving hepatic mitochondrial function reduced to hepatic fibrosis 60 friggin percent. This is why this matters for cancer, by the way. So your liver produces and clears growth factors. So when your liver is healthy, listen, it clears excess growth factors. It produces metabolic signals that tells your cells, listen, you're okay. You're okay, Ray. Don't grow randomly. You don't need to. It keeps a meter on it, puts a governor on it, and it regulates hormones, estrogen, testosterone, growth hormone, et cetera. So when your liver is damaged, these signals go berserk. So now growth becomes completely uncontrolled. Cancer cells start showing up all over your body, and your body can't clear them. Remember, your body has cancer all of the time. That's not what it's just a cell that's lost. It's become a mutated cell. 1% of all your cells are mutated cells. Your body turns over a billion cells every day. Your body gets rid of them. Self other. That's what your natural killer cells are looking for. The problem isn't that the problem is when the system isn't working, it can't do that. Which is why I'm so tired of people going, I had to do chemotherapy, save my grandma, save my pappy. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. And radiation and surgery, all these things, they're just, they're killing people. Good Lord, fix the liver and you fix the foundation of cancer prevention. The end. I just, I want to get off this podcast right now because I'm so irritated. Let me explain how to connect everything before I go. Cancer is not a disease that happens to you. Cancer is a disease that happens because of you, more specifically, only because of what happens inside your body and those three biological failures, my three biological failures. I'll give you the exact mechanism. This is exactly what I talked about in my Instagram post yesterday, just very short version. So when you have chronic systematic system, systemic inflammation, your immune system is literally just, it takes a jerry can, it just starts dumping gasoline on your fire. And you're like, what's water? It's going to go out just just raging blood, just a bit massive conflagration, right? Your cells are getting bombarded with inflammatory cytokines, IL6, TNF, alpha, IL1, beta, and these cytokines activate NFKappa B. So in your cells, so NFKappa B is a transcription factor. It's like a switch for genes. When NFKappa B is  is activated chronically. It turns on genes that promote cell proliferation. Listen to me, this, you might go, oh, that's a good thing. No, listen to me. Promotes cell proliferation, suppresses apoptosis, which is the programmed cell death, and it promotes angiogenesis. Two tumors, well, blood vessel growth. Two of the tumors. That's not a good thing, people. 2019 Nature Reviews Cancer proved this. Falcoel showed it. Showed that chronic NF-Capa B activation increases, increases pro-termerogenic gene expression by three times, and that 20% plus cancers are all directly linked to chronic inflammation. 20%. Listen, if there was a 20% chance that you're gonna get hit by a car every time you cross the street, most of you guys, I hope, would be smart enough to go, ooh, I might not take that chance. The mechanism is brutal. Constant inflammatory signaling literally tells your cells, it's okay to grow beyond your normal boundaries. That's the problem. And here's what Reddit True Tide does. When it activates the receptors, when it kicks on the agonism, they suppress NF-Capa B activation. 20 inflammation research studies showed that it reduces NF-Capa B nuclear translocation. Remember what I said, how it works, right? By 70 friggin', it turns off the, hey man, just grow all you want as random as you can signal. It turns that all off. Listen, I need to explain all of this, because otherwise I think I'm gonna leave a lot of information left to chance, and it's gonna cause a lot of confusion. Let me explain how insulin resistance causes cancer. And before you go, I thought, parasites, I thought, listen, your body's designed to get rid of all this stuff. So when your system is, this is where you need to be able to fit these pieces together as a puzzle. You can't go, I take this magic liquid and it causes cancer, wrong. This liquid in here, and I'm not talking about coffee, before somebody goes, oh, coffee's bad? No, coffee is friggin' amazing, by the way. It's the most studied performance enhancement on the planet, this and creatine. So stop thinking they're bad for you. Only an idiot is gonna go, caffeine is terrible. When I gave up coffee, my life became so much better. No, it didn't, no it didn't. You just started making new decisions and now your life is better. The coffee had nothing to do with it. The coffee was a crutch you were using to stay where you are. The end. When you start marrying systems together, if I drink this and it's some toxic poison, it makes my biology weak, which means it can't do its job. That's the problem. It's not that this caused it, it's that this made me weak, so everything proliferated in the negative. But you're not gonna hear doctors tell you that. You sure as hell they're not gonna hear Adia. They'll tell you to go buy his magic candy bars that he sells. Listen, when you're insulin resistant, you have very high circulating, it's a big old callus, look at that thing, man. High circulating insulin levels. And insulin doesn't just regulate glucose, it's growth hormone, activates IGF-1. So watch, high insulin, high IGF-1. Cancer cells go to a buffet. Cancer cells adore insulin, man. It's like me and my wife, she is like insulin. I love my wife. I'm just not cancer, that's all. I'm like a piece of cake. Like I just love my wife. That's what cancer cells are to insulin. And here's the problem. Cancer cells have more insulin receptors than any other normal cell in your biology. High insulin literally feeds cancer cells and tells them to grow. But when are you guys hearing this? You're not. Listen to this research. I'll blow your mind. 2018 Lancet study, Jim Anucci and all his colleagues show that they analyzed data from 3 million plus people who showed that high insulin levels are independently associated with increased cancer across eight different cancer types. Eight. I'll give you some just so you understand. Full-in cancer, 40% increase. Breast cancer, 45% increase. Prostate cancer, 45% increase risk. Pancreatic cancer, 50% increase risk. That is not correlation noise. That is a clear biochemical mechanism causing the problem. Here's the way it works. High insulin activates the P13K, AKTM, Tor pathway in cells. This is the cellular, grow it any cost kind of pathway. Cancer cells, they take this and they stand on the skinny pedal with that. They run with it, nonstop. Look, and I already talked about how red or true tide restores insulin sensitivity, right? See, 2022 nature reviews. But here's what happens when you restore insulin sensitivity. I talked about this earlier, about 20 minutes earlier. So I don't need to do it again. Get redundant. You guys will get bored in here. Probably bored enough already listening to me on my rant on a Monday. But here's what happens when you reduce it. Fasting insulin drops about 50%. Post-prandial, after eating, insulin spikes decrease dramatically. Cancer cells lose their favorite fuel and their favorite growth signal. And that pathway that I just, the end tour pathway that I talked about deactivates. 2020, clinical cancer research showed reducing fasting insulin levels by 40% reduced. Oh, this is gonna blow your mind. Cancer cell proliferation, 45%. You guys need to start looking at the numbers and understanding how this works. Listen, look at the ATP shortage. Here's how this causes cancer. I'm gonna just stitch this all together and then you do what you want with it. Here's the Warburg effect again, baby. Discovered 1924. Yes, I realized 1931 was a Nobel Prize. 1924, auto Warburg, man. Still the most important thing about cancer to this day. And yet nobody is researching the hell out of that. Normal cells much prefer aerobic metabolism. They use oxygen in their mitochondria to produce the ATP very efficiently. About 30 ATP per glucose molecule. That's, wait till you hear this flip side of this equation. You'll understand why that's a big number. When your cells are ATP depleted or they're beat up or they're metabolically destroyed or damaged or whatever, they switch to anaerobic metabolism, which is essentially fermentation, right? So they produce ATP significantly less efficiently to ATP per glucose molecule. So to understand your 28 loss, that's not good. But here's what happens. Anaerobic metabolism produces something called lactic acid. Obviously acidic. Your cells get stressed, your DNA gets stressed. When your DNA is stressed and your ATP is in the gutter, your cell has only two choices. Option A, I feel like the rock, right? You have option A, option B. What is option B? Pretty much the opposite of option A. Listen, the rundown is probably one of my favorite movies. I friggin' love Dwayne Johnson in that movie. I think DJ is an awesome dude. And what is it, Sean Williams Scott? We all know him as Stiffler, which is hilarious because he's branded for life. He's funny. Christopher Walken, refrigerator. It's such a good movie. Anyway, you gotta watch it. So they have these two options. Option A is repair the damage, which requires massive amounts of ATP. And option B, desperately fighting for survival with broken DNA, which requires significantly less ATP, but a broken cell that's under metabolic duress is always a cancer cell. It comes to cancer cell. It's inevitable. 2022 Nature Cell Biology showed tumor cells arise specifically, listen to this. Excuse me, specifically in regions of chronic hypoxia, which is low oxygen and low ATP availability. That's even better. More specifically, they found that tumor cells had 80%. 80% reduced mitochondrial ATP production compared to normal adjacent tissue. So it's not even someone else. This is adjacent to the very cells that are cancer cells. This is the past year effect. In reverse, your cells can't afford to repair themselves. So they mutate. Cancer is literally the result of ATP starvation. Who's told you that so far? Except Dr. T, if you think I don't care, I don't put this kind of time in for myself. I do it for you because I love you. And I love you enough to tell you the truth and help you. Listen, here's how Red Ritru Tide, and I talked about this earlier. So let me just explain real quick. 2020 Diabetes Care showed that the Red Ritru Tide increases ATP production in muscle cells, 55%. Remember, but here you need to understand what that means for cancer prevention. Watch, more ATP available. Cells can afford to repair their DNA. They can afford to maintain the apoptosis function, the programmed cell death. They can actually maintain it. They can turn it on and off when they need to. Cells don't need to switch to anaerobic metabolism. Cells stay normal when you have ATP. Here's the mechanism. Red Ritru Tide increases, this is such a cool one because you gotta hear this. Listen to me on this. Red Ritru Tide increases mitochondrial biogenesis. So more mitochondria, but it does more. It also improves mitochondrial function. So each mitochondria on itself works better. That's a two X effect, baby. Do you know how cool that is? Listen, let me connect this all very clearly, okay? Watch, and I'll just, I'll bring this home as quickly as I can because I'm looking at it's 44 minutes in. insulin resistance, no, systemic inflammation, NF-Kappa B activation. Cancer promotion genes get turned on. Red Ritru Tide comes in, reduces NF-Kappa B by 70%. You have insulin resistance, high IGF-1 signaling. Cancer cells have a feeding frenzy. It's like putting chum in the water for a shark. Red Ritru Tide comes in, reduces fasting insulin by 50%. You have an ATP shortage. You can't repair DNA along with all the other things. You pop those, all this stuff can't work, right? So cells mutate. Red Ritru Tide comes in, increases ATP production, 55%. You're fixing all three mechanisms at the same damn time. This isn't theoretical, by the way. This is actual biochemistry that they've shown. Watch, 2019, nature reviews, endocrinology, analyzing 47 different studies proved that addressing metabolic dysfunction, the specific ones that I talk about, inflammation, insulin resistance, mitochondrial failure prevents 60% of all cancers. Another way to say that is this. Most cancer is a metabolic disease, not a damn genetic disease. It's not in your genes and your mommy and daddy didn't give it to you. You need to look at the liver, by the way, before I button this up. It's like the linchpin of this entire thing. Because fixing the liver is crucial for cancer prevention. If your liver is screwed, you are gonna have problems. Your liver is the master regulator of all three metabolic failures. And most people won't talk about this either. When your liver is healthy and has good mitochondrial, great, epic, savage mitochondrial function, it clears excess estrogen. Estrogen excess, just so you know, promotes breast cancer, endometrial cancer, prostate cancer, didn't know that, guys, did ya? Healthy liver metabolizes estrogen. A sick liver lets it accumulate. It produces leptin sensitivity. Watch, so liver is the main site of leptin signaling. When your liver is inflamed, leptin resistance sets up camp and hangs out. Leptin resistance promotes cancer growth. 2018 obesity reviews showed leptin resistance increases cancer three times. You guys have to understand this. You guys cherry pick your research, looking for ways to support eating like an idiot and to support taking terrible things. I'm doing this so you actually have the answer, so you can just go, how do I make my biology virtually like a juggernaut? You wanna know what I do in the black card. I turn people into juggernauts and I build their body out of friggin' adamantium and vibranium. That's all I care about. I want you to be able to go home to your wife and your kids or your husband and your kids, or to your kids or your job or whatever it is, and you have the most epic son of a bitch life, F you to everybody else, trying to turn you off life that you possibly can. That's it. I have people dumping their medications left from center because they don't need them. Why would you not wanna do that? I'm just really trying to help you guys. Your liver regulates growth factors. Your liver produces and clears growth factors. I said this before. A damaged fatty liver full of inflammatory cells can't do this. Growth factors accumulate, cancer cells, what do you think they do? They exploit the shit out of this. It controls glucose metabolism. Healthy liver maintains glucose homeostasis, right? It maintains insulin sensitivities. NAFL, NAFLD, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, causes both insulin resistance and systemic hyperglycemia. Hyper, not hypo, hyper. High glucose feeds cancer cells. Remember the Warburg effect again? Just comes walking in all the time. 1924, you just can't get away from that guy because he was right. When red and true tide reverses hepatic steatosis by 50% and then reduces hepatic inflammation, it's not just fixing your liver. It's reestablishing the metabolic HQ that controls whether or not cancer even develops. 1921, hepatology showed that reversing NAFLD reduced hepatocellular carcinoma incidence, 70% over five years, five, it gets even better. It reduced all the other cancers as well. Colon, breast, prostate, pancreatic by 30%. Just that, that's literally just touching the surface. Here's why, because the liver doesn't just prevent liver cancer, it prevents all cancers by maintaining metabolic health. Your body is built for war and it's the most savage machine that exists. You've been taught that it's not. When's the last time you had to think about solving a cut? You didn't, fibrin, fibrinogen, vitamin K, all that stuff just did its job. You didn't have to think, did you? What about your bones repairing? What about all osteoblast activity? Did you ever have to think about that? No, you didn't, snapped the genesis. You never have to think about that. Your body is designed to heal, man. You're being taught that it's like, I need a drug and I need, and if you go, well, don't you need peptides? Peptides are just freaking signals. That's why they can't patent them. That's why they can't get around this and they are trying so hard to get in the way of that because it is taking a normal biological function that you are designed with and just tapping the lever going, hey man, you need to go back to where the way you were when you were 15, where it all worked perfectly. That's all it's doing. Listen, you can go through this all day. Listen, 2019, just listen to this for, just please listen. 2019, nature reviews endocrinology, comprehensive review is the best one I told you this, but they analyzed 47 separate studies and concluded that all, I can't, you guys gotta hear this again and again. Addressing all three metabolic biological failures, all my three biological failures, I'm the one that came up with this. 65% reduction in cancer incidence over 10 years. That's not maybe cancer, you guys. That's a statistical certainty. By the way, the elephant in the room where everybody's, I don't know about those, FDA though is Redditrutide Safe, zero published research studies showing adverse effects of redditrutide that resulted in any serious harm, zero. Not, we found some minor side effects, not some people experienced X and had to discontinue, zero serious adverse events, zero. You can't say that about anything else at all. Here's the thing that makes people very certain people, the people that are belching you for money, the people that are online on social media, making reaction videos to me, people are gonna turn off this heater, it's killing me in here and I'm already lit enough. People that are making reaction videos to my stuff, trying to challenge everything I say and everything I put out. Yet I'm not trying to sell you a thing. Where have I tried to sell you anything in this video? Hey, but if you buy right now, I'll give you a discount code and I don't. Go ahead. You think me putting a link to Elite Biogenics or applying for the black card makes me a salesman? No, you guys keep sending me emails asking me how to join. There you go. How do I work with you? There you go. That's how you wanna work with me? Apply at unlockthecard.com. Mia, my personal executive assistant will handle the whole damn thing and get you set up. The end. Where do I get it? Elite Biogenics. My company. There you go. I don't know what else to tell you, but this is what makes certain people, the people that are trying to steal my stuff or tell you that it's bad, not mine, just in general, and that peptides are unregulated and you should only buy from compounding pharmacies and they're very, very bad if you don't. You guys need to go pounds sand. Here's the problem. Red or true tide is cheap to make. It's highly effective. It addresses the root cause of almost every single damn disease and it's not being marketed as a cancer therapy, which means it's flying under the radar, baby. Cancer industry, 250 billion, give or take. Chemo, radiation, immunotherapy, surgery. Prevention would reduce that market, 80, 90%. Imagine if red or true tide became, just listen, follow me on this, it's just a type of thing. Imagine if red or true tide became standard care for metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes. If it truly prevents cancer at scale, it would eliminate the need for almost every cancer treatment. You know what that changes? The profit equation. Just think about it. Chemotherapy, 150K to 200K per patient, 1,000, 150,000 to 200,000. Radiation therapy, 50,000 to 100,000 minimum per patient. And if you go buy insurance coverage at all, sure. Dumbass, how much are you paying every month on your insurance premiums? Cancer immunotherapy, 100,000 to 200,000 minimum per year. Red or true tide, 500 per month, if that. One prevents cancer for five, six K a year. The other treats it once it shows up for a quarter million dollars per occurrence. The financial incentive is obvious. Follow the money. If you're going to take my videos and make reaction videos, look at who's making the reaction video. I'll help you. The number of reaction videos I've made, zero. I don't care. I don't care. I'm not gonna make a reaction video for somebody making reaction video about me. I just don't follow my money and follow their money and see where it leads. The mechanism is sound of all of this, whether it's read out or my master classes or the information they give you. And the research proves it. Look, let me give you a complete picture of what Reddit true tide does to cancer risk. Just look at the three biological failures. Look at that and then I'll let you out of class early and go play at recess, get your juice box, your high C, whatever it is people have now. Look at failure one, systemic inflammation, right? Causes 20% minimum, 25% of all cancers. Here's how NFCAP would be activation, pro-growth genes suppresses apoptosis, right? And the solution, red true tide walks in, reduces NFCAP would be activation by 70%. Proven, 2020, inflammation research. How about failure two? Do this all day, baby. insulin resistance, right? High insulin, high IGF, cancers have a field day, right? Causes 30% plus of all cancers. So here's how it feeds cancer cells, it activates the P13K, IKT, MTOR pathway, right? Red or true tide comes in and reduces insulin 60%. Hey, Eli Lilly is the one that actually proved that in 2023. The very people that are trying to make sure that you can't get it for less than $1,500 a vial. You guys think they're being altruistic? Look at the ATP shortage, failure three. Low mitochondrial ATP, high ROS, right? Reactive oxygen species punching holes in your cells in your DNA, 35% of all cancers. Here's how it works. Remember what I said, your DNA, your cells can't afford to prepare the DNA. They switch to the Warburg effect, right? Switch to anaerobic metabolism to ATP versus 30 for glucose molecule. And you accumulate all these mutations without the ability to sweep them off. Red or true tide comes in and increases ATP. Production 55% reduces reactive oxygen species by 50%. All proven, 2020 diabetes care, 2021 free radical biology have all proved this stuff. So you want the mathematical reality behind this? You want some numbers? Look at 20% of cancers prevented by fixing inflammation. 30% of cancers prevented by fixing insulin. 35% of cancers prevented by fixing the ATP shortage. 10% overlap between categories, if you wanna look at that. You wanna look at the total cancer prevention? You wanna do some friggin' math? 65% of all cancers? Solve those three. If you had a 65% increase in your paycheck, in your health, in your quality of your marriage, in your fitness, whatever it is, your business revenue, you guys would be all over it like white on rice. But you guys complain instead of going, wow, this guy gave me the answers. And once you read a true tide is a longevity peptide. Stop microdosing it. I don't care who makes a video about that and says, yes, you should. That doesn't follow by chem. That proves somebody who's never, dude, I've seen a million patients. I do this every day. So you can sit there and go, get all this science. I don't care how many PhDs you think you have. If you're challenging that, what are they selling? Not selling anything. I just want you to do it right. Just so you know that 65% pretty much matches the 2019 nature reviews and no chronology analysis showing that simultaneous metabolic intervention prevents 65% of all cancers. So just let the math speak for itself. I understand. The liver is the central organ in cancer prevention and you guys beat it up all day taking medications under the illusion that, you know, Lyrica or Aracept or Naminda or whatever it is, Rynvoke or whatever you guys are taking is making you healthy. It's not, you have to pull your head out of the sand and start looking around and realizing that. The information is here, but it's being suppressed. Your health is aching to work. And it's being shut down by the very things you keep running to and you don't feel well. Look at your liver is 3% about your body weight contains about 15% of your body's blood at any given moment. Just so you know, maybe you didn't know that. Everything that happens metabolically runs through. What do you think? That big brown organ that people have eaten when they were, uh, liver's nasty. Some of you guys like it, but every time my parents made liver it made me want to vomit. It's right up there with eggplant, garbage. But when your liver has good mitochondrial function and low-inferment, implement much. I'll just go, I'll give you a synopsis of this baby. Clear as hormones, healthy liver metabolizes estrogen very efficiently. Estrogen access promotes 40% of female cancers. Liver health equals a solid estrogen balance equals cancer prevention produces metabolic signals, right? The liver produces FGF 21 adipinectin. All these other metabolic hormones that tell cells that everything is okay, you're good. You don't have to do anything crazy. Just grow normally. Don't go nuts. Sick liver, liver can't do that. It controls your blood glucose massively. You guys think it's an insulin issue. It's a liver issue. High glucose is cancer fuel. It's like nitromethane for this thing. Healthy liver maintains glucose about 80 to 100 fasting is about the number you're looking for, by the way. A non-alcoholic fatty liver disease liver loses glucose control and allows hyperglycemia, which if you listen to anything in this podcast is like fuel, it feeds, it's here's the buffet baby. Go ahead, cancer cells go nuts. It clears growth factors, IGF-1, HDF, a parasite growth factor. All the other growth factors that need to be cleared by a healthy liver. This is important. This is how your metabolism works. A fatty inflamed liver can't do this. Growth factors accumulate and cancer cells go, oh, I'm gonna exploit the shit out of this now. 2021 hepatology showed 70% cancer reduction after non-alcoholic fatty liver disease reversal. It was, and it showed that it wasn't just about liver cancer. Listen to me. They showed it wasn't just about liver cancer. They showed it was about reestablishing the metabolic headquarters that controls whether cancer develops anywhere in your biology. When red and true tide reverses hepatic steatosis, it's not a side benefit. It is the foundation of cancer prevention. I don't get anything for this. This is just me giving you information. I need you to get this because it's irrefutable. Every time, let me just touch on this once more. And I know I'm just redundant as hell, but I want you guys to understand this. Every single chronic disease in biology, obesity, diabetes, heart disease, dementia, Alzheimer's, cancer, it doesn't matter what it is. They all share the same three root causes. Systemic inflammation, 20% of all cancers, by the way. insulin resistance, mitochondrial dysfunction rate, cellular glucose insensitivity, 30% of all cancers. ATP shortage, the electron transport chain, inefficiency equals an energy problem. 35% of all cancers. Red and true tide targets all three at the same time. I don't care what you do. I'm giving you a piece of information so you can have something to choose. I don't care if you want to rub some magic root on your eyeball because some shaman said you have to do that and you're in the Amazon. I'm giving you information so you can go, maybe I should try this. Because activating receptors, what red and true tide does, reduces inflammation, 50%, improves mitochondrial function, doors parasympathetic balance, increases mitochondrial biogenesis, 40%, restores insulin sensitivity, 60%, right? Nature reviews endocrinology, 2022 proved that. It boosts ATP production, 55%, 2020 diabetes care. I could do this all damn day. It mobilizes metabolic resources. It activates all the cellular cleanup, even autophagy. It triggers mitochondrial renovation. The evidence is irrefutable. The mathematical reality is this, cancer isn't magic, it's biochemistry. Bad biochemistry for long enough equals cancer. And that's why I get so worked up with this. The three biological failure model that I came up with explains 65%, honestly, I'm gonna go past the research, purely anecdotal and I'll just say it, explains 100% of all cancers, all human cancers. But 2019 nature reviews endocrinology and analyzed 47 separate studies and proved that it at least explains 65%. I think I'm bad, 1,000 baby. Because redditruetide reverses all three of those failures at the same time. It addresses the root cause of cancer. Here's the truth, they don't really want you to know. The greatest medicine isn't a pill, it's not chemotherapy, it's not radiation, it's not surgery, it's what prevents it. That's the greatest medicine. Restoring metabolic function, however you do it does exactly that. Whether it's reddit or motC or a great diet or going for a walk every day or having a great marriage and all the things that you need to do and not eating like an imbecile and not conducting yourself like a toddler and not spending your day in Instagram, hating on people that are doing life better than you or hating on people out here trying to freaking help you. Redditruetide doesn't just make you lose weight, it doesn't just improve your diabetes, it literally restores the three fundamental biological systems that determine whether your cells even become cancerous or not. It fixes systemic inflammation, stores insulin sensitivity and it pretty much resurrects your busted, tired, old mitochondria so you get some ATP. These aren't vague improvements, these are very specific, very measurable and they're documented improvements that directly correlate with cancer prevention across thousands and thousands of peer reviewed studies. I don't understand, this is for you. I've been through this hell, I've been through cancer, I've laid in a bed, looked at my wife and felt like a failure. I've had an oxygen machine burbling and bubbling away in our bedroom, the tube to the cannula was like 40 feet long. I'd have to hyperventilate before I went out to the gym and never missed a workout. I did that as my wife would run out down the tiles or down the slate tile with the machine and then plug it in and give me the cannula so I wouldn't pass out in the garage, my gym. You guys, honestly, if you're coming out here just to throw hate or shade or anything, you're ignorant. If you're coming out here to go, how do I better my life? I don't understand the former, I've been on the other side and I promise you this, you'll worry about everything and anything and you'll concern yourself with somebody's opinions and whether or not your post got enough likes and whether your mommy loved you enough or your daddy didn't spank you enough. Now you're an idiot, because we can all tell, by the way, just so you know, and you don't have a work ethic or you do or your business isn't making the money, whatever you think about, all these crazy problems and why you don't like what the herty words are that are being said on CNN or whatever until you get deathly ill and then you only have one problem, one, and you don't care about anything else other than getting better. I know, so maybe take what I'm telling you seriously because I'm giving you things that like, your health is, it improves when you stop treating symptoms and you start treating causes, you reverse everything. This is what happens when you understand that disease isn't random, it's the inevitable result of metabolic failure. This is what happens when you give your body the hormonal signals that say your metabolism is restored, it's okay, your cells are protected, you're gonna be all right, human body, you're gonna be all right, and your body believes you and it becomes true. That's what real health is, that's what being a real doctor is. When I see patients and clients, that's what I do. I make sure your biology believes you again. Anyway, I gotta go, never miss.

=== FILE: Reversing ADHD - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [oDOXQa4Xz3U].txt ===

 man. Sometimes I sit down here and I think about the disaster of managed decline in the current model of healthcare. There's no such thing. There's banking and they label it as healthcare. You know what people do? They're crooked, they're shady, they lie, they weaponize the legal system, they weaponize the pharmaceutical system, they weaponize the banking system for their own gain instead of just actually being a good, frigate person. It's the world we live in right now. It's unreal. Today, just so you know what it is, today is ADHD and ADD, by the way, and exactly how to handle it. What to do about it from beginning to end, like soup to nuts, everything you need to know about it. I don't care what age you are. I don't care. Sorry, my mustache is itching the heck out of me. It doesn't matter where you are on some spectrum. It doesn't matter what drugs you're on. You want to watch this. Listen, ADHD, it's the current model of ADHD, the current medical model of ADHD. It's a lie. It is a bald face lie. I said it yesterday. It's destroying a generation. God, I have a friend of mine. She slapped her son on so much on medication and then went, well, but he doesn't function well when he's not on the medication. But the medication isn't solving the problem. It never has. And all you did was screw up your son. I remember this nightmare and it wasn't the kid's fault. It's the mom's fault. It's the mom's fault. We were at a party, a pool party, and I'll never forget. I was just sitting there looking at Brandy going, is this for real? And I remember her telling Brandy, yeah, but when I take him off his medication, he's just too difficult to handle. You know what the problem is? This is the problem with you. This actually aggravates me. The problem is this. You teachers and you parents, you want to slow children down. And I'm not saying that's what ADHD is. There's a real problem here, but I'll tell you how to fix it. But you want to slow them down to your slow, sloth, tortoise-ass level, because you can't handle the energy that they have. And you think that being active and lit up is abnormal. All I did all the time when I was a kid was move and run and talk and read and function. I have never slowed down. That's normal. You ever watch Animals in the Wild? You watch Animals in the Wild and they climb all over Mama Bear or Mama Lion until Mama Lion goes, smacks the kid with a paw. Problem solved. You guys aren't hard enough on your kids and just so you know, we can all tell. We can all tell. You're destroying your future, your children's future, because and I'm just, I'm not even talking about children, even adults. I'm on ADHD medication. I'm 42. Okay, then you need to hear this because the problem is somebody convinced you that you are having an issue because of a lack of a chemical, not because of a biological interruption. And I'm not being like dramatic about this. I'm being empirical. Over 10 million Americans are on ADHD medication right now and that number is climbing rapidly. Here's the insane part. Almost nobody even understands what the hell ADHD even is. They think it's a disorder of attention. No, no, it's not. That's not even close. ADHD is a systems failure that manifests as attention problems. Once you understand the actual biology, not the pharmaceutical marketing disguised as neuroscience, everything changes. So buckle up, baby, because I'm as lit as it gets today and I'm hungry. So I'm cranky. Let me ask you this. What do your neurons need to fire? Just common sense. What do your neurons need to fire? Man, they need fuel, energy, specifically ATP, adenosine triphosphate. God, I have, I go so hard into the pain because I, because stop screwing up your kids. Stop jabbing them, poking them, covering them in meds, shoving things down their throat, making them sick because you can't be a better parent because you can't be a good doctor because you're too busy being a pharmaceutical rep, whether you are a parent, a teacher or a doctor. I don't care. I don't care. There's no such thing as bad kids. There are bad parents. There are bad doctors. There are bad leaders. ATP, that's what your cells need to fire, specifically neurons. This is a currency of your cells. Your mitochondria, a manufacturer, and your neurons burn through it like a Tesla sitting at a target charging station. But here's the problem with ADHD. The dopaminergic system, the part of your brain that creates motivation, focus and executive function, requires more ATP than any other neural circuit. Volco proved that in 1998, Journal of Attention Disorders. When you have ADHD, your prefrontal cortex and your anterior cingulate cortex are essentially under fuel. They're gasping for adenosine triphosphate. The neurons are literally struggling to maintain resting membrane potential. And when they can't do that efficiently, they freak out. Attention collapses. But here's where it gets interesting. Your brain is incredibly intelligent. Biology is so smart, it's smarter than you. When it realizes that it's ATP-starved, follow me. It upregulates dopamine sensitivity in the striatum, the reward center. It's literally trying to compensate by making seeking behavior more rewarding. This is why people with ADHD are ultra focused on stimulating activities, but can't keep their attention if their life depended on it on boring tasks. It's not laziness at all. It's not a problem. It's an adaptive neurobiology responding to an energy scarcity. The dopamine system is screaming, we need more stimulation to survive. The entire thing is predicated on this. Now look, I got a touch on this because people use these interchangeably and they're not. Just follow me. They're two wings on the same plane is how you want to do this, but they're not interchangeable. ADD versus ADHD. People always ask me, what's the difference? Here's the thing. Same, I hate using this word disease, same biological issue, different presentations, which means there's different issues that need to be addressed. ADD, attention deficit disorder, is the inattentive presentation. Your brain is so ATP depleted that it can't generate the energy for the seeking behavior I just talked about. You've just, you got nothing in the tank. You're the person who can't focus at all, but you don't bounce off the walls either. ADHD is the hyperactive presentation. It's what happens when your dopamine system is desperately up regulating in response to that same ATP shortage, which is what I was talking about. Hyper focused on stimulating, you look like you're bored when it's not, but that's not the problem. Sorry, I had to drink some coffee. That is bad coffee today. You're bouncing off the walls because you're hungry for stimulation because your brain is energy starved and trying to compensate. Me12, Nature Reviews, Neuroscience, Thorn, explain this entire thing, but same root cause, different compensation mechanisms, same disease. Here's where most people, if not everybody, especially on social media, they think ADHD is a brain thing. No, it's not. It is a systems thing. Listen, ADHD affects, let me list these so you get them because you might want to write these down, the nervous system, your endocrine system, your gastrointestinal system, your immune system, and your metabolic system. It is a full body disease masquerading as an attention disorder. So look, start with a with a nervous system, their neurological system, because this is where the magic all happens. In ADHD brains, the anterior cingulate cortex, your error detection center, the, hold on, man, time out, something's wrong, alarm is reduced. It's the activation is so reduced, which means you're literally missing feedback. Your brain isn't catching its own mistakes in real time, so it can't do anything about it. The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the executive function, CEO of your brain is, has decreased dopamine D2 receptor binding. That means plain English, the receptors that catch dopamine, fewer, less efficient. That's it. You can't, it's like catching water. I use this in my podcast, it's like catching water with a colander full of holes, like it's a screen, you can't do it. But here's the critical part. All of this stems from an ATP production failure, because guess what synthesizes neurotransmitters, you guys, the mitochondria, guess what runs the sodium potassium ATPase pumps that maintain membrane potential ATP. What do you think powers, vesicular transporters that recycle dopamine? I'll give you a shot, three letters, A, T, P. The entire neurological dysfunction is it's secondary to energy failure. Look at the GI trait, the GI system, because this is where the gastrointestinal, right? This is where it gets really wild. Your gut doesn't just process food. Your gut is synthesizing almost all of your serotonin. It's producing short chain fatty acids that cross the blood brain barrier. It's housing your microbiome, which manufactures B vitamins, produces neurotransmitter precursors. It regulates your entire immune tone. In ADHD patients, the microbiome is dysbiotic. The ratios are all wrong. Beneficial bacteria are depleted and pathogenic bacteria overgrow like crazy. This means, just so you understand, here's what happens. Less butyrate production, which means less fuel for enterocytes, which means there's a leaky gut and the bacterial lipopolysaccharides, those fragments cross into that nice clean bloodstream and you have an immunological response and chronic systemic inflammation. Less B vitamin synthesis means less dopamine and serotonin precursors. No, you can't just take handfuls of B vitamins. It's not going to solve this. Disregulated immune signals, which is going to give you chronic, right? It equals chronic low grade systemic inflammation. Your gut is literally failing to support brain health. And the endocrine system, this is a system that regulates hormones. This is where the energy crisis becomes completely systemic. The cortisol, stress hormone. It's regulated in ADHD on astronomical levels. Your hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, the HPA axis is stuck on partial 49.6% activation. It's like your gas pedal is stuck, but it's only stuck halfway down. But here's the problem with that. Causes chronically, it causes the chronically elevated cortisol, causes thyroid suppression, function size, thyroid function suppression, increases insulin resistance, increases neuroinflammatory response. It damages mitochondrial membrane, so it punches holes in it. Your thyroid is often low, which means your metabolic rate tanks. Watch why this is so important, which means even less ATP is being produced. Make it make sense. Follow me. I was going to go over the treatments and SSRIs is my favorite one. What are you like, amphetamines for a child? Are you out of your mind? I'll get to that in a minute because this makes me so angry because the kids need a shot and you are their best shot to get to the greatest life possible. Some of you guys just aren't doing it. And I partly don't blame you because of the misinformation out there. I got nothing to gain. Listen, I'll help you out. I run a program called the black card. It is one year where you get access to my live Q&A call. I do every Monday at five. I'm just east of Dallas. You figure out what time zone you're in. You get access to the VIP community where you can actually ask me questions and I'll actually get back to you. Whatever you send me, labs, ICE, X-rays, CT scans, CT scans, or PET scans, or CT scans. It doesn't matter what you send me. I'll help you. That's my job. 24 to 72 hour turnaround time is about the average that I have. Sometimes cases are a little more complex, but I'll give you all I got. You get access to the protocol's library. You actually have someone on demand that will help you. $9997 by wire transfer only. If you want to do it, you send me my kick butt executive assistant, apply at unlockthecard.com. She'll get you all set up. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? My company, knock yourself out. We're the ones that sell all the stuff if you keep looking at the links. Everything you keep asking for, that's part of what I'm going to talk about. If you buy great, if you don't great, if you join great, if you don't great, I'm still here. I've been out here for over a year knocking out content to help you. I do it for free and I still get some of you knuckleheads. Trash talking me like a troll in my comments. Make it make sense. There should be nobody giving me a thumbs down just so you know, because only people that are toddlers go, I don't like this guy. I don't like his attitude. I don't like what he's saying. He says something that's contradictory. I don't like it here. It might use hoody words. Maybe you just grow up and act like an adult and take the advice and do something about your life or don't and then shut up and move on. I've never given anyone a thumbs down. Why? Because I just can't be bothered. I'm too busy doing other things in my life. I come out here and I give you the answer for free, for free. You know what's going to happen? One day you're getting into the solution. You're going to send me an answer and get some of you guys in the comments probably are the ones where you send emails. I get flooded by emails and you get pissed off when my assistant doesn't give you the answer. Number one, because it's illegal. And number two, because this is my livelihood. And number three is because it's usually more in depth than just going, here's the dosage for this. There's so much more going on. I solve biological problems and I'm exceptional at it. In fact, I'll take it this far. I'm the best at it. Because it's the only thing I ever do. I do it because I care. I do it because I want you to win. I do it because I want your biology to be indestructible. I want you to be a juggernaut. But in order to do that, you need to listen to what I tell you to do. I'm going to be 53 next month. I'm going to tell you right now, I'm kicking ass and taking names by the grace of God and my incredible wife and children. That's why, and I come out here and share everything with you so you can do the same thing. Look at your growth hormone in ADHD. Before I go off on this, I'm already 15 minutes in. It's destroyed. It's suppressed, which means less neuroplasticity, less oligodendrocyte functions, myelin repair, less neuro protection. And your sex hormones, testosterone, amen, estrogen, and women are so dysregulated. Both are neuroprotective. Both support mitochondrial function. Both regulate dopamine sensitivity. When they're low, everything gets worse. So you've got an endocrine system in chaos driving an energy crisis. Look at the immune system. This one's even more critical. Look at this. ADHD is not an autoimmune disease. It is an immune tone disorder. Okay. The microglial cells, your brain's immune cells are in a pro-inflammatory state, dumping TNF alpha, IL-6, IL-1 beta. They're microglia-activating. Okay. That's the problem, is they're self-propagating, making it worse. But this inflammation damages the very mitochondria that are already struggling to produce the ATP that you're already short on. It's this vicious cycle. Now you see the problem, right? In flame brain, mitochondrial damage, less ATP, more inflammation, more immune activation, more inflammation, less like it just keeps getting worse and worse. So it's this ugly downward spiral. Look at the blood brain barrier is compromised. Peripheral immune molecules are crossing into the brain. Go back to the leaky gut that I was talking about. The complement systems are activated. Now you're fighting a war inside of your own skull that you don't even know is happening. And there's the cognitive decline piece, the thing that nobody even talks about. Listen, this is a nightmare. ADHD more than doubles your risk of dementia and cognitive decline. Why? Yeah, it's proven by the way. Yet JAMA Psychiatry 2015 proved that before somebody's, I don't know, that sounds pretty much like hearsay. I don't care if you buy my stuff. I'm trying to give you the answer so you don't have a problem later in life. Here's why it's because of chronic neuroinflammation, chronic ATP shortage and chronic mitochondrial dysfunction are literally the mechanisms of neurodegenerative disease. ADHD essentially accelerated neurodegeneration in a very young brain. The same pathology, mitochondrial dysfunction, ATP failure, metabolic crisis, inflammation drives AD dementia, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, depression, by the way, same disease, same disease, just different stages of where this all is. That's all this is. Never mind. Today I did rosacea and you'll see it on social media. Rosacea and lupus, it's the same disease, just different present or different stages of the disease. Listen, I'm going to show you something here that ADHD is not unique. It's a manifestation of the three biological failures that underlie every single disease. It's going to make your brain explode. Look at systemic inflammation. AD, ADHD patients, C-reactive protein is elevated. Plasmacytokines are high. The inflammatory tone is chronically through the roof. If you had to, it's worse than a hot element, but the inflammation comes from dysbiotic gut, which means bacterial lipopolysaccharides crossing the gut barrier, oxidative stress. So damaged cellular components triggering the immune activation, mitochondrial dysfunction, damaged mitochondrial DNA, triggering TLR9 and NLRP3, inflammatory activation, all of these things are a result of the inflammation. So now your brain is on fire at the microscopic level. Look at the insulin resistance. This is one of the shocks people. I think it's so blown away, they're going, I'm not diabetic because here's why ADHD patients show higher rates of insulin resistance. Their metabolic syndrome rates are higher. Their obesity rates are higher. Why? Because here, follow me, just follow the path of biology. It's all you got to do. When your mitochondria are dysfunctional, glucose can't, it's not possible, can't be efficiently converted into ATP. Your cells are glucose resistant. Your pancreas responds, right, cranks up insulin production. Your insulin signaling becomes dysregulated and your cells go deaf. And here's the killer. insulin is required for normal dopamine function. It up regulates dopamine D2 receptors. It facilitates dopamine synthesis. So when you're insulin resistant, you're dopamine resistant. Uh-oh. So insulin resistance, dopamine dysfunction, what do you think happens to ADHD? Yeah, it gets worse. Look at the mitochondrial problem, the ATP shortage. This is the root cause of all of this stuff. That's why I said this. It's an energy problem that is primary. So your mitochondria aren't making enough energy, ATP. Why? Because they're dysfunctional, right? Yeah, electron transport, change, genetic variance, oxidative damage, lifestyles, bad decisions. There's a bunch of things that happen to this. But here's the, we'll go deeper into this. So insufficient substrate availability, this is a big one. Poor nutrition, look at the diet. It's disgusting. Spoonfuls and Nutella is not a diet that's not healthy. Well, but it's just once in a while. Little Timmy likes Coca-Cola in his lunch. He's in the third grade. So poor nutrition, poor carbohydrate and fat metabolism because of insulin resistance, mitochondrial DNA damage from oxidative stress and inflammation, paired mitochondrial biogenesis. So now you have reduced PGC1-alpha activity, which causes mitochondrial biogenesis, makes more power plants. The results are your energy is non-existent. Your cells are starving for fuel. And your brain, which is 2% of your body weight, but consumes, if you remember, 20% of your ATP, it's the first thing to go tits up. All right. Look at the common medications for ADHD. I'm about ready to rupture your brain because they are biochemical disasters. First of all, stimulants, I said, I was talking about amphetamines. You know that they're illegal if you go buy it at a club, right? I can't even get this through people's heads. They're like, they're not that bad. Here's what they do. They force your dopamine system to work harder despite the ATP shortage. This is important. They block dopamine reuptake. They increase dopamine release. They essentially whip a horse that's already dying and say, run faster. Okay. The problem with that is, is that the dopamine system is already exhausted. It's already operating at the skinny pedals on the floor. It's trying to compensate for the ATP shortage, remember? And now you're forcing it to work even harder. The side effects aren't bugs. They're not, oops, is their features of your neurochemistry breaking under the load. Remember what I said, the difference between a peptide and a drug, this is very important. Peptides tell your body to do something it already knows how to do and won't break your homeostasis. It can't. There's a hard line there. A drug is a wrecking ball that comes in and says, I don't care where your hard line is. You're going to do it anyway, which is why the number of deaths by peptide are zero. The number of deaths, ADRs, adverse drug reactions, in the millions that we know about, probably more like tens of millions. Look at, these are the side effects of amphetamines because this is freaky to me. If I was like a husband or wife and looking at my husband or wife, this would just be insane. Cardiovascular stress, your autonomic nervous system is overstimulated, driving a heart rate and blood pressure. The catecholamine surge damages your endothelium, the lining on the inside of your vessels. Look at the neurotoxicity, the excess dopamine oxidizes in the synapse, the gap creating free radicals, the damage mitochondria and your DNA. You're literally accumulating more mitochondrial damage by taking the drug. The tolerance is unreal. Your dopamine system down regulates, you need more drug, your baseline dopamine gets worse. Sleep is catastrophic, you're suppressing melatonin and revving up your sympathetic nervous system, your mitochondria aren't recovering at night, so now there's no regen, your appetite gets suppressed, you're blocking proper nutrient intake, making your ATP shortage even worse. What you're not going to hear from your doctor, stimulants accelerate neuro degeneration. 2004, progress in neuropsychopharmacology and biological psychiatry. The Giano proved this, they increase oxidative stress, they damage the very mitochondria that need to be repaired, they accelerate you going down the dementia road, which is already where you're headed. You guys got to understand this, you're treating the symptom by making the disease worse. And this mom that I talked about at the beginning, she's a hot mess, she's a whole whole life as a train wreck, but she's poisoning her son, probably ruined his future, that's going to have to be unwound, but he might never know. That concerns me. Look at things like stratera, adenoxetine, blocks norepinephrine, it's supposed to be the safe option, but it's like the nuclear option, here's the problem, norepinephrine dysfunction is downstream of dopamine dysfunction in ADHD. Whoops, listen, just follow me, right, because it blocks norepinephrine reuptake, except that's down the line. You still have, that's like the dam is here blocking all the water, and you're trying to get water from the creek that's blocked, doesn't make sense. You're treating the second order problem while ignoring the first order problem. Plus, it's a hepatoxysities, your liver's getting beat up, orthostatic hypotension, your cardiovascular system is dysregulated, you stand up and fall down, sexual dysfunction, I realize for children that it doesn't matter, better not matter, better not, but adults forget it, you're messing with your endocrine system and mood problems, you're unbalancing your entire neurochemical state. Listen, you're screwing with brain chemistry, that freaks me out, that freaks me out a lot, and it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, the effect sizes are even smaller than stimulants, less than 5%, it doesn't work. So if you're giving that to somebody or you're taking it yourself, understand whatever you're getting is a placebo, or it's a no-ceba result, it doesn't do anything. It doesn't work, you're taking a drug that's slightly safer, but less effective for addressing something that it fundamentally cannot fix. Look at SSRIs, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, these are wild, so when doctors are desperate and imbeciles, and they get asked to avoid stimulants for little Johnny, they use SSRIs, this is insane. ADHD isn't a serotonin problem, it's a dopamine problem, you're treating the wrong neurotransmitter system, man, it makes sense. How do you guys not look at the FDA and Big Pharma, and 95% of the doctors, all the medical doctors coming out of medical school right now, just going, you guys are all idiots, my grandmother knew more about me, a medical doctor, and helping people, than I would say almost all the medical doctors that have graduated in the last 10 years, or anybody coming out right now, and not to be insulting, before you get your ego, you get your dick all tied in a knot, it's because she had to be. Any of our grandparents generally knew more about keeping people healthy, because the information wasn't hidden, ghosted, or deemed dangerous, you know, it's dangerous, her medical system. Look at the side effects of SSRIs, sexual dysfunction, case serotonin suppresses dopamine in the Meso-Olympic pathway, emotional blunting, anodonia, you're suppressing motivation itself, this is a problem, weight gain, when you're dysregulating appetite, the signaling problem, you get fat withdrawal effects, your nervous system becomes insanely dependent, I told you about my patient that came in and spilled coffee on himself, right, because all of a sudden he had, he didn't take his paxil, it was, we couldn't figure it out until I went, oh dude, he goes, yeah, I missed two days, I just hadn't filled my prescription, he got back on it, everything was fine, and that was when he said I'm weaning myself off, he said I'm freaked out about that, as well as he should, because he's a good man, look at serotonin syndrome, creating neurochemical chaos, listen, I'm trying to help you because I love you, you guys, here's the most insidious part about this entire thing, worse than ADHD symptoms because they suppress dopamine activity, okay, by the way, that was Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, and this was in 1999, that is 27 years ago, that Osterheld proved that, see, this is the stuff that you're never going to find, and eventually I'm telling you right now, you probably want to take all the research that I have, put it in a little file somewhere, and keep it under your mattress, hand written, not on a digital file, because eventually stuff will be impossible to get, you have no idea how much time and effort and energy I've put in, making sure that you guys have the information, because I actually give a crap about you, listen, here's where I'll blow your mind, ADHD is 100%, reversible 100%, not manageable or treatable, it's reversible, it's not a genetic destiny, it didn't come from your mom or dad, it's not some dominant or recessive allele, it's a biological state, mitochondria recover, ATP production normalizes, inflammation absolutely solvable, it has a resolution, your endocrine system can rebalance, we've proven that, I don't know how many times, look at birth control pills, look, it's just, it is easy, okay, your microbiome, the gut bacteria can regenerate, neurons aren't dead, they're not dead, they're starving, feed them, heal them, restore them, there's your paradigm shift, okay, look at neuroplasticity, your brain's ability to rewire itself is driven by BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF is produced by neurons that are healthy, active, and ATP replete, okay, when you restore mitochondrial function, you restore BDNF function and production, when you reduce inflammation, you remove the break on neuroplasticity, when you restore dopamine, receptor density, you restore the signal to noise ratio in the dopaminergic system, your brain wants to rewire itself, you just have to stop poisoning it and start refeeding the system, listen, I'll go over everything because I've been, everybody asks me for this stuff and I try to do it without getting censored, that's the problem, if you want, I can't even say it, if you want more depth on a protocol, I'm gonna start putting them on rumble or just join the black card because then it's not generic and it's not a plug, it's the tell, tell you the truth, you guys will spend more money on your truck than you will on your health until your health is the only thing you've got left, and then you'll sell everything you own, why wait, don't wait for a catastrophe, please don't, take care of yourself now, man, really, I will explain things molecule by molecule, why they work synergistically, look, so look at Cmax, okay, heptapeptide, 7 amino acids, very basic, it's been studied so much in Russia and it is probably one of the coolest things ever, I actually, just to be very transparent, I actually started Cmax today, I want to see what happens, so here's what it does, it increases BDNF expression, it reduces neuroinflammatory, I talked about brain drive, neurotrophic factor, it's like miracle growth for your brain, remember what I talked about the brain in an ADHD and ADA, ADD percent, okay, so it reduces neuroinflammation, it enhances ATP production in mitochondria, protects dopamine neurons from oxidative stress, more specifically, let's get into a little bit of the detail, it up regulates NGF nerve growth factor, activates CREB, cyclic AMP response element binding protein, I'm trying not to get too heavy into biochemistry, but please, I want you to understand this, increases cerebral blood flow, which means more oxygen, more glucose delivery to what? The struggling neurons that are desperate for the fuel, it's like giving your neurons hyper oxygen masks after they've been suffocating, they just go, thank god, BPC-157, this stuff, not just a gut barrier, it repairs tight junctions all over your entire body, skin, gut, brain, increases tight junction protein expression everywhere, increases nitric oxide production, so the vascular system can work properly, because now it reduces inflammation and improves vascular function, but here's why this matters in ADHD, your gut barrier is leaky, your blood brain barrier is leaky, bacterial lipopolysaccharides and immune stimulants crossing to the blood stream, triggering systemic inflammation, triggering brain inflammation, BPC-157 seals up that barrier, look at, you know what else it does, this is really great, you're gonna love this, buckle up, I want to land this plane on this, because it's so good, actually screw it, I'm just gonna keep on going, because I'm having fun, BPC-157 enhances dopamine and serotonin signaling, so it increases GDNF, glial cell derived neurotrophic factor, it reduces gliosis and microglial activation, the little immune cells in your brain that become serial killers when they get inflamed, it's fixing the source of the inflammation while also nourishing the dopamine system, look at cerebrolysin, okay, by the way, I had somebody make a comment, they made a Reddit post about how some places, these gypsy places are selling cerebrolysin that it can only come in a liquid, it cannot be a powder, my lab spent almost 100 days trying to figure out how to leophilize cerebrolysin, Genocik tests the crap out of everything, it is the gold standard, so that Muppet Online that was saying, RBPC is fake, Genocik, good luck, good luck, it is a gold industry standard company for everything out there, so save your breath man with your stupidity, did the same thing to some of our competitors too, said their COAs are garbage, this is just an idiot, so the point is that cerebrolysin is real, if I wouldn't give it for my, and I don't ask for it, trust me bro, just look at the COAs, but if I wouldn't give it to my wife or kids or myself, I'm sure it's hell not going to give it to you, like I pulled semi-glutide and terzepatide off my site, any monkey can get it, any lab can make it, I know it's garbage, so I'm not selling it, just like nasal sprays, not selling them, not because my lab can't do it, they don't work, I'm not selling you bunk, I'm not in this to make billions of dollars, I'm in this to give you this solution so your health is solid, same reason why I don't put oral peptides or bioregulators out there, because they're bunk, I don't care who sells them, I don't care who-  who goes out on social media and says, I saw that this is, this one pseudo doctor. Listen, I've forgotten more than most doctors will ever learn because I've devoted my entire life to making sure that you guys get all the information. What you do with it is, that's your move, man. Don't be fooled that just because I'm gritty and I have calluses on my hands and I have a beard and a ball head and tattoos that I don't understand biology better than anybody else on the planet. I'm here because I care. And the people that actually do that on social media, few and far between, if any other than me. So listen to me, reburlycin, this is part of this and yes, it can be liaferlized. The only reason people say that is because it's almost impossible to get and it's almost impossible to have a lab with intelligent enough people that can figure out how to do it, like me. So here's the deal with reburlycin. Contains neurotrophic factors, it protects against excitotoxicity, enhances mitochondrial function, but specifically here's how it works. It increases ATP production, reduces oxidative stress, promotes myelin formation, the lego dendrocytes kick in the nuclear speed, increases synaptic plasticity. It's literally feeding your neurons, the building blocks, the peptides, the amino acids, and everything required to survive, repair and grow. That's why, listen, I got nothing against dihexia, I got nothing against C-max. They just can't even come close to cerebrolysin because it does all the things, not just one thing. That's why I'm telling you this. Tessafencine, yep, you're gonna say, what isn't that for appetite? No, the byproduct is it controls appetite if you're an emotional eater, but it's not for appetite. Okay, monomine reuptake inhibitor, dopamine serotonin and norepinephrine. That's 2008 molecular psychiatry, if you wanna look it all up. Here's the critical difference from traditional stimulants. And remember I said, the stimulants are bad, they are. But Tessafencine has neuroprotective aspects too. It increases GDNF expression, it reduces apoptosis, programmed cell death. It doesn't just force your dopamine system to work harder, it protects it, right, it protects it while optimizing the signaling that's missing. It's a reuptake inhibitor that doesn't destroy you because you're running on repaired nervous system with adequate ATP, restored function, reduced inflammatory response, and you have active neuroplasticity. Nevermind the insulin sensitivity that comes back. That's why this is more effective. Besides it's not gonna hit you like an amphetamine anyway. Alpha GPC, this is a choline precursor. Here's what it does. It crosses the blood brain barrier so your neurons use it to synthesize phosphatidylcholine. It's a critical component of neuronal membranes. Your brain uses it to synthesize acetylcholine, the neurotransmitter of attention and memory. So buckle up, follow me with this. Alpha GPC increases growth hormone secretion. Remember I told you it's tanked, improves mitochondrial membrane fluidity, much better, more fluid membrane, more function, right? It's not rigid. It increases the efficiency of your ETC, your electron transport chain, which means what happens to ATP? It goes up. It's rebuilding your neuronal infrastructure while supporting the attention neurotransmission required. Anorazotam, oxyrazotam. I was gonna say phenylprasotam hydrazide, but you don't need that. Anorazotam, oxyrazotam. They're neurotropic compounds called rastotams. What they do is they increase cell membrane fluidity, right? Just like I said, just like I said about alpha GPC, they enhance mitochondrial function. They increase ATP production. They up-regulate AMPA receptor expression and trafficking. Excuse me, specifically for ADHD, here's how it works. They enhance dopamine receptor signaling. They increase the plasticity of the receptor, the synaptic plasticity. They reduce oxidative stress and they protect against excitotoxicity, which is trashing your neurons. They're optimizing your neurochemistry while at the same time building energy capacity. So alpha seven nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism. If you're looking at my screen, you need to see what I'm holding up. N-I-C-O-T-I-N-E. Why? Because it is so heavily censored that every time I say it, they don't even bother to pull a sentence. They just strip the video. So I know people go, isn't that stuff bad for you? Aren't they addictive? No, no, look at chemically. And so maybe I could just get away with saying it this way. I guess we'll find out. Nicotin is a neurotropic. It's an acetylcholine agonist. It activates nicotinic acetylcholine receptors throughout your brain. Here's why alpha seven nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism works in ADHD. It directly stimulates dopamine neurons while promoting neuroplasticity and repair. So it's solving both the problems. The key is dose and delivery. It's why things like these patches, steady activation without the giant bolus that causes the addiction. That's why. And I'll just leave it like that. The rest is gonna be in the research. It'll be somewhere on my, it's free. What are you complaining about, you guys? Listen, here's where this all, let me just button this all up because 40 minutes in and I'm hungry. You're not just taking all these compounds. You're running a systems recovery protocol. Watch, BPC-157 and C-Max are healing the gut barrier, reducing systemic inflammation that removes the primary driver of the microglial activation right there on the spot. Cerebral lice and LVGPC, aniracetam. What was the other one? I said oxyracetam, providing the energy substrates in membrane building blocks your starving neurons need. Tessafencine and the alpha seven nicotinic receptor, alpha seven nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism are optimizing dopaminergic signaling while very critically running on a repaired system with adequate energy. And by the way, and C-Max, here's another part, C-Max is cranking up BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor which triggers neuroplasticity. Your brain is actually rewiring itself. So here's the result. You're not standing on the skinny pedal, forcing a broken system to work hard or waiting for it to implode. You're rebuilding the system while supporting it. This is why the side effect profile is zero compared to all of the traditional medications, all of them. You're not toxifying a sick system. Please, you guys gotta understand this. I take what I do very seriously. You're healing a system. Listen, ADHD, ADD, they're not disorders of attention. It's not a dopamine deficiency. It's not a genetic problem. It is a system-wide catastrophic failure. Your mitochondria are starving. The gut is leaking. Your immune system is on fire. Your endocrine system is dysregulated and your neurons are dying. And then you're told the solution is to force your dopamine system to work harder while you're literally poisoning your mitochondria. Make it make sense. That's insane. That doesn't even work. Look at the real solution to all of this. And this goes for all diseases. But for this one specifically, is to recognize that ADHD is what it is. It's a biological state that comes from three fundamental biological failures. Inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, like every other disease. Where is my Nobel Prize? Because I've solved all disease because God gave me the information and I'm giving it to you for free. You address those three things. You rebuild your mitochondria. Healed the gut. Shut down the fire. Rebalance your endocrine system. You restore neuroplasticity. Then you optimize dopaminergic signaling on a repaired neurochemical substrate. That's when the magic happens. Listen, I have dealt with thousands and, I've seen over a million patients, but I've dealt with thousands and thousands of people and watched them reverse ADHD, not managed, reversed. Completely off meds, completely restored function, better than baseline. And it's not because I discovered some magic compound and some secret. It's because I ask the right question. I don't ask, how do I force the brain to work? I ask, what does the brain actually need to work? And the answer is always the same. You'll find that you can answer it for me. Biology, always biology. It's always the answer. Your brain isn't broken. It's just starving. Everything it needs properly. Heal it completely. Watch what happens. It's that simple. Anyway, I gotta go. Hope you got something out of this. Never miss.

=== FILE: Reversing Dementia (from beginning to end) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [ChgQnEa-l8c].txt ===

 so funny because right now it's, we have this winter storm here in Texas, I'm just east of Dallas, and I grew up and spent a lot of years in Winnipeg. I would walk to school kindergarten, I don't know, maybe half a mile, and I realized it's the upward uphill, broken glass, snow, but I did, I'd walk probably about a half mile to kindergarten and I was four years old, five. It's just normal, people here are freaking out, the whole town is locked down, everything. Nobody's out, the people are terrified, they were panicked buying, it's just a weird world, people are incredibly fragile. Anyway, I'm gonna solve dementia today, how about that? How about this, how about I just, I hate to use this word because no doctor anytime, anywhere, cured anybody of anything, but I'll give you the solution to dementia, and this isn't less, if you are late-stage, massive neuronal collapse, anything like that, then this is probably not for you, but if you are mild to moderate dementia, fully reversible, I'll tell you how to do it, line by line. No, I can't give you dosages because it's absolutely illegal because I'll get censored beyond recognition, which is completely ridiculous because I can tell you how much air is set to take and they'll be like, oh, okay, cool, great, you know why? Yeah, you know why, the Gestapo BS that we have to endure, we don't have to. Maybe all of you guys start fighting back, maybe all of you guys start saying we refuse to accept the FDA and Big Pharma as a governing body of our own biology when we know damn well that they're causing more harm than good. Maybe that's what we need to do, maybe start a movement, maybe I should go around to medical campuses, how about that? I'm being honest, I'm being very transparent. How about I go around to every medical campus in the entire United States? I just go on tour for an entire damn year. I bring my family, we get a giant freaky RV and have fun with it and go, my kids are, my daughter is 19 and my son is 16, he's homeschooled and we just go on tour and I explain how corrupt and disgusting the FDA and Big Pharma is and how they're killing people in the medical schools and how morally bankrupt they are and how they're just churning out pharmaceutical salesmen. Listen, doctors are, I have doctors in my black card group. So my black card group is very, it's one year, it's still on sale for 10 grand, you can wait and pay 25 if you want to, but it's still on sale for 10 grand, it's access to me directly, not on a phone, you get to message me and it's really me. I do a weekly live Zoom Q&A, private and I answer, I stay on the call for about two hours, it's every Monday, it's tomorrow, you get access to the protocol library, you get, it's just a great group and I have a bunch of doctors who join because they're tired of the medical world and these are like genuine people who give a crap about humanity because they want to make a difference. You know what I want? I want hundreds of thousands if not millions of people in the black card, not for the money, for I want all medical people to go out and become who you are supposed to be, above all do no harm and then help people solve their problems for all the people that are thinking about joining and this is if you've got an issue and you need help with it and no doctors have helped you, you join the black card. You want to learn more, you join the black card but I don't care, I don't come out here if you do or you don't but I'm telling you right now if you do and you want to join, apply at unlockthecard.com. Mia is my executive assistant, she is going to help you get through this and get it all set up. Might take a couple of days, don't freak out, everything is by wire transfer only, I refuse to take credit cards because that's another scam out there so I won't do it. I take crypto, I take credit, I take crypto and I take wire and that's it, that's the black card and if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, my company, awesome if you don't, totally awesome but I'm out here to help people because I genuinely give a crap but how about that, how about I just go around and I point out the massive corruption and flaw in big pharma and the medical industrial complex, how it doesn't want you healthy and when I come out here, why do I get censored when I give information that is 100% proven to cause health, not death and yet I can talk about all of the pharmaceuticals that are proven to cause death. Find me the studies where peptides and a healthy lifestyle cause death, find me the studies, there are none, 30, 40 plus years, find me the studies that prove high cholesterol causes death, there are none, the Framingham study demolished that narrative. Listen, I'm out here because I give a crap because I'm tired of them sweeping everything under the rug to keep you in the dark so I'm shining like, you know how you defeat the devil, just so you know, drag his horned ass into the light. That's what I'm doing baby, so I'm here to help you. So if you keep getting in my comments and chirping and crying and getting into little chat rooms and going, your I hate Dr. Trevor fan club or whatever the hell it is you do, you guys are screwed up psychologically, I'm here to help you. I don't ask you for money, I do this for free, almost every single day. So how about this, how about I just solve dementia, I give you all the stuff you need, if you need further help, you contact me, if not then I don't know, figure it out on your own, but I'm here to help you. Got it? All right, because I'm going to, this is the whole thing, I'll systematically dismantle everything that the medical establishment has told you about dementia, including you doctors, if you're listening, and I'll replace their fiction with actual biology. There's a shock, the kind that apparently they don't teach anymore in medical school because they're too busy memorizing prescription protocols. See, this is what it's infuriating to me about modern neurology. And trust me, there's a lot of things that are infuriating to me about modern medicine, modern neurology, and that's coming from a doctor. They're treating the most complex organ in the known universe, like a car with a bad carburetor, your brain, you're losing your memories. Here's a pill that does basically nothing. Good luck, that's not medicine, that is negligence, dressed up in a white coat and a God complex. But here's a beautiful thing about biology, you guys, it doesn't lie, it doesn't lie, the mechanisms are there, the pathways are clear, the solutions exist, baby, I keep showing up every day on social media, banging them out. If anything, you guys should blow up my account on social media as best as you can, blow up my rumble as much as you can, so you guys can keep getting this information. It's not a popularity contest, I'm not doing it because I want 10 million followers, I want 10 million followers because I want to be able to help 10 million people. You guys should be nonstop lining up to follow my Instagram, you should be nonstop lining up to subscribe to my YouTube so you guys get the information to my rumble, so you get it, this isn't a bit desperate plea for give me attention, like how am I not at a million subscribers for YouTube yet? 2 million, 5 million, 10 million, how is this not bigger than Mr. Beast? It's because it's not, and I got nothing against Mr. Beast, I'm just saying it's because I'm not entertaining, I'm giving you the facts. But what if all these facts help solve your problem and you don't have to be stuffed under some medical protocol that's actually killing you? So listen, for the next, I don't know how long I'm going to be here, I'm seven minutes in, I will tell you exactly, I will show you exactly what dementia really is and why everything that you've been told is completely backwards and how it actually works at the cellular level, and here's the big rub, how you can actually reverse it using real science, not pharmaceutical BS and fairy tales that they keep trying to sell you. And I'll tell you this, I'll even go even further and I'll introduce you to something that most scientists aren't going to tell you about, Dr. Bryant Artis is fantastically intelligent with this, I got nothing but respect for this guy, and that is Alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism, I have to say it like that. Here, I'll help you out in case you guys, if you're watching this on the, there it's this thing, right here, you see it, it looks like something you stick to your body and it slow drips a compound into you, I'm not going to say it because they keep censoring me, again, make it make sense. But that's the master regulator for cognitive restoration, so buckle up baby, this is going to be a bumpy friggin ride. First things first, how about we, how about we just define what the hell it is we're actually dealing with? Dementia is not a disease, I said yesterday, boy did I piss off all of you neurologists except I'm right, and all of you guys in the back freaking out, yes it is, my grandma died of it, my grandpa died of it, it's not a disease, it's a syndrome, it's a syndrome, it's a collective, it's a collection of symptoms resulting from a massive upstream metabolic failure. Alzheimer's, dementia counts for 60 to 80% of all of these problems when you get into the neuro, the neurocognitive decline, but the mechanism is universal, your brain is this biological supercomputer that would make Apple wet its pants, 86 billion neurons, do that math, you guys all talking about how many millions you earn, 86 billion and each neuron firing as fastest, like you can't even comprehend and it's forming a thousand to 10,000 synaptic connections, that's just, that's roughly 100 trillion synapses, that's more connections than there are stars in the entire milky freaking way, and this entire little three pound universe runs on approximately 20 watts of power, that's less than your phone charger, less than the thing that charges this thing up, while consuming about 20% of your organs oxygen and 25% of your glucose despite being only 2% of your body weight, huh weird, now when dementia hits, we see all of these pathological changes and yet they're not being addressed, beta amyloid plaques, extracellular protein aggregates, neurofibrillary tangles, intracellular tau protein aggregation, cells dying by the millions, connections severed, all like synaptic destruction, blood vessel devastation, so you have a cerebral vascular pathology, your brain is on fire 24 seven, chronic neuro inflammation, communication pathways are destroyed, white matter degradation, here's the question, nobody in mainstream medicine is asking, none of you doctors and I don't even respect you, I don't, what causes all these hallmarks, what's checking all the boxes, you're too busy looking at amyloid plaques and going, you better kill the plaques because I need to cure dementia or Alzheimer's, that's like seeing smoke and concluding that the smoke is what's causing the fire, the plaques aren't the disease, that is your brain's desperate cry and response to a metabolic nightmare, in fact just so you know 2018, science and translational medicine, I talked about this in my post yesterday, approved that beta amyloid, listen to this, I'll blow your mind, sky high, beta amyloid, it's actually an antimicrobial peptide, part of your brain's innate immune system and it's trying to protect you, not harm you, the plaques, I said this yesterday, the plaques of the firefighters, medicine's been trying to cure the fire and put it out by shooting the firefighters, that is absolute genius said nobody ever, here's where your brain is going to start hurting by the way and the best way, the biggest lie, modern neurology tells you is that dementia is a brain disease, wrong, wrong, dementia is a systemic whole body disease that happens to manifest, most obviously in your brain because your brain is the most metabolically vulnerable organ that you've got, let me paint the entire picture, let's go system by system, your gut, your intestinal microbiome produces neurotransmitters, serotonin, dopamine, GABA, etc, it regulates inflammation through the vagus nerve, when you have gut dysbiosis which about 70% of Americans have, you're producing lipopolysaccharides, LPS, bacterial toxins that cross your gut, goes through the leaky gut, crosses into your bloodstream, activates systemic inflammation and breaches your blood brain barrier, inflammation, boom and I'll tell you this, you look at 2017 scientific reports found dramatically altered gut microbiomes in Alzheimer's and dementia patients with specific bacterial strains correlating with amyloid burden, your gut literally controls the brain's inflammation, except what do they treat you with when you go in for Alzheimer's or dementia, they ain't treating you for a leaky gut, they're not, look at your liver, this is your body's detox headquarters, processing 500 plus metabolic functions every second, just non-stop, and when it becomes overloaded from alcohol or fructose, fructose, what is with you guys and fructose, medications, environmental toxins, it fails to clear AGE's, advanced glycation and products, inflammatory cytokines, neurotoxy metabolites, these accumulate, cross into the brain, cause direct oxidative damage to your neurons, what do you think happens then, look at your pancreas, when insulin resistance develops, I'm going to go hard into the pain on this one for you, type three diabetes baby, I already, you guys know where I'm going with this, your pancreas pumps out more and more insulin trying to overcome the resistance, it doesn't work because insulin degrading enzyme, IDE normally clears both insulin and beta amyloid, check that box, just pay attention, follow me, just stay with me on this one, so when all your IDE is busy with excess insulin, beta amyloid accumulates, 2003 American Journal of Pathology proved this competitive mechanism beyond a shadow of a doubt, your pancreatic dysfunction literally causes beta amyloid accumulation, look at your cardiovascular system, endothelial dysfunction, damage to blood vessel linings, reduces cerebral blood flow about 20 to 40%, so your brain is now starving for oxygen and nutrients and neurons suffocate, this was proven in 2016, nature communications showed vascular dysfunction, listen to this, vascular dysfunction appears years before amyloid accumulation, the blood vessel damage comes first, but they're not checking that either, and if you go because of high blood pressure or because of atherosclerosis or cholesterol, you need to be on statins, bullshit, bullshit, in fact statins cause brain fog, they do not repair brain fog, I can give you thousands of studies and probably 100,000 examples of people that I know personally, your skeletal muscle, this is your largest metabolic sink by the way for glucose, when muscle is lost through aging or inactivity or just a bunch of really stupid decisions, you lose your primary glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent mechanism, blood sugar rises, insulin resistance worsens, systemically, and in your brain baby, everything is connected, your brain is the canary in the coal mine, it's the first to die when systemic metabolism fails, it's not a brain problem, so how about, listen, let's get dirty, let's get super dirty with biochemistry, the real biochemistry, here's how it works, phase one, metabolic disaster, your mitochondrial catastrophe is what fuels this entire problem, this is where it begins, the powerhouses that produce ATP are called mitochondria, they do it through something called oxidative phosphorylation, each neuron contains a thousand to two thousand mitochondria because they are a bunch of energy whores, these mitochondria have ETCs in them, electron transport chains with five complexes, one, two, three, four, and five, big surprise, that pump protons and generate ATP via ATP synthase, when metabolic stress hits you on a hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, inflammation, toxins, complex one activity decreases about 40%, complex five drops by about 40 to 50%, and if you look at this biochemical, a biophysic actor, prove this like line by line, ATP production collapses, your neurons can't maintain the sodium potassium ATPase pump that keeps membrane potential alive, calcium homeostasis tanks, and neurons become hyper excitable, and then they die, that's just the first part, there's a bunch to this, look at the second part of this, brain insulin resistance, type three, I told you I was going to go hard into the paint on this, type three diabetes, this is critical, your brain has insulin receptors all over the place, especially in the hippocampus, which is your memory center, in the cortex, which is your thinking center, insulin in the brain does so much more than regulate glucose, it modulates synaptic plasticity, it regulates tau phosphorylation, activates all the survival pathways, it controls neurotransmitter, it does so much, so when insulin resistance develops, and I'm talking peripherally, not just in your brain, when it develops in your system, it doesn't just stay there, it invades your CNS brain, and then your brain glucose uptake measured in PET scan, they've shown this decreases 30% years before symptomatology appears, understand 2008 Journal of Alzheimer's disease coined the term type three diabetes for Alzheimer's, and they were right, your neurons are glucose starved, just aside from the fact that they're swimming around in this ocean with its water everywhere and not a drop to drink, right, it's the rhyme of the ancient mariner, you can't, they can't do anything about it, imagine dying of thirst in the middle of the friggin ocean, that's what it is, right, if you understand and all the boards doth shrink, right, I don't know if you know the rhyme of the ancient mariner, but anyway, the point is that you can't do anything about it, look at chronic neuroinflammation, what are we, three, third thing, systemic inflammation activates your brain's immune cells, they're called microglia, these are supposed to be helpful, just so you know, clearing debris and fighting infections and maintaining balance, homeostasis, chronic activation though, changes these things into little gestapo, little nasty monsters, so they shift now from M2 anti-inflammatory to M1 pro-inflammatory phenotypes and they release pro-inflammatory cytokines, what do you think they might be, TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-18, they produce reactive oxygen species, trigen species and here's the terrifying component to this entire thing, they start annihilating and eating your normal healthy synapses, listen, in 2016, neuron, they showed in dementia, microglia use complement mediated phagocytosis to consume synapses that aren't even damaged, they're just tagged for destruction baby by aberrant complement proteins, so your own immune system is eating up all of your memories, look at the protein misfolding problem that we've got under metabolic stress, this is the fourth thing, your protein quality control system, they all collapse, all of them, so heat shock proteins decline, the proteasome becomes impaired, autophagy regulated by mTOR, AMPK, its certuance, all breaks down, proteins miss full, tau becomes hyperphosphorylated, holy moly, 40, 50 plus different sites, aggregates, it aggregates into paired helical filaments and tangles, there's your problem, beta amyloid, which is normally soluble, oligomerizes into toxic species, just drill holes into all of your cell membranes, I'm not talking porphyrin rings, I'm talking holes that aren't supposed to be there, now these aggregates block axonal transport, the cellular highway that moves organelles and proteins from the cell body to the synapse of starved neurons die, again what's the end result of all of this, again, neurons die, neurons die, neurons die, look at the cerebrovascular issue that's going on, the destruction because of this, what are we, five endothelial cells lining the cerebral blood vessels become completely dysfunctional, nitric oxide which is the vasodilator decreases and endothelium 1, the vasoconstrictor increases, blood brain barrier tight junctions fail, inflammatory molecules flood the helens, cerebral blood flow decreases massively, Zlokovic in 2011, neuron, this is give this guy mad props for this, called this the two hit vascular hypothesis, vascular damage both initiates and accelerates the neuro degeneration and he was right spot on, in the last part of the neuronal death and the entire network just destroys, like it's overwhelmed by all of the stuff I just talked about, neurons die, apoptosis, necroptosis, feroptosis, but before they die, they lose their synaptic connections, watch this, you lose 50% of the synapses before symptoms even appear, by the time that you get the diagnosis you've lost massive cortical volume, the brain literally shrinks, this is dementia, this is what dementia is, it's not what they keep telling you, some multi-system metabolic nightmare for people, I will give you a unifying theory that explains everything and I'm right, where's my Nobel Prize, yeah I'm not kidding at all and some people go, this guy's so arrogant, I don't give a crap, I'm out here trying to help mankind, if you don't get it, I'm trying to save friggin humanity, every single cardiovascular, every single disease, diabetes, autoimmune, cardiovascular, cancer, neuro degenerative, it doesn't matter, three core biological failures every single time, you cannot argue with me because it's irrefutable, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, mitochondrial dysfunction, it is every single time, these three form a terrifying death triangle, each one causes the other two, they're synergistic, they're self-reinforcing and they're devastating to your entire biology, look at it, look at inflammation, so inflammation causes insulin resistance, listen I'll prove it, pro-inflammatory cytokines, activate stress kinases and these phosphorally insulin receptor substrate 1, IRS 1, at searing residues instead of tyrosine, blocking insulin signaling, listen 1996 science, prove this mechanism, inflammation literally caused insulin resistance at the molecular level, look insulin resistance causes mitochondrial dysfunction, insulin normally activates PGC1 alpha, it's the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis, it makes more of them, more power plants, right, so when insulin signaling fails, you don't make new mitochondria, the ones you have become old, weak, frail, pissed off and completely inefficient, 2002 diabetes proved insulin resistant humans, humans by the way, not rats or mice, have 30%, that's a huge number, give me 30% of your bank account, see if you're happy, give me 30% of your time on this planet, 30% of your oxygen, 30% of your relationship, 30% of your kids, your wife, your husband, your dog, you will be pissed off, the insulin resistant humans have 30% fewer mitochondria and muscle tissue and 40% less ETP production, that is a nightmare, now mitochondrial dysfunction, look it, here's where it spins back to the beginning, causes inflammation, when mitochondria fail, they leak the hemorrhage electrons, these electrons, excuse me, they react with oxygen to form ROSs, reactive oxygen species, superoxide, hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, the reactive oxygen species activate the NLRP3 inflammatory, I talked about this a lot, which processes pro IL-1 beta into active IL-1 beta, not the same, okay, but now this triggers systemic inflammation, 2011 nature, definitive proof of this entire thing, do you see this cycle, it's self perpetuating and it's a nightmare and you cannot escape unless you solve these three all at the same time, in dementia, all three failures are lead foot skinny pedal to the floor, look it, systemic inflammation, elevated C-reactive protein, IL-6, TNF-alpha in the blood, cerebrospinal fluid, insulin resistance, 30% reduction in brain glucose metabolism on PET scans, moving, ATP shortage, 50% reduction in mitochondrial ATP production, and you see what happens, ATP shortage goes right back up to inflammation, you see what's going on here, fix these three and you fix the damn disease, period, but you're not going to hear a doctor talk about this, here listen, here's the part that makes conventional neurologists, just their brains explode, dementia is reversible and it's been proven, I'm not, and listen, I said it at the beginning, not in late stages with massive atrophy or complete synaptic loss, don't sit there and try and argue the fringe because that's the weakest form of any argument, but early to moderate stages with aggressive metabolic overhaul and intervention, 100% reversible cognitive decline, I've seen it, it's been done repeatedly by the whale, Dr. Dale Bredesen's recode protocol in aging in Journal of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinsonism, it's just, it's documented reversal of over 100 patients, not slow decline, actual reversal, MCI patients returning to normal, early dementia patients return to work at full capacity, UCLA's follow-up, I talked about this in my Instagram post, 84% improvement, why does this work? Neuroplasticity and neurogenesis, and the stuff they tell you that is impossible, it's a lie, it is a lie, you guys are being lied to every single day, your brain retains the ability to form new neurons throughout your entire life, primarily in the hippocampus, Spalding, 2013 and Cell proved it, used carbon-14 dating from nuclear bomb tests to prove ongoing neurogenesis in adult humans, you generate about 700 new neurons per day in the hippocampus, if metabolic conditions actually are primed for it, when you restore proper metabolism, brain-derived neurotrophic factor increases, activating receptors on neural stem cells, promoting neurogenesis and synaptogenesis, new neurons, new connections, new memories, new function, new health, look at mitochondrial biogenesis, your brains can, your cells, never mind just your brain, your cells can build new mitochondria when given the right signal, PGC1 alpha activation triggered by exercise, fasting, AMPK activations, some specific compounds I'll get into in a second, drives vertical mitochondrial biogenesis, so new mitochondria produce more ATP, energy is restored and neurons recover and you keep going, look at the insulin sensitivity restoration, when you fix insulin resistance, dietary interventions, keto, time-respected fasting, specific compounds, all the stuff, glucose metabolism normalizes, 2012 archives of neurology showed, this is great, improved memory in dementia patients by directly bypassing peripheral insulin resistance and resetting the entire endocrine system, look at inflammation resolution, inflammation has an active resolution phase that is mediated by specialized pro-resolving mediators, they're called resolvins, tectons, erisins, they're all derived from something that most of you guys should probably be taking, which is omega-3 fatty acids, 2 to 4 grams per day by the way, you guys aren't taking it, I know it, you're like I should, I take krill oil, stop getting sucked into nonsense and stop taking flaxseed oil, if you get the fish burps suck it up, suck it up, your health is worth it, by the way these don't just turn off inflammation, they actively promote healing and tissue repair, the brain will always heal if you give it the right conditions, what they're doing is they're busy giving you conditions that ensure that the brain doesn't heal, here's something most doctors don't know by the way, the heart-brain connection is bi-directional, cardiovascular problems exist through dementia, cardiovascular disease increases dementia risk five-fold, but dementia also causes cardiovascular problems, look I'll spell it out, dementia damages the hypothalamus, brainstem nuclei, and autonomic centers, this causes, listen to me, this is important, this causes heart rate variability collapse, blood pressure dysregulation, cardiac arrhythmias, postural hypotension, the orthostatic, doesn't matter, all of them are bad, 2014 nature reviews neurology documented severe autonomic dysfunction in dementia and Alzheimer's, correlating with disease severity, the worse the dysfunction, the worse the disease, the worse the disease, the worse the dysfunction, you guys got to get this, look at the systemic inflammation that spills over into the system, inflammatory cytokines destroying the brain, don't stay there, they get into your system and start circulating, damaging endothelial cells throughout your entire body, promoting atherosclerosis and increasing cardiovascular events, myocardial infarctions, plaqueing, myocardial infarction, in other words, heart attack, you know what the number one sign is for a heart attack, it's called death, no I'm not kidding, not trying to be funny, look it, it dysregulates all your stress hormones, neurodegeneration disrupts the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, it causes chronic, look it up, chronic cortisol elevation, cortisol promotes cardiac remodeling, hypertension and arrhythmias, but nobody's looking at this, this is why dementia patients have dramatically increased rates of heart attacks, heart failure and sudden cardiac death, the diseases feed each other in this vicious cycle and nobody's paying attention to this, they're going how do we solve the plaqueing problem, look at the diabetes dementia connection, this is so strong, it's criminal not to be mainstream knowledge where everybody should know about this, all I'm seeing is all you influencers out here trying to sound smart, trying to help people, but you're not helping or talking about helping people, what you're doing is you're giving them affiliate codes and trying to sell them your bullshit, if I stuck you in a corner and I said please solve this problem, you wouldn't know what to do, it's not to brag on my ability, it's to rag on yours, because it's embarrassing, all you soccer moms pinching something this is how I take my blend, this is how I take my GHK-Cu, when I take to Samaral and this is what I, this is where you need to buy it, don't buy Reddit True Tide from that company, buy it from a compounding part which you can't anymore, can you, huh? The problem is you guys all want to be an expert because chat GPT told you you can, but you're not, do you know why I'm doing this, because I'm a doctor, I'm a doctor, the damn well gives a shit about the person, how many times do you hear me plug and try and get you to buy my stuff, I'll help you, zero, I don't, I don't, anyone can go out and talk about BPC, tell me how many things it's solving and why, listen, type 2 diabetes, this is so important and it bugs me, it gets me so aggravated, because even the doctors do this now, all you docs out there, just a bunch of pharmaceuticals, type 2 diabetes increases dementia risk by 50, you ready for this number? 50 to 100%, 2006 Lancet Neurology, prove this, look it, I'll even give you the mechanisms baby, AGE's Advanced Glication End Products, I talked about this, excess glucose non-enzymatically binds to proteins forming AGE's, these accumulate in the brain three times normal levels in dementia, huh, 1994 by the way is when they found this out, AGE's bind to RAGE, yes they are really called that, RAGE receptors on neurons and microglia, remember the microglia, little immune cells in your brain that go to war against you when they're all screwed up, because now you've triggered oxidative stress and inflammation, which is, there's another word for that, it's called neurotoxicity, the competitive insulin degrading enzyme, I talked about this and why the IDE's, it's not working properly, it's not doing its job, IDE breaks down both insulin and beta amyloid, remember, in diabetes, all the IDE is occupied with excess insulin, beta amyloid clearance fails, amyloid accumulates, guys see the connection why it's so important to understand biology, cerebromicrovascular disease, diabetes causes small vessel disease, microangiopathy throughout the brain, you get white matter lesions, silent strokes, reduced perfusion of the tissue, direct brain insulin resistance, peripheral insulin resistance doesn't stay in the peripheral, it spreads to the CNS, causes brain glucose, hypometabolism, synaptic destruction, this is why dementia at Alzheimer's specifically is type 3 diabetes, they're the same metabolic disease affecting different organs, when you move the location of the attack doesn't change what the disease is, now here you want to get into, I told you I would talk about the Alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism, okay, I'm not going to say the word, because I keep getting censored for telling people the truth, so it's a ligand gated ion channel expressed throughout the brain and all over immune cells, and let me explain why this is critical.  cognitiv enhancement, sorry, my moustache is going nuts. So on activation in the hippocampus, in the prefrontal cortex, here's what happens. When you tap this alpha-7 nicotinicacetylcholine receptor, yes, I'm very heated with this one because it bothers me, because I want you guys to have such a long, powerful, healthy life, and people keep getting in my frickin' way going, I wanna make sure that you can't help people, that's insane to me. So I count on all of you guys to spread me everywhere. Give it away. Stop stealing my stuff and claiming it's yours. Listen, I look pretty different. You guys that steal my stuff, a bunch of cowards. So on activation, on agonism of the receptor, yeah, where I went with that, long-term potentiation, the cellular basis of learning, synaptic plasticity, attention increases attention and working memory, increases processing speed. Listen, 2006, Neuropharmacology, comprehensive review of alpha-7 nicotinicacetylcholine receptor agonism, prove this. Line by line, and yet, how many times people go, yeah, but smoking's bad. I didn't say smoking or vaping, not at all. That's not even close. Nicotinic receptors on microglia and peripheral immune cells mediates the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathways. When it turns on, it inhibits NFKappa B. This is the direct control that prevents it. So when you do this, it prevents the production of TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-6. So you shut down the inflammation at the source. Elzeneforone, neurobiology of aging, showed that nicotinic receptor agonism, alpha-7, acetylcholine nicotinic receptor agonism, dramatically reduced neuroinflammation in dementia. Dramatically. How many of you guys have taken this and slapped it on somebody? You haven't. You haven't. You run to the doctor and do all kinds of stupid things. Yes, I'm a doctor, but listen, you do things that don't cause any benefit, they cause problems. Upon activation of this receptor, you increase BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. It's miracle, grow for your brain, activates all these survival pathways, reduces beta amyloid toxicity, prevents tau hyperphosphorylation, enhances autophagy. Listen, 2015, biochemical pharmacology showed protective effects against amyloid toxicity, but nobody talks about that. They're too busy trying to shove a drug into your body. I'm trying to help you. It enhances, and I haven't even changed. This is a master control for cognition, neuro-protection, inflammation, activating it is critical for dementia reversal, critical. So listen, how about we get into the tools and I explain exactly how this works, and I talk about how things like C-max and cerebrolysin and BPC, how this stuff all works together, actual compounds that fix the underlying biological. So let's start with C-max. And no, you can't spray it in your nose. Sub-Q is the only way you can do this for your kangaroo. You cannot spray it in your nose. I'll say it again. You cannot spray it in your nose. You can, you can do whatever the hell you want. It's got about a 10% bioavailability. If you do that, why would you do that? Because you're too scared of a needle, sack up. Soviet researchers develop this, and if you know anything about how Soviet does the research, it trumps anyway that Americans do it, because they don't mess around. They hunt for the research until they get the answers. Look it, here's the mechanism. Increases BDNF by two to five acts. 2014 journal of Molecular Neuroscience proved it. Enhances NGF, which is nerve growth factor, stabilizes enkephalins, which are endogenous opioids that modulate learning, improves cerebral blood flow by 25 to 30%. Enhances receptor function. 1997 neuroscience research communications showed neuroprotection in stroke. Subsequent studies demonstrate a cognitive enhancement in healthy subjects and MCI patients in dementia. Directly promotes neuronal survival, enhances synoptic plasticity, improves cerebral metabolism, and activates more nicotinic agonism. More nicotinic receptor agonism. More, are you crazy? Why would you not put this stuff in your body? Look at cerebral lysine. People hear this and they freak out. It's concentrated neurotrophic factors. It's the easiest way to explain it. Mimics, NGF, BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, all major neurotrophic factors, every single one of them. Reduces beta amyloid burden by 60%. They proved it in 2002. It is 2026, guys. That is 24 friggin' years ago. A biology of aging, they proved this 24 years ago. Decreases TAL-phosphorylation. You see where this is going? Promotes neurogenesis and synaptogenesis. Enhances the expression of this. You guys, you need to start taking me seriously instead of going, maybe I'll come by and watch this guy get all aggravated at the way modern medicine is, because I don't care about modern medicine. I care about your health and your life. Multiple randomized control trials. They showed this 2006 Journal of Neural Transmission 2015 European Journal of Neurology, all showed massive cognitive improvement by 47% in dementia patients with effect sizes superior to all approved drugs, all, every single one of them. In dementia specifically, it replaces deficient neurotrophic factors, supports neuroneal survivor, survival, enhances dendritic aberration, up regulates protective receptors. This stuff, I don't know where to go with this, other than to go, why are you not on this stuff? Look at retitrutide. Crosses blood brain barrier, activates in the hippocampus, enhances synaptic plasticity, reduces beta amyloid by 50%. By the way, this is 2011 Journal of Neuroscience, proved it again with retitrutide. Decreases TAL-phosphorylation, reduces neuroinflammation through NF-Capa B inhibition, which I already explained, improves brain insulin sensitivity, which is crucial. 2013 Neuropharmacology proved cognitive improvement in dementia and Alzheimer's with retitrutide, with triple receptor agonism. Dementia, by the way, I'll be very specific. It fixes the underlying insulin resistance, reduces neuroinflammation, promotes neuronal glucose utilization, reduces the pathological proteins, creates metabolic conditions to optimize exactly what nicotinic receptor agonism is going to further benefit you, your brain. I don't know if you guys are understanding this, but when you stack all this stuff together in a way that benefits you, it's better than listening to an InstaBro that tells you, I take all these before my fucking workout. Yes, that bugs me that much. I'm tired of you InstaExperts, InstaBros, InstaSoccerMoms, InstaBodyBuilders, thinking you're so smart tearing apart my videos, but you haven't helped a single human being. You're just a glorified friggin' trainer online. And if you take that as an insult, maybe it's because it's the truth. I'm out here trying to help people because I genuinely give a damn about mankind. I want nobody to suffer ever. I almost died four and a half years ago and almost left my wife and kids. I take this more serious than anybody out here because I want you to win. I don't want you to be stuffed full of drugs. I don't care if you buy from my company or join my black card. I frankly just don't give a shit. I care that you guys have the information to make an informed decision before you keep buying from all these knuckleheads on social media, whom magically created a peptide company, whom magically think they're experts because they can ask a question and chat GPT, who magically argue and tear apart my videos, thinking that they have any business doing it because they don't even know the first, they don't know they're asked from their elbow. And I'm doing this because I actually care and I do know the difference between my ass and my elbow. Look at MOTC, man. This thing is a machine. It's the nucleus during metabolic stress, activates AMPK, which is your master metabolic switch for lack of a better description, improves insulin sensitivity, 60%, 2015 cell metabolism, promotes mitochondrial biogenesis, cranks out more of them, enhances hippocampal neurogenesis, 2021 cell metabolism. Again, showed that, increases NAD plus levels, supports nicotinic receptor agonism. Why? Through improved cell energetics. It actually solves the problem and makes you more receptive to Alpha 7, acetylcholine nicotinic receptor agonism. Go figure. Yes, I said it all backwards. I did it on purpose. You want me to say it right? Alpha 7, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism there, just because it's, you guys are weird. You'd be like, I just said it backwards, it's not right. Listen, MOTC direct in Alzheimer's prove it, directly fixes ATP shortage, enhances insulin signaling in the neurons, promotes metabolic health systemically and centrally creates optimal conditions for the damn nicotine. I should just start saying, because you guys won't know what I'm talking about. What's this big long word you're saying? Look at copper, by the way, stop mixing it with things. I don't care how many people contest me on that. I'm still right. It doesn't matter how many, because you guys are selling it. It's hurting your feelings. It's making your ego, you get to hurt your words that you don't like. So what? Listen, modulates over 4,000 genes. Picard 2012, Biomed Research International proved that it increases antioxidant enzymes. Superoxide dismutase catalyzed, glued a thion, right? The number one antioxidant that you've got in your body that gets trashed when you take an NSAID, by the way, reduces inflammatory signaling, promotes angiogenesis, VEGF, it does it through VEGF just like VPC, enhances stem cell differentiation. So you know what it's gonna do? Modulates matrix metalloproteinases and enhances alpha seven nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism and expression through gene modulation. Bunch of big fancy words says it makes you better, stronger, faster and he'll like Wolverine. Reduces oxidative stress, modulates neuroinflammation, improves cerebrovascular function, supports neurogenesis, creates a permissive environment for everything else to work better. VPC-1, this stuff's gangster as hell. Angiogenesis, what I say with, through VEGF upregulation, enhances growth hormone receptor expression, by the way. So you become more sensitive and more receptive to growth hormone, IGF stabilizes cellular junction. So when I'm not talking just your gut, I'm talking the vascular system, I'm talking the blood brain barrier, modulates nitric oxide pathways, both reducing the excess nitric oxide and enhancing the beneficial nitric oxide. INOS and INOS, I talked about this a long time ago, crosses the blood brain barrier, 2018, current neuropharmacology, shows that it solves more brain problems than any of the drugs they've got on the planet. Neuro protection and traumatic brain injury models. Like this is the most, it repairs the blood brain damage, blood brain barrier damage in dementia, promotes cerebral angiogenesis. So you actually grow more cells, reduces neuro inflammation, supports synaptic regeneration, proves conditions for Alpha 7, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism act. Like this is the stuff you guys should be just, check out all kinds of notes on this stuff. How about SS-31? Yes, you have to take SS-31 either after or with MOTC, period. I'm tired of you guys arguing about that too. Doesn't matter, I'm right. I'm right because I care about you. I'm not right because I need to be right. I'm right because I'm telling you how to do this properly. This binds to cardiolipin, the phospholipin that's critical for the ETC to function electron transport chain because full holes, it's belching out reactive oxygen species. It reduces electron leak by about 60%, which then subsequently decreases reactive oxygen species production. It optimizes ATP synthesis from 60 to 70%. Basically preserves the mitochondrial membrane potential. SS-31 improved mitochondrial function so dramatically that they stopped doing tests and studies because they went, everybody needs to be on this, when they married it with MOTC. It fixes a core ATP shortage, which is a massive problem because if you remember the three systemic, the three biological failures, ATP shortage causes more inflammation. Now do you see why this is married? It reduces reactive oxygen species. I'll slow down a little bit so you get it. Reduces the reactive oxygen species at the source. It preserves rather than neuronal energy, creates this energetic state for your body to heal itself. That's how your body is designed. Listen, you need to look at the standard of care. How about that? There's a bunch of drugs, but there's three primary classes, FDA approved for dementia and Alzheimer's. Colon esterase inhibitors, the first one on the list, it's like aerosept, right? Galantamine, there's a bunch. Their theory, listen to this BS, their theory, acetylcholine decreases in dementia and Alzheimer's. You block acetylcholine esterase to increase it, right? Sounds logically not logical enough, except it doesn't make any sense according to biochemistry. Here's why it fails. It treats downstream symptoms, not the cause. So it's like you have loud music playing and you put something in your ears, but the music's still on. It's still damaging your environment. Acetylcholine decreases because neurons producing them, they're dying. So how does that make any sense? It doesn't stop the progression of the disease and the side effects, by the way. Masia, aurea, radicardia, 2006 Cochrane Database Meta-Analysis showed little to no benefit, by the way. But yet people are on aerosept all day long for dementia and they're on aerosept all day long for Alzheimer's. Make it make sense. NMDA receptor antagonist, Mammantine, NMDA, commercials for this stuff. So the theory is this, excess glutamate causes excitotoxicity block, NMDA, and you'll reduce it. Here's why it fails. Yet again, treats symptom, not cause. How does that work? Listen, excitotoxicity happens because neurons are energy depleted. I know it sounds counterintuitive, but that's exactly why it happens. It doesn't fix mitochondria, insulin resistance, or inflammation in any way, shape, or form. It dampens neuronal communication, which is harmful to learning. Aren't we trying to fix the brain? It doesn't stop the progression of the disease. Listen, if you're gonna, and I'll get to the third one in a minute, but if you're gonna keep throwing things at a disease and they don't do any good, but you keep marketing them anyway, what's the incentive? What's the incentive? Just ask, what's your, what, where's, why? If it's not solving the problem and it's provable and it's not solving the problem, what is the incentive to keep going? Follow the money. How about this one? This is my favorite, anti-ameloid monoclonal antibodies. Ameloid plaques, this is the theory. Ameloid plaques cause Alzheimer's or remove them with antibodies. And to mention, same thing. This is a catastrophic, this is a category five failure. I can't even, I could talk about this one all day. So yeah, it successfully removes plaques but produces minimal cognitive benefit. You ready for this one? Brain swelling, 15% of the people. Brain bleeding, 20% of the people. Costs about 30,000 bucks a year. Doesn't address inflammation, insulin resistance, or the ATP shortage. Removes protective antimicrobial peptides. Decades of research, billions and billions of dollars. Countless failed trials. All based on a fundamentally wrong hypothesis. They're treating consequences not causes. Listen, I wanna give you the whole reversal protocol. I really do, but I'm gonna get pulled down if I do. So I can't, which means you have to go to, and I don't care if you buy from me. I'm just saying I can't do it here. So get all mad if you want. But it is line by line in my Instagram. All you have to do is go get it. You literally have to go and type the message smoke in Instagram and it'll just, and it's to the letter. Write down the dosages for your damn kangaroo. That's how much I give a shit. So I'm not gonna go into all that. It goes through all this nutrition. It goes through everything. I just can't do it here because I get censored. And if you can't handle that, then that's between you and God. But listen, I'm gonna put a bow on this. So you actually understand this and I'll blow your mind one last time. Everything you've been told about dementia is a lie designed to sell you drugs that don't work. You're told it's genetic bullshit. It's 95% metabolic. You're told it's irreversible, early to moderate stages, 100% or the recode program proved it perfectly. Absolutely reversible. Told you amyloid causes it. Amyloid is protective response to the real damn problem. They told you nothing can be done. Everything can be done if you understand biology and physiology. Dementia is the ultimate expression of three biological failures that we've created through modern life and stupid decisions and listening to big pharma. Systemic inflammation, processed foods, chronic stress, gut dyspiosis, environmental toxins, sedentary living, taking too many medications, relying on big pharma, insulin resistance, chronic carbohydrate overload, metabolic inflexibility, muscle loss, sedentary lifestyle and a whole litany of stupid decisions. ATP shortage, mitochondrial damage, aging, toxins, lack of metabolic support and a whole lot of stupid decisions. I could do this all day long. These three create this death spiral in your brain, the most metabolically demanding, most vulnerable organ in your body. But here's what they don't want you to know, you guys. Your brain wants to friggin' heal. It is designed to heal. You make 700, remember that I said this at the beginning, you make 700 new neurons every single day. You can form new synapses at 80. You can restore function when you're given the right conditions and right things. I don't care where you get them. I'm just giving you the solution. I just can't say it here. Listen, the Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is the ultimate control switch, controlling cognition, inflammation, neuroprotection, activate it and you unlock this insane healing potential. The things I've described, the peptides I've described, they're not experimental, they're not. They're backed by decades of research. I literally spouted off, I don't know how many studies here and there's so many. Look it, I'll just go through them really quick. C-max, right? Increases BDNF, enhances blood flow and supports Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism. Rysaribrolysin provides this concentrated neurotrophic factors proven in clinical trials to reverse dementia and Alzheimer's, redotrutide, fixes the metabolic dysfunction right at its damn core. MOTC directly restores mitochondrial function. GHK-Cu is gonna modulate thousands and thousands of genes, but it's gonna move them all towards healing, not destruction. SS31 fixes the ATP production right at the source. Leaky punched holes, cardiolipid, the membrane that's full of holes, right? Each one targets a specific mechanism and together the synergistic and connective effects are completely transformative to your life. The research exists, the mechanisms are all over the place and the results are documented more than any commercial that you've seen on television because the documented results of every single mechanism or every single medication I've ever seen and I've read and I've gone down the rabbit hole on so many, thousands of them, they kill people. I'm sure that's gonna get me in trouble, but I don't care. Why is it that the truth is demonized? Mainstream medicine is about 30 to 40 years behind because they're trapped in a pharmaceutical model that requires patentable drugs for disease that they fundamentally misunderstand. They want this magic bullet when what we need is a comprehensive restoration of metabolic health. You guys, this isn't easy. If you think it's easy, that's the problem. It's very easy. I sell you this pill, this injection, this magic cream, that you rub on you, this suppository, you shove up your pooper. It doesn't matter. It's always something that, hey, give me the easy answer, Doc. If I don't have it, but can you give me something else? And they keep subscribing to that narrative because the public buys it because you guys just spoon it in all day long instead of going, you know what? Mama, I need to take hold of my health, become sovereign in my health and stop relying on a system that wants me sick and decrepit until I'm 85 years old because I am a product. I am a little factory pumping out revenue for them. That's it. Listen, everything you'll get is a complete transformation of how we approach brain health and metabolic health, human biology. That works. I've seen so many studies, you guys, all these mechanisms. I've personally had patients, I've been doing this for almost 30 years, who've regained what they were told was lost forever. 70-year-olds remembering their grandchildren's names, 75-year-olds returning to work because they want to, by the way, not because they have to, stop getting in my comments and go, they have to go back to work. MCI patients testing normal again and again, the irreversible is reversed, baby. So here's what I want you to understand. Dementia is not a death sentence. It's not, it's a metabolic disease, it's a metabolic disease with metabolic solutions. If we actually took the time to apply what we know and address the three core fundamental biological failures that I came up with and you used everything at your disposal, you can eliminate 70 to 80% of the dementia cases within one generation. It's not hyperbole, you guys, it's just plain old biology. Your brain is the most complex structure in the known universe. Three pounds of miracles running on about 20 watts, it's what I said, it can heal at 70, regrow at 80, and it can remember at frigate 90, but nobody's telling you that, if you give it what it needs, you will survive. The biology is as clear as water, the mechanisms are very well understood and the tools are everywhere. I don't care if you buy them from Elite, I don't care if you join the black card, I just know that they're available, make sure what you're getting is the reason I talk about Elite Biogenics, by the way, or that I go, listen, you should probably trust me, it's because I would give it to my wife and kids because I do, here's the problem, what's missing is the courage of all of you guys to actually do it and go against the white coat and give them the finger. Somebody's gotta stand up, don't they? Somebody has to get up and go forget it, I'm not listening to you because you're costing me my grandma, my grandpa, you're costing me my wife or my husband, why? Because you keep shoving them full of drugs, the things that don't work. Yes, it bothers me because I've lost people that I love and care about because they have been listening to the medical world all the way into the grave. Listen, bad people will cheer you all the way down the road to hell and you'll believe it. So how about you just go prove them wrong? You just prove prevention's possible, prove reversal is possible, prove that you're not freaking powerless. Listen, to me, every mind saved, every memory preserved, every grandparent that stays sharp, to me, that's a victory, man, that's a victory. Victory's compound, but you have to make noise about it. You expect the world to change around you and you go, I'm not gonna, I'll do it when everybody else does it. How about you do it? How about you do it right now? How about you take this and you spread around to everybody and you just actually do it? How about that? How about you, you know what, forget it, I'm not gonna listen to that guy while he gives me all these drugs and pills and lotions and potions and instead, I'm gonna actually do something. I'm gonna listen to this crazy doctor with a beard and a Spartan hat who actually gives a crap about me enough to come out here and give me real love. You know what real love is, by the way? I love you enough to tell you the truth about your biology. I love you enough to give you the information so you can make an informed decision. I don't care where you get it, I care that you get it. That's how we win, you guys, that's how we win. That's biology, that's power, that's your power. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I gotta go, never miss.

=== FILE: The FDA War Against Peptides and The Facts - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [jD6S-RfYZhY].txt ===

 we need to talk, all of us, we need to talk, because you guys are being indoctrinated. And you have been the most dogmatic viewpoint that is destroying your health and your life. I come out here because above all, do you know harm? I take very seriously, whether it's my marriage, my fitness, my business, elite biogenics, my company, whether it's the Black Card, my company, whether it's Spartan or any of my kind. It doesn't matter, Smashworks, Body Hacks, all of that, or taking care of you. I take what I do very seriously. And we need to talk about something that's going to fundamentally alter your understanding of medicine, not just medicine, disease management, and why you are probably being poisoned right now by something that your doctor gave you. And I'm not being edgy, you guys, I'm being factual. And you guys are going to go, oh, here we go. But listen, there are people on social media right now, MDs, PhDs, screaming against peptides, basing it solely on human trials in the FDA. But the FDA is the enforcer for the cartel called Big Pharma. Listen, let me ask you, just follow me, let me ask you a question. If pharmaceutical drugs were actually designed to make you healthy, just let me explain this because I've been a doctor for almost three decades. I've seen over one million patients, and yet somebody with a PhD that's read 70 books, who's never seen a patient ever is labeled as more of an expert. Make it make sense. Just because that's like saying, you know what, so one of my buddies, Tom DeBlas, he's an excellent Jiu Jitsu fighter, he is so good. And if I read books for 10 years on Jiu Jitsu, and I became an expert, and I got straight A'S4.0, and I have a black belt in reading about Jiu Jitsu, and I got on the mat, he's going to murder me. And if he's never read a book on Jiu Jitsu, but he's done nothing but practice it, he's better. I find it absolutely disgusting that there is a board of medical examiners, that there's a board of chiropractic examiners that the American Medical Association exists, because those are all control factors to tell you what you are and what you are not allowed to do when it comes to helping people. Yet being a doctor means above all, do no harm. And that's just, that's not just being a medical doctor, that is being a human being, that's being a man or a woman. But in this case, I'm talking about a man, they don't want you healthy. And there is such a massive war against peptides, because they're dipping into the massive profit margin. And it's not the initial profit margin, you guys are looking at it far too superficially, you need to take the 1000 foot view, because you're looking at it as going, well, yeah, because peptides are dipping into their profits. No, they're not. They make so much money off of your ignorance. They want you to be a patient for life. And they've convinced you so well, like Stalin, right, rip the feathers out of the chicken, bloodied, beat up, throw a little bit of food down, the chicken follows him around anyway, even after he just beat that bird. That's how you guys are thinking, please, listen to me, if you want to get in my comments and run your mouth like a toddler, you go right ahead. What I'm telling you is that for there's a lady right now, she made a post about how peptides is no credible research and everything is on rats and hedgehogs or whatever she's saying. She's but look at me, I'm a PhD in neuroscience, etc. I don't care. I don't care. You are on the quest to find the to go against Alzheimer's. But yet I've got people in my group, MS gone, dementia gone, Alzheimer's reduced easily 60 70%. But yet, I'm not using anything no air accept no nomen. The struggle I'm having is that they don't want you healthy and they know it, but you guys are fighting thinking that they have your best interest in mind. Have you learned nothing in the last four and a half years? Like I said, these are just facts, baby. Let me ask you a question. If this is the case of pharmaceutical drugs, we're actually designed to make you healthy. Why then are they the leading cause of death in America? If you look at the facts, third, however, watch, I'll explain why I said it's the third. And this is after heart disease and cancer, which pharmaceutical drugs often cause and it is proven the number three killer is called ADR. ADR stands for adverse drug reactions. So this is I'll go back, listen, I'll even give you the benefit of that. Now, go back 15 years, Journal of American Medical Association published data, you guys showed 217,000 people per year die from ADRs in hospitals alone. That's not even including outpatient deaths, baby. Just for context, that's about a Boeing 747 fully loaded with people, two of them smoking the ground every day and killing every single one of them. Nobody talks about it though. You guys are all out there attacking peptides like you have anything, you know what it is mob mentality, you got to get your licks in. You ever listen to Matt Reif? I love Matt Reif. Matt Reif is a frigging stud. If you don't like him, I don't care. I love Matt. And you know what he says? He made a comment when he was sitting on a plane on Twitter about his bag being under his feet instead of not fitting under his seat. And then he said, look what I can do with this feet is hilarious. And he made a post about the rules and how ridiculous they were at 700 plus people went bananas trying to get their licks in on him because they all want to get their licks in because they're mad at themselves. Maybe you guys should look at yourselves. If you're on anything more than one drug, you should not be on any. By the way, if you're on any drugs, you should look at your life because they are not solving the problem. Here's how you know they worked. Can you stop taking them? If you can't stop taking them, the problem isn't solved. It's managed. You are a profit machine. But nobody talks about that. Instead, the FDA bans peptides. You need to understand why. And in order to do that, you need to understand something fundamental, which is how drugs work versus how peptides actually work. Because once you understand the distinction, everything else, so a drug is like a sledgehammer, period. And I'm not saying, listen, if I'm missing a lung, okay, there were drugs that allowed me to be anesthetized. There were drugs that allowed me to recover. There were drugs that allowed me to survive. There were drugs that allowed me to beat the infection, but I'm not taking them anymore. There's no managed decline. In fact, they gave me 12 prescriptions, 12, 12, and said I was going to be on all of those for the rest of my life. It was one of them. That was a $900 prescription. They said, if I don't take it, I'm going to have a clot and I'm going to die 100% guaranteed. It's absolutely imperative that I take that for the rest of my life. Make it make sense. I'm almost five years out now. In August, it'll be five years. This March, next month, I turned 53. They said I would never run. I would probably have struggled of difficulty walking. And there's a good chance in the next two years, I'd be walking with a cane. That's what they said almost five years ago. If you've ever seen me train, you know, that's a lie because I can run a sub 22 minute 5k. I run every day in a weighted vest every morning. I do 100, 100 pull ups, 100 squats, 100 push ups, and 100 bicycles every morning. And I run a mile every morning. I've been doing that for years. It's not my workout. I do it because I can. I do it because I demand more of myself than anybody else. I do it because I will not let somebody else tell me what I can and can't do, which is the same reason why when you come to me with your problem and you go, listen, I have dementia, I have cancer, I have a sore throat, I don't care, I need to get rid of type two diabetes, which I have solved thousands and thousands of times. I will do everything in my power to make sure the only thing that you can do to make sure it doesn't work is not listen to me. And I don't gatekeep anything. I give you everything for free even then. But if you want to like it with a black card with elite biogenics, elite biogenics is my company, you want to buy from my company, great. Everything is tested, genociak tested well, everything I would give my wife and kids. Are the same things that my lab creates for you. But why, but you'll run out and buy like cox one and two inhibitors and say it's beta blockers, which have a FDA black label warning on them for people with asthma, by the way, because they cause death, Celebrex, which was taken off the market, I could do this all day, but they were deemed safe. Even this, you talk about this on social media, and you get flagged, banned, post-throttled, canceled, because people are mad that they're so ignorant, stupid that they keep falling for it. Maybe the next drug will be the good one. Cancer, they burn you, slice you, poison you, and they've done the same thing, yet the rate of cancer has gone through the roof, but you're treating it better, you're finding it better. No, you're renaming the same thing over and over again. Cancer is always the same thing. It's always the same thing, three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and an ATP shortage. And next single Warburg effect kicks off 1931, Otto Warburg won the Nobel Prize in 1924, he discovered it, and he went, wow, fermentation, that's where cells go. And instead of producing 30 plus, they produce two ATP. They're inefficient, they can't change, their mitochondria is damaged, their genetics, the DNA is damaged, so when they are forced to function in normal, they can't, so they automatically die, because your genetics go, you either fix yourself or you self-destroy apoptosis, and the cells don't have a choice because they can't fix themselves, so they die. But instead, they give you chemotherapy, chemotherapy, okay, make it make sense. Chemotherapy hasn't saved anybody, I'm tired of people saying it, no, it hasn't. People die from organ failure, by the way, from chemotherapy, it's proven, not from the cancer from the organ failure. Listen, if I would have listened to them, I'd be dead. So I take this very seriously. So if you want to buy from LeapBioGenics, great, I don't come out here to market to any of you. If you go, oh yes, you do, you market all the time, I don't run a single ad, not one. The most advertising I do is on one of my research papers that says, click here if you want anything. You want to join my black card? Great, it's $9997. Apply at unlockthecard.com, email Mia, she is my gangster executive assistant. She'll get you all set up, it's wire only. I told you just the other day, I had a guy tell me that I, he's got no multiple sclerosis anymore. You want to see something here? I'll show you. This is exactly what happens. Maybe you guys should just pay the fucking attention to what I say because it bugs me. Here, let's do this. I have one of my one-on-one clients, these guys spent a quarter million dollars to work with me for a year straight. I just want you to see this feedback back in April. This is not, I'm not making this up. Back in April, 2025, my wife had blood work done in her, Anna, so Anna found it's a anti-nuclear antibodies screening. You said that she was positive for autoimmune disease. They were going to treat her. We didn't dig any deeper into it. Instead, for your recommendations, I put her on the exact protocol that you gave her for three months. She got blood work last week. This was on January 30th, just so you know, she got blood work last week and it came back negative. Thank you. You guys can keep on believing that getting in my comments and trash talking and all the idiotic things that you do, I'm not out here to make money. I'm out here to help you. I'm not out here to advertise. I'm out here to help you. Do you understand that help? Yes, it does come with a price because you're taking time away from my wife and my kids if I'm out here helping you, but I'm still going to help you. I'm just going to make sure they have something in return. So take it however you want. I really don't care. Maybe some of you guys are, I thought you were going to tell me how to do Smaat C. Then I'm tracking, I'm attracting the wrong crowd because if that's all you think I'm going to do, then you're missing out because I'm far more intelligent than that. Listen, here's the fundamental problem with pharmaceuticals. They're not trying to restore your biology. They're not. They're trying to mask symptoms by chemically interfering with it. That's not the same. Let me give you an example. Something that everybody understands. How about this? I was just talking about this, beta blockers for hypertension. Okay, let's go through that. Your blood pressure is elevated. By the way, they keep changing the number. It's astronomically high and low. Now it's ridiculous. 140 over 90. Normal. Your blood pressure changes 1000 plus times a day. So stop thinking you need to be 110 over 70. That BUNL is a BS phrase to see, you know, within normal limits. Your blood pressure is elevated. Okay, so why? Let's go through this. Let's go line by line because I bet I can figure this out for you right now and solve all your problems. Probably because you have endothelial dysfunction, which means your arterial lining isn't producing enough nitric oxide. You have chronic inflammation, inflammatory molecules destroying the inside of your blood vessels. Sympathetic nervous system is hyperactive. So your stress response is cranked on your skinny pedal is down. Your sympathetic nervous system is firing so hard it can't even see straight vascular smooth muscle dysfunction. Your blood vessel walls don't know how to relax because they can't and your insulin resistant, which causes sodium retention and fluid volume expansion. These are actual biological problems, you guys. A beta blocker comes in and this is the issue. It doesn't solve any of that. It says, I don't give a crap about any of that. I'm going to block the beta two adrenergic receptors on your heart and on your blood vessels. Your heart's going to beat slower. Your vessels will constrict less. Your blood pressure number will go down. And here's the thing, it works. Your blood pressure does go down. That's like looking at HbA1c and thinking it's a valid number, by the way. I'll get to that in a minute, but you haven't fixed anything if your blood pressure number goes down. You've just prevented your sympathetic nervous system from doing its job. Now your heart is beating slower, which means less perfusion to the extremities, to your tissues, right? Your fatigue goes through the roof. Your exercise tolerance tanks. Your sexual function gets impaired because beta blockers are notorious for erectile dysfunction. Meanwhile, the underlying endothelial dysfunction is still there. Inflammation is still there. insulin resistance, oh yeah, baby, that's still there. So now you've masked a number while destroying your quality of life and never addressing the root cause, which are the three biological failures of all freaking diseases. This is how every pharmaceutical works symptom masking through chemical warfare interference. Look at statins. They block HMG COA reductase, which stops your liver from making cholesterol. Your brain, you know, your brain is total cholesterol, right? It's just a big piece of cholesterol between your ears. So your cholesterol number goes down, but the Framingham study already proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that is a ridiculous thing to do and catastrophically harmful for your health. But cholesterol is not the problem. Oxidized cholesterol in inflamed endothelium is the problem. Your inflammation is still there. It's probably worse now because statins themselves are pro- inflammatory at the mitochondrial level. Look at research from the Journal of the American College of Cardiology 2002 showed statins reduce CoQ10, which impairs mitochondrial function. Never mind the fact that statins, when you take them, make you dumb. It's easiest way to explain it. Brain fog is one of the most prominent side effects, but people, I told you I have a one of my closest friends, a doctor that he does not use anymore said, you got to get on statins. Your cholesterol is too high. Made me want to throw things at her. The doctor, not him. Look at PPIs. Proton pump inhibitors. I'm going to do this. So if this is uncomfortable for you, buckle up. They block acid production in your stomach. Okay. So your acid reflux goes away, but you've just eliminated one of your body's primary immune defenses and disabled proper nutrient absorption. Awesome. So now you're deficient in B12, magnesium and calcium. By the way, that is proven. Journal of Gastroenterology 2010 proved that's what happens when you take PPIs, but people, I'm just going to take it anyway because I don't like the little oise I have here. Maybe change everything else so your biology works. Look at NSAIDs. Blocks the production of prosto glandants. So your pain goes down, but prosto glandants are protecting your GI and Eucosa, maintaining renal blood flow, kidneys, and regulating immune functions. Just destroyed all of that. Don't worry. I'm going to touch on this because you guys are going to go, wait a minute, I take an Advil every day before I work out. You're not going to live very long if you do that. The pattern is always the same. Take something your body needs, block it, watch one symptom improve while 10 others develop. Trying to maintain composure because this pisses me off. I've lost people that I love dearly because they've taken medications and they've died because of it. Just compare this to how peptides actually work for all the muppets out there arguing against peptides. Peptide, short chain of amino acids, biological molecule, the way your body communicates with itself. When you introduce it into your system, it's not trying to block a damn thing. It's trying to restore biological function that's degraded and it's using a signal that your body already knows. How about we use one that everybody, this knucklehead on social media is attacking, BPC-157, body protection compound, 157. Your body naturally produces small amounts of BPC-157 in your gastric juices. No, it cannot be taken orally. I'm tired of everybody asking me that. No, it can't. I've already gone over the mechanism and why. Regenerates damage gastric mucus. So let's just go through this line by line. Restores tight junctions in your intestinal lining. You need those. Promotes angiogenesis, which is new blood flow formation in damaged tissues. Reduces inflammatory cytokines, TNF-FA, IL-6, IL-1-beta. That causes pretty much the basis of 95% of all chronic disease. Enhances growth hormone secretion and makes you violently sensitive to IGF-1. Improves wound healing. I could do this all day, but yet there's... And that's the problem? So if you have IBS, Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Leaky Gut, or a Duodenal Ulcer, these are fundamentally problems of mucosal degradation and barrier dysfunction. Your body's natural BPC-1-fine production is inefficient, or you're in an inflammatory state. That's overwhelming it. That's it. So when you introduce exogenous BPC-157, you're not blocking a damn thing. What are you blocking? You're not interfering with your biology, you're restoring it. So let me give you the straight. Look at research of pharmacology, 2018 showed that BPC-157 accelerated gastric ulcer healing with zero adverse effects, zero. And without the immunosuppression or nutrient malabsorption that PPI's always cause 100% of the time. Or take TB-500 or thymus and beta-4. Use the real version, the full thing, not the seven, the 43 amino acid chain. Naturally occurring peptide that your body produces, but decreases with age. TB-500, thymus and beta-4s job. Promote cardiac... By the way, it is the only one proven to reverse fibrosis in the myocardium. It heals, it reverses athlete's heart. If you listen to my stut, my post on asthma yesterday, it is one of the common side effects of asthma is hypertrophy. Left or right ventricular rather, hypertrophy. You don't want that. Thymus and beta-4 promotes cardiac angiogenesis, prevents cardiomyocytes, apoptosis, cell death, reduces inflammation, IL-10 upregulation, anti-inflammatory interleukin, promotes soft tissue repair and neurogenesis or neurons. It improves blood flow and oxygen delivery. If you have heart disease, TB-500 isn't trying to block a symptom. It's trying to restore cardiac regeneration and reduce the inflammation that caused the damage in the damn first place. The American Journal of Pathology 2008 showed TB-500 improved post-infarct cardiac function by promoting angiogenesis and reducing apoptosis, actually regenerating heart tissue, not just managing the symptoms, which is what your cardiologist is going to do. This is a very fundamental difference. Drugs equal chemical interferates with broken biology. Peptides equal restoration of natural biological function. One destroys the quality of your life while never addressing the problem and the other restores your biology to what it's supposed to be doing in the first place. Let me give you some actual statistics because they're staggering. 200,000 plus per year. By the way, if you go back to Java 2000, 106,000 deaths per year and that is 26 years ago, add outpatient deaths and you're probably north of millions. Therapeutic deaths. The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center 2004 published data showing that 10% of cancer patients die directly from chemotherapeutic toxicity. That is not even close to the number, but it's not from cancer progression. Even that is far too high. I call that number appalling. That's roughly just, you know, 50,000 people per year in America alone from the treatment. Oh, it gets worse when you add in the patients who die from secondary cancers caused by chemotherapy, chemotherapeutic induced cancer, or infections from chemotherapy induced immunosuppression or organ damage that kills them years later. The actual death toll is staggering. Seven figures. Look at vaccine adverse events. Oh, I'm sure this podcast is going to get ripped on by some sensor. According to according to VAERS, Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, even peer review, so many documented cases of blood clotting disorders, myocarditis, serious adverse events following the MIRN, the C19 vaccine. You know where they mostly occurred to? Younger groups. American Heart Drone 2020 would publish data on post-vaccination myocarditis incidents alone. They said 13,000 deaths attributed to vaccines, but they go to causalities debated though. You know that Canada just locked up all vaccine information for 25 years? Did you know that? Why? All records locked for 25 years. Why? Listen, even if you're skeptical of causality attribution, the fact remains that there is not a zero risk intervention. And if you go, nothing has zero risk. Tell me how many people have died of peptides. Just tell me. Oh, wait. Go ahead. Give me the number. We know that vaccines cause harm. It's not zero risk. Remember what I said about celibrex at the beginning? Proved as the safer NSAID, the FDA eventually added a black box warning for cardiovascular and GI risks. And then they pulled it. Increased myocardial infarction at stroke risk, 10,000 plus deaths that they are telling you about, 100% attributable to celibrex before the warning. Journal of the American Medical Association 2003. Look at OxyContin. Oxycodone and extended release tabs, right? Marketed as the safer because of extended release formulation directly contributed to the opioid epidemic. CDC estimates over half a million deaths from opioid overdose alone. Purdue Pharma pleaded guilty to criminal charges. They knew it was addictive. They knew it. They damn well knew it. They gave it to you anyway. Yeah, this bugs me because I have a good friend of mine that got caught in that trap. And if you go, well, he's just got a problem. He's still a good man. Look at NSAIDs. The American Journal of Gastroenterology, 16,500 NSAID related deaths per year from GI bleeding alone in the United States alone. Add cardiovascular beds. Just so you know, NSAIDs increase. You ready for this? And they go, take aspirin every day. Listen, just so you know, NSAIDs increase MI myocardial infarction and stroke risk by 50%. So why are they getting you to take an aspirin every day? You're looking at anywhere from 50 to 100,000 deaths annually. You guys just keep spoon feeding yourselves with this stuff, too. Look at PPI's proton pump numbers, increased risk of fractures, British Medical Journal, 2010, cardiovascular events, chronic kidney disease, American Journal of Gastroenterology, 2017, said estimated 50,000 hospitalizations annually from PPI related complications, total pharmaceutical related deaths, conservative estimate, 2 million per year in the United States alone. Now, how many people have died from peptides? Come on, get me the number. I'll wait. What do you got? What are you going to say that people don't report them? They die in their sleep somewhere because they took too much PPC? Zero, zero. Not rare, not very uncommon. You guys, it is zero. I need you to take this seriously because I take my life and I take your life very seriously. The most comprehensive review of peptide safety published in the Journal of Peptide Science, 2019, showed adverse events from peptides were extraordinarily rare and typically mild. Transient headache, you ready for this? These are brutally better. Buckle up. Transient headache, slight nausea, temporary injection, slight irritation. Are you going to be able to handle that compared to NSAIDs, chemotherapy, and opioids where we're getting into the millions per year of deaths? Zero, zero. That's a good side effect, baby. How many times have you heard somebody say, listen, you look at elite biogenics, clomid side effects might occur? No, you don't hear that. You look at any of the companies in cell peptides. You'll never hear that because they don't exist. How about we look at the actual side effect profiles because you hear them for 45 seconds while some family is playing frisbee with their dog snipples in the park. Most common side effects for pharmaceutical drugs, ironically, is iatrogenic disease, meaning disease caused by the treatment itself. The Journal of American Medical Association estimates that 25,000 hospitalized patients experience adverse drug reactions. So I want you to think about that number right now. 25%. So 25% of your family was taken away right now. I know some of you guys will be like, oh, I'm so happy. You're an idiot. Don't act like that because one day what happened to you, you freak out. You've seen labyrinths and you know that when her little brother gets taken away, she freaks out. Yeah, exactly. So don't. Man, this is a great movie with David Bowie, by the way, if you don't know what it is. Old. I'm old. I'm 52. 25% of your paycheck, 25% of your health, 25% of your physical body was all taken away. I don't care if you're overweight. That's not what I'm talking about. If your arm was taken, just understand that means one in four people in a hospital are being there, being harmed by their own medications. So what are the side effects? How about this GI bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, and AIDS and anti-quadriolence. How cardio and heart attack, and AIDS, diabetic drugs cause this stroke and AIDS, hormone replacement therapy. Huh, wait a minute, back up on the HRT. Let's touch on that for a second. So HRT, the thing that they're saying that some other doc out there on social media, God, I hope you hear this. I hope you hear this. And you go, this is the guy that doesn't know anything about menopause. I know everything about menopause. All diseases. Why? Because they follow my three biological failures because I care about you because I love you. Oh, not that doctor. You as in the people listening to this. Do you think I come out here for myself? I've got about a thousand things I'd rather be doing than this, but I do this because I get a crap about mankind because God left me here to drop all this information to give you everything you've got to have the most badass life you possibly can and turn you into a friggin' juggernaut. That's why. That's why. Stroke. HRT, it doesn't matter if they go, that only happens to 1%. 1% is too much. Peptide, zero. Liver toxicity. Acetaminophen, by the way, statins. Methotrexate, a chemotherapeutic drug that they use off-label for, huh, rheumatoid arthritis for one thing. Got a pelvic kidney damage. NSAIDs, ACE inhibitors affect that. Look at muscle pain and weakness. Notorious. Myalgia is notorious with statins. I'm just ripping these off the top of my head. Cognitive impairment. Benzodiazepines, Xanax, Valium, right? Anticholinergics, sexual dysfunction. Really? I'm going to tell you, my wife is so hot. I love having sex with my wife. I would not want to be all wrecked physically and then have somebody go, that's just normal because you're 52. No, it's not. Only if you're taking crazy medications. Beta blockers, SSRIs and antipsychotics, by the way. You know what they give? SSRIs and antipsychotics for PTSD. But I think I know a doc. He looks a lot like me. Where's the same hat? Speaks like me. Has a beard, same age. Wait, it is me who solved it for free. Metabolic dysfunction. Antipsychotics and corticosteroids. That means you are a big, giant, type 2 diabetic. And these aren't rare. You guys, these are common. Most catastrophic side effects from peptides. Let's look at it. This is where it gets real interesting. Okay, you ready? You guys, I need you to stop whatever you're doing. I need you to write this down. What's catastrophic side effect from peptides would be? You ready? Okay, this is so important. Transient headache, injection site irritation. International Journal of Peptides, 2020 reviewed 15 years of peptide related adverse event reports. The findings, you're going to love this. Headaches, 2% incidence resolved within hours. Nasia, 1% or less incidence. Mild and transient injection site inflammation. 5% incidence resolved in days. Transient water retention, 4% incidence resolved upon discontinuation. Mild appetite changes, 1% incidence. And I'm not talking about reddit, true tide. It's supposed to do that. That's it. That's the entire side effect profile. But you have people on social media saying peptides are bad, but you shouldn't buy them from what? Anybody other research you saw me as dangerous? Not one serious adverse event, not one hospitalization, not one death. And they're sitting there waiting for it. Listen, here's where it gets really devious. The FDA says they're banning peptides. All these docs out there saying they're banning peptides, they're trying to get rid of them, take them, don't only buy from compounding pharmacies, what the ones that the pharmaceutical companies control. So they can load it up with all kinds of nonsense and charge you 20 times the price. So you have to pay 1500 to 2 grand for red or true tide. Are you out of your mind? And if you go out there and charge that for a 60 milligram vial, they're trying to ban it for safety concerns. But didn't I just establish that peptides are remarkably safe? So what's actually happening? How about we just connect the dots? Look at the economic reality of this entire thing. The pharmaceutical drug basically costs approximately 2.6 billion to develop from research to FDA approval. This is tough center for study of drug development 2016. These are the numbers I'm getting, where I'm getting my numbers. Okay, that's how much basically that's the average for pharmaceutical drug. The company has about 17 years of patent protection before generics can even be made. Pay attention to this because follow the money. My wife always says it, she's spot on in that window. A successful drug needs to generate 5 to 10 billion in revenue just to break even on R&D and marketing costs. Okay, follow. Peptide by contrast, naturally occurring biological molecule, can't patent a natural compound. They're fighting that too, by the way. You can patent a specific manufacturing process or formulation, but once it's out there, competitors can synthesize the snot out of it. So here's what happens. That means this. Peptides are cheap to develop. No billion dollar R&D needed. Man, peptides can't command monopoly pricing. Peptides won't generate massive profits. Pharmaceutical companies need pharmaceutical companies cannot own the peptide market. So just think about that. I'm going to drink some more coffee. Believe me, I wasn't even going to do this podcast, but I was just so aggravated today. I went in the house, I was like, you know, and I'm so tired of the FDA. If peptides become widely known to be the superior, option to drugs, more effective, safer, cheaper, why would anybody take a pharmaceutical? If they offer the elimination of managed decline, why would anybody take a pharmaceutical? Because the drug company can't compete with that. They can't lower their prices. Investors would go nuts. They'd revolt. It would be like a revolution. They can't improve their safety profile. It's built into the chemistry. They can't increase their efficacy. They're designed to mask, not to cure. So they can only do one thing. They can only eliminate the competition. And they did it through regulatory counter. Here, I'll explain how regulatory counter works, because this is where people get a little confused. The FDA is funded partially by pharmaceutical companies. This is called the prescription drug user fee act, PDUFA. Pharmaceutical companies literally pay for FDA employee salaries. Did you know that? 2021 pharmaceutical companies paid 1.24 billion in user fees to the FDA. That's 75% of the FDA's drug center budget, just so you know that that is an astronomical amount of money. So I don't care how wealthy you are. I have a few billionaire friends. One of them is Howard Payne. I don't want to give the other ones away. And he is worth about three and a half to four billion. He basically had to kill himself working to do that. He's a very good man. He is not trying to harm anybody. He deserves every penny. These are the people that are out there. So the people who are supposed to regulate the pharmaceutical industry are literally funded by the pharmaceutical industry. Make it make sense. When that's the case, what do you think happens when a peptide company, a small startup with no lobbying power, asks for approval versus when Pfizer asks? The company pays the bills, gets the attention. The company that doesn't gets ignored or worse gets actively pursued and eliminated. The ban. Look at the FDA acting under pressure from pharmaceutical companies who provide most of their funding. I just explained that. Began cracking down my peptides compounding in 2023 severely. It's been really bad. There's stated reason. Safety concern. All the chill doctors, all you paid doctors out there explaining why it's for safety. We need to only get them from compounding pharmacies. All you soccer moms that are going non research, non research use the peptide companies. Are you out of your mind? You're bought and paid for any download no matter how many times you probably  peptides have an extraordinary safety record, zero deaths, minimal side effects, so what actually happened is this, big pharma realized peptides were a threat to their profit model and they used their financial control of the FDA to eliminate the competition. That's not safety, it's money, it's money. The hypocrisy, the FDA approval doesn't mean safe. Here's where the intellectual dishonesty becomes incredibly obvious. The FDA says you can freely talk about how to use any FDA approved drug. Listen, I'll say it again. The FDA says that you can freely, I could go online right now and talk about anything right now on this podcast and tell you how to use, how every single aspect even off-label use. I could teach you how to smoke methotrexate if that was something people could do. Why? Because it's an FDA approved drug. A doctor can tell you about CELibrex, its mechanism of action, its dosing schedule, its side effects, but if you try and explain the use of a peptide, how to do it, that's safe and effective, you get shut down, canceled, eliminated or worse. You get fined, you might even get prosecuted. If it's truly about safety, why can you openly discuss drugs that kill thousands if not millions of people per year but not a peptide that's killed zero? The answer's obvious. It's not about safety, it's about money. FDA approval does not mean safe, it means profitable. I'll prove it. Look at Vioxx. FDA approved, marketed heavily. Eventually just caused an estimated to be safe. This is what you know of, by the way. So you may as well, I call it my 10-H rule. I didn't steal it from Grant. It's just what I've always been thinking. FDA approved caused an estimated 27,000 deaths from cardiovascular events before being pulled from the market. That's in 2004. The company, Merck, paid 4.85 billion with a B in settlements they knew about the risks before the approval and they didn't disclose them. Look at a Vahendia. FDA approved diabetes drug. Oh, this is a good one. Caused thousands and thousands of MIs, myocardial infarctions, heart attacks. Eventually restricted. The FDA knew about the risks, approved it anyway. How about Accutane? Oh, everybody's heard about this one. The FDA approved Acne drug. One severe birth defects still prescribed despite knowing the risks. Look at Prednisone. Prednisone. Remember what I did, the Prednisone versus KPV, by the way? Remember that. Just remember those three letters. KPV. So look, FDA approved prescribed chronically causes osteoporosis, immunosuppression, metabolic dysfunction, premature death and still considered safe. FDA approval means we think the benefits outweigh the risks and the company paid us enough to process the paperwork. You're welcome. It doesn't mean safe. It means it's profitable. It means it's profitable. Managed decline. This secret in medicine, no pharmaceutical drug has ever reversed a disease in the history of mankind. Not one. Not one. And I'll go one step further because you guys are going to go, you're pretty ignorant and arrogant to sit there and say, egotistical, to say, you cure people. I've never cured a single person in my life. I've helped people and I've restored their biology and I've allowed their biology to do its job so they can cure themselves. No doctor anywhere, anytime in the history of mankind has ever cured anybody of anything, ever, myself included. So listen to the drugs. What drugs do is manage the progression of a disease. They slow the decline. They might extend life by years or months or whatever. They might make you feel slightly better, but they never reverse the underlying pathology ever. A statin does not reverse atherosclerosis. It slows its progression. Think about what I just said. It doesn't reverse it. And then they try and tell you it's not reversible. Bullshit. And antihypertensive doesn't restore your endothelial function. It doesn't restore nitric acid, nitric oxide synthase. It just keeps your pressure number lower so you look better on a lab. The beta blocker doesn't repair your heart. It just makes it beat slower. Anti-diabetic drug doesn't restore your insulin sensitivity. It just forces your pancreas to produce more insulin or it blocks glucose reabsorption altogether. This is what I've always said. It's called managed decline. You're slowly getting worse, but slow enough that you don't notice. And during that time, you're paying the pharmaceutical company thousands upon thousands of dollars per year. The profit model is not curing you. It's keeping you sick enough to need the medicine but healthy enough to stay paying. Compare that to what peptides do. Let's just go through a few just for fun. BPC-157 for an actual restoration of the biological system. Look at LL37, antimicrobial peptide. Restores antimicrobial peptide function. You make it. Actually increases your immune capacity. Actual enhancement of your biology. Peptides are not managing decline. They are restoring capacity. Period. Full stop. It gets me so upset. The reason is so straightforward. Once you understand biology, drugs work by blocking or forcing. That's it. They block a receptor. They block an enzyme. They inhibit a pathway or they force a response like forcing insulin secretion. What do I always call drawings? I call them a wrecking ball. The problem is that every pathway in your body has multiple functions. Block one thing and you've disrupted dozens of other processes that depend on it to survive. One example is look at statins. Statins block HMGCOA reductase which stops cholesterol synthesis. What? Cholesterol is needed. Sex hormone production. Less testosterone, less estrogen. I'll just go line by line through this. Look at cell membrane fluidity. So cholesterol regulates this. Look at neurological function. Cholesterol is 25% of myelin. Vitamin D and steroid hormone synthesis. Brain function. Memory formation. Alzheimer's, dementia, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, all the result of having low cholesterol. Block it and you get muscle pain, cognitive impairment, sexual dysfunction, hormone dysfunction, all documented in literature that you can read anytime, anywhere. Look at protag pump inhibitors. Block stomach acid production. Now you've blocked V12 absorption, least in neuropathy and cognitive decline. Magnesium absorption which leads to cardiac arrhythmia is in muscle pain. How about calcium reabsorption leads to osteoporosis? Intrinsic factor production needed for V12 binding. So that goes back to the first thing I said. Gastric antimicrobial peptide production increases infection risk. Proper nutrient breakdown. You can't do any of that. Block one thing, destroy 100 others. How about NSAIDs? Let's just keep right on going, baby. You block prostaglandin synthesis. You know what prostaglandins do? They protect gastric mucosa. Blocking them causes bleeding. My dad took 16 to 18 Tylenol every day. He died at 67 years old. Guess this pisses me off. NSAIDs regulate renal blood flow. So blocking them, blocking them, this is prostaglandins. This is what they do. Blocking prostaglandins causes kidney damage. Regulate immune function. Blocking them causes immunosuppression. Maintain platelet function. Prostaglandins blocking them increases bleeding risks. Regulates inflammation. So some prostaglandins are actually anti-inflammatories. They're blocking all of them. Paradoxically, increases inflammation. That's why NSAIDs have killed over 100,000 people per year that you know of. Drugs work through disruption. When you disrupt the system that has been built by God, you break things. Your biology knows what to do. You guys are screwing with it, believing that something is going to help you when it comes out of pharmacy. Peptides work differently. Restoration and signaling, not disruption. When you, I had this one idiot, this guy wasn't my group. This guy's such an idiot. I don't believe in peptides whatsoever. What a muppet. That means you don't believe in biology whatsoever. Sweating, that's all pissed off you are. When you introduce a peptide, you're saying to your body, listen, please listen to me. Here's a signal you're supposed to be producing. I need you to produce it better. Your body recognizes it. It binds to the appropriate receptors. It initiates the appropriate cascade, and then it's metabolized and cleared just like your body's natural peptides. You're not disrupting a damn thing. You're restoring a signal. But the BPC-157, that this muppet lady decided to attack. So you just no research that says it does anything. I can probably talk to at least 100 power lifters off the top of my head that have all gone, holy crap, it allowed me to keep competing. Uh-huh. Yup, doesn't do anything though. Got it. Your stomach produces BPC-157. I said it signals for mucosal regeneration, anti-inflammation, and eugenesis. It does a lot of things. If you introduce more, you're just enhancing a process that's already supposed to have no disruption, no blocking of something else. You're just amplifying a natural signal that you're designed by God to have the worst side effect. Your stomach might heal too quickly. Your injury might heal too quickly. You might have an excessive appetite. I don't know what to tell you. Compare that to a PPI which damages your entire micro-absorption system for years, your micronutrient absorption. How about thymus and beta-4? Your thymus gland produces thymus. It basically produces TB-500, right? So promotes cardiac regeneration, reduces inflammation. It's probably one of the cool things if I could stay on it and take it every single day at once. I just can't because I have flight just too long and you're not supposed to do that. It's not good for you. You introduce more, you're enhancing a regenerative process that's supposed to happen in your biology. No chemical interference. You're not blocking anything. You're restoring a damn signal in your biology. Worst side effect, mild transient water retention which just in all the years I've used it, I've never seen it myself personally but I've seen other people talk about it and I've seen the results. But this resolves immediately the second you discontinue it. It's you. I'm drinking some Coke Zero if you want. You're drinking poison though talking about pharmacy. How about you compare this? Look, it reverses fibrosis in the myocardium, damage from a myocardial infarction, reverses it where they said too bad, tissues dead. So now what? You have a conduction problem where Kinji fibers can't do their job properly. Buttle of his can't do anything like the SA-No doesn't work right. Are you kidding me? No. That's not true. If you give your body the proper signals, it knows what to do. So compare it to cardiac medications. This is what they cause. Electrolinum balus is it? Eurythmias. This is why peptides are safe because they work with your biology not against it. Look at the benefit to risk ratio. Let's just look at the math. Look at NSAIDs. Look at NSAIDs for pain management. The benefit, pain reduction. 30% reduction in pain scores. Improved function. Modest improvement in mobility. The duration, what are we talking? Four hours? Maybe? I told you my dad was taking a ton of time. Six hours maybe the most. Here's the risk. GI bleeding. There's 100,000 plus deaths per year. All your vascular events. 100,000 events per year. Am I in stroke? Just so you know, which is weird because they tell you to take an aspirin every day before you fly though. Yeah, so what? You die in the sky? Kidney damage. Which is a almost 100% guarantee of chronic use. Ulceration. One in 100. Just so you know. One in 100. Benefit to risk. Positive for acute use. I'll get at that. Click. For chronic use. Just so you know, chronic use is more than three days. Well, let's look at BPC. Just look at BPC for similar indication. Just look at that. Pain reduction. 60% clinical use. Duration reduction. Demonstrated through IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta suppression journal of gastroenterology 2018. Progdive tissue rate regenerate. Dual restoration of damaged tissue. Not shutting down the pain that's coming from it and leaving it damaged. Duration. A longer lasting due to regenerative mechanisms. So recovery versus symptom management. So managed decline or actually recovered. So let's do these risks. These are fun. The transient headache. Less than 2%. Mild nausea. Never seen it, but less than 1%. Injection site irritation. Less than 2%. I've never seen it. To risk ratio. Acute and chronic use. Positive. With actual tissue regeneration as a bonus. It's not even close. Not even close. The peptide approach is objectively superior from a risk benefit perspective. You could argue, but peptides aren't FDA approved. Okay. Let's look. Here's my response to that. FDA approval is irrelevant when peptides are safer, more effective than any FDA approved alternative. I could do this all day. I just have better things to do with my life than sit here and try and convince you of something that's going to friggin save you. Let me explain the actual business model because it's brilliant from a profit perspective and it's evil from a health perspective. The pharmaceutical company's goal is not to cure you. Say it again. The pharmaceutical industry's model is not to cure you. It's to get you dependent on a medication, keep you sick enough to need it, make you sick in new ways so you need more medication. Call me a liar. I don't care. This is called disease creation. Medication cascade. And you ready for my favorite one? DECLINE. Want some examples? Let's have some fun on this. How about let's type 2 diabetes. Let's do that because this one's fine for me because it's everywhere. I've reversed kangaroo type 2 diabetes thousands of times. Full reversal, but it's impossible. Only new medication. Patient develops metabolic dysfunction, insulin resistance. Another word for it. Prescribe metformin, which is always the first line of defense. Works on AMPK, not even close to the same as ModC, by the way. So metformin works by blocking glucose absorption and improving insulin sensitivity somewhat. It comes married to a ton of side effects. But it doesn't address the underlying insulin resistance. So eventually here's what happens. 100% of the time. Metformin stops working because the problem, insulin resistance, is still there. Now they're prescribed a second drug, GLP-1 agonist. So GLP-1 agonist increased insulin secretion. Still not fixing the insulin resistance. In fact, if you understand insulin resistance whatsoever and you've listened to anything I've said in the last year, you know that your cells become deaf to insulin. Your pancreas goes, I have to make more, which makes it even worse. You're starving in the sea of plenty is what I always say. So now the patient has high insulin levels, which causes increased fat storage, metabolic inflammation and cardiovascular dysfunction. So now the pres- wait, it gets better. They're prescribed the third drug, an ACE inhibitor for cardiovascular protection. And if you guys are checking boxes off and what you have in your medicine cabinet, if you still call it that, somebody made fun of me for that. I'm like, dude, 52, shut up. You've already, you're on medication three. So the ACE inhibitor works, but it causes hyperkalemia, which is high potassium. So they're prescribed, you ready? A diuretic. Like whatever it is. Usually it's Lasix, which is a loop diuretic for osomide, which causes you to excrete 50% of the filtered load. That is unfathomable to me. It's so much. So the diuretic now causes magnesium depletion. So they're prescribed a magnesium supplement. The cycle continues. Each new problem created by the medication requires a new medication. The patient came in with one problem, insulin resistance. And five years later, they have, you ready? insulin resistance, still unfixed cardiovascular dysfunction, electrolyte imbalance, metabolic dysfunction from all the medications themselves, cognitive impairment from the hyperglycemia and medication side of sexual dysfunction for sure, chronic neuropathy. And they're paying tens of thousands of dollars per year in medications being told that it's the only way they can do this because it's the only thing keeping them alive. The business model is exactly this. This is business. It's not a cure and lose a customer. It's create ongoing dependency and expand the medication list. What would a peptide look like? What would a peptide approach look like? Same patient. Let's just do the same patient. Peptide approach. So Milano-10-2 restores, same kangaroo, I gotta say that. Milano-10-2 restores, Milano-court signaling suppresses some systemic inflammation, restores insulin sensitivity. Raditruetide, not the pharmaceutical version of garbage, promotes pancreatic beta cell regeneration and true insulin sensitivity improvement, also solves a bunch of neurological issues. So Milano-10-2-5-7 repairs the gut barrier, improves nutrient absorption, reduces metabolic endotoxin. So now you have actual reversal of insulin resistance in four to six months. No cascade of new diseases, no medication dependency. You've lost the weight, you're functioning better and you're operating like a regular human friggin' D. But now the pharmaceutical company has lost a customer for life and they've lost potential future customers because you're actually healthy. Big pharma cannot allow this. Look it, you wanna know where it gets really dark is how they control all the literature. Who funds pharmaceutical research? This pisses me off. According to the National Institute of Health, 70% of clinical trial funding comes from pharmaceutical companies themselves. NIH analysis, by the way, proved this in 2019. That's already six years ago. 7, if you really wanna do some fancy math, okay? What happens when a pharmaceutical company funds a study? Just ask yourself that. Who's paying? Follow the money. Well they know the results they need, so if a study shows their drug is safe and effective, it gets published. If it shows their drug is harmful, it gets buried. You wanna see some examples? Aox. Merck-funded studies showing Biox was cardiovascular safe. Independent studies showed it was dangerous AF. I'm not gonna say it, I'm trying not to swear too much. Guess which one got published? The Merck-funded ones. The negative studies were suppressed for years. Eventually the truth came out, but only after 27,000 deaths. How long are you guys gonna fall for this? Look at statin studies. Majority of statin studies are pharmaceutical company funded and surprised. They all show statins work great. Independent meta-analysis, not funded by pharma, show much more modest benefits. The Framingham study shows negative benefits. It shows harm. And it's the longest running research ever to see. SSRI studies, pharmaceutical company's funded studies showing SSRIs were safe and effective. FDA's own internal review, which got leaked conveniently, showed that 40% of the negative studies were never published. That's almost half you guys. So now you've got this, it creates what's called a publication bias. New England Journal of Medicine 2008 showed that this is called a publication bias and it showed what was published and what was suppressed and the difference in how it sways the public opinion on what they believe in, what they don't believe in, what they think works and what they think doesn't. This publication bias and selective outcome reporting is not rare. It's standard practice. What about peptide research? How about we do that? Peptide research is mostly conducted at universities and independent research institutes. The funding comes from government grants, NSF, NIH, actually has a bunch of small biotech companies, academic institutions, some cases, researchers own funding. They just do it themselves because they go, I want to prove this works. These sources don't have the same profit incentive to suppress negative results. If a peptide shows problems, great. If it shows problems, you know what happens? Researchers publish that too. That means peptide research is much more likely to reflect reality than pharmaceutical research. How about the track record? Just look at the track record of this stuff. So let's look at peptides versus pharmaceuticals as a track record before I can waft on another tangent. Look at actual outcomes. Look at the pharmaceutical track record. Intended to reverse disease? Zero drugs have ever reversed the disease. I did to my grandma. No, it didn't. Intended to slow disease progression? That's modest. Success 15% slowing on average. That's not very good. Just so you know. Creates new diseases, documented 25% of all users. Death rate over a million per year. Long-term health improvement, rare, if at all. And the profit model requires ongoing medication dependency. So let's swing the pendulum to the other side of the equation before people start getting all of the norms. Peptides. Intended to regenerate. Let's just say the same questions. To regenerate tissue. Success documented. Journal of peptide science reviews 2018 all the way through 2024. Intended to restore biological functions. Success documented. The same. So many studies. It's almost unbelievable. Yet this lady goes, there's no studies except some rat study in Croatia. Shut up. Creates new diseases. Zero documented cases. Death rate zero. Long-term health improvement. Documented in published research everywhere. Profit model. Can't monopolize natural molecules. So it's limited. So it's not business. People go, oh, you're just ripping people off. You know what? If I made $10 million a month and that would be 120 million a year, that's not even a fraction of what's being pulled by Pfizer alone. Give me a, from a peer outcomes perspective, peptides have objectively far superior track record. Follow the money. Follow the power. This is the FDA didn't ban peptides because they're unsafe. They're not fighting against peptides because they're unsafe. They're banning peptides and they're fighting to ban peptides and everything else and all these shills out in social media claiming, I'm a doctor and I think you should only use compounding pharmacies and only get stuff from. It's going to be unsanitary and you don't know. You have to check for endotoxins and all the other methods that follow me and then steal my stuff and use my research that I bust my ass to get so I can give it to you guys because I actually care about you because I look at 9 billion people on the planet and I looked at, God left me here to give you the information so you can make an educated decision. Like I said, I don't care if you buy from my company. I don't care if you join the black card. I care that you have something you can make an educated decision on and you actually go, this guy gives a shit about me. He loves me. He's a real doctor above all do no harm. That's why I'm here. FDA is trying to ban peptides, profit protection, pure and simple. Pharmaceutical companies generate 600 plus billion annually in the US market alone. If peptides became mainstream, that revenue would evaporate. Look at regulatory capture. Pharmaceutical companies fund the FDA. The FDA protects pharmaceutical companies. It's a symbiotic relationship. They're married. They're in bed together and both of them are gay. Intellectual property. Pharma can patent their drugs. They can't patent natural peptides so they can't monopolize the market. Look at disease creation. The pharmaceutical model depends on creating and maintaining disease. Peptides that actually restore health are existential threats to the entire system. Look at market control. If people realized they could get safer, more effective treatment from peptides, they'd stop buying pharmaceutical drugs. The industry would collapse in itself. It would implode. So they did what large industries do when faced with superior competition. They used regulatory power to eliminate it. That is not for any other reason. Look at the hypocrisy. Why you could discuss drugs but not peptides. This is the intellectual inconsistency that proves this is about profit, not safety. Listen, you can go on any podcast. I could do this right now. I could go on any show. I could go on Weldon. I could go on Sean Wright. I could go on any major podcast ever. Talk about all the drugs I want. I could talk about how to use statins which kill people through liver toxicity and muscle damage. So, you know, you can use NSAIDs which kill 100,000 plus people per year minimum. How to use metformin which causes B12 deficiency. All research based by the way. So if somebody censors this, you know what? F, U, it's fat. How to use SSRIs which double suicide risk in young people. You can get this information freely. Your doctor can discuss it. Pharmaceutical reps can market it to you directly. You can even give you free samples. Hey, I'll give you the first one for free. Come on. You want a INS? Like that's how it is. But you cannot discuss how to use BPC-157 which has zero deaths and reverses GI damage and heals muscle and tissue and proven transsected tendon, hamstring tendon, healed it in four weeks to full function, 100% function. How to use TB-500 which has zero deaths and regenerates cardiac tissue. How to use melanotent too which has zero deaths and restores immune function. You can't discuss peptide protocols. Ever have to call a kangaroo. You can't suggest dosing. You can't recommend sources. If you do, you get shut down, banned or worse. Why? Because if it was truly about safety, this makes no sense. This is the same reason why I come at you guys, all you Insta bros and Insta experts and self-proclaimed PhDs with fuchsia fucking hair and all the people out there that are going to the mom's soccer moms that are selling their stuff trying to steal my videos going, this guy's wrong. I'm not coming out when you're trying to sell anything. I don't have an affiliate code in my profile. I go, you want to join them? People ask me every day, how do I become a patient of yours? How do I work with you? So I give them an opportunity so I don't have to answer 5,000 emails every day. So Mia doesn't break her fingers trying to answer all you guys. I do it because I care because I want to give you an option to come and if you need my help, I give you information because I care. I explain all this stuff because I care. This is tough love. You know what? I love you enough to tell you the truth. You love yourself and your profit enough to attack me, to attack people that are coming and going against what you're selling. You know what's crazy is we should all be in the same realm, all working together to solve the disease, not talk about how we're solving the disease, but secretly marketing our stuff. I've been kept a single thing since the day I started making posts like this, right down to exactly how. So save your judgment of me because I have it once. Gate kept and said, I'll give you the rest if you give me some money. I've never once I'll give you the rest of the answer if you just give me some cash, not once because you know what that means? Means they don't want to help you. They want your profit. So everybody going online stealing my stuff, using my videos going, I don't agree with this guy. He doesn't know what he's talking about. Apparently he's some chiropractor that doesn't understand science. That was the most funny thing I've ever seen. I saw a personal trainer who probably couldn't even spell a seedle, Colleen, trying to tell me that I don't understand science and that peptides should be blended. You guys keep making videos about how copper should be blended with everything because you sell it or you have an affiliate code or because you've used it or you're just too ignorant, stupid to understand biochemistry properly and you have never seen a patient in your life, but you're the expert. So what I'll tell you is this, if you have a proven track record of people having full reversal of disease processes like I do, then come and talk to me until that day, shut your mouth because I care more about mankind. You care more about yourself if you're making reaction videos about my stuff. If it was, listen, peptides are safer. We should all be fighting for that. The disparity should be reversed. You should be warned about drugs, but freely discussing peptides. The fact that it's backwards proves that the ban isn't about safety. It's about profit. If a pharmaceutical company profits from a molecule, the FDA allows you to discuss it freely even if it kills thousands and millions of people. If a molecule is safe, effective and threatens pharmaceutical profit, the FDA bans you from even mentioning it. This isn't medicine. This isn't science. This isn't safety. This is a protection racket. Let me be absolutely clear about what the science shows. Pharmaceutical drugs, average benefit, 15% symptom improvement, average risk, 25% of users experience serious adverse effects if not death. Death rate over a million per year, disease reversal rate, zero quality of life improvement, negative side effects, outweigh benefits, 100% of the time. Look at peptides. Average benefit, 80% improvement and measured quantifiable parameters, average risk, less than 1% experience, mild transient side effects, death rate, zero, zero. Where are you at now? Disease reversal documented in multiple studies, quality of life improvement, consistently positive. Nobody's ever said it is horrible for me. The data isn't even close. Peptides outperform pharmaceuticals on every meaningful metric. Listen, here's what they've been hiding. Didn't even want to do this. I don't even know how to post this podcast. You've been told that pharmaceutical drugs are the gold standard of medicine because they're FDA approved and evidence based. That's what these people out here, all you doctors out there saying evidence based, FDA approved, human trials. You know what I got for you? Nothing but disrespect because you are a horrible human being profiting off of your own lives. Don't buy from me at all and I still give you the answer. You're on Pharma's payroll. The FDA is captured by the pharmaceutical industry and the evidence is largely funded by pharmaceutical companies who suppress negative results. Meanwhile, peptides which are safer, more effective, cheaper and actually restore biological function and reverse all three biological failures of 100% of all diseases are being criminalized. It's not about science. It's not about safety. It's not about your health. It's about an industry that generates $600 billion annually in the United States alone by keeping you sick. An industry that profits from disease. An industry that's literally killing millions of people a year through adverse drug reactions alone. And when faced with a technology that actually works, that costs less, causes no deaths, restores health, they didn't compete. They didn't improve their products. They didn't lower prices. They use regulatory capture to criminalize the competition. They literally made it illegal to discuss the superior alternative and the safer choice is illegal. The dangerous medicine is advertised on fray television. You're not living in a free market. It's what I called it at the beginning. You're living in a cartel. Every time you take a pharmaceutical drug without questioning why a peptide which are objectively safer and more effective, why they're banned, why they're shut down, why they're being criminalized, why they're being attacked, you're participating in the protection of the most profitable cartel in history. The pharmaceutical industry did not become a $600 billion US, by the way, never mind globally, enterprise by curing diseases. They became this enterprise by creating dependency, managed decline by making sure you are sick enough to need medicine but not so sick that you die because a dead customer can't pay their bill, can they? Peptides are the antithesis of this model. That's why they can't be discussed. That's why they're banned. That's why they're hunting them. Not because they're unsafe, because they actually work. That is a threat that the industry cannot tolerate, which is exactly why they're coming down on them. It's beyond a war. It's a revolution. What side of it are you going to be on? I've got to go. I hope you got some out of this.

=== FILE: The REAL Power of SLU-PP-332 - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [DuRVkxq9MpE].txt ===

 you know, it's, man, it is 10 to 4 Christmas Eve 2025. Two things, right? Look at this. Which one is better? You know what's wild? Which one is worse for you? You guys need to look at what I'm doing. I'm going to be talking about SLUPP332, by the way. I'm going to blow your minds today. But look at this. Most people would say this one's really bad for you. Worse, this one's actually good for you. This is what's bad for you. But that's an entirely different podcast. It'd be a fun one though. So listen, people, pay attention. I'm going to knock this out because I really want to go inside. I want to spend time with my wife and kids. I really do. I love my family so much. And they're my best friends. And by the way, to everybody that's ever gone into my comments and said something amazing, I love you. Thank you very much to everyone that's ever gone into other people's comments and defended me. I love you. Thank you very much. I really do mean that. It matters to me because I'm not out here to get anything from anybody. I don't want anything from you guys. I don't, like I said, I don't care if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics. Go ahead. I'll give you the best product on the planet. I guarantee it. Geno Shack, nobody tests like they do. And I don't use local COA guys that make BS COAs that are full of lies. There's no endotoxins or anything. LPS. Nothing's in my, I think it's in my company's products. Nothing other than perfect product. And you want to join the black card, then join. If you don't, that's okay. I still come out here because I do care. And I find it interesting when anyone, my wife told me about this doctor that was trying to attack me in somebody's comments, writing paragraphs, which is just an AI disaster. This guy's, he owns a hormone clinic. And of course, that's exactly right. My wife, she laughs at these people because she goes down the rabbit hole and goes, these guys are idiots. They have no idea how intelligent you are. My wife's been with me for 21 years. She knows how smart. And I do it because I care. I'm smart because I want to give you everything I've got. I want you to have all the information I've got, not because I want to come out here and go, look at how smart I am. I don't give a crap how smart I am. I don't. I just don't care. I care about how smart you are. I care about all the information you have so you can take it and use it and apply it to your life so you don't make dumb mistakes listening to people that really aren't intelligent. They use big, fancy words to make you feel like you're the idiot in the room, but you're not. So I want you guys to understand how intelligent you are. Stop letting people tell you're not. And stop letting doctors bully you. You can feel free to give them the finger and tell them the pound sand all day long. White coat and a God complex. I say this all the time. I've been a doctor twofold for decades. Both sides of the equation, the medical side and the chiro side. And you know, it's funny, this guy went in there and he says, this guy lost his license and he's got strikes, multiple strikes against him. Let's go down that rabbit hole for a sec because I did. I lost my my my DC license and it's because of this big fat cow named Christine who works for the California Board of Chiropractic Examiners. You should look at me. You should look me up. Look me up and look at my license. It was revoked, had nothing to do with patient interaction. Nothing. She was gunning for me for a decade because I told her to go f herself because I wasn't going to let them tell me how to make sure a patient was healthy and strong and ready for the world at 100%. I wasn't willing to go. You say they need two visits and they'll be fine. And then I just turn them loose because some insurance company says, absolutely, I wasn't willing to let an insurance whore who has no training whatsoever dictate how much that patient needs, how many visits, what kind of care they need, what lifestyle change they need, all the stuff. I was not willing to do it. I went toe to toe with them for over a decade and she finally found something and I just basically told him to go f off. I don't give a crap that fat cow. I earn more in a day than that woman earns in a year and I help more people than she has ever helped because I actually give a crap about humanity and that kind. Whereas she goes, I can't do anything because I suck at my job. I'm going to chase down all the doctors that are trying to help people. It's the truth and everybody knows that. Look at the AMA, the CCA. It's all the same. It's a for-profit organization designed to keep thumbs on your head so any doctor knows this. So you can't do the things that are actually required that are necessary for you to do to solve the problem of the patient, which is why I created the black card. And the black card, by the way, this is an image on the black card. I'm telling you, it's $9,997 until the end of this year and then it goes up to $25,000. There's no way to lock in a spot. Somebody asked me, can I lock in a spot if I pay a little bit now? No, because it's not fair to everybody that's paid $9,997. It's for a year. You get me. You get my live Q&A call I do every Monday. You get the archive. You get the VIP community where you can actually ask questions and it's me answering. I'm not giving you canned answers. I will solve your frigging problems because I genuinely care. Oh, geez, you guys don't get it. I care so much about your health. It drives me nuts. At 52 years old, I have this goal for mankind. It's just to help everybody I can. So when somebody comes into the comments and starts going, you should look at, he lost his license. You bet your ass I did. I lost it because it was for somebody. It was for a laser fat loss clinic that they, it was mine, totally separate business, different EIN and everything, different company. But they cross pollinated this to go, it doesn't matter because according to watch CCA, AMA guidelines, this is how they go. They go, whatever you do, you are still governed by our rules. It allows them complete control over your life just so you understand. So if you go out, don't, but if you go out to some bar and you get just bomb ass wasted, well, they can go, we're going to pull your license because you're representing the community. Now, I don't agree with any of that. You're going to do what you're going to do on your private time. Do I think you can act like an ass? No, I think that's disrespectful and just downright irresponsible and ignorant. However, if you're not showing up to your job, bomb ass wasted and you're actually a great doctor, I'm not saying do it, but I'm saying they're totally separate. And I'm sure somebody's going to get my comments and chirp about it. I don't really care. This is my house, my show. So you can either listen or you can remember, it's your choice to listen to me. I don't have to listen to you. I can delete you. You don't have to listen to me. You don't like this is my house. So this guy went on and on trying to discredit me, but you can't discredit me because I keep coming out or giving you stuff for free and giving you the real answers. I'm not asking you for anything. I'm literally just going, here you go. Here you go. Here you go. I'm not going, I'll give you the, but wait, there's more and I'll give you the rest of the answer if you buy my stuff. No, I don't care. You want to buy great. Like you want to join the black card? You have got to understand it is 9,997 and that's what you get. And you send a request, apply at unlockthecard.com and my team will send you a wire transfer information. It's the only way I take it. I will not do credit card at all. If you send me a credit card, I will refund it. I'm not going to take your money from a credit card. It is wire transfer only period and I will take care of you for an entire year. But if you don't, that's okay. I still come out here because I care. So I've learned this. When you try and discredit other people, you only discredit yourself. So you want to get it, you should go down that rabbit hole. Look at it. It was for a record keeping issue that they didn't like because they didn't follow their guidelines. My records are still spotless. They're impeccable. But they didn't like that. I didn't do it according to their word, their methods. And so they finally went, you have to go and show up to this little meeting in a boardroom with two California chiropractic board examiners, Christine, that big blimp and one of her friends. I just never showed up because I just didn't care. I could have. I just didn't care. So if you look at the strike, I'm a damn good doctor. I know. So the best part of this entire equation is if that's what people look at for credibility, you might want to look at follow the science. I love seeing medical doctors at which I'm both, right? But the issue is that if you go and you try, there are personal trainers out there that make doctors look like imbeciles. So it's not the title. It's the knowledge that determines what you're getting. Please get that whether it's me or anybody else. I don't care about your title. I care about your intention and the knowledge that you have. That's all I care about. So if you're going to take knowledge and you're going to dump it on the public in an effort to help them, awesome. If you're going to take knowledge and dump it on the public in an effort to bulk them for money or you're doing it because you want to stay in the good graces of big pharma or an insurance company, you can go right to hell. You can go right to hell because that means you're doing it and you're sacrificing human beings for it. And you know what? Pardon my language, but fuck you because you are a terrible human being. I'm out here because I actually give a crap. And if you don't get that, you'll never get it. So if you go and I get people that I get like about 10 to 20 thumbs down on my video on YouTube. What the hell's the matter with you guys? What are you, five? Shut up. Don't even bother giving me a thumbs down. Just go somewhere else. I come out here for free. The best thing that you should do is say thank you. I don't care if you don't like it. You're a toddler. You know how many times I've given somebody a thumbs down on any video? Zero or left a negative comment on anybody's video? Find it. You'll never find one ever in 12 years of being on social media and YouTube. Never. Not once because I just, I don't care. I'm like, I want to lift people up and not pull them down, but you guys are so miserable that you run around going, I don't like what he said. He swore he said something that went against my narrative. It made me hurt my feelings. My herty words are going to bug you then. Listen, look at life. So slew PP332 because I could do this all day. Let's get one thing straight, you guys. You guys have been sold this lie that's wrapped up in a Pilates mat and sprinkled with a bunch of kale. That's the world you're living in right now. The entire wellness industry is this multi-billion dollar monument to treating symptoms. You're putting Band-Aids on a corpse and you're calling it health. Your body isn't failing you because you're lazy. It's not. It's failing you because it's running an outdated energy-starved operating system that is fundamentally incompatible with current modern life. Not at all. This isn't here to motivate. I'm not here to drive. Motivation is for people who don't understand. Leverage. I need to explain leverage. Leverage is slew PP332. It's not a supplement. It's not a drug. It is a transcriptional master key. If you can follow basic practical biochemistry without arguing and getting in the comments, I'll make sure you can understand this. Believe me, I'll try to make sure you understand this. You'll see that it represents a categorical shift from reactive medicine to proactive biological command. We need to stop taking notes on other people's lives and start understanding principles of health. Terminology matters. It really does. This is the CEO of your cellular energy empire, is slew PP332. It's a very powerful selective agonist for something called the estrogen-related receptor alpha. Estrogen is a historical relic because it shares a similar structure to the estrogen receptor, but it doesn't bind estrogen. It's true function. It's real function. It was discovered and elucidated in early 2000s, I think. Far more profound than what people tell you. ERR alpha is a nuclear receptor. It's a protein that binds directly to your DNA and acts as this master regulator of transcription. Think of your genome as this vast library of a bunch of unread blueprints. Most of them are locked away. At ERR alpha is the chief librarian with absolute power, like the ultimate clearance level, right? Whatever that would be. In a metabolically healthy, highly active individual, think elite athlete. Think somebody like me. I'm not saying to brag. I'm saying I'm always active. I train all the time. I'm going to be 53 in a couple of months. This librarian is constantly pulling blueprints for energy projects. The average sedentary person was a lot of people. It's unbelievable. The librarian is asleep, out, lights are off. E32 doesn't just wake the librarian up. It literally cranks open his mouth and dumps like a quintuple espresso in a bunch of a fedron and a team of assistants and a mandate to photocopy every single blueprint related to energy production, distribution and efficiency. That's what it does. In 2004, proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, it cemented ERR alpha's role as the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis, which is the creation of more, more efficient power plants. That was the starting crystal for this entire thing. Remember, think about this. For it is going on 2026 in a matter of days and this is where it's getting its highlight reel now. This is what I'm telling you. All the things that you're hearing about now have been around for a really long time. I've known about this stuff forever. And I keep trying to give you the information, but it's really new. No, it's not new. It was buried. Let's get into mechanistics. And I believe me, I did as hot as hell in here right now. It's 80 degrees here in Texas. By the way, people always ask me about this hat. Okay. So the reason I wear this hat, I need you to look at that. Okay. It's got a Spartan American flag on it. It's from my son. And I wear it. Don't even know why it's choking me up. I love my son, man. I know what the reason. I love my son. I love my daughter. I love my family. If you don't get why I'm out here, you're having stupid. So you guys get time, more time. But I love my son. So I wear the hat. Reminds me of my son. He picked it out. He goes, Dad, this is, he was a little kid. Just a little hitty-bitty kid. He's nine years old. Dad, this is your hat. And he came up to me with this hat. Little tiny voice hadn't changed yet. He handed me this hat. He blasted me. Where'd you get that hat? My son. I don't even remember the store. I think we were in Monterey Bay to go to the aquarium because it was like a two and a half hour drive from our house when I lived in California. Three hours maybe, Tom. Lots of memories, right? So anyway, let's look at the mechanism of all this. This is where physics comes into play. The molecule, so anyway, that's the reason for my hat. The molecule, I'm just thinking about my boy now. I want to just stop and go see him. He's in the house. The molecule enters the nucleus of the cell and it binds to the ERR alpha protein. This binding, excuse me, induces a conformational change. So it shifts the shape of the protein. Now this new shape, so think about it, pulls apart, comes back to the other different chip. The new shape has a high affinity for another protein called PGC1 alpha, peroxazone proliferator-activated receptor gamma-cofactor 1 alpha. It doesn't matter what it is, PGC1 alpha is not a DNA binding protein itself. It's a transcriptional cofactor and a brutal, violent amplifier. Okay, follow me now. SLUPP332 alpha, PGC1 alpha complex, right? Now it's one giant complex. Now hunts for specific DNA sequences called ERREs, ERR response elements. Just so you understand what I'm talking about. In the promoter regions of target genes, when it finds one, it recruits the entire transcriptional machinery, RNA polymerase transcription factors, and initiates this torrent of gene expression. Which genes? You ready for this? The entire genetic toolkit for mitochondrial energy production. That's what makes this badass. So there, you just got your entire genetics class and all of this in about six minutes. So look at the ETC, electron transport chain. Genes for complex 1, NADH dehydrogenase, right? Complex 2, succinyl dehydrogenase, and complex 3, cytochrome BC1 complex and cytochrome, and complex 4, which is cytochrome C oxidase, all of these. Anyone understanding biochemistry is like, yeah, we had this stuff drilled into our head. Yes, welcome to my world. And complex 5, which is ATP synthase, the final step, right? It's the one, the basically the turbine that creates all of the ATP, right? You want this thing spooling up like the turbocharger on my 911 turbo or on my 2500 diesel, both of them just screaming away. So these are, this is the toolkit. That's why I'm telling you this. Watch it. Fatty acid oxidation. Genes like CPT1, carnitine, palmitrile, transphase, the one to be specific, because there's more. The rate limiting enzyme that shuttles, this is what's cool, shuttles fatty acids into the mitochondria for burning, right? The TCA, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, which is the TCA cycle, enzymes like citrate synthase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, all these enzymatic reactions. This is the toolkit. This is what it's turning on massively. This is if you don't have to understand biochemistry, and I know I probably lost some of you guys, I'm not trying to. I want you guys to understand how massive this is and why this is so badass. Okay. 2018 study in the Journal of Biological Chemistry showed incontrovertible evidence, but this is so crazy. And yet you're never going to hear doctors talk about this stuff except this one, right? Treatment with SLU, Pp332, increased maximal mitochondrial respiratory capacity in skeletal muscle cells. This is so crazy. This is crazy. By over 80% in 24 hours. This isn't a subtle little tweak. We got 3%. This is 80%. Fundamental rewiring of the cell's power infrastructure at a genetic level. It changes who you are. You go from where you are to Captain America in 24 hours. Yes, it's that badass. Watch. Watch. What is the most, the pharmacological exercise mimicry. That's what this is. What is the most, just act yourself. What is the most potent natural stimulus for the PGC1 alpha, ER alpha axis, right? The whole thing, the voluntary muscle contraction, right? Just doing, working out. Exercise. The mechanical strain, the calcium ion fluxes, the rapid depletion of ATP leading to this rise of AMP, right? Activating AMPK. If you remember, so MOTC, all the stuff that activates the AMPK pathway, right? The burst of reactive oxygen species, the ROSs. All of these signals converge on PC or PGC1 alpha. This is the primary molecule or the primary molecular reason that exercise is medicine. Does this make sense? Like you guys got to get this because this is exactly why movement is going to make you healthy. And yet they want you sedentary because it's taking all of these. Think about all these reactions. You don't need slew to do it. You just go exercise. And this entire cascade runs its course in your system. You right now, you could do this right now. You can get them go for a one mile walk, 16 minute mile. And you're just your whole body goes, let's just turn this on right now. That's how badass this is. This is a part that should listen, that should make you question every hour that you've spent, unfortunately, on a treadmill feeling friggin miserable. 2021 study, pharmacological research took sedentary mice. We're talking true couch potato mice. They just sit there, right? Watching Netflix. And administered a single, one single subcutaneous injection. By the way, yes, it has to be injected. I'll go over that in a second. Subcutaneous injection of slew PP332. They did no exercise. None. It's not like they put them on little weight rooms and they put them in a prison yard to work out. None. The result, 70% increase in maximal running endurance to exhaustion. 70%. So when the researchers can conducted RNA sequencing on the quadriceps muscle, right, quad, like the transcriptional profile was indecisisocraby, indistinguishable from that of mice subjected to prolonged endurance training protocols. You get that it changed the structure without doing the work. genes encoding from mitochondrial proteins like cytochrome C cox four components of the ATP synthase machine, right? At the end, were upregulated dramatically slew PP332 had successfully mimicked the molecular signature of elite athletic training without the mechanical input. I'm not saying go out and take it, just sit on your ass. That's not how this works. But it's pretty friggin close. It had effectively. Tricked the genome into believing it had just completed a marathon and a CrossFit competition all at once. This isn't a shortcut, by the way, it's a fundamental understanding of the primary signaling pathway and its direct activation of your biology. Right. Just please get that. So look at this disaster because I need to explain this. If you understand me and you've listened to me for any amount of time, you understand the I can't help but funnel this thing in my hand. It's just if you know what it is, because I think it's just so rad. I don't I'm not pushing it doesn't even have a name brand on it. It's just this stuff you guys should be living on this. It just happened to be sitting there. If you guys are wondering what it is, I'm not going to tell you. If you're listening to the audio version, it's probably pinch my audio. But look at the three biological failures of disease, right? Inflammation, insulin, ATP, that always the same thing. All chronic, I want to say non communicable, but I don't believe that at all. All diseases, manifestations of core physiological failure that can broken down to three interconnected pathologies. Slu Pp 332 is a targeted strike. It's on all of them. And it does it at a very basic level that turns you into a juggernaut. Again, it makes pathology unwelcome in your system. Look at the energy crisis. I'll go backwards. ATP shortage. This is the primary and most direct effect. Cell with insufficient ATP is a failing cell, right? It can't maintain its membrane potentials. It can't perform enzymatic reactions correctly or efficiently. It can't repair DNA damage whatsoever. So the energy deficit is the bedrock of aging and DGEN. By forcibly inducing mitochondrial biogenesis, Lu Pp 332 solves the energy problem. insulin, yes. 2015 study in cell metabolism showed transgenic mice with boosted ERR alpha activity exhibited enhanced energy expenditure and were resistant to age-related metabolic decline at 100%. The conclusion, just so you know what it is, I'll spell it out, cellular energy abundance is the ultimate prophylax. What else does this? Exercise. All I hear right now is Jim Carrey going, I have exercised the demons from that lady from Poulter, guys. You can't put me in front of a microphone and not expect me to do weird things. All right, look at the metabolic log, Jim. The insulin resistance that's going on in a lot of people. So for decades, we thought insulin resistance was a defect of the insulin receptor. Yeah, we were wrong. Dead wrong. It's a primary. It's a consequence of mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle. Not the same. Not even close. What this is now you get where I'm going with this. Lu Pp 332. So in mitochondria are inefficient at burning fatty acids. They can't churn out the energy and do the conversion. They can't do anything. So what happens? Lipid intermediates, because I want to get so excited about this. I'm trying to rain myself in because this is so bad. Lipid intermediates like DAG, it's ceramides, all of that stuff, it accumulates in the cytosol. These molecules activate inflammatory signal pathways. Now, these kinases phosphorylate the insulin receptor substrate on serine residues. This is all a bunch of fancy words, but just follow me. This blocks the interaction with the insulin receptor. It shuts down the insulin signal. That's the big takeaway from this. This was proven, by the way, 2007 Journal of Clinical Investigation by forcing mitochondrial fat oxidation. It acts as a metabolic vacuum cleaner clearing out these lipid intermediates and removing the inhibitory signal on insulin action. It doesn't push insulin harder, which is the logic for the medical world right now. Hey, you can't hear insulin. Turn up the volume on insulin. You're still deaf, man. What this does is it removes the roadblock so you actually can hear it again. It gets the junk out of the driveway, takes all the beaters off the driveway so your fancy car can get in the garage. That's a wildest stuff is. I'm just warming up, baby. Look at the one that's always the one I talk about first time. Just makes it up because it's fun. Systemic inflammation. This functional senescent mitochondria are potent, unbelievably potent pro inflammatory organelles. They just like biochemical terrorists, right? Biological terrorists, whatever you want to call it. These are the, I use both. These are the major source of ROS's, reactive oxygen species. And when they're damaged, they leak mitochondrial DNA into the cytosol. Cytosolic mitochondrial DNA is a very brutal damp, a damage associated molecular pattern that binds and activates the NLRP3 inflammatory zone. The NLRP3 inflammatory zone, then watch here's how it works. This is the problem. It catalyzes the activation of Caspace 1, which processes Pro-Iol and Beta and all the other stuff into their active, very powerful inflammatory forms. You see the problem that's brewing here? This is what fuels the chronic low grade inflammation underlying every single friggin disease on the planet. They don't want you to know that. That's why being pro inflammatory in your system is so deadly. It will destroy you because it is the platform, the bedrock, the bedrock of every disease known to man. Stack on the other two, the insulin resistance and the ATP problem or EFT. Solve these three, you're invulnerable. I'm talking, this is the underlying, to everything, thorough sclerosis, to neurodegeneration, to cardiac dysfunction. It doesn't matter. By replacing old, leaky mitochondria with new high fidelity ones, SLU, PP332 eliminates the source of the inflammatory signal, but it does it at the origin, at the source. 2012. In查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 tension causing damage, leading to repair, leading to growth. This is incomplete though. The anabolic single signal is intrinsically linked to energy status. The mTOR, mammalian target of raphomiasin pathway is, I know I've never told you guys that, but you guys are like, oh, what's that? So I finally just say it. It's the central regulator of cell growth and protein synthesis. So mTOR is exquisitely sensitive to cellular energy, amino acid availability, and growth factors. So a high ATP to AMP ratio is a primary driver of mTOR C1 specifically. SLU PP332 watch by dramatically increasing mitochondrial ATP production creates a cellular environment that is inherently primed for anabolism. The cell is energy rich, signaling growth conditions are optimal, bro. Light it up. Further, the type of muscle fiber matters. Watch 2019 study in the journal Skeletal Muscle showed that ERR alpha activation promotes fast to slow fiber type shift. There's another thing that does this. You already know I've been talking about this before. This means it's right, we've talked about this, right? But this means an increase in type 1 and type 2-A oxidative fibers, which are far richer in mitochondria, more metabolically efficient, more resistant to fatigue. And the fibers that are most associated with metabolic health, health in general, if you want my opinion, but metabolic health. So you're not just building muscle mass. You're, it's like a Lego and you're architecting metabolically superior, much more durable tissue in your entire body. So you see where I'm going with this? This is, but this, so you can marry this SLU PP332 to exercise. Now imagine, SLU PP332 already gives you the benefits, right? It's in a vial. Exercise gives you the benefits, which one takes longer? Why not just marry them together? You ever think of that? That's a hint, by the way, I'm just telling you. Now let's look at the building the host instead of poisoning the virus because this is the one that most people don't know about. SLU PP332, it's a violet against viruses, man. Yeah, and this is where everybody's, wait, what? I thought it was just exercise. Buckle up, baby. Watch, traditional antiviral approach is this toxic race. Can we poison the virus before we poison the patient? It's always like that. You think, by the way, antibiotics don't hurt viruses. And if a virus is inside the cell, you need what? Different kind of immunity than what they're trying to give you. This is why vaccines are such a struggle and it's such a lie. But that's another conversation. Listen, Jonas Salk said it. When he came out with a polio vaccine, he went, I fear I've created a monster and he did. You guys need to, to just, I'm just asking you to have an open mind and listen to me. That's it. That's it. Just listen to me and take the information and go, wow, this guy actually makes sense. And then challenge the narrative and see if it actually is making you healthier, if it's making you sick. Because my narrative turns you into a juggernaut, baby. Their narrative turns you into a product. The current narrative, the antiviral approach is, it's a flawed strategy. Watch it. You have to switch it because otherwise you're, it's a race to do, we kill the thing before we kill the patient. And it's always like that. It's been like that for a lot of years because it makes a lot of money. But the new paradigm, exemplified by the way by SLUPP332 is host directed therapy. You don't attack the virus. You make the host, a just coming from a cellular level, make the host cells, hostile fortress that the virus is just, it cannot survive. It can't survive. Look at C19. The C19 pathogenicity is heavily dependent on some manipulation of host mitochondria. The viral protein localizes to the mitochondrial outer membrane where it binds to the MAPS, mitochondrial, antiviral signaling protein complex. This binding inhibits the activation. This is where it gets really wild. It inhibits the active of the transcription factors IRF3 and NFKAPOB, which then blocks the production of type 1 and type 3 interferons, which are the body's primate. This is where it gets wild. The primary antiviral defense system, the virus strategically disables the alarm and cranks up your inflammation, which disables your ability to generate the energy to fight the virus. Do you see how this is a problem? So if you look, Cleveland Clinic 2023 proved, ERR alpha agonist, specifically SLUPP332 showed antiviral activity against the SARS go through the C19 and the proposed mechanism is one of overwhelming force by hyper, watch, it does it by hyper inducing my, this is psychotic, it's crazy, by hyper inducing mitochondrial biogenesis, which we know is the creation of more power plants, the host cell can outpace that. Remember what I said, it's a race, but we're going to change the dynamics of the race. We're going to make the race in our favor. So the host cell now can outpace the virus's ability to suppress mitochondrial function. So you can't sabotage 10 power plants when the body is building hundreds of new ones at the same time. You just can't win the race. Additionally, watch, it just gets even better. Metabolic regulators like all of them, we don't even need to get ERR alpha, but if we stay there, ERR alpha, influence the turnover and expression of the ACE2 receptor, which is a viral entry point, you don't need to understand virology to understand this. It's a door. So by modulating ACE2, you reduce the number of available doors for the virus. If there's less doors and you're building more power plants and the virus is trying to shut them down, it's shutting down 10 and you're building hundreds or thousands, what's going to happen to the virus? It's going to get demolished by your immune system because it's always running surveillance. It's running out of options to target the body. The best defense against any pathology is to make yourself immune to the pathology, not fight the pathology, but that's not what they've been teaching you. They go, wait till you get sick and then we attack the sickness. How about you just make yourself put yourself in a position where you don't get sick? Why do you think they're trying to make you sick all the time? Because it makes you a victim and it makes you a you're going to be part of a managed decline. You have to stay because you need their product just to stay alive. But if you make yourself resilient enough, their toxic attack can't do anything to you because your system's too resilient for it. That's like this is a sophisticated systems level approach to infectious disease that moves far beyond the crude BS magic bullet model that they're that they propose all the time. Now, I said I would talk about the oral versus injectable and all this stuff. So this is basic pharmaceutical chemistry and stop getting in my comments and arguing telling me about your buddy that got jacked taking it orally. No, he didn't, but he's taken something else. Slip PP 332 is a it's just basic biochemistry, man. It's lipophilic. It's fat loving, right? Just loves fat. It's this organic molecule with a log p value. It's a measure of hydro phobicity. I guess it really doesn't matter. I just felt like saying it's a fun word. It is in  intrinsically insoluble in aqueous solutions, bacteriostatic water. When you do this, water-based solution like saline or backwater or anything like that, it doesn't matter if there's alcohol, in it, or acetic acid, this is a fool's errand, it's something to work, it's going to precipitate into microscopic crystals that are biologically unavailable and cause problems inside you. Don't stick that in your body, it's not worth it. DMSO, dimethylsulfoloxide, man, this stuff is badass. If you go, yeah, but it makes me stink. Okay, grow up. It doesn't matter. This is a Polaray product solvent. Its molecular structure allows it to act. This is so cool as this amphiphilic shuttle, so it dissolves the lipophilic slu-PP332, right, because of the nature of the solvent. And then it creates this stable homogenous solution. By the way, DMSO itself is a very powerful penetration enhancer. Get your mind out of the gutter. Reverseably disrupts the structure of lipid bilayers. Okay, so what this does, just so you know, if you're like, I don't know what that means. It facilitates the transport of its cargo across cell membranes. Wait, watch, the Actable Administration using a DMSO based vehicle, whatever it is, you're going to be, and I went over the strategy, so I'm not going to go over it again. You're going to have to watch my last one. I literally gave you the playbook on how to do this. I will put it in my Instagram on it as part of, I'll give you the whole playbook on how to actually reconstitute this stuff properly. I'll just put it in the, what I'm dropping in Instagram today because I'm talking about Slope Pp332. But it delivers the intact molecule directly to systemic circulation and all of its intracellular targets. But this works for everything. This isn't a preference. You guys, it's not, this is a non-negotiable requirement based on the compounds, physiochemical properties. People can argue this all you want. It doesn't matter. I didn't invent the biochemistry God did. You guys are arguing about it going, I'm right. I looked it up on chatGPT. When chatGPT is frigging wrong. It's, that's just how simple it is. Biochemistry is biochemistry. Oral is a waste. If you take this orally, it's a waste. So if you use water or you take it orally, it is a nightmare. Oral is a nightmare for Slope Pp332. It's a gauntlet of destruction. Watch. Just go follow the hierarchy. The system of the events it has to go through, the stomach, highly acidic pH at 1.5, chemical degradation of the molecule, just like this. Never mind the enzymes that are going to rip it to shreds. Get to the small intestines, pancreatic enzymes, lipases, proteases, the detergent bile salts that just emulsify and attack the crap out of this thing. Look at the intestinal epithelium, the P-glycoprotein, the efflux pumps. They pump the molecule back into the gut lumen before it can be absorbed. Never mind the fact that it's too big so it can't pass through enterocytes anyway. First pass metabolism. This is the bouncer with the biochemistry degree. It's the coutagrote because whatever fraction is absorbed is going to go right to the liver through the hepatic portal vein. The liver's mission, its only mission is to detoxify xenobiotics, which are foreign compounds. Enzymes destroy. They metabolize and deactivate Slope Pp332. It can't work. This first pass effect destroys 95% of the ingested dose. I don't care if you cover it, you bury it, you put some weird coating on it, you change its structure, you peggulate it. It doesn't matter. It gets rocked. So it gives you a bioavailability of less than 5%. So even taking a hyper dose, first of all, you're going to wind up getting sick doing it. Taking Slope Pp332 orally is pharmacologically irrational. It doesn't make sense. I'm here to help you. I got nothing to gain. Like I said, I don't care if you buy from a lead or not. I'm just telling you, I got nothing to gain here. You guys have to understand this. This isn't about me. I come out here because I want you to have the friggin' information. Watch. You want to go right down from neurons to cardiomyocytes. Let's... I'll tell you how badass this really is, Slope really is. When you correct a fundamental flaw at the core of cellular metabolism, the benefits just cascade through every single organ and system in your entire biology. Look at neural protection. Neurons have an exceptionally high demand for energy and are post-mythotic, right? So which means they can't easily be replaced. I guess the easiest way to explain that. Their health is entirely dependent on the fitness of your mitochondria. 2018, human molecular genetics showed that in cellular models of Alzheimer's disease and dementia, pharmacological activation of E-R-R-alpha, you need to hear what I'm saying. Ecological, which means external source activating this exact thing that Slope Pp332 is activating. Does that make it better? And if you go, we should do it all like that. I can't because my brain doesn't work like that. Rescued mitochondrial dysfunction. It solved the problem and it improved axonal transport. It protected against synaptic toxicity induced by amyloid beta oligomers. It fuels the brains innate resilience that you're designed to have. Remember, peptides aren't drugs, you guys. Peptides are signals telling your body to do something that already knows how to do. If somebody goes peptides or cheating, you feel free to punch them right in the face because that's not what it is as they take handfuls of Advil for their headache. Look at type 2 diabetes. Beyond resolving peripheral insulin resistance in muscle, which is the first step. And by the way, E-R-R-alpha does that too. It also hammers the liver. So 2010 nature showed E-R-R-alpha acts as a key transcriptional repressor of gluconeogenic genes. So when you, this is what it means. When you activate E-R-R-alpha with a compound, let's just say, Slope Pp332, you're not just improving glucose uptake in muscle, you're simultaneously telling your liver to stop over producing the frigging glucose. So you're solving the problem from two sides of the equation, hyperglycemia that addresses both the sink, which is the muscle, and the source, which is the liver. This is why I'm telling you this entire setup, the way I'm explaining this, moves so far beyond the flawed approach of simply forcing more insulin secretion, which ultimately leads to beta cell exhaustion, or just cranking up insulin externally, exogenous. Both of those aren't going to work. Look at longevity. The hallmarks of aging are not this random list. They're interconnected. Mytocondrial dysfunction sits at the very center of the entire frigging thing, directly driving genomic instability, telomere attrition, and the loss of proteostasis. Okay, all of this stuff, big fancy words, yes, it means the center of you getting older is your mitochondria. Is that easy? Taking handfuls of CoQ10 isn't going to solve the problem, by the way. 2013 cell, they placed mytocondrial dysfunction as the primary pillar of aging. So watch, by forcibly maintaining mitochondrial health and mitochondrial biogenesis, building new power plants, SLUPP 332 directly intervenes in a core aging process that they've proven is the problem. This isn't about adding years to your life. It's about adding life to your years. I've said this so many times. You don't want to be dragging your ass around like an old tire dog on handfuls of medication because they tell you to have to when it's a lie. Extending health span by maintaining the functional capacity of every cell in your body is the goal. Studies in humans consistently show that interventions enhancing mitochondrial function, such as those activating the PGC1 alpha pathway. This, right? You get where I'm going with this? Is this connecting? Are you are we connecting the dots? I'm trying to bring it home here. Like I'm trying to land the plane because I got shit to do. It's Christmas Eve. Are among the most reliable for extending lifespan. If you start going, what about a pittle on this? I'm not talking about that right? Tell them this is better. You want to know? This is better. My buddy Mark, Mark Bell, he's a good guy. Man, I really send him texts all the time. I feel like a dick because I don't answer him enough. But I'm busy. If you're listening, Mark, I'm freaking busy. So I run 16 hour days. So the point is he was like, dude, why is this guy yelling at me? It was me yelling at him in the car, right? On my podcast. Not in real life. I would never yell at Mark. He's a great guy unless it was for him to do better. But I love Mark to death. But what's funny is he sent me a message about yelling and it just made me laugh. I don't know why I made me think because I'm really intense about what I do. Like I only have one switch. This is it. When people meet me or they come in the black card, they go, holy shit, you really are like this. I don't know how to be any other way. It's Maverick. When he goes, hey, man, I don't like that look. Mab and he goes, it's the only one I got. This printed personality. Love me or hate me. It's the only one I got. I come out here because I care. I don't really know what else to tell you, man. I care to the point of it brings me to tears. I love mankind that much. And when I say mankind, yeah, it's everyone. But I struggle with the ones who argue against me who go, yeah, but I want to do it this way and expect the results to be that way though. I just got nothing. Or you argue because you look for easier. I really struggle with that. I've been on both sides of this equation. It sucks on the other side when you're falling apart and you're dying and you're looking your wife in the eye and she goes, I'm never going to see you again. When you look at your kids and you see them from a third floor window through glass and they're waving at you and holding up signs and going, God, and I'm in ICU and I barely remember it. The only thing that reminded me of it was a fucking video that I had. I didn't even remember being there and I was dying. I look at things differently and I think maybe you guys just don't understand that, but I am on a mission from God. I really am. That is all I got. I'm on a mission from God to save as much of mankind as I can from the ravages of things that are actively hunting you to wreck your life. Look at obesity, man. I could do this all. You could literally throw anything at me and I could throw a slew PP332 right back at you and say, this is the magic. The conventional calories in, calories out. Yeah, I get it and it's valid, but it's a gross oversimplification that ignores the hormonal and metabolic context. It really does. I've said calories in, calories out to be simple, but there's so much more, even like ghrelin and leptin and so much to it, right? But obesity is a disorder of energy partitioning. Slough PP332 fundamentally alters this context. So by severely upgrading or up regulating basal metabolic rate, right, through mitochondrial uncoupling and just relentless fat oxidation, the body's default state shifts from energy storage to energy expenditure. 2016 molecular metabolism showed that mice with genetically enhanced ERR alpha activity, you ready for this one? That's going to blow your mind. Were resistant to diet induced obesity. They couldn't even on a high fat diet, high calorie diet, high carb diet, they couldn't get fat. Due to increased energy expenditure and the preferential fat utilization, it was just telling the body, use this, it's better for you. You're not fighting hunger. You're changing the metabolic setting from store to burn. The weight loss becomes a secondary consequence of primary metabolic correction. You got this, look at the CV system, the cardiovascular system. The heart is, it's right up, it's neurons in the heart, right? It's one of the most energy demanding organs in the body because it's beating right now. As you're listening to this, it's beating right now, keeping me alive with cardiomyocytes comprising about 40% of their 40% mitochondria by volume. Cardiac function is exquisitely tied to metabolic flexibility. The ability to switch between fuel sources like fatty acids, glucose, ketones, this is very important for survival, by the way. So ERR alpha is a master regulator of cardiac metabolic genes. So 2012, this is really cool, circulation research, it showed approved ERR alpha is essential critical life saving for maintaining contractile function and energy metabolism in an adult heart, lacking cardiac ERR alpha. Anybody, and they did this in multiple research studies, developed progressive heart failure 100% of the time. Now watch, conversely, activating ERR alpha with SLUPP 332 enhances cardiac efficiency, improves oxygen utilization and provides resilience against ischemic injury, things like myocardial infar by ensuring the heart muscle has a very robust, very flexible energy supply so it doesn't fade. This isn't about cholesterol or all the other stuff that you're being told, it's about building a bigger, stronger, more efficient pump. And I'm not talking about an enlarged heart. I could go into the toxicity profile and all this stuff, there's nothing out there. There's nothing that says this is bad for you. There's people that don't want you to take it because it disrupts their model, their business model. Listen, I'll be very clear, the 20th century model of medicine is bankrupt. It's a reactive, siloed, symptom chasing, disastrous, effed up failure. I can't say cardiologist prescribes a statin for your cholesterol. Kiss my ass. An endocrinologist gives you metformin for your blood sugar. Are you out of your mind? This is, that is a perfect example of how most MDs have the IQ of a duffel bag because they don't understand the fundamentals of how human biology works. I do, I got nothing to gain. I don't write scripts. I don't buy, don't buy, join the black card, don't. It doesn't matter to me. I'm just here to give you the answers. How about a psychiatrist that gives you an SSRI for your depression? I'm not disregarding that. I'm saying that's not the freaking answer. They're all treating downstream symptoms of the same upstream cause. Metabolic failure, baby. Boom. The principle that health is a positive state of metabolic competence, not merely the absence of disease. Watch, it demonstrates this by targeting the fundamental regulator of cellular energy, the very source of vitality. You can make a wide spectrum of pathologies very simply obsolete. That's how badass, that's how savage this stuff is, man. And everybody looks at this going, I know somebody that got Jack taking sleep pp332, you're missing the point. This isn't about avoiding hard work, by the way. It's about making your work count, make it worth more. It's about applying leverage to the most important system you own, which is your metabolism. Good diet, quality, like good sleep hygiene, intelligent exercise habits. Those are the inputs at all times. Sluit pp332 is a leverage that amplifies the ROI and every single one of those inputs by an order of magnitude. This research is not speculative, you guys. This is real life research published, top tier journals. It's just buried because they don't want you to find it. The mechanism is not, I bust my ass every day just so you know, to give you this information. The mechanism is not a mystery. It's mapped down to the atomic level. The implications are not incremental. They're revolutionary. That's why I'm here. This is an entirely new era, you guys. The era of metabolic medicine. How about that? Just call it that. What is this? Dr. Trevor Bachmeyer's era of metabolic medicine. It's an era where we stop managing chronic disease and start commanding peak human performance because every human should have it because it's all in your DNA. You got to wake up that damn librarian, kick open their mouth and start dumping espressos in and just give them everything you can and then go, you have only one man baked all the blueprints to make energy. That's it. It's all you can do. That is all you're going to go through. All the blueprints are just going to make energy in every single system I've got. You got the tool. Like, I've given you so many answers. God, you have the tools. All you have to do is go through this stuff. The only question that remains is who has the courage and the end to like to actually freaking do them. Anyway, listen, I'm going to go inside and hang out with my wife and my kids. I love you all. I really do. I hope you have a merry Christmas. I'll see you tomorrow. I got to go. Never miss.

=== FILE: The Solution to Fibromyalgia - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer [cOoT-pGvrEU].txt ===

 5-after-1-Saturday, fibromyalgia, I'm not just going to talk about it, I'm going to solve the whole thing. And I'm not going to use the word cure because that is an arrogance to... I've been a doctor for decades, decades and decades. I've seen over a million patients and I continue to help people and I really don't care what the narrative says or what I should do, or what some board says I should do. I help people because that's my job. Above all, do no harm. And it's so... I think about the current landscape, social media, YouTube, all this stuff, and the censorship that people go, no, there's no censorship. Yes, there is. And the censorship is against everything that will make you rich, strong, and incredibly healthy, and have a fantastic psychology. You do understand that. And that's not what this podcast is about. I will deviate from that. But thanks for being here because you don't have to. But I will say this, if you're here to get in my comments and just spew negativity, or just be a pharma shill, or someone that just decides to argue or give me thumbs down, grow up. Don't come here. You don't need to be here. I solve problems. And if you don't like the solution because you want to argue about it, that doesn't mean that it's not right. My solutions are always right. It's not an arrogant statement. It's a factual statement because I've got a million receipts behind me of people that have all had their problems resolved by listening to Dr. Trevor. And it's because I actually give a crap about the person and I understand human biology, physiology, and biochemistry better than 99.9% of the people on the planet. Because I make it my job to do that because I want to be the best at this because I care. And nobody else is doing that. So I'm going to solve fibromyalgia from A to Z. Now, remember when I come out with these things and I give you the answer, there's more to it than this a lot of times because there's nuances that come into play with your own individual biology or physiology. So just understand that. But for the most part, let's say 95% of the people that have fibro that are going to do this, if you do, welcome to freedom. You guys don't understand. You guys have been lied to and not maliciously worse through incompetence, through this system that's so broken that it can't see what's right in front of its own face. So I'm going to say that I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because I care. And I'm going to be the best at this because decades. And I'll tell you, I'm turning off my heater because it's not as hell in here. I know although it's 20 degrees outside, I might turn it back on in case you're wondering what the hell I was reaching down and grabbing. There's a big giant heater next to me. Even though the heat in my studio should be running out. I'm not Texas contractors here can't build worth a damn. If you're a contractor and you build houses and you think that it's normal to have to turn on your water. That's 16 degrees. I spent 20 years at Winnipeg. You know how many times I turned on my water to keep my pipes from freezing? You know, and I never had cold foundations or anything. So don't tell me you guys build good houses here. Texas doesn't know how to build a house worth a shit. It's just doesn't. It's embarrassing. But none of this is Tony Robbins motivation. I'm going to explain how your body actually works. So listen, here's what I find about fibromyalgia. And I went over this yesterday in social media on Instagram. But here's what it actually is. And I want you to hear this because this is so important. It is not. And I made a shot at rheumatologists because you rheumatologists are a bunch of liars because you dismiss it because their blood work looks normal. And you say it's a psychological issue. And then it's not. It's this is a central sensitization syndrome. I explained it yesterday with multi system immune neuroendocrine and mitochondrial involvement that they proved in 2024 NIH. That is the actual definition. So how about I break this down in actual English for the doctors who aren't paying attention to their patients. They're paying attention to their pharmaceutical rep. The body has a pain processing system. It's not just your nerves going ouch, this hurts. It is the sophisticated network, your brain, your spinal cord, your neurotransmitter systems. They all work together to determine what is actually painful. Now, in a normal person, this system is incredibly well calibrated. Trust me, like you touch something like you put your hand in fire, you move a log around, you put your hand on a stove. That is pain. You something sharp and it sticks into your hand. You touch something like this coffee cup. I'm just holding the handle. No pain. It's just sensation. The system works. And it works very well in fibromyalgia. The system's game is cranked up to a billion. And what that means is it's hypersensitive. So now your brain is processing non painful stimuli as if they're these immense immeasurable threats. So now light touch becomes unbearable. Temperature changes agonizing. The pain threshold drops so low that the system is in this state of hypervigilance. But here's where modern medicine completely fails. They look at this and they say, we don't see any inflammation in your blood work. So it must be psychological. Are you crazy? That's wrong. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So now, in a normal person, this system is very well calibrated. And it's just a normal person. So how many of us are subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to is the system that's supposed to turn off the pain and shut it down has gone tits up. It's broken. So here's the first massive insight. Fibromyalgia is a broken system. The accelerator is floored and the brakes are cut. They don't work. Now just let me touch on chronic fatigue because you got undersized because they're married and I have to marry these together because they're the same cause and that's why you need to understand this. Most people think it's just being tired. They think patients are lazy and they think it's depression. So of course they bomb you with MAOIs and SSRIs. Wrong again. Listen, CFS characterized by severe persistent immune activation, profound mitochondrial dysfunction, 2024 exploration medicine defined that and proved that. But more specifically CFS, the patients had these measurably reduced NK cell activities, natural killer cells. So down to about half 2024, PMC, half. Let me explain that again. Half of your killer cells, natural killer cells and just so you know what they are, NK cells are your immune systems assassins. They hunt down infected and cancerous cells and they're very effective. When they're non-functional, your body can't clean up any of the intracellular pathogens. So you run into problems. CFS, by the way, also involves elevated systemic inflammation. So when they say there's no markers, bullshit, IL-1 beta, TNF alpha, IFNY levels, 2024 PNC, proved that too. Your body is running a fever, but it's doing it without the temperature. Your immune system, you guys understand this, your immune system is at war. And here, listen, here's the part that breaks my brain. I need to drink some coffee. If you go to a doctor with CFS, they might, if you're lucky, they might order basic blood work. This is why when people join, listen, and by the way, before you guys go, how do I work with you? Your best bet is to just apply for the black card. You don't need to work one-on-one with me unless you really need one-on-one. One-on-one with me is $250,000 a year and I take 20 people a year. That's it on purpose because I want to be able to give you time and I want to be able to devote everything to solving your problem. And I'm very good at what I do. So is it worth it? No, it's worth significantly more than that because I'll solve your problem. I promise you that. I don't care what it is. Throw it at me. I want to, I will obsess on it because I give a shit. But the black card at the end of the month today actually is going up to $25,000. It is $9997. Why are transfer only? One year, you get access to my live Zoom Q&A call that I do, my private Q&A call that I do on Mondays, not the Sunday webinar call. It's free and I don't do a Q&A there, by the way. Mondays, five o'clock, I live just east of Dallas. So that's Dallas time, Chicago time, I guess is the best way to look at it. You get access to the resource library with jazz protocols that I've used with patients that actually work, not these Insta Bro, Insta Expert. I want to soccer mom. I own a peptide business. Stop doing this. Start doing that, people. These are real things that I've worked with real patients thousands and thousands of times. You get access to all of that. You get access to the private VIP community where you can actually message me and I will answer 24 to 72 hours is about my turnaround time because I genuinely look at whatever you send me. I don't care if it's labs or you just, I will help you. Give me your whole synopsis, your whole intake and I'll look at it. That's what it is. You need to pay though to get in. I don't answer questions for free for the most part because otherwise I get inundated with questions and I let you pick my brain for free every time I come out here. If you want to go deeper, yes, I will tell you that you need to work with me because this is also how I take care of my family and that matters to me. And Elite Biogenics, yes, I am the CEO. Yes, if you want to buy from that company, great. If you want to buy from me, thank you very much for supporting my business. If you don't, that's totally okay. I still give you everything. Do I think you should? Yeah, to be honest, I do because what I have in my labs and my warehouses is the same things I would give my wife and kids. So I trust what I have. So all these people coming out with their God knows where they get their stuff and I don't care. Listen, wherever you get it from is up to you. But I do this because I care. I don't do this for the money and yes, the money and if you go, well, then you should do it for free. No, because then I don't care. And if you understand that, then you understand a lot about human psychology and why people have value. But listen, if you do great, and if you want to join the Black Card, apply at unlockthecard.com. Mia is my executive personal assistant. She is a gangster and she will get you all set up and answer any questions and take care of you and get you the wire information. It's not an email for you guys to send a bunch of questions. She will just direct you to the Black Card just so you know. But listen, this stuff really bothers me what I'm going to talk about is if you go to a doctor with CFS and they order this is the basic blood work, which doesn't make any sense. Your white cell counts, they probably look normal. Your inflammatory markers might be slightly elevated, but WNL within normal limits, which is such a BS thing to say any doctor worth their salt, those are bullshit markers. And then they tell you that it's all in your head, your chronic fatigue is all in your head, you should meditate and maybe get some tea tree oil and take a trip to Maui or something. But that doesn't make any sense. The problem is they're not measuring what actually matters. They're not measuring metabolic markers. They're not measuring NK cell activity. They're not measuring specific cytokine profiles that characterize the damn disease. They're checking the wrong things, getting normal results and concluding that the disease doesn't exist. That's like saying, Hey, listen, my car is making this weird clunking sound in the front end. And they're looking at the exhaust coming out the back and when you know what the car, it's it's running. No problem. There's nothing wrong with your car. And they've never driven your car to see if it clunks. Like it's just ridiculous. It's like the check engine line, right? But here's where it gets interesting. Fibromyalgia and CFS, they're not separate diseases. They're expressions of the same underlying biological catastrophe, just different phenotypes. Watch both conditions. You need to understand this because some people are mixing this up. And some people are being characterized or diagnosed with fibromyalgia that don't have fibromyalgia. Like I had somebody say to me, Hey, listen, mold can cause fibromyalgia. Wrong. Then it's a mold toxicity problem. It's not fibromyalgia. So no, it did not cause fibromyalgia. And that's where you have to understand this. These instabose, you guys are screwing people up. If you're coming out and you're giving people information and you're saying, this is what it is, and it's a definitive diagnosis, I need to see that the labs like show me the blood work, show me the whole diagnostic characteristic, the whole intake, I need to see it all because I'm going to call bullshit because most of the time you're doing it because you're trying to do what medical doctors do, which is we have been taught to do the same thing, which is treat the symptom, not the cause. I went further down that rabbit hole and I said, bullshit, I'm not treating the symptom. I don't care about your symptoms. I care about the cause so the symptoms go away forever. So look at both conditions. Okay. One central sensitization, right? Amplified pain fatigue signaling in the CNS to immune dysregulation. This is the marriage that they are. These two, CFS and fibro, right? Elevated pro inflammatory cytokines, reduced regulatory T cells, NK cell dysfunction, which I just explained. HPA axis, the third thing, HPA axis dysfunction, the hypofoamic pituitary adrenal axis, your body's master stress response system is broken 2024 plus one. They proved this for mitochondrial dysfunction. Big surprise. Yes, I'm drinking coffee. So impaired ATP production, elevated ROS, reactivated reactive oxygen species. So in fibromyalgia, the pain dominates in CFS, the fatigue dominates, but underneath same disease, same biology 2024, they showed fibromyalgia and CFS share the exact same immunopathological features. Elevated IL6, IL8, TNF alpha, reduced regulatory T cells, microglial activation and pain processing regions of the brain, PMC proved it in 2025. They're not different diseases. One is just significantly more painful. The other is significantly more fatiguing. They're siblings. Like they're conjoined twins. So look at this. Every crime I need to explain is because this is, it's bothering me so much that people aren't getting this because if you understand this, it changes everything about disease. Every chronic disease, every single damn chronic disease is three fundamental biological failures every single time when you master this, you understand everything. I promise. Look at systemic inflammation. You just understand this because it makes me crazy. In fibromyalgia, systemic inflammation is elevated across the damn board. Pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL6, IL8, TNF alpha, they're chronically elevated. They proved this 2024, PMC. Your immune system isn't responding to a threat. It's just permanently clicked on. It's like the smoke detectors are broken and they're just making nothing but noise. If you've seen that one episode of Duck Dynasty where they're trying to find the smoke detector in the warehouse, it's just going nuts and they finally take it down and Jase decides to smash the piss out of it. So this is how it is, but there's no fire. So here's where this comes from. Multiple places. You might, the most leaky gut, you might have a gut barrier dysfunction. I've seen this so many times, leaky gut. It's not the primary though, just so you know, it's maybe 10% dysbiotic microbiota, chronic stress that drives mass cell activation. Most of the time, previous infections. That's what this is from. EBV, Epstein bar, Lyme, COVID, that your body couldn't fully eliminate because of NK cell dysfunction. Now do you see how this gets married? The inflammation amplifies pain signaling, activates microglia in the brain and drives the systemic symptoms. That's the inflammatory issue. Now look at the insulin resistance. Most people think insulin resistance is just this metabolic thing. They think of it as something that only affects fat, glucose metabolism. That is so dead wrong. Even doctors will say this. They'll argue with me. I'm like, you're wrong. How does it feel to be wrong? Because you're wrong. insulin resistance is actual multi-system catastrophic failure. insulin signaling is, or insulin is a signaling hormone. It affects mitochondrial function, inflammatory pathways, and neurological health. In fibromyalgia patients, 100% of the time, impaired glucose metabolism and mitochondrial utilization. Impaired mitochondrial utilization. 24 Exploration Medicine did an entire review on this and proved this already. Their cells literally can't access the energy properly. This is very critical because pain processing is metabolically pricey. It's very expensive. So your thalamus, your prefrontal cortex, your spinal cord, all burning glucose to process the sensory information. When insulin signaling breaks down, these regions become energy starved and the system tanks. That's insulin. That's the second thing. Now look at ATP shortage, the mitochondrial dysfunction, which is a result of inflammation and insulin. So you see where the problem is and they feed off each other. This is the silent killer of this one. Mitochondrial dysfunction, fibromyalgia, and CFS are well documented, by the way. Exploration Medicine, 2024. There's so many research studies, but this is my favorite one. Patients have reduced ATP production, elevated lactate, elevated ROS, reactive oxygen species. So think about what this means. ATP is literally the energy currency of every cell in your entire friggin body. Your neurons need it, immune cells need it, muscle cells need it, endothelial cells need it. So when you're in this massive ATP blackout, everything malfunctions. Your immune system can't regulate properly, inflammation spirals, your nervous system can't maintain all the pain gating that is required. So the pain signal goes through the roof and your muscles can't produce energy. So what do you think happens if you can't do that? You get tired, not separate problems, one cascading failure across multi systems. This is exactly what I talked about on social media. So let me walk you through what's happening in the nervous system because this is where the pain originates. So in a normal brain, pain is processed through a very sophisticated system. Actually, you have ascending pathways, no susceptors detect danger and send signals up the spinal cord to the brain. Descending pathways, the brain processes this information, applies emotional and cognitive context, and then sends inhibitory signals back down the spinal cord saying, actually, you know what? We're cool. This isn't dangerous. Stop the pain. In fibromyalgia, both of these systems are broken. The ascending pathways into the brain, hyperactive. So now you've got elevated substance, P elevated glutamate, NMDA receptor sensitization, 2024 PMC, prove this, the pain signal is actually being amplified. Remember what I said, the gain, right? So it's turned up the volume. But at the same time, the descending inhibitory pathways are broken. Serotonin, norepinephrine, the neurotransmitters that they shut down pain are depleted 2024 PMC, prove this and no doctors are talking about this because it pisses me off. The break system doesn't work. To make it worse, you've got microglial activation in pain processing regions, thalamus, limbic system, prefrontal cortex. Again, 2024 exploration medicine proved this. Microglia are the brain's immune cells. When they activate, they release pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL6, TNF alpha, which amplify just even worse. It's like pouring gasoline on a fire. They amplify the pain signaling. It's this horrible positive feedback loop that, like watch, pain drives inflammation. Inflammation drives pain round and round and round in this ever-escalating cycle. And here's the part that just destroys me. Modern medicine looks at this and says the pain isn't real because there's just no tissue damage, but the pain is real. The neurochemistry is real. The inflammation is real. It's not just in tissue. It's in the neural processing of your damn biology. Look at this. Look at the gut brain because I talked about leaky gut. So I may as well just address all these things that get affected by this. People don't realize just how profound the gut-brain connection is in fibromyalgia. So let me explain. The gut barrier, one cell layer thick. It's an epithelial barrier maintained by tight junction proteins like clodins, occluded, in fibromyalgia, patients. This barrier is compromised like 90% of the time. NIH 2024, you get increased intestinal permeability. It's called leaky gut folks. So when the gut barrier breaks, bacterial lipopolysaccharides, LPS, is crossed from the intestinal lumen, the dirty nasty sewer system into the bloodstream. LPS binds to TLR4 receptors on immune cells and endothelial cells, triggering inflammatory cascades. Now you've got systemic endotoxinia driving this chronic inflammation. It gets worse. Additionally, the dysbiotic, microbiota, and fibromyalgia patients produce these altered short-chain fatty acids, particularly reduced butrate production, which is catastrophic. Here's why. 2024, Exploration Medicine, I need to explain butrate. It feeds your colonocytes and maintains the gut barrier, drives regulatory T cell development, suppressing inflammation, produces GABA in the gut, which crosses the blood-brain barrier and modulates, what do you think, pain? So watch what happens. When butrate is low, the system fails. Most fibromyalgia patients also meet the criteria for IBS, irritable bowel. So here's why, because the same immune dysregulation affecting the pain-processing pathways in the brain also affecting the enteric nervous system in your gut. When's the last time you heard about that? The gut microbiota dysbiosis fuels the leaky gut, fuels the endotoxemia, fuels the systemic inflammation, fuels the microglial activation, fuels the central sensitization, and fuels pain amplification. It is one giant connected system that they're not looking at because they're too busy chasing symptoms. I don't want to chase your symptoms. In fact, I love you so much and I am so disgusted when people are in pain and that there's something that can be done about it, but I don't give a shit about your symptoms. I care about them never coming back. It's not the same. Look at the autonomic failure. A massive percentage of fibromyalgia patients also have POTS, Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome. This is where the autonomic dysfunction becomes blindingly obvious. POTS is characterized, let me explain this, by excessive heart rate increase, a greater than 30 beats per minute. When you stand, right, often with blood pooling and reduced cardiac output and fibromyalgia, here, let's go over why this happens. The autonomic nervous system has two branches. Parasympathetic, rest and digest. Sympathetic, fight, flight, or freeze. I know they've added that one and it's the truth because some people just stall out. So, fibromyalgia, the sympathetic nervous system is hyperactive chronically. So, you've got elevated norepinephrine tone, which drives alpha one adrenergic receptor upregulation, 2024 PMC, explain this entire thing. The blood vessels constrict too much. Sympathetic hyperactivity also impairs vagal tone, by the way. Your parasympathetic break pedal, and it's not working. What did I say? The accelerators floored, the brakes, the line is cut. They're broken. So, when you stand up, normal physiology would activate the parasympathetic response because you have these varro receptors in your neck, allowing blood vessels to relax and blood to redistribute. But in POTS, if you POTS positive, fibromyalgia patients, the sympathetic system just keeps on firing, baby. So, the blood pools in your legs, your heart rate skyrockets to maintain cerebral perfusion. Because if you guys don't know, if nobody's ever told you this, the reason people pass out is because it's easier to pump blood this way than this way. So, your brain is smarter than you, and it goes, your biology knows you better than you do. Your conscious is retarded. It'll lay you down and go, no, we need to save your life, and it'll knock you down and solve the problem so it can pump blood to your brain easier. But this is why patients feel dizzy, lightheaded, and fatigued when they stand. Here's the crucial part. The sympathetic hyperactivity also amplifies pain signaling. It also drives inflammation. It impairs the HPA axis connective dysfunction or function all connected yet again. Look at the immune system. I got to address all this stuff because there's so many facets to fibromyalgia. It makes me crazy that they just go, there's nothing wrong with your blood. I'm sorry that you guys have ever dealt with that. Like I said, I'm in a doctor a long time. I take labs or a snapshot of your body in at one second in time. But if I see consistency in labs, then I start to get really concerned. Or if I see a giant red flag, I get really concerned. Not if your fasting glucose is something after you just had a whopper with cheese. That's the thing. If I see elevated pancreatic enzymes, well, I'm going to be like, dude, you're stupid. You shouldn't have gotten your blood test right now. But if I see some red flags that cause that make me go, there's your problem. So look, let's talk about what's happening with your immune system because this is where the picture becomes very complete. Fibromyalgia, this is trippy. This one's trippy. You have this paradox. Paradox one, watch, elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines, but you have normal white cell counts. Paradox two, reduced NK cell function, but patients aren't getting consistent, like just nonstop infections. But there's more. Paradox three, elevated IL6 and TNF alpha, but zero, zero obvious. And auto immune disease is a weird phrase because I just don't believe the body attacks itself. It is doing it as a reaction, but there's no obvious autoimmune disease. So how do you resolve these three paradoxes? The answer is that fibromyalgia involves a shift in immune cell differentiation and activation patterns. So you've got reduced T cell regulatory cells, which normally, follow me, just let's stay with me. Please stay with me. I know I go hard into this biology, but I need you to understand. Normally suppresses inflammation. So when an immune response starts, the problem, you see where I'm going? This it can't properly be regulated and it just keeps, it's like the energizer bunny, right? Just keeps going and going. So you've got impaired NK cells, cytotoxicity, which means infected cells, cells with intracellular viruses or bacteria could be either or don't get cleared efficiently. They persist chronically activating. What do you think the immune system? So they're constantly tapping that button. You've got mast cell activation, mast cells, lying your mucous membranes and release something called histamine. They also release triptase and pro inflammatory mediators when they get turned on. So in fibromyalgia, especially in a response to stress, the listen, that's why stress sets this off. That's also why I'll get into women, why primarily women and primarily when you are cyclical. You'll see whether it's perimenopause, postpartum, could be all of this stuff. Just follow me. They're chronically degranulating. This drives local and systemic inflammation. AST cell response is there for a reason it's not there to be on all the time. Most of the cases you've got circling autoantibodies against human proteins involved in pain processing like anti sympathetic anglia, colon, urgics, antibodies. You've got your immune system is literally attacking. Listen, this is why I'm saying these SGCs. It attacks your own pain processing neurons. What do you think is going to happen? That's, I have a sunburn. It's causing the incredible pain. Let's go out in the sun. That's exactly what's happening. The inflammatory profile shows, I promise, I promise I elevated IL-8 and TNF 100% and it shows reduced IL-10, which is the anti inflammatory cytokine. 2024, PmC proved this as well. Your immune system is stuck in this pro inflammatory state and all of this inflammation drives microglial activation in the brain, which perpetuates central sensitization. This is why I'm trying to explain. You have to understand all the systems. Here's something that should be obvious by now, but nobody is talking about this at all. Fibromyalgia, predominantly women, strange. Why? Here, I'll help you. The answer is in the hypothalamic pituitary gonadal axis, the HPG axis and its interaction with the HPA axis. So 2024, it published that they showed that the study that proved fibromyalgia pathogenesis requires a very specific combination by HPA axis activity stress combined with low HPG axis activity. So low estrogen, progesterone relative to the patient's baseline. This is important. They show this in 2023, 2024 plus one. Here's the mechanism. So you understand what's happening. Estrogen and progesterone regulate GABA-ergic and glutamatergic balance in your brain. GABA is inhibitory. It calms things down to easy to explain. Glutamate, excitatory. So when estrogen is high, you get more GABA-ergic tone. When estrogen is low, you get this glutamatergic dominance. This is what's controlling the show. So during high stress periods, a high HPA combined with low  estrogen, pyridz, pyrimenopause, your brain gets stuck in this violently excitable state, the thalamocortical loop, which is the system that processes all of your sensory information, it changes over into, I'm pissed off, I hate everything, it's basically a pathology, and it doesn't turn off, and here's what's even better, reproductive hormones regulate immune function. So estrogen promotes regulatory T-cell development, and TH2 immune responses, that's controlled, right, so this is more anti-inflammatory by the way, progesterone, also anti-inflammatory, when these hormones drop, when they tank, you lose, so imagine taking this, just follow me on this, imagine taking this, menopause, pyrimenopause, and you have some doctors saying you need to take an oral estrogen and rub some cream on your vagina and that's going to solve your problems. That is a downstream effect of an upstream problem, so you're treating symptoms downstream, which is exactly why the stuff never goes away. So how about this, if you actually treated the problem and you solved the problem, follow me on this, then when you stopped anything, the problem should be gone, agreed? You guys have been indoctrinated to think that you have to take something for the rest of your life and that solves your problem, then the problem is never solved, it's managed, which is exactly why they make so much money off of you and they're screwing up your biology and hurting people for profit, pisses me right the hell off. So watch, when these hormones, when they go tits up, you lose immune regulation and pro-inflammatory responses are what control the entire show. This is why you see fibromyalgia, peak, perimetrial, postpartum, perimenopause, every single time. The system is loaded with stress and it's like you're literally warming up the engine and then the spark that triggers you, fluorine, is a hormonal withdrawal. This is what bothers me, here's a modern medicine doesn't prepare yourself because this is where the catastrophe becomes incredibly clear and honestly why I'm so angry right now. N-sates, I'll go through the common things they treat you with, they don't work, none of this stuff works and I'll show you why. They give you ibobaspin, naproxen, talk about toxic, the idea is this, reduce the inflammation, you'll reduce the pain. Okay, I get the logic. It's a logic from a third grader trying to do biochemistry, it doesn't make any sense because here's why it fails. First, N-sates block COX1 and COX2 enzymes. Yeah, they reduced some prostaglandins but prostaglandins aren't just pro-inflammatory. Oops, they're also necessary for gastric mucosal protection, renal function, and platelet aggregation. So watch, here's what happens. Chronic, because I get it, if you're in pain you want to get out of the pain. If you are constantly struggling, you want to stop the struggle. I understand that and working out harder and eating cruciferous vegetables and taking black cohosh or listening to someone that tells you all about slapping this patch on you that's going to solve all your problems is not going to solve it but I get why people do it because they feel helpless and lost. I'm trying to take away that helpless and lost feeling and give you all the damn answers so you can just solve the problem. Watch what chronic N-sate use leads to. Gastrointestinal ulceration and bleeding, especially in people with leaky gut, which fibromyalgia patients pretty much all have, acute kidney injury, renal interstitial disease, increased cardiovascular problems like, well I don't know, heart attacks, you guys are you nuts. Listen, here's the second part that you really, and this is more important about N-sates. We can go into the side effects and lay this down. There's no such thing as side effects. They're only effects by the way, but N-sates don't address the root cause. They don't fix mitochondrial dysfunction. They don't restore N-case cell function. They don't heal the gut barrier. In fact, they do the opposite. They're suppressing a symptom while the underlying disease just rages on baby. Let's keep on going. N-sates actually impair mitochondrial function by disrupting mitochondrial respiration. So many studies since 2015 have proven this. Like we're talking thousands. You're literally making the ATP shortage worse while treating the pain, which makes the pain ultimately, you ready? Drum roll, friggin' worse. Look at the SSRIs because I know some of you guys, selective serotonin-reaptic inhibitors, right? So they keep more stuff in the synapse, right? Sertraline, peroxidine, fluoxidine. The logic is they use all these things. They're all the same Fibromyalgia involves low serotonin. So let's increase serotonin. Follow me. Follow me on this because this is vital. The problem is a little more subtle and a little more profound than just that. SSRIs work by blocking serotonin-reaptic. So serotonin stays, like I said, in the synapse longer. Okay, so yes, there's a couple of times where this will help lightly, but it doesn't address the root cause again. Low serotonin. It doesn't restore serotonin production. It doesn't fix the HPA axis. It doesn't reduce the inflammation or restore mitochondrial function. So make it make sense. Again, you are treating a symptom, not a cause. Here's the other part. SSRIs have some of the most gut punch smack in the face side effects you can ever imagine. Sexual dysfunction, 60% of the people. Listen, just so you know, my wife is insanely sexy. I love my wife and I love having sex with my wife. If I was muted, if I had anodonia or just didn't, nothing worked, I would be so upset and it would take away some of the ways that we feel close to each other. Are you out of your mind? Yes, sex is important because that's how human beings feel close. It's just been put on social media as something people buy. Weight gain, metabolic dysfunction, by the way, is what SSRIs cause. Emotional blunting, which is anodonia. You don't feel joy, which is a terrible way to live, just so you know. Suicidal ideation, by the way, in young people. Common, 35%. There's something called discontinuation syndrome. Brutal, brutal withdrawal symptoms. And here's the thing. Follow me on the biochemistry. If serotonin signaling is broken, follow me. If it's broken, not because you don't have enough serotonin, but because the serotonergic neurons are damaged by inflammation and oxidative stress. If the serotonin receptors are dysregulated, then increasing synaptic serotonin can't fix the problem. You're a band-aid on something that is hemorrhaging out either side and going, I don't know why this doesn't work. Let's try the third one. Gabapentin, pre-gabalin. Both of these. Garbage, Neurontin, Lyrica. Holy moly, this stuff. I see advertisements for this stuff on social media. I see it on my television. Makes me want to turn off my TV or throw rocks at it. Listen, they block calcium channels in the spinal cord to reduce pain signaling. Okay, so right off the bat, that makes the hair on the back of my neck stand up because you're blocking something your body is trying to do, thinking that it's going to make you better. So now this can provide relief, but this is a devastatingly blunt spastic instrument because, watch, cognitive dysfunction, it's called the nickname of gabapentin brain. Dizziness, weight gain, dependence, massive withdrawal issues. Anyone that's been on Gabba knows exactly what I'm talking about. More importantly, listen, this is what I was saying. You suppress pain signaling without addressing why the signaling is amplified in the first place. So you're not fixing inflammation, immune dysfunction, mitochondrial failure, HPA dysregulation, you're silencing the smoke detector and going, let's just sit here and watch the house burn down anyway. All three of these treatments do the same frigging thing. They suppress symptoms without addressing the biology. In most cases, in fact, I'll just say this, I'll make a blanket statement. All of the cases, they make the underlying biological problem even worse. I'm trying to help you, but Fibro, here's the insight. I'll give you this and I'll try and button this up as fast as I can because I know you guys got things to do, but Fibromyalgia is reversible because it's not a genetic disease and it's not a degenerative tissue damage. It's a functional disorder. So bones sticking out anywhere. Your neurons are fine. Listen to me. Your neurons are fine. Muscle fibers, fine organs, fine. What's broken is the signaling, the communication, the regulation that the coordination is so signaling can be repaired. 2024, they prove this NIH, exploration, medicine, PMC, they showed when you address the underlying factors, when you address what's actually causing the problem, they've proven this, inflammation, immune dysregulation, mitochondrial dysfunction, HPA access dysfunction, the pain gone, systemic reset, 100% of the time. This is why lifestyle interventions actually friggin work. Exercise restores mitochondrial function and reduces inflammation. Sleep fixes the autonomic nervous system and allows for all the cellular repair. And believe me, I'll talk about what your kangaroo should be doing. Stress reduction calms the HPA access. Dietary changes, changes, remove the inflammatory foods, heal the gut barrier, reduce endotoxin and the systemic inflammation. But here's the problem. These interventions take time. We're talking months and months and they require very consistent execution, which is hard when you're in chronic pain and fatigue. I get it. I'm not going through it and I'm not trying to say I understand, but I see it and I believe you want to escape. I get it. I do. And you're like, I just want this to go away right now. Even if you can get symptomatic relief, I understand. I do. And I hate hearing that. Because I wish there was a magic wand. There isn't. The magic wand is the fact that you want to prevent it in the first place. However, we're at this point, so now we need to cross that bridge and solve the problem. This is where things like peptides come in. So look, I will walk through hypothetical things for your kangaroo because if I tell you exactly how the problem is, I get censored because heaven forbid, I can't tell the truth. I can't expose you to the truth. I can tell you the truth all day, which is what I'm doing, but people don't like it. So here we go. Cmax, synthetic peptide from ACTH, agatropic hormone. What it does, and this isn't one, you better listen to all of this. If you're going to listen to it, don't start throwing things. If you go, I can only get two of the three. Can I do it? No, absolutely not. That's like going, listen, I need four tires for my car, but I can only get three. Can I go run the race? No. Can I go do the NASCAR? Can I start doing laps? No, you need all four. That's how you need to treat these because all and for all of you insta bro shill stealing my stuff going, I discovered this and I'm going to sell my product. Fuck off bothers me because you're doing it because you want money and you're doing it because and you don't understand the biology. If your life depended on it, someone held a gun to your head, you'd be like, I don't know, help people. That's why I'm here. So if you're not going to do it all, don't bother. If you go, I can't afford all of it. I can only afford some of it. Save up the money to do it all. Borrow it from somebody, put it on a credit card. I don't care where you buy it. I'm just telling you do not do half-ass treatments because that's exactly why they don't work. So listen, Dmax activates melanocortin receptors, particularly MC4R. We're all over the brain and immune system, 10, NIH. So here's what happens when you do this just so you know, I guess I don't need to keep telling you about the research. There's enough of it out there. Here's what it does. It restores the HPA access function. So the broken communication between your hypothalamus, pituitary and adrenal gland starts working again. Your cortisol rhythms normalize. Never mind getting out and getting some sun, by the way, every day, half hour in the morning. And if you go, that's pretty hokey. Cool. Try it and then come back and talk to me because that stuff aggravates when people go, oh, but I'd rather just take a pill. You can take all the pills you want. It's still not going to solve the problem. And by the way, first past degradation destroys most medications anyway. And when they pegalate them to make them stay in your system longer, they cause even more or alpha alkylated 17. Holy crap, the damage. Your liver doesn't, if you don't have it, you're dead. How about that? Okay. I know you make a new one every 150 days, but don't take a chance. Don't screw with your liver. So here's second, Cmax, by the way, these are all subcube. If you take any of these oral, ball up your fist, punch yourself in the face, stop listening to that Insta Bro or Insta Expert or soccer mom that thinks she knows what she's talking about, or the Dr. Schild that says, my orals are different. They're liposomal. No, no, I'm trying to give you the answer. I got nothing to gain here. Understand that. Look at the people and follow the money. That's it. Look, here's the second thing it does. Up regulates BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor in the brain. So BDNF is what do I always call it? Miracle grow baby for your brain, for your neurons, it promotes survival growth, plasticity, your damaged, pain processing circuitry starts doing what it's supposed to do, what you're designed to do, which is healing. Third, it enhances dopamine and norepinephrine signaling in specific brain regions. This part's important. Don't miss this part. Frontal cortex, reward circuits, your mood improves, motivation comes back, cardiovascular regulation improves, which is relevant for POTS. It modulates as the fourth thing. It modulates immune function, reducing pro-inflammatory cytokine production, but it also enhances Treg develop T cell rights, right, the regulatory T cells. So essentially, here's what it does. C max tells your hypothalamus, hey, man, listen, we're doing okay, you can come out of panic emergency mode. Look at mod C. Okay, this is where things get really wicked. I'm not going to get into explaining it just so you understand. Mod C is in the mitochondrial genome, but it acts as a hormone signaling from the mitochondria to the nucleus and a whole bunch of other tissues by the 2015 Nature Medicine Prove this. But here's what it does. Restores mitochondrial ATP production through AMPK activation and restores the oxidative phosphorylation efficiency. This is what they talked about in Nature in 2015. Your cells get energy again, so they can do what they're supposed to do. Just so you know, the energy currency, the fundamental currency that your entire body runs on is ATP. No magic other fairy does that you have that some influencers telling you about it is ATP and ATP only pain processing, what did I say, is metabolically very expensive, it requires massive amounts of ATP immune function requires massive amounts of ATP. So when ATP returns the system reboots, then second, it improves insulin signaling through AMPK helping to reverse the insulin resistance component of fibromyalgia. Then it suppresses the inflammatory pathways, but it does this while enhancing regulatory T cell development. So your immune system starts normalizing again, this stuff's gangster. Fourth, it crosses the blood-brain barrier and enhances neuronal mitochondrial activation, so it improves central energy metabolism and pain processing. So this microglia don't go bananas anymore, at MOTC is literally telling your mitochondria, hey man, wake up, let's start producing energy again. BPC-157, this stuff's awesome, promotes tight junction protein expression, clodens, octadens, Z01, intestinal epithelial cells, 2010 they approved this. This stuff, BPC is like a staple part of my house, it's everywhere and it pretty much goes into every single kangaroo protocol I ever have, no matter what. It is that good if I had to have one universal peptide BPC and wouldn't even think twice about it, but your leaky gut heals, the barrier that was letting all the lipopoly saccharides, the LPS is through, now actually works again. And when the gut barrier heals, back, they stop crossing, now here's what happens, systemic endotoxemia just shuts down, pro-inflammatory cytokine production drops to near zero, and BPC up regulates HGF, hepatocyte growth factor and VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor. The blood-brain barrier actually heals, your vascular endothelium heals, tissue profusion improves and in POTS, watch, blood pressure regulation improves, just so you know, BPC-157, massive anti-inflammatory, direct massive anti-inflammatory effects, so it reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine production, enhances nitric oxide signaling, remember, INOS and ENOS. And oh, we're not done yet, look at this, you know what else it does, I'm just thinking things right now, it's awesome. Promotes nerve growth and neuroplasticity, GDNF, NGF up regulation, BPC is like handing your body's healing machinery, all the tools it actually needs and the best tools ever created, and all the materials to actually do the friggin job, wow, look at TB-500, okay. TB-500 up regulates HSP70, which is heat shock proteins, which function as there's like these, like a molecular, I'm thinking about my daughter going on a date, right, I'll be a chaperone, that's what this is, it's like a molecular chaperone for cellular protein repair and stress response, which gives me all kinds of stress response when she went on her first date. So, the damaged proteins get repaired and cellular stress decreases, okay. It promotes angiogenesis, which is formation of new blood vessels through VEGF, just like BPC, and a whole bunch of other pathways that I just don't really have the time to get into, because now I'm starting to get hungry. Tissue, ox, watch what happens though, tissue, oxygenation improves, so you lose the hypoxic aspect, pain processing improves with better oxygen delivery, because your body runs on this weird thing called oxygen, it suppresses TGF beta signaling, which is the primary driver of pathological inflammation and fibrosis. So now the chronic inflammatory state unwinds, it suppresses pro inflammatory cytokine production from immune cells. So now watch IL-6, TNF alpha IL-8, they go to almost zero, promotes neural end growth or outgrowth and neuroplasticity, helping to reprogram the pain processing circuitry. So TB tells your body, the easiest way to explain it, tells your body, you ready for this? This is complicated, repair everything right now, KPV by the way, this is one of the coolest anti-inflammatories on the planet, but it does so much more than that. This is why understanding the mechanism of what a peptide does is so radically different than going, I see you guys in your posts, man, with your little white tile posts going, take this for this, take this for this, take this for this, that's why you're an imbecile, because that's not how these work at all. Not even close, you're treating them exactly like people treat drugs wrong, their signals, you guys aggravate me that are doing that, makes me crazy. And if you get in my comments, well, I don't like this guy because he's calling me up for being a piece of shit, trying to milk people for all their money and lying about things. Yeah, because it bothers me, I'm here because I care, you're here because you want the money. I don't care if I have one follower on YouTube or I have millions, your job, by the way, all of you guys listening to this should be to send millions and millions of people here and going, you better subscribe to this guy's channel. Like I should have 100 million subscribers to this channel, I don't care about the money, I care about the fact that a hundred million people are getting better. But everybody goes out and goes, I want to see a guy do donuts in a parking lot and smash into a kitten. You guys are sick and twisted, how about you just solve mankind's problems? So look at KPV, yes, it bugs me and I realize I deviate, but I'm doing this because I care. Like I want people to have such a great life and it's possible. I've been on the other side of this, man. I've been on the other side of this equation, you guys, and if you've seen my story, it sucks. There's nothing about it that it made me so resilient. I'm this one person that was in my group for a while and that's a, I'm a resiliency expert. No, you're not. Every time something gets hard, you fall apart and whine and cry. That doesn't make you resilient. Going through hell, didn't make you resilient unless nobody knows you went through it. I don't care if you know my story or not, but I went through hell, but I don't use it. I don't even talk about it. I just go, listen, it didn't make me who I am. I did and I listened to God and God said, you got a mission to do, so now here I am. Fair enough. I'm here to help. So here's what KPV does. Regulatory T cell development function, it cranks it up, restores immune homeostasis. The broken regulatory system actually starts working again. It suppresses, hold on, I don't think you can ever drink too much coffee. It's just so gangster. It's a, if somebody knows some really cool coffee, I like Invader Coffee, by the way, my buddy, Wes Whitlock drink, he makes it. It's his company. It's really good. There's a shameless plug for Wes, huh? How do you think that kind of marketing, you can't buy, it's so good. The directly suppresses pro-inflammatory cytokine production from macrophages, and dritics cells and T cells. So the inflammatory state starts to reverse if anything, it completely turns off. It enhances barrier function, both gut barrier and blood brain barrier, does it through tight protein junction or tight protein upregulation. This, by the way, just see, no, watch. Remember what I said about BPC doing the same thing, right? Very synergistic. BPC and KPV in this aspect. It's not like you take them all at the same time. And KPV is not a maintenance peptide, by the way. KPV has massive anti-inflammatory effects in the gut specifically. Excuse me. So it makes it particularly useful, I would say, right? If you understand where I'm going with this, for the gut dysbiosis and leaky gut component of fibromyalgia. 2010 gastroenterology research, by the way, proved its efficacy is far superior than anything else to reduce gastrointestinal inflammation. Strange. How many of your doctors have told you about that? None. KPV crosses the blood brain barrier and modulates microglial activation. Remember the little immune, kamikaze assassins that are attacking your own cells? So it reduces the neuroinflammation. 2010 neuroscience showed that. KPV is telling your immune system, hey, man, listen, why can't we just get along, stop fighting yourself? Now, here's the one that I wasn't going to touch this. There's a couple of more aspects here that I could talk about that I use with my protocol, but there's the involved some finesse. But Alpha 7 nicotinic, I was getting into Alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on immune cells, specifically macrophages and T cells. This is called the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. 2010 Nature Immunology talked about this. Dr. Brian Ardis is phenomenally intelligent with this stuff. I give him nothing but credit. This guy is the first one to bring it to light like he does and nobody knows it better than that guy. You want to pay attention to Brian. He's a good dude. He knows this stuff and I trust what he says. So look at him. Let me explain. So first, Alpha 7 receptor activation on macrophages is going to suppress TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-6 production. It does this something called the STAT-3 pathway inhibition. Pro-inflammatory cytokines? Gone. Alpha 7 activation promotes regulatory T cell development and function. What do you think happens there? T-rex like T cells, like T-rex cells, your immune regulation shows up and it starts doing its job again. Alpha 7 activation, it knocks up or it enhances the vagal afferent signaling so it improves vagal tone, parasympathetic function. So this is why I'm saying this. Remember what I said about POTS? This helps POTS and autonomic function massively. Alpha 7 activation also up regulates and I can't say the word. Believe me, I want to. I'm just going to keep calling it Alpha 7, but you know what I'm saying, N-I-C-O-T-I-N. So there we go. Up regulates BDNF in the brain, promotes neuroplasticity and repair. So think of all these benefits and yet they're trying to make sure that you can't get this. Do you know that? 2030, you're not going to be able to get this anymore. So my opinion would be I would stock the hell up and start growing my own, but that's just my opinion. I don't know if some sensors are going to lose their marbles when I say that, but that's okay. This will be on rumble as well. It also reduces inflammatory pain signaling on the spinal cord through Alpha 7 receptor activation on the dorsal horn neurons. This is getting deep into neurology, so I guess I don't need to go that deep, but just understand this stuff is freaking amazing. I'm not talking about cigarettes, by the way. I'm not talking about pouches. I'm not talking about any of that. So if you go, well, I'm going to take a pouch. None of that works. It is a patch or a soak. That's it. That's it. There's no other way to do it. If you go, well, I'm going to smoke, I'm going to take these ZIN pouches. No, that's not that. None of that works. The bolus that it delivers is so massive. What it's doing is it's telling your vagus nerve and your immune system you need to activate the anti-inflammatory response. So all of this stuff doesn't work in isolation. You have to, this is a very synergistic setup and there's a couple more key components, but I just am running out of time and honestly, I'm getting really hungry and a little bit loopy. They work synergistically attacking the three fundamental failures from every single possible side that you can and they do it in a way that actually reverses the damn problem. You want to solve the mitochondria, solve the immune system, solve the barrier problem, solve the neuroendocrinaxis, change the sensory processing system and here's the beautiful part. When you use these all together in a very coordinated put together protocol, you're not just suppressing symptoms. You're addressing every single underlying biological failure all at the same time. You're giving your body the damn tools, the resources and the one that everybody doesn't like, the permission to actually do its job. Listen, fibromyalgia is not, I said this before, it's not a pain disease or psychological or all in your head, which really makes me angry, even though the pain is processed in your head. It's still there, system failure. That's what fibromyalgia is, inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, three failures cascade through your immune system, your neuroendocrine system, your autonomic nervous system, your GI system, your vascular system, sensory processing system. I mean, virtually every system that you've got nervous system responds by amplifying pain signals and losing the, it gets taken away, the ability to inhibit them and your immune system responds by activating and staying activated. Mitochondria, they produce less energy. Gut responds by becoming incredibly permeable and dumping endotoxins into your system. The endocrine system responds by completely dysregulating in the reproductive system, shifts hormone balance. So nothing works right. All of this is happening at the same time and all of this is very real biology. Modern medicine books piss me off because they say, I don't see what you're describing in my standard bloodwork playbook. So it's not real. That's not medicine. That's intellectual lazy. It's being an imbecile as a doctor. I don't care how many degrees are after your name. You're a twit because you're actually costing people their quality of life because you go, it's not in my book. Your book is wrong. Who wrote the book, by the way? You ever look at that? Never mind the fact that we can go back into history and go, history is written by the winners, but not the truth tellers. That's a whole other conversation. Put on a tinfoil hat. I don't care. Here, listen, you want to know here, I'll show you why what I do works. What I do is real doctoring. Look at the neurotransmitter systems, the inflammatory cytokine path profile. I look at mitochondrial function, immune cell phenotype. I look at the HPA access function. I look at microglial activation and I understand that fibromyalgia is a legitimate disease of neural processing, immune regulation and cellular energy production. Here's the best part, because I look at it this way. I have a real protocol for my kangaroo, C-max, MOTS, BPC, TB, KPV, NICOTINE, and a few more, but it's not magic, you guys. This is applied biology. Look at, here's what's happening. You're restoring mitochondrial function, suppressing pathological inflammation, healing the broken barriers. You're restoring immune regulation. You're promoting neural plasticity and repair. You're basically doing a hard reset on your neuroendocrine system. You're giving your body everything it needs to do its damn job because you're already born with it. Here's the part that breaks my heart. We know this works. You want to know that? This is the part that really, this breaks my heart. It pisses me off too. I've seen this. I've seen full recovery with people, my clients, my patients, full recovery, fibromyalgia, not improve, recover, pain, gone, fatigue, resolve, cognition, sharp, immune system's normal, but here's the issue. I can't talk about this at crazy volumes because it's not what you're using, isn't approved by the FDA. Are you nuts? If people are worried about insurance companies paying for it, are you out of your mind? Now people suffer. My job above all, do no harm. That doesn't even make sense to me. Listen, people, this bothers me so much. People take SSRIs to make them numb and impotent, taking GABA pentam that destroys their cognition and saves, that destroy their kidneys and their gut or their life suffering through side effects while the underlying disease rages the hell on. How is that even, listen, the evidence is as binary as it gets. Here's what I want you to understand when you leave this because I do. I want to go eat. I said it yesterday. You're not broken or crazy or weak or anything else. You have a real disease caused by real biological failures and the disease is reversible. It's not manageable. It's not suppressed, reversible. Neurons heal, immune cells normalize, endocrine system can reset all day, baby. Mitochondria can function again. Your barriers can all seal again. All of this stuff is how your body is designed. Otherwise, every time you cut yourself, you would never stop bleeding. You don't have hemophilia and even that is a whole other conversation I could get into. It's biology screams that it's possible and the proof is irrefutable because we've seen it. That's why I come out here so you understand the mechanism deeply enough to actually pursue it, do something about it. Instead of walking into someone, what do I always say? Some doc jackass with a white coat in a God complex saying, don't listen to this guy. What you should do is take my pill instead so I can buy myself another jag. You need to think beyond what current modern medicine tells you. You can apply this or you can ignore it. You can share this. You can give me the finger. I don't care. But if you're going to go into my comments and start dropping thumbs down, whine about it because I didn't give you the answer fast enough or I'm leaving certain things out. I'm leaving certain things out because I can't say them here because free speech ain't free. But you have this, you can email, you can, there's a million ways to get in touch and work with me. That's not what I'm saying, but I'm trying to give you the answers that at least you could do something about your own damn life. The science is there. The path is there. The results are there. All of this stuff works. You just have to step up and actually go, all right, I'm going to do something uncomfortable, have the courage to frig and walk it. That's all this is because fibromyalgia is what I say with chronic fatigue, 100% reversible. I know because I see it all the time. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.466181Z ===
