 amlodipine, the fundamental misunderstanding of biology by medical doctors is astounding, is all I've got to say. I was going to do a different podcast but people were asking me about this. This is a master class on melanotan2. I will go line by line on exactly what it is and why it's not what you think it is and why it does so many more things than you can imagine. This stuff is wild. But it's most people think it's a tanning peptide and a couple of people think it's a libido peptide. You're not wrong. However, that's like saying water is for drinking. You're missing everything else that it's good for. Let's just get right into it because I have a bunch of things to do. So I want to knock this out. Here's what most people think. It's just melanatin 2. But that's not it is. It's this synthetic analog of alpha melanocyte of alpha melanocyte stimulating hormone alpha msh for the people that actually nerd out on biology like me. But here's where it gets interesting. Alpha msh isn't just a cosmetic peptide. Right. I get asked even in my group, how much do I take for tanning so much more than it does. And here's the thing. You can't selectively choose what it does. You guys do understand that, right? If you take an Advil or an Aproxen or whatever it is you're going to take some kind of NSAID and some kind of Cox inhibitor, you don't get to choose. If you hurt your thumb, you don't get to choose that it just goes to your thumb. Now, the difference between a peptide and a drug is that a drug is like a wrecking ball. It demands that your body does this. No matter what, you don't have a choice. It forces your body to do things. Even if your body says this goes against everything that I'm wired to do. A peptide can't do that. It only tells your body to do the things it's designed to do. It can't force you to do something. It makes what you do better. It makes it infinite like orders of magnitude better. So that's a very fundamental difference between the two things. So I understand this. Melanotan is Melanotan 2 is it's a regulatory neuropeptide signaling molecule. And this is what changes everything. It binds to melanocortin receptors, not just in this, not just MC1 receptors on your melanocytes. I'm talking four, five, three, like MC4, MC5, all of them. MC1, they're throughout your entire nervous system, your cardiovascular system, your digestive system, your immune system, metabolic tissues, like adipose tissues. It's everywhere. So if you look when researchers at the University of Arizona, 2011 began mapping Melanocortin receptor distribution, they saw something pretty wild. And that's these receptors. Listen, this these receptors are literally everywhere that a human biology, human being has where there's inflammation, an inflammatory problem, or a metabolic dysfunction. Just process what I said for a second. And let me explain how this works. You've got MC4 receptors on the hypothalamus controlling your appetite. Hold on, I want to drink some coffee. You've got MC3 receptors in your adipose tissue regulating your fat metabolism. You've got melanocortin receptors in endothelial cells in your kidneys and your immune cells in your myocardium in your brain's reward centers. It's not a tanning compound. These are biological systems. And this is a biological operating system hack that's going to blow your mind. Here's the thing about modern medicine. I think people need to understand is that modern medicine compartmentalizes everything. We see a dermatologist for skin, a cardiologist for the heart, neurologist for the brain, but your body doesn't get that book. It's not compartmentalized at all. It's the most ridiculous way of treating a patient, which is why my results demolish everybody else's results. And if you go, that's a little bit arrogant. No, it's not. It's egotistical because I actually care about my patients and my people. I care about my clients, which is why I get results because I don't treat the body as pieces. Your body isn't compartmentalized. Your body is this unified electromagnetic biochemical information system. Period. Like full stop. When you understand that Milano tan two is hitting Milano, Corten receptors across multiple organ systems. Simultaneously, you realize that you've probably been asking the wrong question the entire time. The right question isn't why does it tan skin, which is what? What's my dosage for tanning, which is what makes me insane when people ask that? What's my dosage? I want to get tan for the summer. What's my dosage? Yeah, not a good idea, Brian. But the right question is what happens when you solve the Milano, Corten system? It is a system. It's not just a series of receptors because here's what all the literature and all the studies and all the research is screaming. The Milano, Corten system is a master regulatory of pretty much everything that we struggle with in modern disease state. But NIH, National Institutes for Health 2013, discovered that Milano, Corten pathway is fundamentally involved in regulating so many things, systemic inflammation through POMC neurons and central alpha MSH production, metabolic homeostasis. Just follow me on all this stuff through hypoflamic pituitary adrenal axis regulation. I'm already two things deep and it's already changing. It's so much more than just a tan immune function through modulation pro inflammatory cytokines, TNF alpha, IL6, IL1 beta, sexual function. You bet your bippy this works well through Milano, Corten receptors in the medial preoptic area in the PVT. And I'll get to all this in a second. I will explain exactly how this stuff works. Cardiovascular tone through endothelial Milano, Corten receptor signaling, cognitive function through Milano, Corten expression in the hippocampus, the prefrontal cortex. Listen, you're looking at a system that is supposed to be the body's inflammatory brake pedal, right? And modern disease is what happens when that system gets down regulated. So just go into the actual physiology because this is where it becomes real sexy and pretty much undeniable. When you introduce Milano, Corten two into your system, it crosses the blood brain barrier. It's lipophilic enough to do this. And it begins stimulating Milano, Corten receptors throughout your entire CNS, central nervous system and your PNS peripheral nervous system. Here's what happens and I'll go system by system. So you actually get it. So you understand. Remember, listen, I don't care if you buy my stuff. I don't know how many times I need to say this. There's some Muppet out there that just keeps saying all I'm trying to do is sell things. I've never tried to sell anybody anything. In fact, watch, you can join the black card membership, $9,997 by wire only. No, I don't take payments. No, I don't take credit cards. And if you're mad about that, I'm not for you. That's okay. But it's access directly to my live Q&A that I do every Monday. I had it yesterday where I do nothing but knock out solutions and answers to every single frigging health problem you've got and they all work. I have a guy that had multiple sclerosis where it's gone. Okay, you guys understand I do this because I care and I'm exceptional at it. I suck at a ton of things, but not this. This is where I am mind-blowingly effective. This is why I have CEOs and celebrities and actors and actresses and athletes all calling me now because they go, nobody can help me, but I know you can. Yeah, because I actually give a shit. Just listen, because I'm gritty and bald and I curse and I got a beard. Doesn't mean I don't have the intelligence to do this and the knowledge to solve your problems. I'm very good at it. That's why I'm a doctor, not some rent-a-dock. And for every CSCS and NASM expert out there, listen, I love that you took the courses. We are not in the same league. When you try and make a post that says, this is why this chiropractor doesn't understand chemistry, I've forgotten more about chemistry than. And it's not to be an asshole. It's because the asshole is the person trying to attack me going, what I talk about, I don't know, but yet I'm the one with the results. So my receipts behind me are stacked a mile high. But if you want to join the Black Card membership, fantastic. It's a year. You get access to the VIP area. You can ask me real questions. 24 to 72 hours is my turnaround time. It's like I said, 9,997 bucks. You send an email to my exec assistant. She's a badass. Yeah, ply at unlockthecard.com. I don't know when I'm going to raise the price, but it is going to go up to 25,000. I just have been putting it off, not for any other reason other than I just haven't done it because I'm trying to help people. But at the same time, I don't want people that are going to flood my inbox with nothing but complaints and do and not do what I tell them to do. I only have one very strict rule. Do what I tell you to do because it will work the end. And if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, yes, it is my company. Great. You can buy all the peptides there. My COAs aren't bunky. They're from Genociak industry gold standard. Just so you know, you can't fake those. So when knuckleheads go on to go there, fake COAs. Yeah, but you can pull them up at Genociak. So I just I don't know even though you guys, if you're buying into it, it's like the people that look at the AI versions of me selling some weird stuff on Amazon. First of all, I'm never going to do it. And second of all, if you believe for a second that was me, you're an imbecile. It's I don't even sound like that guy. So I don't know, maybe I need to quickly jump around locations all the time. So AI can't clone me, but none of that really bothers me. The point is this. I'm here to give you information so you have the info to make a educated decision. I don't care what that is. I care that it's the right one to put you in a place so your life becomes better. That's all. So let me go system by system and explain how this Milano 10 to work. So if you look at the hype, because it's important, if you look at the hypothalamus, so the Milano 10 to empty to just call it that stimulates pro opium, Milano, Corton, neurons, these are the primary control neurons. So when POMC neurons turn on, they release alpha MSH directly into your hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, and this isn't cosmetic. This is pure neuro endocrine control. So there's a paper Stanford University 2015 showed that POMC neuron activation specifically suppresses. You're going to love this. The inflammatory transfer from factor NF cap of B. You remember what this is in all peripheral tissues. NF cap of B, if you forgot, is the master switch that turns on chronic inflammation. So when you turn it off, you're literally turning off the biological cascade that causes 95 percent of all disease. And before you run out and start going, I need this to add to my stack because people are going to ask, Hey, man, I just watched this. Do I need to add this to my stack? Oh, you probably don't. I'm giving you information so you have it. And then we talk about this afterwards. You got to fix your biology first. This is where people screw up. They add like 50 things. I have a guy in my group right now. He sent me about 12 pages of crap. God bless this dude. But holy moly, he was like taking so much stuff like I went, your liver's on overload. It's not even a work right. I don't want to tell you I'm trying to help you. But are you sure? Are you sure I really want to add this? You can. But then why do you hire me? Look at your. Yes, it bugs me a little bit. Look at your immune system. M T two stimulates. Milano can't. Milano, Corten three. Milano, Corten four receptors on macrophages and dendritic cells. Let me explain what this does. It shifts the immune response from T H one, T H 17, that ratio, which is pro inflammatory towards the T H two T reg, which is anti inflammatory and regulatory. So if you look at the 2012 Journal of Immunology, they showed that Milano, Corten, stimulating directly inhibits TNF alpha, IL six, IL one beta production in activated macrophages. These just, you know what these are? They're the exact cytokines driving systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, neuro degeneration and cardiovascular disease. So now you have something that can turn all that off. And yet right now the FDA is attacking peptides. Make it make sense. The number of deaths by a peptide precisely zero. Oh, I'm going to do a banger of a podcast on the FDA versus research use only. And for all of you guys go gap, but you should get them at compounding pharmacies. So they're controlled by the big pharma. How's that worked out so far in the past? The FDA, no, thanks. Listen, you are literally biochemically rebalancing your immune system towards tolerance and away from chronic violent activation. Look at your metabolic tissues. M T two hits MC four receptors in the sympathetic nervous system, which increases the metabolic rate, but then this is very important. It does this while at the same time improving insulin signaling through AMPK activation muscle tissues. There's something else that activates AMPK, mot C. Imagine if you started marrying these two together and you understood biology. Don't just run and do that. Ask me first. And here's the part that most people miss. You're not just burning fat with Milano 10 to with empty to you're making yourself more metabolically active and sensitive for lack of a better explanation. So here's the architecture that makes this so effective. It makes empty to so effective. Every major chronic disease type two diabetes, cardiovascular disease, neuro degeneration, autoimmune conditions, metabolic dysfunction. They all converge. Same three biological failure points that I came up with. Where is my Nobel Prize? I'm going to say it every time. Where is it? I damn well deserve it because I solved chronic disease, but you're never going to read about it other than something I write. Why? Because it takes money out of the pockets of the people that are slowly killing you through managed decline. So I will prove that empty to addresses all three biological failures at the same time. Look at systemic inflammation. Your immune system exists for one purpose only. Defend against actual threats and maintain homeostasis. Your balance, your systemic balance, but then in the modern environment, processed foods, endotoxin exposure, hyperglycine, because you don't know what to eat, because you don't even forgot. Human beings are the only people that are through creatures on earth that have forgotten how to eat oxidative stress, circadian disruption, all this stuff. Your immune system is in the state of chronic, appropriately high activation. Your macrophages are angry. Your dendritic cells are hyper stimulated. The TH1 and TH17 populations are expanded. You're living in this state of smoldering inflammation and it's killing you very slowly, which is exactly what they want. Milano 10 to empty to addresses this through Milano, Courtney mediated suppression of pro inflammatory cytokines. Let me explain 2014 University of Washington published data that proved that Alpha MSH mediated MC4 receptor signaling specifically decreased IL-6, TNF, Alpha and IL-17 in production in human human. No rat studies out of Croatia like that Muppet doctor that's going around saying, don't use peptides, you should use pharmaceuticals. Are you nuts? Human blood mononuclear cells. These are understand this is the difference between health and disease. And there are this and I'm not out here going this magic supplement, this magic vial cures everything that you have. I'm saying that your body does. Your body is designed for this. You have been indoctrinated to think that you're sick because of a lack of a medication that is absolutely incorrect. And once you understand that, you understand biology, your entire paradigm shifts. And you start looking to solve failures. So your biology works, not cover up symptoms. So you have more biological problems. So watch when you reduce these cytokines, you're biochemically silencing the inflammatory amplification loop that's occurring in your system. Look at the second failure, right? insulin resistance. So here's what nobody tells you about insulin resistance. It's not actually about how much insulin you produce. It's about whether or not your cells even listen to the damn insulin signal. So insulin, look at insulin resistance happens under a couple of conditions. It happens when chronic inflammation damages IRS one insulin receptor, substrate one signaling in muscle cells, excess fatty acid accumulation in mitochondria, impairs glucose oxidation, chronic hyperglycine drives age, AGE advanced glycation in product formation, which activates rage receptors. And yes, I really call that and triggers NF Kappa B, which you just learned is the master inflammatory control. My toe and I'm not talking about in flamazon, but mitochondrial dysfunction reduces ATP production, preventing the energy dependent steps of the main thing that you need, which is glucose metabolism. M T two hits all four of these mechanisms. Watch. So by suppressing systemic inflammation, it's failure one mechanism one. You reduce the SOCS proteins that phosphorylate and inactivate IRS one. So your insulin signal gets much cleaner, much more clear by improving sympathetic tone and metabolic rate mechanism to right. You increase fat oxidation and reduce muscular. Do that. Make sure you got that one. Lipid accumulation, your mitochondria start working better. But watch, I'll keep going. Let's go. Mechanism three by improving sympathetic tone and metabolic rate mechanism to let's go, let's keep going. Mechanism three by reducing. So look, empty two hits all four of these mechanisms. Watch. So by suppressing systemic inflammation, mechanism one, you reduce the SOCS proteins that phosphorylate and inactivate IRS one. So your insulin signal gets cleaner and more, more clear. Look at the improving sympathetic tone and your metabolic rate mechanism to I just went over this, you increase fat oxidation and reduce intramuscular lipid accumulation. So now your mitochondria work better by reducing NF Kappa B activation. Mechanism three, you reduce age formation, rage signaling and your glucose metabolism improves. If you look, listen, research from the Journal of Molecular Endocrinology in 2013 showed that Milano Korton pathway activation increases. Pay attention increases AMPK phosphorylation and skeletal muscle. This is the cellular energy sensor that literally tells your mitochondria to produce more ATP and metabolize glucose significantly more efficiently. So you're not just this four mechanisms, right? You're not just lowering blood sugar, you guys. You're making cells fundamentally more responsive, expressive to insulin at the molecular level. Look at the third biological failure, right? The ATP shortage, the mitochondrial dysfunction, you can call it whatever you want. This is the invisible pandemic that nobody on earth is talking about. Let me and it's killing people left and center. The smart doctors are talking about it. The Instabros are never going to talk about it because it doesn't make the money unless they go, this solves your mitochondria, but I can't spell mitochondria. Yes, it bugs me. Because I don't make I don't make reaction videos to people ever. I'm too busy helping people actually being a great doctor, not an insecure toddler on social media. So look at modern life. High carb, processed foods, circadian disruption, monsters, red bulls, chronic stress, oxygen exposure. All of this systematically damages mitochondrial function. Your mitochondria, the little power plants in your cells. And when they're broken, here's what breaks. You ready? You want you probably stop if you're driving right now. You want to stop and write this down. Here's what breaks when your mitochondria go tits up. Everything. There you go. You're welcome. Planet 10 to addresses this through a ton of different ways, but I will follow. I will hit a few of them just to understand. Sympathetic activation is the first thing it does. It increases metabolic rate, up regulates mitochondrial biogenesis, PGC one alpha activation, so you create more and healthier power plants, reduced inflammation. So it decreases the production of mitochondrial damaging reactive oxygen species and pro inflammatory cytokines that do one thing very well. They down regulate mitochondrial proteins and cost you energy. Your ATP goes way down about 60 percent improves insulin signaling. So it allows for better glucose oxidation actually inside the mitochondria. Remember, so we know about the electron transport chain. We know about cardiolipin. We know the inner mitochondrial membrane. We know how this all works, how your body takes food and turns it into horse power with a proton gradient. So just follow me on this. Duke University 2015 showed that POMC neuron activation increases metabolic rate. Excuse me, by 22 percent. Twenty two percent. Your energy goes up 22 percent. It is more than noticeable. Just so you know, it does it through sympathetic mediated increased increases in brown adipose tissue activity and mitochondrial uncoupling protein expression. So here's what it what that means. You're literally regenerating your own energy production system. Here's where all of this converges. Follow me. Your body has three fundamental requirements. It follows these three failures. Listen, you have to control inflammation, so you're not destroying yourself. You have to maintain metabolic health, so your cells are responsive and insulin sensitive, and this is the inverse rate. And you need to produce energy so your mitochondria can execute the biochemistry of life because ATP is the currency you need to live. MT-2 addresses all three at the same time through one single mechanism. One, melanochortin receptor optimization. You suppress the watch. I'll just follow me on this. You suppress the inflammatory cascade. Your cells become insulin sensitive right off the bat. Right. Your mitochondria now function better. So because of that, what do you think? When your mitochondria function better, you produce more ATP and you recover the one thing your body is constantly fighting for, which is homeostasis. This is why it seems to work very well for unrelated conditions. You're not treating symptoms. That's why if you go, this isn't related to this, but it worked. It's not an off-label thing that they come up with a drug so they can give more people the drug. This is solving the system that you have. You're fixing the underlying biological architecture, which is why you have such fantastic results. Let me explain. Listen, let's go right into erectile libido and erectile dysfunction because a lot of people take it for this and they don't even know why. And half of the time you guys are taking it wrong. Here's what's happening because you don't understand what's happening when you're struggling with erectile function or low libido men and women. It doesn't matter. The clitoris gets erect as well because the pharmaceutical industry has made this most so ridiculously complicated, but sexual arousal is fundamentally controlled by two very straightforward system, sympathetic nervous system, which is the gas pedal. So during excitement and arousal and all that stuff, sympathetic nervous system activity increases, causing norepinephrine release in the genitals. Okay. The parasympathetic system, which is the brakes during rest, recovery, refractory period, whatever you want to have all that stuff. The PNS peripheral nervous system or the parasympathetic nervous system activity dominates so it causes acetylcholine release. So here's what needs to occur for an erection to happen and grow up if you're going to be a tough cavernous, smooth muscle relaxation has to occur so blood can fill the corpus cavernosis. Penile arteriolar vasodilation needs to happen so blood can actually flow in. Central arousal signals from the brain need to occur so the whole system can work. And here's where it breaks for modern men all over the place. It's not a lack of sealis. Watch chronic stress, elevated cortisol and norepinephrine, sympathetic dominance, elevated resting sympathetic nervous system tone. So now your penis is in fight, flight or freeze mode all the time and you can't relax, smooth muscle, so you get no erection. It's not if it's just biology, you guys. By the way, at the same time, chronic inflammation, because I talked about this, chronic inflammation, most people are in a massive inflammatory state, elevated TNF alpha and IL-6 and IL-17 endothelial dysfunction, reduced nitric oxide production, NO, and impaired vasodilation. So now you can't even get the system to come online. Add in metabolic dysfunction, reduced ATP and smooth muscle cells, which is required. So now you can't mean there's no gas in the tank to maintain the relaxation. So the rectile failure compounds. It's just one layer on top of the other, which is why you walk around like an overcooked or overcooked piece of spaghetti. It doesn't work not because it's because your biology doesn't work. Solve the biology. It's not a lack of ED medication. You don't have to go sit there and dial up whatever. Hems, hers, it's whatever it is. Here's what MT-2 does at the molecular level. And I'll explain it from A to Z. Look at the brain. MT-2 stimulates malignal cord receptors in the medial preoptic area. I talked about this and the PVT, the paraventricular nucleus, which are your brain's sexual arousal centers. So the research from the University of Amsterdam, 2007, you got to understand this has been around for a long time, showed that direct malignal cord and agonism in the PVN increases penile erection frequency and intensity across the board by 47%. This is not controversial. This is how your brain is wired, which is exactly why it works. MT-2, it also increases dopamine and oxytocin in the same regions, which are fundamental to sexual motivation and the experience of desire. You need this stuff, which is why you look at SSRIs and MAOIs and people become they have anodonia, right? Just neutros, zero emotion, nothing, no feeling. Now, do you understand why this stuff is so important to know? I really listen. I really want you to understand your biology so you can do this. Look at the endothelium. MT-2 suppresses systemic inflammation, reduces TNF alpha, IL6, IL17, improves nitric oxide production in endothelial cells. I talked about this. It increases cyclic GMP and cavernous smooth muscle cells so you can actually get an erection, relaxation, phase of dilation, blood flow, erection. It's a biological cascade along with a temporal summation to achieve orgasm, which is required, right? You constantly increase until you reach the membrane potential and then you cross the threshold if you ever took human fizz. But look at the sympathetic nervous system by suppressing systemic inflammation, which is the chronic stressor. MT-2 reduces baseline norepinephrine and baseline cortisol. So now your sympathetic nervous system tone, it regulates it. It becomes normal. So the fight, flight, freeze, grip that it has the vice on your system, your genitals is gone. Look at that. Go right to mitochondria. Remember what I said, if you don't have the ATP to maintain the relaxation, you can't maintain the erection. So by improving ATP production in smooth muscle cells, MT-2 ensures that you have enough energy to maintain the metabolic slate. The metabolic state that smooth muscle relaxation actually requires. You think relaxation doesn't take energy. It actually takes a ton of energy. And here's the part. This is very critical that separates MT-2 from things like Cialis, Saldena, Phil, Tadalafil, all of the things like the PD5 inhibitors, right? You're not just masking the symptom. You're fixing the biology underneath that's causing the dysfunction. International Journal of Impotence Research 2009 showed that melanocortin agonism produces durable improvements in erectile function long after discontinuation, which means you solve the problem. You're not bypassing it. You solve the problem. So if you take like a Saldena or Tadalafil, you have to take that in order to get the system to work. But if you took it once and then the system started working and got it back online, it would be a much better product, agreed? But the problem is it doesn't make copious amounts of profit. So what if imagine if they charged $200 for the pill, but you only had to take the pill once, it is still a fraction of how much money they're making on people taking these pills every day. And I'm not talking about Cialis for things that if you have a prostate issue or the five milligram a day stuff, if you know about that, and if not, I need to do a post on benign prostate hyperplasia and enlarge prostate and all the things that are happening because there's some pretty wild things that'll make it go away. And they don't involve a knife for taking something that doesn't make you work very well and jacking up your system. Listen, how about this? Let me blow your mind. How about we throw some neurology and this stuff's fun for me? So your brain is about 60% lipids, right? Requires constant energy ATP and has this very limited blood supply and it's exquisitely sensitive to something called inflammation. If you remember what I talked about, this is going to come as no surprise when you have systemic inflammation, your microglial cells, which are the brains, little assassins, right? The immune cells, they're in the state of hyper chronic activation. They're looking for a fight and they don't care who they fight. So they activated microglia and now release TNF alpha, IL-6, IL-1 beta, but they do it directly onto your neural tissue. But the problem is this, these cytokines are screwing you up bad. They have a purpose. They don't have a purpose right now in this situation. So they damage synaptic connections. So long-term potentiation is totally impaired. They promote amyloid beta aggregation, which is foundational to this weird disease that is rampant right now called Alzheimer's type three diabetes, but they keep blaming on a lack of what? Pharma? Come on. Reduces brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which is the growth for neurons. Everybody keeps stealing my word, which is miracle growth for neurons, but I feel it increases neural inflammation and oxidative stress. Listen, meanwhile, here's the problem. Your mitochondria are under functioning. So you have insufficient ATP. It always comes back to the damn mitochondria, you guys. But if you go well, so would solving the mitochondria, then solve every problem. No, because there's so much more going on. But yes, it's a very heavy start, probably 50%. You have insufficient ATP for synaptic transmission, memory consolidation, myelin maintenance, which is the wiring around that, right? See the oligodendrocytes are creating the wire around the, or the sheath around the wire so you can actually propagate the signal. Protein synthesis for about everything that happens in your body. Your neurons are insulin resistant. So glucose isn't getting properly metabolized into the ATP. They need to survive. Milano 10-2 hits all three. Watch anti-inflammatory product in the brain. It crosses the blood brain barrier, suppresses microglial activation through Milano Corten Receptor signaling. So Journal of Neuroinflammation 2012, they show that alpha MSH decreased microglial TNF alpha and IL-6 production by about 70%. 70% reduction in neuroinflammation isn't giving you an erection. It's life changing. We're talking dementia, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's. You guys need to take what I do seriously because this is for you, not for me. Look at ATP production. So by improving mitochondrial function system-wide, MT-2 ensures that the brain, yours has sufficient energy for optimal neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity, which are required. So taking a vial full of dihexa isn't going to solve your problems magically and turn you into a telepath. You need to understand the biology underneath and solve the problems. And then you don't- the whole point is if you go, if somebody says you need to be on peptides for the rest of your life, they're trying to sell you peptides for the rest of your life. You're no better than the managed decline people, then you're just a shill. I don't care if you want to take them for the- there's some forever peptides that I talk about all the time. BPC-157 is one of them, right? Red or True Tide is another. But you don't have to, but they make you think that you have to take a beta blocker. You have to take Namenda. You have to take Erecept. You have to take- you have to have metformin or a humilog pump. Put it- no, you don't. You need to solve the biological problem so you need none of that. And here's the proof. You were born without it. You were born without it. You weren't born in a shortage of medication. You were- you didn't get headaches from a lack of NSAIDs. You don't have type 2 diabetes from a lack of metformin. You have type 2 diabetes. And if you're a kid because your parents are assholes,  and they didn't maintain a good diet with you. I never look at children and think there's a bad child. I think there's idiotic imbecilic parents. It frustrates me. I don't care how upset our kids get, Brandy and I make our kids train. You know why? Because that's their life. I take this so seriously because I care. I care about your kids, your spouse, just as much as mine, man. So if you think for a second that it's just some magic peptide and you have to take them for the rest of your life, some ever insta-shill, some insta-bro science pseudo expert with funky blue hair tries to tell you that you have to take this for the rest of your life and they're solving all kinds of problems, show me the data and prove it and I will call you a liar because no, you are not. You do not need to take a peptide for the rest of your life. Not at all. You need to solve the underlying biology and here's the problem that people struggle with. Then you need to maintain it and most people won't because you use these as a crutch, which means you're still thinking like a victim of big pharma. You're still indoctrinated thinking you have to take these. Listen, look at insulin sensitivity. That's what it creates, right? It's solving the insulin resistance issue, the MT-2, because I'm just in one of these moods today. So by improving systemic insulin sensitivity, MT-2 improves neuronal, glucose uptake and metabolism. So here's the result, better cognition, faster processing speed. You got an upgrade, improved memory consolidation, you've solved the system. It's not a lack of C-max or dihexam or cerebrolysin or whatever else is salank or anything you want to take. It's fixing the system so the system can operate the way it's designed. Look at your cardiovascular system. Lives or dies based on endothelium. Period. Period. Some cardiologist wants to argue with me. Bring it. You're still wrong. Here, I'll prove it. Your endothelium is a single layer of cells. I have no love anymore for the medical system. It's a disgusting system and most of you guys are sellouts trying to push your products in your big pharma, Gestapo BS. I'm out here actually above all, do no harm, saving lives and you guys are going, how can I get you on the next drug? One of my closest friends was told by a doctor to take a statin and what happened? Brain fog, lazy cognition, problems, memory issues. It's the same age as me. Got in touch with me. We solved all this problem, stripped away that and guess what? Down 10 pounds, shredded, powerful, sharp as a fucking razor all the time. Pardon my language. Why? Because we solved the biology and we got him away from something that was killing him. I'm trying to help you guys. Listen, the endothelium, look at the cardiovascular system. The endothelium is a single layer of cells lining your arteries and is responsible for producing nitric oxide, basodilation, anti coagulation, anti inflammation, controlling vascular tone, managing clotting. Like this is a big deal. So I'm filtering inflammatory molecules. Endothelial dysfunction happens through a couple of things chronic inflammation. So inflammatory molecules penetrate the endothelium oxidative stress reduces nitric oxide bioavailability inos and enos. I went over this about a dozen times. Cemia, insulin resistance, it's going to impair endothelial mitochondrial function. Pademia. So now you oxidize LDL particles, which activates scavenger receptors on macrophages, home cell formation, atherosclerosis. Boom! You are on your way to the morgue before you know it because you didn't solve the problem, but they medicated you as long as they could to get as much money from you as they could. Do you know what's crazy? If somebody ever says you charge too much for your peptides as an elite biogenics, what's your life worth when you are willing to pay the same thing daily? Not once or twice. Daily for the rest of your life to maintain your decline while your health deteriorates and your life goes into the shitter. Are you out of your mind? I don't even know where to go with this. Listen, MT-2 hits every single one of these dysfunctions, suppresses inflammation, reduces TNF alpha, IL6, less endothelial penetration, less oxidative stress, improves nitric oxide bioavailability. Look, by reducing oxidative stress and improving mitochondrial function, you increase ENOZ, endothelial nitric oxide synthase efficiency. It improves insulin sensitivity, so now your endothelial cells are the most functional things you've got now, and they're more responsive to insulin-mediated vasodilation the way they're designed. Reduces atherogenesis, so by suppressing the inflammatory ripple, the cascade, and improving lipid metabolism, you reduce foam cell formation so you don't chew up your arteries. Circulation research 2011 showed that Milano-Corten-Agan is an improved endothelial function and reduced atherosclerotic plaque formation. Why are you waiting? Listen, your cardiovascular system regenerates when inflammation decreases and mitochondrial function improves, period. That's it. It's not complicated. Look at kidneys. Your kidneys filter blood, right? They're highly metabolically active, massive energy requirements, and very delicate. They're fragile as hell. Kidney disease happens under a couple of criteria. Glamarular endothelial dysfunction causes mesangial cell proliferation, scarring, glomerular scarring, chronic inflammation causes inflammatory cells to infiltrate the kidney. You get tubular atrophy, mitochondrial dysfunction, so now you have insufficient ATP production, so now tubular reabsorption can't function, protein urea. These are things that should just be sent off bells in your head, you guys. Potocyte foot process effacement, so this is driven by oxidative stress and inflammation. The potocyte's those little cells inside, right? MT-2 fixes all of this stuff. Look at the endothelial repair. So improved, I talked about this, nitric oxide production, reduced inflammatory cytokine penetration, glomerular endothelial regeneration. It does what it's supposed to do. Glomerular, look at reduced glomerular inflammation. So by suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines, you prevent the mesangial proliferation and glomerular scarring, which is causing the problems. Look at the mitochondrial function. So better ATP production in the renal tubules, improved reabsorption of filtered glucose and amino acids, reduced protein urea. Your kidneys are actually doing their job. The American Journal of Nephrology in 2014 showed that the Alpha MSH, the Milano-Cortin pathway activation, reduced protein urea and approved glomerular filtration rate and diabetic nephropathy, 57%. But yet they'd rather have you go to dialysis. Dialysis is a business. Dialysis is a business. I could do this with endocrine system. I could do this with anything. You want to look at neurodegenerative diseases? Look at this, because this is where it gets really wild. Every neurodegenerative disease involves a couple of things. Chronic microglial activation, so neuroinflammation, amyloid beta or tau protein aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuronal energy failure and asymptotic loss. So let me connect all these dots for you so you can actually understand the mechanism and actually look at it and go, holy shit, this is what's going on in my grandma, my grandpa, my neighbors, my wife, my husband's life. Look at Alzheimer's. It begins with neuroinflammation and amyloid beta accumulation. The inflammation drives more amyloid beta production, which drives more inflammation. It becomes this incredibly vicious cycle. MTI suppresses microglial activation. I just talked about this. Reduces neuroinflammation, reduces amyloid beta-induced inflammation amplification. So look at neurobiology of aging. 2013 showed that Milano-Cortin, MT-2 reduced amyloid beta-induced microglial TNF alpha production. A lot of letters, I know, just follow me. It basically reduced the inflammatory cognitive problem that occurs in Alzheimer's. That's the easiest way to explain it. Look at Parkinson's disease. So selective dopaminergic neuron loss in the substantia nigra, driven by neuroinflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction. We could go right down to three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Alpha-synuclein aggregation is downstream from these problems, not the primary cause, but yet that's what they keep trying to treat. MT-2 suppresses neuroinflammation that damages those dopaminergic neurons, improves mitochondrial function in the remaining neurons, and reduces alpha-synuclein aggregation downstream because the upstream issue was solved. Look at MS, multiple sclerosis. I told you, I have a guy right now in my group, MS, gone. Not even detectable. Gone. Do you have any idea how big of a guy choked me up, got me ulterior ed when he told me that. It's an autoimmune condition where the immune system attacks myelin, right, the coating around the wire, driven by TH17 overactivity and insufficient Treg activity, the regulatory T cells. MT-2 shifts immune response. I talked about this, TH1, TH17, towards TH2 Treg. So it reduces the myelin-directed attack and promotes remyelination by the oligodendrocytes. Journal of neuroinflammation 2014 showed that melanocortin agonism increased regulatory T cells and decreased TH17 in MS. Look at dementia. Look at dementia. Are you kidding? Most cognitive decline is vascular or inflammation-driven. Same mechanisms. Most of this stuff, right? Neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, endothelial dysfunction. MT fixes this, everything that these diseases are built on. All of them, every single one of them. It is not a tanning peptide. It is not a peptide for libido. It is so much more than that. So I'm telling you, if you're looking at this going, I don't know if I should look into this or not. You should. You should. Just think of it. I need to spend some real time here because insulin resistance is the fundamental lever of all kinds of problems. insulin resistance and its rampant right now, it means your cells aren't listening. I'm deaf to insulin. When this happens, your pancreas produces more and more insulin. It's called hyperinsulinemia. You don't have a shortage of insulin. You have your deaf to it. Not the same. The excess insulin drives fat storage and inflammatory signaling. Boy, this sounds really terrible. It sounds like everything that people are being treated for right now, wouldn't you say? So now you become metabolically inflexible. You can't burn fat efficiently. This is such a plan. It's, and I'm not a tinfoil hat wearing guy. I'm telling you, this is the plan. Your mitochondria and our work harder, but produce less ATP. So they become fragile. You accumulate metabolic byproducts, lactate, acetyl-CoA that fuel further inflammation and your blood sugar gets beyond this regulated. Look at the cellular level. insulin resistance happens through protein mediated phosphorylation of IRS1 caused by the inflammation, mitochondrial lipid accumulation caused by impaired fat oxidation, chronic endoplasmic reticulum stress caused by the ER stress caused by hyperglycemia and oxidative stress. MT-2 reverses this. Watch. Look at the systemic inflammation. Reverse TNF alpha, IL6, the protein stop accumulating. IRS1 can function. insulin signaling improves. Glute 4 transporters migrate to the outside of the cell and open up the doors and say, come on, I'm listening now. Bring it. Activates AMPK. Melanochortin signaling directly affects AMPK and muscle tissues. Look at AMPK. Increases fat oxidation so lipids don't accumulate and your mitochondria choking them off. Improves mitochondrial biogenesis so you have more healthy. A larger number of mitochondria reduces MTOR signaling so you reduce the ER stress. Improves mitochondrial function so better ATP production. Cells have glucose for their metabolism and the insulin signaling actually works. Look at diabetes. 2012 showed that direct melanochortin, MT-2 stimulation, just leave it at that, improves insulin sensitivity in obesity, improvements in IRS1 signaling and AMPK activation. But yet people are running around thinking they need to take all these medications. You're not just lowering blood sugar, you guys. You're restoring the biological capacity for your own metabolic health. MT-2 is not a tanning peptide, you guys. It's not even primarily a sex peptide. It's the main control for controlling the things that separate health from disease, the three things that do it, the three biological failures, systemic inflammation, metabolic dysfunction and energy failure. Every chronic disease, every one of them, cardiovascular, diabetes, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, erectile dysfunction, kidney disease, cognitive decline, it doesn't matter what it is. Every single one of them bottle next through these three mechanisms. And MT-2 through its very single, very beautifully orchestrated pathway, checks the box on all three solutions. It's just physiology, biochemistry and physiology that I want to give you so you actually have it. This is what happens when you optimize and you solve the melanochortin system. MC4 receptors optimize sympathetic tone, they solve metabolic rate. Your AMPK activates in your muscle tissue, making you insulin sensitive again. Dendritic cells stop over activating the T cell response. The POMC neurons suppress NFKB and TNF alpha, throughout your entire body. Macrophages shift from pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype to anti-inflammatory, if anti-inflammatory. Your mitochondria, you get more of them, they regenerate. So now you produce more ATP with less oxidative stress. The endothelium recovers, so now you produce more nitric oxide. Your neurons become responsive again to insulin, so they can properly metabolize glucose. The microglia cells calm down, so now you can actually repair instead of attack your own brain. And your hormonal system restabilizes because there's no inflammation and there's no glucose problems. You guys aren't treating a symptom, you're fixing the biological architecture of all diseases themselves. That's it. And you're using your own biology and what's the problem is, this stuff's being hidden from you left and center. You wait till I talk about the FDA versus peptides, research use, I don't care what they are. You just wait till I explain how this train wreck dumpster fire plays out. What's absolutely wild is this should make everybody listening to this podcast just freak out. We've known this was possible. Like biochemistry, physiology, we've known the melano-cortin system is the master regulator of inflammation, metabolism, and energy production. We've known this. None of this is new. That's what's really wild is everybody's walking around on their freaking phones going, oh, look, I'm a peptide expert. No, you're not. No, you're not. You are a salesperson with a fitness degree or a CSCS or you've been a trainer at Gold's Gym or 24-hour Planet Fitness and now you claim to be an expert because you can hawk these things to your clients without any knowledge about them whatsoever. And you run around telling everybody how you have a master's or a PhD in biochemistry, but you don't understand how to apply it to biology. I'm out here because I want to save mankind. Like I said, I don't give a crap if you buy from me or not. Go ahead. Don't. All my stuff is the same stuff I'd give my wife and kids. And if you don't know by now, I adore my wife and kids. I would never give them anything that isn't perfect. My labs create the best. I'll stand by that. The black cart hands down the best place, but I don't care whether you do it or not. I'm here for you. I'm not going to take my ball and go home and stomp my feet because nobody buys. I'm here because I want you to have the information. Everybody's looking at this stuff as if it's a tanning peptide, which makes me just want to flick somebody in the throat. You need to be looking at the biological levers that control whether or not your body survives or slowly dies. MT-2 is what happens when you stop treating symptoms and you start treating causes. Like that. You guys do get that, right? That's not just different. That's everything. That's your biology. I don't know. I got nothing left. I gotta go. Never miss.