You know, I've said this a couple of times. I come out here and I'm like, "Yeah, I wasn't going to talk about this." Well, I really wasn't going to talk about this today. And it it is always accurate. I come out here and I tell you the truth. Whether you like it or not, and I don't come out here to confuse you or anything. I just give you information. And what you do with it is entirely up to you. Whether you listen to my podcast, you watch this YouTube video. I will tell you this though. You guys want to do me a solid, I'll tell you this. It's not because of the money. It's cuz YouTube doesn't pay very much. I'm not Mr. Beast. I'm not making I'm not a billionaire from YouTube. But I will say this. I can't change the world by myself. I need your help. Which means share my channel, man. Please tell everybody. I'm not coming out here pushing some weird product. I'm not trying to tell you to go buy my stuff. Like I said, go to Elite Biogenics and buy. Don't. I don't really I don't [\h__\h] care. I want you to actually have the information to make an informed decision. So when you walk up to somebody, whether it's some instab bro idiot walking with his pants around his just above his dick thinking he's cool or some IFBB or some self-proclaimed expert or some guy or girl with a giant audience that knows nothing about what they're talking about. You can go, I'm not going to fall for it, regardless of how awesome their sales tactics are. I'm I tell it like it is. You either love me or hate me, but I tell it like it is. And I think that's maybe it's uncomfortable for a lot of people, but I also don't really care cuz the beauty of the world right now is you don't have to listen. You can go somewhere else. So if you don't like the way I'm speaking, you don't like that I cuss, you don't like that I direct things in a way that they should be directed to be honest, and I tell you the truth, [\h__\h] off. That's where I'm at. I'm 52. I don't have time to dick around. If I'm going to save the world and help everybody, like God left me here for a reason. So either you want to help me grow or you don't. But if you don't, don't hang out on my channel because I'm doing this for you. But the favor I ask of you is to help me grow. Get me to a million people on YouTube. Get me to 2 million, 10 million. Listen, and if you really think I'm telling you this because I want all the money from all the views. And if you go, we'll turn off the ads then. No, forget it. Do you know why? Because something has to pay for this. Yeah, I make plenty of money, but it ain't as much as you think. I'm not rolling in hundreds of millions of dollars, but the legacy I want to leave isn't financial. The legacy I want to leave is that my kids when when dad's gone, my kids go, you know what, my dad, he did, he disrupted the whole healthcare system in a way that made people think and audit their own system and make a decision to take control of their health instead of listening to a guy in a white coat with a [\h__\h] god complex that thinks they're better than you because they're just credentialed by a licensing agency. That's [\h__\h] embarrassing. By the way, the AMA can kiss my ass. I just just a bunch of phonies out to hurt people. And you can disagree all you want. It's like the people that go, "Well, if it's not approved by the FDA, how can it be sold?" Get off my site. Stop following me. I'm not for you. But help me grow cuz I And this is a very genuine request. Help me grow. I can't do this by myself. Share my videos to everybody. And if it pisses them off, share it to them twice. Piss them off until they get it. But I want to talk about, and I've talked about this before, but not at the level that I'm about to today, at menopause, pmenopause, hot flashes. And the reason is my wife wife is my best friend. And I I adore Brandy so much. And we've lived a lot of life together, highs and lows and everything. I I wouldn't trade a single second with that woman for anything. It wouldn't matter. She's just everything to me. And she's not a complainer. She's as tough as nails. And when she says she gets hot flashes, she's 46, right? So the system is is becoming a little bit corrupt and I always look for ways so when I speak to listen for all of you women that are listening that's how I look at you. I look at you the same way not with the same deep love and devotion that I do to my wife. Sorry, but that I actually care. Like when Brandy says to me, you know, oo big hot flash or I don't feel so well. It actually my brain instantly goes into how do I solve this for her and make her feel better and fix the system, not take away the symptoms cuz I I don't ever want it to come back. And I think that's where a lot of honestly a lot of men are [\h__\h] up. And sometimes my wife, if it's a physical problem or an illness or or some kind of metabolic issue, she wants me to fix it. If she's just having a rough day, you know what she wants me to do? Shut the hell up and just give her a hug and just sit there. I'll sit there all day and I will hold my wife until my arms are numb. I don't care. She doesn't need me to talk. She doesn't need me to find a solution. She needs me to be a man and make her feel safe and protected until she's come out the other side. And if she asks me a question, then she needs me to help solve something, then she does. And if not, shut up. There's some free marriage advice for you guys. Your wife doesn't want you to fix the problem all the time. She wants you to be a man and protect her, make her feel safe, that she has a place to go, that she has somebody to go that's just going to shut their mouth and make sure she feels okay. But when it comes to my wife's health, get the [\h__\h] out of my way, man, because I'm going to make sure she's okay. And if you're in my way, I'm going to mow you down. And that's how you should be, too. Not running to the hospital and injecting her with all kinds of horrible chemicals that's going to make her worse. But that's how I look at at you women is I I look at you guys as you women as you women put up with so much [\h__\h] And before somebody goes, "Oh, here we go. Here's another guy that's on the side of women." I'm on the side of mankind. Real true mankind. Not the woke, [\h__\h] up, demon-driven, screwed up crowd that can't pull their head out of their ass and actually understand what's right and what's wrong. I'm all about right and wrong. And I run my life according to the Bible. It's whatever. I don't care. If you don't like that, then I'm not for you either. And I'm not going to stand down from that because you don't like it cuz somebody goes, "I think we should cancel this guy for what? Telling the truth? Giving you the answers?" I don't come out here and give you anything that you could ever be mad at. If you would ever get mad at me, dude, say it to my face just so I can knock your teeth in. Because I don't come out here and do anything other than here, do this. It'll help you. Which would be the most [\h__\h] up thing on earth to go, I don't like him. Don't like me. But it ain't because of anything other than I'm telling you the truth and you don't like it. You don't have to like the truth. Doesn't change the fact that it's still the truth. I am exceptional at human biology for a reason. Because I spend all day every day and I have for well over three decades making sure I know more than everybody else. Because I want to help more than anyone else. Not because I want to brag on my knowledge. Because I want to give it to you. But the more I learn, the easier it is to explain. The easier it is for you to understand. But you women put up with a lot of crap. But you get taken advantage of with a medical system like Premorrin. I can't even get my head around that. It's so bad. And I'll talk about that in a second. Like the stuff they give you for menopause is unreal. And it's so bad for you. And it doesn't solve the problem whatsoever. Even if you go, "Well, it does for me." Estra test was one of the best things I've ever seen. They took it off the market. Strange. Flat out. Try and look it up. Estra test. Look it up. You will not find it. But it made people that were 40, 50, 60 have the feeling and the hormone profile of a 22-year-old. Healthy 20. Something to be said about that. Anyway, listen. Let's just have a real uncomfortable conversation. You cool with that? Cuz I'm already 9 minutes in and you guys are probably like, "Fuck, I had to fast forward all this." So, for however long this takes, cuz this is probably going to be a long one. I just I want you to forget everything that you've been sold and told. I want you to forget the wellness influencers, the glossy magazine ads, the doctor formulated nonsense in some bottle that costs more than your mortgage payment. I want you to just understand, think about like use the most powerful supercomput that you've got that you will ever own. One sitting right between your ears. Just listen to me. Just I need you to do some logical and biological forensics on honestly it's one of the it's probably the second greatest scam next to cholesterol. And it's affected half the human population, women, menopause. And it's not some mystery. That's how it's always talked about. It's some secret mystery. I see the these influencers. There's this one lady that comes out. is let me give you my special thing about menopause. I'm going to you want to join me and we'll we'll tackle it together and none of it. If you have to if you're taking a supplement for menopause and that's all you're doing, you're being rewarded for the routine, not the results cuz it's not working. And if you go, "Oh, [\h__\h] I do this all the time." Great. Listen, if that placebo works for you, but your blood will say otherwise. And I'm not going to talk about this like it's some weird spiritual journey that you have to sit at some resort in Bali with your crotch in an ice bucket thinking that's how it's going to fix you. No, there's no self-discovery here. This is a conversation for a bunch of engineers. And all of you women need to be engineers if you're listening to this. Like, we're talking full-on hormonal, biological, mechanical engineers, because that's what your body is. Your body is this advanced, the most advanced piece of biological machinery ever created on the planet, ever. And for millions of women, it's being run on empty while all the idiot mechanics in the chemistry department stand around just shrug. I don't know. Just got to do what you do. The main event of menopause is that hot flash. You felt it. Well, you know, and if you don't know, you damn well know somebody that has. It's that I've seen it just turn into a beat. This overwhelming heatwave like somebody dropped a lit match in a gasoline tank and it just exploded and your heart hammers like crazy. And I'll tell you why. You sweat and for a few minutes you are pretty much a human furnace and then it's gone like this. And everybody in the world looks at you and says, "Wow, going through menopause, huh? went through that big change as if you're turning into some lesser version of yourself. Are you high? That is a convenient, comfortable, embarrassingly pathetic lie. That's not what it is. A hot flash isn't something magic or some dis disabling curse. It's system. It's a system failure. And like a like a brownout, like a neurological brownout is, if you know what a brownout is, where the power doesn't all the way go off just a little bit. It's a malfunction specifically in the hypothalamus. This is your body's thermostat, right? Your hypothalamus regulates the temperature. It's this tiny region in your brain that's responsible for keeping your core temperature on this razor thin margin of 98.6°. Not 98, not 99, 98.6. It is a PID controller of phenomenal precision. And you know what fuels that precision? Hormones. Primarily estrogen. But if I slap an estrogen patch on you and that's all I do, I don't solve the problem. I cover it up. And I think that's where the issues coming is because you I know people personally listen I know a friend of mine who had a hyctomy because the hot flashes were too much for her to bear. I struggle with that one. I'm not going to lie. And nope, I don't know what it feels like. So I'm not also going to discount it. But to rip something out and think that's going to solve the problem is never the problem or it's never the answer. But here's here's the issue. Let me listen to me. It didn't help. And she was on all kinds of horse piss medication for the rest of her life along with a bunch of other things. And the cream that she was rubbing on her vagina wasn't helping. Yeah, that's what bio identical all the stuff that you guys do. Listen to me. I'm going to blow the lid off all this stuff. When estrogen levels, it's inevitable. When they begin their inevitable decline during men pmenopause, not menopause, and they're the same. Listen, menopause and pmenopause are the same. Stop treating them like they're different things because some doctor gives you medication for one and not for the other. Pmenopause is the beginning and menopause is when you're in it. There's no difference. One is just a more cranked up version of the other. So what do you think? Listen to me. What do you think the treatment would be? The same. The same. But when you have this decline, this hormonal decline estrogen, it's like cutting the power to that thermostat in your hypothalamus, the the main sensor. So the signal gets all noisy and staticky and the feedback loop goes crazy, fullon haywire. You know, I hate how this camera sometimes goes like that. It gets all People go, "What are you looking at when you're filming?" Like total I I'm all self-absorbed. I'm just staring at myself. And do you know why? This is on a tangent. I'm looking at myself on the screen here. Because one podcast I did, I didn't know, but I had AI didn't even know it was there until I touched it and it was sore. I had a giant red zit right here. It was like that looked like I got stung by a one of those giant Asian hornets that's the size of your hand. Like a hummingbird with a stinger right here. It gets worse. It gets worse. And I had this nose hair or this mustache hair curling up into my nose and it I couldn't get it. And I kept doing this and I it looked like I was picking my nose. I looked like like a teenager that just couldn't get my [\h__\h] right. It was so distracting. And so and I didn't have the camera on. I couldn't see myself. And I watched the video afterwards and I and you guys are all going to be like, "Which one is it? I want to see it." I have no shame. I don't care. I don't remember the episode, but I'll even tell you when I find out cuz I just don't care. But I cared enough to not give somebody a bad experience and put you guys through that hell with a unicorn. Yes, I said unicorn coming off the side of my head like I'm like a 13-year-old. I'm 52. I shouldn't have a giant goiter on my forehead. I realize a goiter's here, but just bear with me. It's my joke. So, I'm always staring at myself now analyzing everything. Just weirds me out to do anything else. Sometimes I do these with just a microphone sitting over there on the couch, but not very often. Those are my audios and just feels weird. Sometimes I actually talk to my wife and I pretend she is the audience. She actually has fun. But anyway, the signal the signal gets staticky and noisy, right? So that feed feedback loop that you need for the hypothalamus to regulate your temperature is just demolished. It doesn't work right. So the hypothalamus becomes desperate to maintain homeostasis. the stability of your temperature. So, it starts reading these random fluctuations as catastrophic overheating. So, what does any good system do when it overheats? It dumps coolant. It's like a car opens all the windows and engages primary emergency cooling protocol. So, that's what happens. If nobody's ever explained it, that is exactly what's happening. And I'll explain physiologically what's going on. Your blood vessels dilate at the surface everywhere. And that's the heat you feel because they open up. You're 98.6°. Find something that is that temperature on. It's going to feel hot as hell. Your heart pumps faster and harder to move blood because of the vasoddilation. It has to maintain systemic pressure. That's the pounding that you feel. And then the sweat glands kick into crazy overdrive and that's the well just sweat. It's not some magical mystical feminine experience. This is straightforward thermmorreulatory malfunction. It's a bug in the code. And I'm not discounting God at all, man. That guy's a gangster. He knows things that I can't even comprehend. But we know the cause. as human beings and somebody that understands human biology knows the cause and they don't want to they don't tell you most of the information that you're getting off of social media and off of YouTube and these channels and stuff. It's a bunch of bunky stuff. So like my explanation or not, I'm just giving you the facts. It's a decline in hormonal signaling. That's it. So what does modern medicine do for you? They offer you horse urine. No, I'm not making this up. You guys go, "No, that's not really what it is." Yes, it is. The most common form of traditional HRT, hormone replacement therapy, which by the way is 100% linked to causing cancer. Prearrine, I said it at the beginning, premer, it's literally derived from the urine of pregnant mayors. And before you go, well, uh, antivenen from from horses, they give it rattlesnake or whatever the snake is, so it produces the antibodies, the monoconal antibodies. Yeah, I'd rather take the antibodies out of the blood than get pissed on by a horse. Just saying. But let me get this straight. Let this sink in just a bit. For one of the most complex neurological and endocrine events in a human woman's lifetime, the best solution that we can come up with for decades was to collect piss from a horse and give it to you. The aggance, the arrogance is staggering, just so you know. The supplements, don't even get me started on this. Holy [\h__\h] black kohash, the evening primrose oil, the miracle berries from the depths of the Amazonian rainforest that cost $499 a month for a month's supply. That is, you guys listen to me, please. That is intellectual surrender and it is throwing fairy dust at a machine hoping it fixes the spark plugs. It doesn't work like that, you guys. Please listen to me. It doesn't work like that. Here's why they can't work. Your body operates on a system of lock and key. Period. That is all your body works on. lock key. Shape it however you want. It doesn't matter how you want to do this. Estrogen is a key. The estrogen receptor on a cell is a lock. For a signal to be sent, the key must turn the lock. That's it. With they it drives me insane because otherwise it can't work because the only other side of that equation is it works like a pharmaceutical. Well, that now becomes a wrecking ball and comes in and forces your body to do something against what it wants to do. Remember, your body is trying to compensate for something. You have to figure out what that is and then go here's how you fix the compensatory reaction. Not just bury it under something new. I promise you your hand, stick it in the fire, but I give you lidocaine or anything. Anesthetize your whole arm. You're not going to know it, but you're going to smell the flesh burning. Did we solve the problem? No. We hid the pain from you until it wears off. That's what I'm talking about. Do you want to manage the symptoms and be on constant medication, or do you want to actually fix the problem? That's the way I look at things. I don't listen I don't nobody I don't know certain things I told you I have forever peptides yep I'm going to be a pin cushion for my entire life. Do you know why? Because they make me better. They don't give me an enhancement. And if you go well that's kind of an enhancement. Not really. BPC-157 TB-500 MC they're not really enhancements. They're telling my body to do what it does. And before you go what else are they? I had a lady by the way. This is the arrogance of some people. This lady sent me a laundry list with blank spaces after. What the [\h__\h] With blank. I showed my wife and she goes, "That is the most arrogant, entitled thing I've ever seen." Yeah. Lucky I don't put her name out on here. I was pissed off. Blank spaces in front of all of the peptides and all of my daily peptides. Go, can you write this all out and give me the dosages for everything? I heard it on your podcast. I told my executive assistant, I go, "Send her an email to join the black card membership." My black card membership, by the way, my black card membership right now is, and this is a total plug, but it's worth it. $5,997. I had somebody go, "I thought you said it was $59.97." If you think I'm going to sit there and kill myself intellectually and bleed and give you all the information I can for 60 bucks, you're crazy. I come out here and I do this for free. There you go. That's picking my brain. The rest of it, nope. Not a chance. Because I am putting myself at risk and I am a liability to myself by doing this. Because I'm not supposed to be able to talk about this stuff sometimes, right? because they get all weird about telling people the truth. By the way, I just saw this says real. That's my buddy Brad Lee. L E A dropping bombs. Go give him a follow. Totally unrelated, but Brad is a good dude, man. He is a good dude. I have a lot of respect for that man. Go give him a follow. It's all I'll tell you. Listen to his podcast. Give him support. Give him love. He deserves it. He's out here every day slogging it through all the idiots. He's a good dude. He's funny as [\h__\h] That guy's a witty son of a [\h__\h] But anyway, this lady sends all this stuff. So I said, "Here's the black card membership. Send." I said, Amber, she's my executive assistant. Send her all the stuff and the link to get it. I got to thank you, but nobody bought it. Not her. A lot of people, a lot of you guys bought it. Thank you very much for joining the program. I'll give you all I got. So, here's what the black card is. Because people always ask, "What exactly do I get?" You get all the behind the scenes, all the calls I've ever done for the last 3 years on my Monday live call. You get access to most of the stuff behind the scenes. Not the business or anything like that cuz you don't need it. If you want, you're going to pay different, but you get access to a Saturday call and a Monday call. Monday is Q&A live. Me, actually me, not some recording, not some pre-scripted answers. You can th They threw everything they got at me and I went bananas. I had at least 40 questions loaded the whole time. I just kept answering. They just keep stacking more. It is the coolest thing I've ever had the opportunity to do because it lets me stay frosty and it allows me to help you guys with all the stuff that nobody's willing to do. And I actually give it all dosages, protocols, answers, why, how, what's the problem. throw me problems, throw problems at me and I I go through I got to be careful the word I say. I look at them and I assess them hypothetically for your kangaroo experiment and I explain what kind of experiment you should do if you understand what I'm saying. If you don't, I'm probably not for you. Anyway, it's 5,997 bucks for the year. I'm not going to give you a refund if you ask me for one. I'll fight you on it every step of the way and I'll make sure that you'll get it back because I put a lot of time and money and energy and effort into everything I do because you're paying me for all the knowledge I have and I actually give a [\h__\h] If you haven't figured that out by now, it could be six bucks. It wouldn't be worth it for you, but it's going to be there's 100 spots. There is south of 30 left. I announced this four or five days ago. So, just keep that in mind. And I have no need to fluff this. So, it's not demanding make up numbers. 5,997 bucks for everybody that bought it at that price. You guys snuck in under the wire because after this podcast tomorrow, a Friday, sorry, I thought tomorrow was Friday. Tomorrow's Thursday. Friday, it's going to $9,997 because I get at least 50 requests a day. And most of them are, can I make payments? Can I do this? Can I do that? Can I get part of it? What if I don't like it? Then those are all the ones that I go, no. But at the same time, I realize just how much I put into this. So, it's going to be 10 grand for the last 20. And then when that's done, after 100 spots are gone, oh, I'm going to complicate the hell out of this in your your math. It's going to be $25,000 a year buyin plus $1,500 a month for two reasons. One, I don't want people that come in that just go complain and argue and point at things and don't take what I have to give seriously. This is for people that are done getting effed over by the system and go, I want real answers from a guy that damn well gives a [\h__\h] about me. You're welcome. So, if you get in before that, the link is going to be under this call. It'll be in the YouTube description right at the very bottom. It says black card membership. It will be 5,997 bucks. You are going to pay that. That is for one year. Next year, we'll see what happens. If you join, I have no idea. I might just tell you next year, too bad, it's 25 grand. I might tell you next year it's 100 grand. I really have no idea. And I'm not going to make a promise because I'm not putting myself in a position like that. It doesn't autorenew. So, don't freak out. But you decide whether it's worth it or not. I already know how worth it it is because people pay me half a million dollars to consult for them as their consultant, their doctor, their coach, all of it. Because I actually help people. So, if you want answers and you want all the stuff that you keep asking me for, join. because you would expect that from someone else if you were doing what I'm doing. And I think it's only fair because I come out here and I give you all I got. So there you go. There's my plug down at the bottom. Really long-winded. If you want in, that's what you get. It's one year. Yes, you can ask me questions live. No, you do not get my cell number. No, you can't send me questions all day. You can ask me questions that Monday at 5:00. I live just east of Dallas. You can ask me questions. I'm on for sometimes 2 hours until everybody's questions are done. And those calls are recorded. They're running about 2 weeks behind. So you'll never miss cuz I never miss. So listen, let let's go back to the supplements. I think that's where I was, right? Supplements. Normally I have notes here, but I the notes are in my head today. It's the supplements can't work because of the lock and key principle, right? You understand that? So this is the issue because the herbal supplements, the it doesn't matter what it is. Like I said, it doesn't matter if it's primrose oil or kohash or whatever else it is. It doesn't matter. They're not keys. They're not keys. They're not keys. are bits of fuzzy lint. That's it. And they might kind of sort of bump into the lock. They might create a placebo effect because you want it to work so badly because you're so miserable. And believe me, I get that. You women, I get that. I have no idea what you feel cuz I'm not going to say I know what it feels like cuz I don't. But I would want something to work so badly. But they don't work. They don't. They can't replicate the precise biomechanical Sorry, let me back up. Not biomechanical. They replicate the precise biochemical instruction of an actual key. They're like a They're like a tax on hope. And I don't know. It's like a voluntary stupidity tax. Sorry if you're taking them, but not sorry. Because if somebody's not going to be honest with you, you're going to wind up funneling money to some idiot with a supplement company that is making a billion dollars a year off of your ignorance because nobody like me said, "Do this instead. I told you this is going to be a long one." The old solution is ethically questionable, right? And the supplement market is just this carnival of fraud. What's left? What's left? Suffer? I mean, that's the implicit message, right? It's natural. Just part of life. It's like age gracefully. Don't worry about it. Fall apart. Your joints should be trashed already by now. Are you nuts? You should be fighting this every step of the way until God says you're done. So, it's natural. It's part of life. Just get a fan. And listen, I had somebody, one of you guys sent me a message and said, "Your doctor said you could just get a fan. Just get a fan. I hope you baldled up your fist and punched him right in the face. Kicked him in the balls. Just make an appointment every day just to come back just to kick him right in the balls every day and go, "You like that?" Yeah. You just get some ice. You'll be fine. It's the same level of thinking that a hundred years ago people were told just you get an infection and pray about it. Yes, I thank God all the time. That's saved my life more times than I can count. But there's more to it. Like, it's a total abdication of our duty to use knowledge to reduce human suffering. Listen, you guys, we're better than this. Please, we're better than this. We are better than this. The world is lacking sorely on on morality and kindness and love and compassion and true grit where some guy out here goes, "I'm not going to tolerate the [\h__\h] [\h__\h] you if you don't like my language, but I'm trying to help you. So maybe shut your mouth and listen cuz the guy actually cares and I'm the guy. Like we have technology and the knowledge and the biomechanical tools and the biochemical tools to address just about everything and to do it without this brute force. We can do with precision cuz you can figure this out. What do you think I'm doing every day? I do this with elegance. I promise, man. I could pot a beret right across this floor. We can stop slapping a bandage on this leaking pipe and hoping that it doesn't do it anymore because it's duct tape and we watch the Red Green show. we can recalibrate the entire damn system. The goal is not to just blindly replicate or blindly replace estrogen. That's not going to help you. The goal is to restore the human bio the body's own signaling integrity. It's to reboot the hypothalamus to reensitize the entire endocrine orchestra is the best way I can explain it, right? It is the it is it's the only way to be honest to describe it because that's what your body is. Trillions of cells. It is an orchestra. I call it an orchestra because it's the most accurate. It's the most accurate description of your body because you have trillions of cells and they're all independent little I said housing. They're all little independent houses, right, with the whole like cell membrane and the foundation. I use Grant Cardone, but David Foster, I'm a David Foster fan. I play piano like like nobody's business. Yeah, I'll I'll toot my own horn on that. I'm really good. I I actually don't think there's an instrument I can't play. That's courtesy of my mom. Thank you, Joan Bachmire. You put me in piano lessons. cuz I cursed you up and down when my friends are outside playing and you would sit there and tap on the piano like a metronome. Used to piss me off so bad, but you made me sit there and because of you, I can play the hell out of a piano. So, I love you, Mom. Thank you so much for that because I tell you, every time I talk about my mom, I miss my mom and then I just get busy and I don't call her. I need to call my mom. She's 82. One day she's not going to be here. It makes me sad a little bit to think about that. It's weird, right? Think about that. Anyway, that's a different podcast cuz I'm going to go all over the place and get all emotional for no reason. But David Foster, I'm a big David Foster fan. He's an incredible composer. He wrote so many songs. He wrote this theme song, the Olympic 88 theme, and it's so good. I like it. So, I totally nerd out on classical music, and I really like it. But that's the idea is he is taking care of the entire orchestra, and they're all looking at him. So, you need to, that's how your system is. You need to reensitize the entire endocrine orchestra, and you need to be David Foster. You need to do it so you can play that symphony of your own youth again and again and again. not this cacophinous discord of decline and decay and just metabolic chaos. This isn't some science fiction, you know, maybe self-help book, whatever it is. This is peptide. Yes. And molecular therapy. I think the future of all healthcare is predicated on peptides. I really do. Cuz this is the cutting edge of regenerative medicine. It's not the weird things that they flush your veins with. And it makes everything that came before it, just so you know, look like a caveman beating a rock with a stick and wondering why it's not turning into something new. So, how about this? I'll just walk you through the solution because otherwise I'm going to be out here all day. It's already 33 minutes and it's 5:15. I haveish to do, people. The problem isn't They make you think that the problem is just one-sided. It's not. It's multifaceted. So much so much so that the solution needs to be this multi vector assault. If it's not, then you're not going to get the solution. and you're going to get a cover up. And with a cover up comes all the ancillary effects that are married to it. So, you need to address the core issues. And you have to understand this with me. And I, like I said, I've done this before. I did a deeper dive on this. So, if you go, wait a minute, your last protocol said this and I bought it and the protocol I put out works very, very, this is making it even better. And you know what I'm going to do? Just to be very transparent, if I see an improvement, you think I'm going to gatekeep what a horrible doctor I would be if I gatekeep solutions just because I didn't say it before. This is a constantly evolving biological mess. I find a solution that works better that your ass. It is my duty to tell you that and say take this out and put this in instead. It's ridiculous to say anything else. So the problems are five different things. You have failing growth hormone problems, right? So you have a failing growth hormone output. The pituitary glands production of growth hormone which is critical for tissue repair. It's critical for metabolism. It's critical for vitality. It plummets. it by at about 30 years old it starts this gradual decline and then at about 50 it nose dives and you have these it's married to the hormonal shifts that you have you have insulin resistance whether you like it or not listen Mary Nancy whatever your name is Trisha your metabolism is slowing down when it does you get insulin resistance the body becomes less efficient at using energy so it leads to weight gain and inflammation and all the [\h__\h] that makes you get sick and you get treated for diseases that could have been prevented by addressing the cause that comes for the disease you get cellular senence and inflammation. Well, insulin resistance is going to do that, right? insulin resistance, right? You have you have uh growth hormone problems, you have insulin resistance and then you have cellular senence and a whole bunch of inflammation. So, the cells become tired and inflamed and damaged and they spew out. I said, what do I call them all the time? Senison cells. What do I say? If you listen to me for any amount of time, I call them little biochemical terrorists. That's what they are because they're just spewing out inflammatory signals. And then the next one is neurological dysregulation. So the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis is out of tune. The HPA, it doesn't it's not working in concert. You need David Foster or in this case you need Dr. T. And then you go down to the bottom. The pinnacle of the or the the foundation of all this. It's all predicated on the same thing. Energy production, ATP, mitochondrial dysfunction. The power plants of your cells are running very very inefficiently. So if you just took M C, by the way, because if any of you listen to me at all, you know, oh M C, got it. Perfect. It would actually be MC and methylene blue just to be very transparent because they're better. They work better in concert. Oh god, that is a gangster combination. Holy crap. You put those together, one is oral, one is injectable. No, we're taking one versus the other is not the answer. Just take them both. Take them both. Dude, you know what I love? I love the um the meth tank in my 911. I love the NOS on my truck. I just love it all. Yeah. Really? Oh, it's fun. Anyone that knows anything about cars, you want to talk cars with me? Well, let's do it. Let's do it. I'm a car junkie. So, to fix all of this stuff, women, I know you're like, "Don't talk about cars. I'll lose all the women listening right now." You don't use one drug. It's like I have a spider crawling on me somewhere. You use a stack of things that work, and none of them are drugs. You need to have a protocol that's synergistic. It works and attacks each problem from the side that it's the weakest to mitigate the problem, not destroy it and overrun it with some new form of problem, right? So, which means you're not using a sledgehammer. So, there's a couple of I have to My mustache is itchy. There's a couple of phases to this and I'll see and I I'm going to wind up being on here for an hour. I can tell already. You have to fix the conductor of the system. You have to put David Foster in charge, me, right? I'm conducting this, which is the pituitary and the hypothalamus. If you don't fix this, it doesn't matter what you do. And I think this is where a lot of the problems because people go, "Well, listen, I'm going to get this cream. I'm going to shove it on my vagina and I'm going to put this patch on or I'm going to rip my ovaries out or like all of this stuff, you know, I'm going to get an injection or I'm going to go on birth control. [\h__\h] don't do that. Right? You need to wake up the system and peptides talk directly to your your pituitary gland. That's the secret weapon of this entire thing. This focus is really starting to piss me off on my camera. Might have to get a new camera. So, CJC with DAC. Why? Because it's long acting. You don't have to pin every day. And I don't know about you, when people go, I like it. No, you don't. Nobody wants to do that because if you miss, you screw it up. That's why you don't like it. It's not about being weird about getting needles going, I get off on needles. It's that if you miss it, you're [\h__\h] So listen to me. If you can do less because it lasts longer, do less. It binds to CJC with DAC binds to receptors in the pituitary and tells it for days and days on end. By the way, hey, you remember how to make those growth hormone pulses? Listen, homie, how about you do that? And then it sets a new higher baseline so it works better. Ipamarellin is something that I CJC and Ipamearellin should be used together. They just work the better. They work the best. It's strength and amplitude and and all of this stuff is is the pulse becomes stronger and harder and you get a better yield from what's going on with your growth hormone, which means you have a better sleep, which means you have a better systemic repair, which means your glimpmphatic system works better, which means tissue repair works. It just all of the things work better in the concert, right? It's like taking the drum, the percussion out, and it sounds like [\h__\h] So, I Pamearellin is more precise. It's the selective growth hormone secret. It it kicks the pituitary into gear to specifically pulse out growth hormone in this natural rhythmic pattern. Right? So now you have the CJC which is longlasting with DACA, right? And then you have the AAMLin which gets it to pulse on and off and it mimics the body's like I have the itchiest beard on earth right now. It mimics the body's own production when you were younger, youthful production, right? It's not. You can't. If you're going to ask me about injecting synthetic GH, well, I just take one one IU or two IU or three, god forbid, you're going to wind up dragging your knuckles. The problem is you're teaching your body to rely on that and you don't get a nice fat yield when you're supposed to. You get a steady supply when you inject exogenous growth hormone. You're going to screw your system up. So, and yes, you will create desensitization. I don't care what you say. I'm right. So, you need to teach your body to make its own. Again, remember the whole point of this is to build the system so it runs the way it used to. So you don't have to sit there and rely on all this stuff all the time. The difference is profound. Now people ask me about tamerin. Yeah, you can, but you don't need to. So I'm not even going to talk about it. You can, but kiss pepin and all this stuff. You're going to go, "Holy [\h__\h] there's a lot of things." Yes, there are. How bad do you want to get rid of this? You just want to go get yourself gashed up and get pissed on by a horse all the time. I don't know what to tell you. So either you pay attention or say, "This guy's boring. I don't like whatever." Kiss pepin. This is hands down the master regulator of the gonadotropenuh axis of your body. Right? So the way the system works with the gonads, it stimulates the release of G&R which is the it's the fundamental trigger for the entire reproductive hormone cascade that your body goes through. It's like hitting a hard reset button on the core system that's just checked out and gone offline. That's phase one. And I'll go over some of this stuff. So buckle up. And if not, black card, join the black card. Black card membership is worth it. The second part about this is the engine is flooded. So it's not doing its job properly. So you need to fix engine meaning the glucose, right? So you need to restore insulin sensitivity and force the body to use fat for fuel instead of forcing it to use fat for storage or use glucose and storing it right away because insulin is a storage hormone, right? It's a fat storage hormone. So Reddit True Tide, hands down, Reddit true. If you had to choose just a handful, I'll walk you through at the end, but if you had to choose just a handful, Red True Tide is on the top of that list. It this is not just for weight loss, you guys. that is a side effect of its primary function. These GLP-1 agonists, they regulate blood sugar and they crush insulin resistance and they reensitize the entire metabolic system and they tell your pancreas, they tell your pancreas and liver to get their [\h__\h] together and actually start doing things properly. Never mind the fact that it's the GIP and the glucagon which prevents sarcopenia and it keeps that fuel high so you don't have these highs and lows with energy all day because you're trying to decide what system to use to burn. You're not going to ever use muscle as fuel. Even though your body would prefer it because it goes, well, fat is going to keep me alive. Muscle is actually taking life away because it's burning things. I can afford to lose muscle. Let's keep more fat. That's what makes it difficult, by the way, for weight loss. Just so you know, that's why I went over Tesenine and Red True Tide yesterday. Yesterday, day before, whatever it was. Anyway, they tell your pancreas and your liver to start like just get your act together, right? The reduction in systemic inflammation alone with this can solve probably 50% of the problems, the whole well-being problems. Carterine, this would be something that and a lot of these are non-negotiable. I mean, to me, Brandy, if this ever gets really bad and this gets something where she's like, I can't stand. She is tough as nails, but if she's like, I need this all fixed, she's going through this whole [\h__\h] thing. Why? Because I give a [\h__\h] about my wife and I want her to be as bulletproof as possible for as long as humanly possible. So, carterine. Cardarine is like a metabolic catalyst. It remember PPA R dela delta. That's what it activates which it it tells your muscles to preferentially now do you see why I'm marrying this? This is why you got to know physiology. It tells your body to preferentially burn fat for energy. Welcome to being married to red or true tight. That's they work synergistically. It increases endurance. That's a great side effect. It's uh 50 1516 if you need to know what it is GW. And reverses all the mitochondrial inefficiency that you've got going on. It's like switching your car from old shitty gas that you found in a farmer's field to high octane insane jet fuel that just makes your engine run perfectly. That's it. Then you have to start thinking about the repair of the system. Because if I keep giving you all of these things and they make the system work better, but there's still damage. It's like going, "Okay, I put all these great parts on the car or I put all these cool instruments in, but none of them are in tune." Right? So you while you're restarting the engine, yours, you need to repair the damage from years and years and years of running on a faulty system. I don't care how fit you are. Stop taking this personally. I'm doing it to help you. BPC57, TB-500, and GHK-Cu. I've gone over this so many times, I kind of don't want to do it, but if you haven't heard me before, I guess I need to. BPC57, I'm going to be fast. Ultimate healing peptide by far. By far it is. Stop thinking KPV is just as good. No, it's not. Not even close. This cranks up the repair of soft tissue and the gut lining and reduces systemic inflammation better than anything else on the planet. It is that MIT graduated handyman that runs around your body fixing up all the problems in the entire building that you've got, which is you. That's how good this is. TB-500 is like the older brother to BPC57. It's going to it's what regulates cell building and repair. It causes angioenesis, right? Promotes new blood vessels and cellular migration via actin polymerization. It gives it the scaffolding that all cells are made out of but it allows I use this example a lot the fibroblasts to come into wherever the injuries are which you have also helps repair cardiac tissue endothelial lining like both of these but they work so well it is overall structural repair for all the micro micro trauma that you've got that you don't even know ghcu copper right off the bat vascular tone repairs the vascular tone so your blood your vascular system actually works the way it's designed because all vessels have muscle so the copper peptide is it's it's genius, man. It makes me laugh because it listen to me. It modulates over 4,000 genes. 4,000. That's more than most people have weeks in their life, just so you know, cuz you get around 4,000 weeks of life. So, it modulates over 4,000 genes. It pushes them back towards being young and healthy and powerful as a normal state of expression. Never mind collagen synthesis one and three. So, it pro like skin, hair, joints. It cranks that up. It reduces inflammation. It functions as an antioxidant. This is a systemwide software update. It's like taking your iPhone, unlocking it, and giving it all the updates. So, it actually can do what it was supposed to do instead of all the stuff that Verizon locks you out of, I guess. I don't know if you guys have that new iPhone 17. I don't. Mine's a 13. On a tangent, but I got my entire family all brand new iPhones. And then I got one for um for my business partner Sean, which is now trapped in Illinois. Not Shawn, the phone, because apparently when you send it, it goes to some holding facility cuz phones are weird when you send them somewhere else. I don't know. It's sitting there. So, I got to figure out how to get this billion-dollar phone back that's brand new. So, you if you live in Illinois, can you go pick up my phone for me and send it back so I can send it to Sean? So, you need to now fix neurology and the sleep problem. My wife sometimes, and some of you women know what I'm talking about, it's like sleeping beside a moody campfire. All of a sudden, out of the blue, she's just wired and wide awake and just hot. And I mean hot like my wife is super hot. If you've ever seen my wife, my wife is so hot. Holy [\h__\h] she's hot. Like, I kind of want to stop the podcast and go inside now. She's that hot. Just compels me to do all kinds of filthy things because she's so hot and I just want to squeeze her all the time. I just love her. But I mean, hot temperature- wise, you can't fix the body without fixing your sleep, which is the introduction to dip, right? And I explain this. The problem is your hypothalamus is exhausted. So, remember hypothalamus, go way back to the beginning of this podcast before I went on all these rants. It's the thermmore regulatory system in your body, right? So, DIP, delta sleep inducing peptide. This is and 100 micrograms of this and you are out in good sleep. Not ambient wake up with your pants around your ankles wondering why you feel all slippery and you're in an unfamiliar place. Like, not that kind of sleep or you don't get any rest and you got to roofed. Here's what's cool about this. It is naturally occurring. It does exactly what it says it does. Induces sleep. That's it. Deep restorative slow wave repair everything sleep. This is a non Listen to me please. This is a non-negotiable for hormone recovery. Poor sleep causes hormonal chaos. Causes it cuz now your body is running on like ether just full like just it's like quick start in the carburetor all the time. If you know hormonal chaos damage your body's just fighting to survive. Dip breaks that cycle. Epitoolon. So there's a couple you're going to use. Methylene blue epitoolon and dip. Epitoolon. This is this is the coolest tetropeptide on the planet because it affects telomeirs. It causes the release of telomeres, which keeps the telomeirs from getting demolished every time cells divide. And so, here's an interesting thought. If it's cellular division, but cells multiply, which one is it? Because the math doesn't make any sense. I just figured I'd ask you that. You tell me. Syntax, order of the words, differential meanings in English, because apparently all our words have multiple meanings. I don't know. This is the kind of stuff that keeps me awake at night. It keeps the aglet basically, right? The end cap of the DNA from fraying and busting up. And then if you remember when I went back talking about what happens is senence, right? Cell senisonence and inflammation is one of the the core factors of menopause and the parmenopause. This helps mitigate a lot of that because you don't if you don't have a senisonent cell, you don't have this biochemical terrorist cranking out inflammatory chemicals all the time. That doesn't make sense because now the cells don't sit there and wreck you. So it is it's going to help with the telomeirs. It's going to rejuvenate the pineal gland in ways that you can't even imagine. It resets circadian rhythms. And honestly, it's the only one that's actually proven. They're all proven. I hate saying that, but peer-reviewed research shows extends aging, like longevity, supports the health of your DNA. Remember, this isn't one you take forever, though. This one especially, 20 days max. If you go, I like 10. Stop asking me questions then for help. By the way, my first question I ask for all of you guys that go, hey, what's what's the dosage for this is what's the order? If you don't have an order or you try and make one up, I'll know. Black card membership. You get all of what's inside this brain cuz I care. Lowdose methylene blue. I mean, 1876, right? Grandma Matilda making her die for her drapes maybe. I don't know. And now all of a sudden somebody is a dude for sure that was like, "Let's try this and see what happens when we take it." This is probably the most legendary cognitive enhancers on the on the planet. But it also cranks up the function of mitochondria and it bypasses that whole complex one to complex 4 thing, right? When the ETC gets all bunged up, improves cellular energy, ATP production in the brain massively because it's that electron cyclinger, right? It keeps the proton gradient working. So you can keep cranking out ATP. Never mind memory and focus. So you guys women walk My wife just said it today. She goes, "I I this happens to me all the time now. I walk into a room and what the [\h__\h] did I walk in here for?" I get it cuz I see it in real time. And my wife is smart as hell. Like she's creepy smart. Memory, focus, overall mental clarity. It gives your neurons more power. You're not losing your memory. You're losing the fuel and the energy that your memory runs on to give it the easiest way to explain. Does that make sense? God, I'm like 50 minutes in on this. This is the longest podcast ever. So now the last part is androgen restoration and foundational support I guess would be the easiest way to look at it. Like just support the entire system. It runs on these energy systems and building blocks. And if you don't handle this stuff, nothing's going to work. So that's why this stuff is synergistically important because you can pick and choose. But if you start cherrypicking what you want based on cost or convenience or timing or anything like that, don't bother. I'll give you a setup that you can use. If you're like, "Yeah, I want the I want the easy one." You can. And I'm not like, "Do what you got to do." But by the way, for all you guys asking me, "Well, where do I get it?" ilanix.com is spelled it's spelled just like it sounds. And if you don't want to get it there, don't. But I'm just telling you, like you guys always, so where do I get it? [\h__\h] Are you kidding me? I talk about it all the time. It's nuts. So inclen, NMN, which is NAD+, five amino. This is stuff that you need. And Clomophan, people hear this, they freak out because it's a ser. This serum is a selective estrogen receptor antagonist, right? So, what it does is it tricks the pituitary into thinking that its estrogen is low, which we already know what's going on, but it causes your system to, and yes, you can use this as a PCT if you're a dude, but I'm not getting into that. You ramp up the production of S FSH, follical stimulating hormone, and LH, luteinizing hormone. And this stimulates the ovaries. This, see, now you understand. It stimulates the ovaries to produce more of their own native hormones, including testosterone. Women, you need testosterone. No, it's not going to give you a giant clitoris like a penis, and it's not going to give you hair on your face or have you arguing with your neighbor about which beer is better. It's just going to make your system work. It's not adding external testosterone. I think maybe that's the problems that you think. It's restarting the native production of your own critical hormone for energy and libido and muscle maintenance and all the stuff that plummets when you're on menopause and stays down. NMN, NAD+, and if you want to go get IV, NAD+, you can. You don't need to. But these are the NMN and NAD+ are the fundamental cellular currencies of energy, right? So NAD+ is the co-enzyme required for every single energy transaction in every single cell. Period. NMN is the direct precursor. So you boost by you boost NAD+ by taking NMN. Now, do you see why it's just a powder? It tastes like I taste like lemons. I was going to say sour lemons, but all lemons are sour. Oh, isn't this coffee still? Again, look at that. I realize it looks got foam. I'm going to wind up spilling this one day. Blacker than a witch's crotch every time. This stuff, NN improves everything from mitochondrial function to DNA repair to you name it. This stuff's wild. It's it's like giving every single cell this like 30 trillion cells just brand new batteries. Man, this is so good. It's like turning on nuclear reactors in all 30 trillion at the same time and you're good to go. It's not a jittery energy supplement. It turns on your own systems to do. You know how when you run around all day and you're like, "Man, I just feel good." There you go. You're welcome. Now, five amino 1MQ. And I realize this list is long, but you should listen to me because this is the stuff they people want convenience and they go, "Can I just cram it all into one pill? What if I don't want to do it? What if it's too expensive? What if our medication costs this much?" How much is your [\h__\h] co-ay? How much is your insurance every month? Are you pay $1,200, $1,500? $1,800 a month on your insurance? And you go, "Well, what if I need it? What if it get coverage then?" I'm also no adviser, so don't listen to me about that if you don't want to. How many years you've been paying $1,200 a month for your insurance? How many how long has it been buried in your paycheck that's coming out? And they're just like, "Oh, don't worry." There's a reason why insurance companies cancel insurance policies and uh make you pay giant premiums. Anyway, just a thought. Five amino inhibits the enzyme NMN or NMMT. So five amino, this is it's brilliant because it inhibits NMT, which is what depletes your NAD+ because you need to block this enzyme. It's the easiest way to explain this because when you block it, you effectively trap NAD+ in the cell. Well, that's going to crank up the bioavailability of NAD+ for energy production and for fat burning and for subsequently cognitive function and cellular repair and healing and sleep and all this stuff. It's a force multiplier for your entire metabolism. How about that? Easiest way to do it. And if you take it orally, it's garbage. The only thing that's oral in this entire thing would be uh enlomophen and enammen. That's it. This this is the protocol until I find anything else. This is it. Kiss pepin is fantastic by the way. So if you think of anything in this, Kiss pepin is the one that changes this whole game. No, you can't just use that. But this is a comprehensive systems human biology very effective productive approach to menopausal symptoms. It's not a six week challenge where you have special mushroom tea and do special workouts and take supplements and then rub some cream on your butthole. None of this. That's none of that works. It's not meant to be insulting. And if you are, fine. Then the word butthole insult in insults you. I don't know. It's just a hole. Everybody's got one. It's this precisely targeted system of molecules, each playing its part to restore the function of your body and give you the vitality that you should actually have. You women need to listen to me. You all talked about talk about, "Oh, I love your wife has got so much energy. She's so great." What the [\h__\h] do you think she's doing, man? She's making sure she's running right and she has me to lean on when she doesn't. This this addresses the hot flash, by the way, by not drowning it in horse urine or some lint-filled supplement key that doesn't work. It goes out and it goes upstream and it fixes the busted thermostat. And by restoring the hormonal signaling and the metabolic efficiency and the neurological control, the hypothalamus itself is going to stop panicking. So you know what stops the brownouts that I talked about at the beginning because the system calms down or regains its composure. This is the difference between treating a symptom and engineering a solution. You have to decide what you do. I'm not trying to force you to do anything, but you're sold this story. Please listen to me of this inevitable decline. There's I could do this for males as well. If you want me to, then just tell me. Somebody's got to tell me and I if it's only one person I'm not going to do it. But if I have a whole bunch of you like can you do the same thing for men because of andropause and all this? Yeah, absolutely. A story of just dealing with it which is [\h__\h] just to sell you some useless supplements and keep you meekly accepting a secondass quality of life because they say you should. I'm going to tell you right now that story is an effing lie. [\h__\h] I realize I didn't say it and I've been saying it this whole podcast so I may as well just fill it. Your your system your vitality you guys is not optional. Like comfort shouldn't be a luxury. I'm not talking about suffering for what you believe in and working out. I'm talking like just your system. Human biology should not it shouldn't be a luxury to function at 100%. Your your clarity, cognitive clarity, right? Energy function, restful sleep, your your sense of self-worth and awareness, your libido, great sex when you're 60. These are all your birthright. You're supposed to the technology exists to reclaim all of this. So, you don't have to sit there and go, "Well, I guess I got to go to the doctor and they're going to give me these pills and I'm going to go find some horse that's going to piss all over me. I don't know what to do. It's You're not supposed to just manage menopause. You're not. You need to fix the problem and come out the other side. Not diminished, but at capacity." And I don't I don't know what to tell you, man. You can spend 50 grand on a car, but you won't spend I don't know how much this is. I don't know. I don't even know half the prices on my site. How crazy is that? Why? Because I care more about coming out here and giving you the damn information. But this will make more focused, more energetic, more vital than you were a decade ago. Why would you not do this? The old world wants you to buy a [\h__\h] fan. This guy right here says, "How about biochemical precision without pharmaceuticals and the chance to rebuild the entire system so you don't have to worry about air conditioning. You are the air conditioning. Don't buy the [\h__\h] fan. Don't." Now, listen. I I get it because I said at the I wasn't It's an hour. I kind of want to stop right now, but I said I do what I say. And by the way, how many of your problems in your life would be solved by doing what you say and an extra 100 grand in the bank? Probably all of them, just so you know. Might want to talk to me about your mindset and your limiting beliefs, but that's another conversation. So, this fully comprehensive stack, I get it, could be daunting. And before you guys are like, "Thank God he's giving me something that doesn't have so many moving parts." Your body has 30 trillion moving parts. You're familiar with moving parts. So, if you're somebody that's looking for the most impactful but essential protocol to tackle these symptoms the most, let's say metabolic slowdown, crashed libido, low energy, poor sleep, hot flashes, this is five five things if I would make them essential. This is a really powerful starting point that'll help you. And this is the it's like the old Brian Tracy 8020 rule, right? applied to peptide I pamearellin BPC-157 dip and clomophen and kiss pepin that's I would bring all this into play and pardon me I I realize I didn't go too hard into kisspin and explain what it does but listen you want to restore here's why I would say all these you want to bring in iamearellin because it's going to restore the body's natural pulsatile growth hormone release right so that's the foundation of repair you want to do BBC157 because that's going to address all that systemic inflammation and the leaky gut that you probably have that you don't even know about, by the way, and I didn't talk about, but the tight junctions are spewing all kinds of crap into your cardiovascular system. You need to block that up. The lipopolyaccharides, right, just bleeding into your system. That's underlies most hormonal dysfunction, by the way. And even the overall malas that you guys have, it is probably the most powerful anti-inflammatory on the planet. Div, so you actually get your sleep back so you can recover everything. It's non-negotiable for hormonal health. I told you that you it targets the hypothalamic dysregulation that's that's causing all your poor sleep. So, it's not knocking you out. It's going to where the problem is and fixing that. Your sleep's normal. You're supposed to sleep. It's not like, oh, I've always struggled with sleep. Well, then you have a problem with your hypothalamus. It's that simple because and this will exacerbate every other menopausal symptom on earth. Fix the sleep and clomophen. So, instead of here's why instead of this is a big one, instead of and I'll get to the kisspin in a second. Instead of adding external hormones, this re lock and key, right? And turns the lock instead of this fuzzy lint [\h__\h] that you guys are taking. This reactivates your body's own production pathways by boosting luteinizing hormone and FSH, follical stimulating hormone. So, it encourages your ovaries and your adrenals, by the way, to produce more native testosterone and all the precursor hormones. And it combats low energy and low libido and all the stuff at their source. That's why you want to do this. This fifth one, Kiss Pepin, is the ultimate tactical upgrade to this entire thing. thing and if you go, "Okay, I'll just take that." You missed what I talked about, man. This is the strategic system reboot, the facilitator of the whole thing, and it's going to turn like the key instead of hotwiring your ignition for the first time in your entire life because you can take the primer in all you want. It's not solving your problem. If you go, it did for me. Why are you listening to my podcast then? Get the [\h__\h] out of here. This is here. Let me explain physiologically why. because it's so devastatingly powerful when you combine it with inclin. Let me explain why because remember the root cause of all of this stuff is the HPG hypothalamic pituitary gonatal axis going offline, right? Just turns off brownouts. That's why I explained it. So the hypothalam the hypothalamus hypothalamus hypothalamus is supposed to supposed to secrete pulses of G&RH. That G&RH tells the pituitary gland to release LH, luteinizing hormone, and follical stimulating SH. And those in turn tell the ovaries, "Hey man, do your job. Make more hormones. Can we do that? You going to get off your damn coffee break?" In menopause, that entire cascade flatlines. So look at these. Look at why these work. You need all five. But this is why the Enclomophen and the peptin work so well together in addition to the other three that I talked about. So inclin works at the at the pituitary level, right? It's the trick. It blocks the estrogen receptors in the pituitary. You understand that? But kispin works at the hypothalamic level. This is the natural primary trigger for G&R release. So remember the one is thinking the inclin makes it think that estrogen is low which its response is a panic response not in a bad way to crank out more LH and FSH. The kiss peptin works at the hypothalamic level and it's gonna trigger the G&R and it it's like it's like the the B it's like mine. It's like my favorite coffee, right? It walks into the hypothalamus and says, "Listen, hey, wake up. It's time to go to work. Start pulsing G&R like right now." It doesn't bypass the system or shut it down with exogenous source of anything. It just makes the system do its job. It repowers the core of the system itself. I hope that makes sense because I'm trying to just honestly wrap this up and give you as much information as I can. So you move them, work these all together, and it's the most amazing synergistic assault on the HPG axis from all the angles that you need. So here's how it works. Targets the hypothalamus and clomophen and clomophen citrate, by the way, targets the pituitary. What did I say? A pamarellin targets growth hormone, IGF-1 axis and all for the repair and the metabolism and stuff. BPC57, systemic inflammation and all the tissue health that you are losing regardless of what you think. If you go, "No, my tissue is in great shape." Apparently, you have a way to look inside yourself that I don't. And then Dip, so you get the foundation of sleep so your hormones don't [\h__\h] the bed every day because you wake up and your body's like, "Well, you said to go, but I didn't get any rest, but I'm going to go anyway." So, I hope that all makes sense. So, if you were looking at should you do the full stack or the little short stack? I found feel like I'm talking about IHOP. That's you, man. That's on you. I I They're both going to work. One is going to work significantly better than the other. Are these permanent? No, probably not. But if you go, "Well, then why don't I just take Premarine cuz it doesn't solve the [\h__\h] problem. It's just giving you a mask." And if you go, "Well, the mask makes me feel better." No, it doesn't. And it causes cancer and it has a whole host of other things and it's missing like nine different holes. You're leaking out all over the place. So, if you look at all this stuff, the force multiplier is what you're taking. And so you have to kind of look at the system and understand okay do I want to solve the problem and do I want to actually have the results. So or do I want to solve the problem and actually have the results or do I want to just keep taking things under the illusion that it's actually solving the problem while the rest of my system actually declines and I pack on weight like a hippopotamus. My system starts to go into chronic inflammation which now causes metabolic syndrome and metabolic disease. Neurologically I'm not functioning as well as I should. Cognitively my brain is turning off. I haven't had sex in seven years. And like you see where I'm going with this? One thing is not going to fix that. It's not. Like I said earlier, your your your vitality, your comfort, your function is not a luxury. It's not. You should have cognitive clarity and massive energy and a skyrocketed libido. And you should have function and systemic control. That is how you're born. It's how you're born. And you have the tools. You have the tech right now to fix it. I don't know why I was talking. The fan. You could buy a fan and go, "All right, I'm going to stand in front of this here fan when I get hot." And you can buy into like I saw that I just thought about that CVS commercial I think it is where or Walgreens maybe just standing in front of the AC and then the pharmacist comes over. Do you not understand the marketing behind that stuff? I'm sweating my balls off out here right now. I'm not standing in front of a fan. I'm just sitting here telling you this is what you could do to fix the problem. New world, no fan. Old world fan pharmaceuticals. This is the most precise thing that you can do to mitigate menopause and pmenopause and eradicate h hot flashes. Your choice though. It's always what I say at the end of these things, right? It's your move. Anyway, you want to join black card link is down in the bottom. It's up to you. Anyway, hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.