Man, you know what's funny is I shot this podcast earlier today and I'm so OCD about what I do that I listened to some of it and went, "Man, that sucks." So, here I am again. My wife laughed because she's like, "Yep." She guys, one of the reasons I married you is I know you'll never settle for halfway ever. I won't. If I can't help you guys and deliver information that's going to give you something that you can lean on and use to further your life, whether it's money, health, wealth, your relationship, connection to God, whatever it is, then I'm not going to post it and I'll redo it. I'll redo it a hundred times. But so today, I'll make this really quick cuz it is date night. I want to go hang out with my wife. Methylene blue. So methylene blue, man, I've gotten a lot of questions from you guys about methylene blue. So I'll drop as much as I can without going because it is heavy biochemistry. Like it works directly with ETC, right? electron transplant core chain like that is I'll try and keep it as easy to understand as possible but you need to understand what it what it does because this thing is like a chameleon and 1876 like probably some dude in a lab coat made it for grandma to color her drapes. This stuff has been sitting around forever and it's not it's cheap for what you get and what it does. Holy crap. This stuff is next. Here's what's even more wild. Half the wellness crew out there, all of the people in internet world, they think it's some boutique paint color, methylene blue. Oh, I'm going to paint my bathroom that color. That's not it. And the the other half thinks it's some Instagram story magic drink that you can have that'll just turn your urine blue, but it gives you superpowers. Yes, it does turn your urine blue, by the way. And that's not wrong. Or I mean, that's both are wrong, but I I mean, not just regular wrong. double espresso at midnight and you're still asleep at the wheel because you're an idiot. Wrong. I need to You guys need me bad. This, like I said, it's like 150 years old and it it's been humbling overpriced supplements and bio hacks and hyperpriced vitamins and nutritional packets and garbage before your great granddaddy learned to shave. That's how long this has been around. And if you've been handing over hundreds and hundreds if not thousands of dollars for some kale smoothie magic root stick this in a capsule miracle. Congratulations. You have been buying biological participation trophies while this quiet little guy has been rewiring cellular biology in every textbook that actually matters. Oh, it's out there. You just can't find it. you'll get. You guys ever want a list of the books that I've read? Maybe just somebody send me a Instagram. Do not send it on YouTube. I'm not going to answer. I don't even read. Just so you know, I read your YouTube comments. At the beginning when I started this podcast, I'm like, "Don't worry, I'll read everyone. F that. I get 5,000 plus comments AI'm going to have to hire somebody to answer my comments." So, if one of you guys wants a job and you can actually do something that I'm gonna go, "Yeah, oh, you took the load off my back and you're worth it." and you're helping people and you can sound like me and you can give the right information. All of that. Message me on Instagram and if you try and sell me one of your videos that you're going to Don't worry, I'll upgrade your YouTube channel. Don't message me. I'll come to your house. I'll make you do burpees until you [\h__\h] die. Don't do it. Listen, here's the quick and dirty, okay? Cuz I told you I want to go inside and once you get me started, look out. Methylene blue. I said at the beginning, this stuff is like a chameleon. It's it's a redux chameleon. That is biochemistry for master shape shifter is the easiest way to explain it. It flips between oxidized and reduced forms fast like a caffeine and aderall addicted day trader. It's so fast the way it does this and the [\h__\h] it does in your body is astronomical. I can't go over the list in the amount of time I have because it's so long. It does so many things. So inside every one of your cells is this swarm of mitochondria. And I've talked about this before. It's like the nuclear reactor, right? these little power plants that honestly most of you have been casually abusing with your late night weird foods and pizzas that you get out of a box and your endless Amazon Prime Video and whatever the hell else you guys do. Their electron transport chain complex 1 through 4 to be specific is like it's like the mag lev in Shanghai in China. It's this bullet train that I've been on, right? This this thing is so nuts. It's so I don't know what it goes 300 maybe. I don't know. It's lightning fast but that's how hot this thing is. It's high speed. So, it moves electrons so protons can be pumped across the inner mitochondrial membrane. You with me so far? Because I this is about as detailed as I'll get about this. So, you're okay. That proton gradient, right, is what drives ATP synthes. The it's it's a molecular turbine essentially that mints the ATP fueling every single heartbeat, every bicep curl, every breath, every thought, every neuron that you fire when you try to remember your Wi-Fi password when you want to give it to your friend. That's what this it's that important and yet it's it's microscopic. Now, here's the here's the issue is most of you guys get this gridlock in your power plant. So, this is a Coke Zero right in my hand. If you're listening, if you're watching, then you know I have a Coke Zero. Don't lecture me about what it is. It's one of my only vices. Let me enjoy it. I mean, I have essentially I used to say I only have one vice. I have four. I love cars. I've always loved cars since I was a kid. Like, I just love cars. I want them all. I want just the car collection that's just so big and so full of fun, cool cars and uh I love watches and uh and Coke Zero and chocolate chip cookies that my my wife makes. That's it. It's all I got. I don't do drugs or drink or do all kinds of stupid things with myself. I don't mainline anything. I'm not addicted to anything weird. Like I that's it. It's all I got. But let me explain this little power plant because you get this gridlock if you know what that is, right? the traffic all binds up in your in these little nuclear reactors and life loves to sabotage the crap out of you. So things like caffeine and stress and sleep debt and your late night what is with you guys Door Dash habits that you have. I looked at the stats on Door Dash. 1:41 a.m. is when it's busy. What the frig are you guys doing at 1:41 a.m. I'm either sleeping or having sex with my wife, but I'm not Door Dashing anything. So all these habits create this electron traffic jam. So now complex one chokes on ROS reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide you've heard of this before but let me explain why it matters cuz it vaso dilates right? You know this but nitric oxide struts in and literally hog ties cytochrome c oxidase at complex 4. So now you've got this mess in the middle where nothing can get through. So it's like you have traffic jam and you need a road to go all the way around it to go from 1 to 4 and bypass all the [\h__\h] in the middle. So it's like the power grid browns out, right? California, those rolling blackouts. So less proton gradient, less ATP, more metabolic garbage, super oxide radicals just floating around like these biological versions of a very angry, very screwed up frat party that's just gone vastly arai. They're just terrible. This is where methylene blue comes in. That's why I said it's important to understand what it does cuz these guys will hand you this little bottle. Even if you got it from us and you'll be And by the way, Elite Biogenics, we have it. Get it from us. Don't get it. I mean, it's me. It's my company. Get it from me or don't get it from me. That's on you. I don't come out here to pitch all the time. I come out here to give you the information so you can actually make an informed decision. You can be cheap and go buy something cheap. I don't know. I don't think we're anything's more expensive than anyone else for the most part. But I do know we back the [\h__\h] out of everything we do. So, might be something to think about. But methylene blue comes in this lane splitting motorcycle full throttle courier and it accepts electrons from something called NAD NADH at complex one or honestly other to be honest other dehydrogenasis. It it'll do whatever it it does. That's one, right? It'll accept from anyone to be honest. It's kind of a [\h__\h] that way. But then it donates them downstream straight to four. That's cytochrome C, right? So you with me so far? It skips a big chunk. It bypasses that roadblock and keeps that proton pump pumping. So, it keeps churning out what? ATP. More proton motive force means fatter ATP yield and a sharp drop in that super oxide fallout. So, all this collateral damage goes away. And none of this is magic fairy dust and unicorn blood. This is physics wrapped around biochemistry. And and I hope this made sense. I didn't just lose all of you. You guy went, "Fuck, this is boring. I nerd out on this stuff." So maybe. And if some biochemist goes, "Well, that's not exactly really what it does." Shut up. I'm trying to explain this as easy and honestly as quickly as possible. So, just let me have it. Now, look at things like, and here's why it matters. Look at things like neurons. So, you meet these neurons, let's say, and you realize what they are when I introduce you, and it is that they are these energy divas. 2% of your body mass neurons, 20% of your oxygen budget. They burn through ATP like an F-22 Raptor plane. Just on the throttle, hissing fuel, nothing but thrust and power, but shortlived. They're using up all your energy, and that's just sitting there running. We're not talking at Mach 2 or however fast they go. So when complex 4 chokes, neurons lose something called membrane potential and neurotransmitter release sputters and craps out and you start to feel like well I'm holding my coke can like an old stale nasty coke that's been sitting out here in my studio for a week and a half at 105° trying to be refreshing. It is garbage. It's like an old cell phone that's not working right. It's just frozen and throwing a bunch of error messages. That's what your brain starts to do. Methylene blue restores that electron flow and it stabilizes mitochondrial membrane potential and it reins all those exytotoxic issues that are specifically the exytotoxic glutamate spill. Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter, right? So it rings all that in. So what that means is steadier, more smooth synaptic firing. So everything's just pulsing the way it's designed. A ton of mental clarity that makes your triple quintuple extra hot espresso look like a placebo. Yeah, it's that effective. Does it make you sharp? Like a [\h__\h] razor. It's while the world think about this. While the world is spending billions of dollars changing new chasing neuotropics and brain boosters and all that stuff. This is a century old textile die that just really quietly and softly keeps neurons online without a single frigin Super Bowl ad. Nothing. Hasn't spent a dime. And it's cheap. I don't know how much ours is. I really don't know off hand, but I know it's not hyper expensive. I mean, if it was a hundred bucks, it's worth it. But there's more to this because it doesn't just affect neurology, it affects your endocrine system as well. So, chronic things, oxidative stress, like it's like handing your hormones, oxidative stress. It's like handing your hormones a script for neverending tel nolla, just neverending soap opera drama, cortisol spikes, insulin sensitivity that just it just tanks, right? thyroid hormones check out and they just go awall. They don't even work anymore because all of the system is in chaos because because of all of the oxidative stress going on, never mind the systemic inflammation that's happening. So what this does is it dials down the oxidative chaos and you mute that hormonal melodrama. All methylene blue cortisol calms down. insulin receptors stay sharp. Thyroid signaling starts acting like an orchestra instead of trying to play a guitar with a chainsaw. So by keeping this, this is why it's important. By keeping this mitochondrial grid online, this little nuclear reactor online, methylene blue helps the beat of the band, the beat of the orchestra, I guess, the music become cohesive. It It holds its rhythm instead of, like I said, playing a guitar with a chainsaw. It It sounds moves the way it's designed. So, you don't have all these weird screw-ups that cause you decreased quality of life. And here's what's wild. This is like a bonus round. When nitric oxide is overproduced, that's why I brought this up earlier. Like a septic shock is going to do that. Blood vessels dilate like crazy so much that your blood pressure nose dives. Methylene blue, this is where it works in IV emergency situations. Methylene blue will mop up all the extra nitric oxide. Just scoop it all up and it stops the runaway vasoddilation. So, it keeps you alive. That's how effective it is. By the way, it it recycles itself. It's like a perpetual motion machine. It reduces itself and it's clear by the way when it's reduced to blue cellmethylene blue and then it reoxid reoxidizes with oxygen to methylene blue and then jumps back into the fray. It's like a molecular Tesla of electron shuttling. It charges itself infinitely while you are still fumbling around for a wall plug. Like it is the most effective thing I've ever seen. the way it works. It is a beast at mopping up the mess of oxidative stress, which is one of the most pronounced things that cause you a lot of problem and harm and diseases. And these are those rogue oxygen scraps that rust your insides. Normally cells, to be honest, just spit them out running the the daily show, whatever they're doing, right? But when they start to pile up, they chew through tissues. They crank up inflammation. They accelerate the whole aging sucks kind of timeline because I'm 52. Believe me, it's I feel different. Oh, I'm still cranking, but I definitely feel different than when I was 22. Ethylene Blue just cycles right. It's smooth. It It does. There's no hard sledgehammer hitting. It just cycles right in and it neutralizes all the junk without burning out things like glutathione, which is the cleanup crew for your system, right? You get better wound healing because it backs DNA fixes. You get tougher skin because it shields the collagen factory. And it's even a shield for your retinas against blood pressure spikes that just obliterate your retina. Imagine, imagine this. Imagine your arteries staying supple and soft and movable and pliable instead of concrete pipes like I've said before and your blood pressure holding without some daily pill parade that you've got to say. That is less wear and more miles is why I'm trying to explain this. And and I guarantee you most of your doctors have never talked about this stuff. And I am a doctor. It drives me nuts. I mean look at even your hormones. These are these little chemical couriers that from your thyroid cranking up your engine to your adrenals handing the fight, flight or freeze frenzy. They keep metabolism humming and moods level and your immune system working right. But modern idiocy is it's a it's a hormonal hurricane. Cortisol spikes are the norm. Torching your thy they that they torch your thyroid output. They trash serotonin and dopamine which means staying calm because that's what serotonin and dopamine are going to do. So you end up wired but wiped chasing highs that crash all the time which I think a lot of you guys actually have. I know because I've seen it with clients that I work with. Methylene blue, this is what it's so there's something called monomine oxidase, right? Because we have Mao inhibitors, SSRIs, serotonin inhibitors. All of this stuff works with brain chemistry. So monoamine oxidase or monomine oxidase methylene blue dials down monomine oxidase, which is the it's the enzyme that that prowls your brain and your gut to be honest. Like this repo, man, that's taking away all the things that that make you feel good. I'm not talking the I'm going to force myself Steuart Smallley thing. I mean they actually feel good before they have a chance to settle in. So when you block it, serotonin lingers for the long haul and dopamine fuels these steady winds all the time and norepinephrine gives you a sharper focus without all these jitters. I hope that makes sense cuz it might not have even made sense to me. But it's a rewire for your HPA axis, that brain to gut stress relay that's always stuck in overdrive with the pedal pinned. So the cortisol floods disappear, which means inflammation dies. For women, this is what's really cool. It nudges, this is great for PMS, pmenopause, and menopause. It nudges estrogen breakdown towards the protective side of the equation, and it is extremely noticeable. So it sidesteps all the inflammatory bombs that fuel the PMS, the parmenopause, and the menopause. And for guys, this is even better. It keeps the drive and the vigor from fading to the, "Hey, what the hell happened to me? This isn't working anymore." No, it's not an ED medication, but it keeps you from needing it a lot of the time. It slashes the needs for these these crutch drugs that a lot of scenarios are calling for, and it gives you all of the benefit without the metabolic whiplash that comes with all of this, all of those drugs, right? And here's actually something that's really cool. It I'm just kind of thinking these off the top of my head. It crosses the blood brain barrier like this easily and then donates electrons straight to the mitochondrial endgame. So skipping clogs and flooding neurons with ATP. So cerebral blood flow goes up, oxygen utilization spikes, the free radicals get curb stomped like slam danced into the next zip code and you notice it in the clarity, right? Your recall is better. Your mental static fades, there's no brain fog. Your focus holds up and it works with things like Parkinson's. Parkinson's get this dopamine neuron lifeline. It dumps alpha suclean clumps and it toughens up the mitochondrial armor. So, it smooths out all those tremors and you actually lock in some motor control. You actually get better motor control. I don't know why people don't use this. It actually gets me kind of angry. You can tell because I think there are ways to solve problems and people go, "But it's not via some conduit into the health care system that is designed to cause chaos and actually drag out your symptoms even longer." If you need something, you need it like [\h__\h] now. And that's what makes me upset is because if this would solve a problem that there haven't been enough tests. How many vaccines have shown up with almost no testing that have caused chaos? Chaos. Can you think of one in the last four [\h__\h] years, right? Never mind depression. It wipes out the issue in your amydala, that little worry warehouse. It does so many things. And inflammation, it dials down those cytoine storms. episode shuts down, which means it shuts down everything from migraines to that chronic ache that goes, "Hey man, you should just quit cuz it hurts." Listen, your brain is no toy, okay? It's the command center for everything. And methylene blue keeps it that way. And I really hope you understand that because things like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and depression there, if there's a chemical aspect to those things, this handles it. Think of the mitochondrial electron transport chain as this crowded highway of electrons and methylene blue is the molecular hitchhiker that keeps traffic moving when a lane closes. Redux cycling is what it does. Right? So methylene blue flips between its blue oxidized state and like I said the colorless reduced form blueomethylene blue. Cellular dehydrogenases feed it the electrons which is what I was talking about before right with NADH and oxygen takes them back. So each cycle moves electrons forward like a portable wire transferring current, right? So it just keeps going and going and it bypasses the bottleneck. So if complex one is partly blocked, methylene blue can grab electrons upstream and hand them directly to cytochrome C and complex 4 just keeps receiving electrons. So oxygen consumption and ATP synthesis just keep rolling on so you don't hit a wall, right? So it keeps the engine working is the easy I don't It's the easiest way to explain this. It maintains that proton gradient that's required by feeding electrons back into the chain. And methylene blue preserves that proton pumping that drives ATP synthes which means continued ATP production and less formation of superoxide radicals which I talked about before that would otherwise damage the proteins and lipids and your DNA. It's I mean I could go in on this all day long. It's this self- sustaining shuttle because it's reoxidized by oxygen and methylene blue effectively just constantly recycles itself. It just over and over it's ready for another electron relay without being consumed because it goes back and forth. That's why I said at the beginning it's a chameleon. In biochemical terms, methylene blue is less a nutrient and more a a redux catalyst. It's like a miniature self-recharging wire that keeps the mitochondrial grid humming when normal traffic falters and struggles. Does that make sense? I mean, you have to think like you're This is where I get all confused when I see these people coming out with these supplements and these pills and the medical world putting the brakes like just pumping the brakes on things that that are worthless anyway. Like a 19th century textile dye rescues mitochondria. It keeps neurons humming and moving. And big pharma isn't selling it by the [\h__\h] gallon. You know why? Because you can't patent century old molec molecules. You just can't. There's no billion-dollar marketing campaign. No slow motion puppy commercial or family playing out somewhere. Just dirt cheap powder that needs to be dissolved. By the way, you can't take 6.5% bioavailability as a powder. 72% as a liquid. So keep that in mind if you buy your capsules. They're garbage. And that dirt cheap power powder terrifies the profit margins of big pharma. That's why. And so because there's no gold rush, this molecule just sits there and hides in plain sight while people throw paychecks at miracle neutropics and cans of garbage that barely outperform a [\h__\h] nap. We live in a culture, you guys listen to me. We live in a culture where if there is not a billion-dollar ad campaign, we assume something can't be valuable. How? We ignore old proven science because it doesn't come wrapped in a glossy little influencer package. That is herd logic waiting for permission by the very institutions that profit from your ignorance. Methylene blue. Listen to me. Methylene blue turns mitochondrial gridlock into an autobond. It gives your neurons fiber optic bandwidth and tells chronic fatigue to pound sand. It is that effective. Hypothetically, hypothetically, if I was going to run a an experiment on mice or kangaroos or whatever other skunks, I have no idea something. I would be running my experiment beginning at 15 mg split twice throughout the day in two doses, A.M. and P.M., and I'd make sure I had food in my stomach. You're welcome. 15 to 30 milligs is about all your experiment needs total with food. But that's just an experiment. Ignore it because of a slick lack of a slick marketing campaign, I guess, and you just got some bald dude with a beard sitting here tell you about it. Great. Congrats. You're exactly the [\h__\h] herd. Listen, the takeaway isn't a supplement. It's a challenge. Please stop renting your understanding of your own biology to the loudest advertiser and marketer and then standing on a soapbox shaking your fists about how everybody else is wrong when you know nothing about biology. I'm just trying to give you lessons, man. This is like every university and like every college course you can probably ever take for well over a decade shoved into podcasts over the course of a year and I'm giving it to you for free. You haven't given me 200 grand a year. None of you have. I want you to actually understand because [\h__\h] nobody's helping you guys. It makes me irritated. So, you may as well, if I'm not giving you my knowledge, what use is it to me? What use is it to me? So, I come out here and I just give it to you. Now, just go do something with it. Whether you buy from me or not is irrelevant. I want you to do something with it so you have a better life and you can do the things you want to [\h__\h] do. Instead of dragging around like an old tired dog 10, 15 drugs deep and wondering how to make money, how to fix your marriage, how to get fit, how to lose weight when I'm going solution, solution, solution, solution. It's like this methylene blue more than any single molecule on Earth is what will keep your internal power plants working so well. You pair that up with understanding biology and you're going to be just nothing but a high octane machine. You don't have an option because you know what to do and when to do it. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.