You guys ready? See what we got today. Huh? Actually, what we've got today is a Coke Zero. Do carbonated beverages ever make your stomach jump? Every time the first only the first the first drink, my stomach just gives a little tweak. It's probably my stomach saying, "Don't don't drink that. It's terrible for you." I should do a podcast on Coke Zero, whether it's good or bad. Actually, that's a that might be a fun one to do, huh? Cuz a lot of us drink that stuff. It's pretty good. No, today today I want to talk about methylene blue. I know I talked about it before quite a while ago to be honest, but there's so much misinformation out there about methylene blue and what's right, what's wrong, what's toxic, is it toxic, am I drinking some dye or a dry cleaning chemical or whatever it is, and these guys pointing fingers saying that, you know, companies are buying it from Home Depot or dry cleaning suppliers or anything. You guys need to stop believing everything you read on Reddit. Listen, most companies, it's not the product as much as their lack of knowledge about the product. I You guys are going to buy from who you're going to buy from, who you're going to buy from. That's it. Like I say at almost every podcast, buy from Elite, awesome. Don't buy from Elite. Awesome. I'm still going to keep giving you information. I'm still going to keep solving problems. You know what I'm here? I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'll tell you this. In the next year, my my entire goal I said yesterday on my post on Instagram, I want to help 1 million people. No, I want a cure. I want to give you the answer that cures your problems, whatever they are. 1 million people. That's how many people I want to help cure their problems. I don't cure anything. No doctor anywhere ever cured anybody of anything ever. It's a very arrogant statement to say, "I cured somebody." No, you didn't. No, you didn't. You never did. That's all I heard was dumb. Right now, you almost had me. You never had me. You never had your car. Come on. That's one of the greatest movies ever. If you don't think so, you're not going to like me at all. Cuz I think Fast and Furious are freaking awesome. What a franchise, huh? But doctors don't cure anything. They get all the garbage out of the way. They solve the problems. Peptides don't cure you. SARMMS, SERMS, secrets, surgeries, PT, cyros, it doesn't matter what it is. They don't they don't cure anybody. And it is an incredibly arrogant statement to say that. I've never cured anybody of anything. I've helped tons of people cure themselves. I've given the answers that solve the problem and then they walk right off into the sunset with a great life. That's my job. So I have 1 million people. You want to be part of that journey? Great. If you don't, I don't know. Go back to big pharma and poisoning yourself and believing that you're actually getting healthier. So manage decline. It's what I always say. But that's my goal. There you go. You know it now. I want to provide the the answer that cures 1 million people's problems in the next year. And I want to do it faster. But I need your help. Send me people. I need help. You know, I only have one real talent. I do. I don't claim to be good at a whole bunch of things. I don't. You know, I know how to make a bunch of money. I know how to love on my wife and my family. I know how to connect with God and trust in God. All of those are learned. But the innate that I was born with is the ability to feel the pain of others and feel the what people are going through when they're sick, when they're in pain, when they're uncomfortable, when they're scared, when they're suffering. I've been this way my whole life. It's the only thing I got. That's you want to call it a talent, a gift. It's what it is. Which is why I leaned heavily back into what I'm called to do, which is this. Believe me, I went against this to be honest. I went against this a lot. And I went against health a lot. Healthcare. I used to come out, if you guys know me from my Smashworks days, I'd make a video every day. Every day I'd be at either either CSA or in my own little gym in the back or my house in the gym in the back of my clinics. I had gyms. If I'd be in the gym at my house, I'd be at guest gyms. I'd get asked to do talks everywhere. And you know what I Excuse me. What I saw it honestly kind of disgusted me. And that was people wanted the information but they never applied the information and they just kept right on doing the same dumb things. And it got I mean I've been a doc for a long time. I've been a doctor for decades and decades and I've seen it a lot. Probably 90% of the people out there they want the answer and then I give them the answer and they go well do you have anything that's stiffer? Do you have anything easier? It always reminds me of my buddy Brad and when I was on his podcast we were talking about that. He says they don't want the answer they want something easier. And he's right. He's right. If you don't follow Brad Lee, by the way, L E A Dropping Bombs, I have nothing to gain by telling you to go follow him. I've been on one episode. It's not like I'm like a recurring guest. I just really like Brad. He's a good guy. He's a He's one of the real ones and he is leaning hard into being a man. So maybe pay attention to what he says cuz he knows what he's talking about and I trust the guy. But I got away from it. I said, "I'm done with health." I even said to my wife, I said, "You know what? These freaking people, they just don't listen. They constantly approach me with, "Can you do this? Can you help me with this?" I give them the help. I give them the answer. And they just go, "Oh, yeah. you have anything different? I got tired of it and then I got humbled and I woke up in a hospital missing parts and I looked at my wife and I felt like a failure and I felt like a liability and I laid in my bed for weeks and months with an oxygen machine keeping me alive and I I fought that thing all the time. That was like the the 900lb grizzly that was just coming after me all the time. And I I had no recourse but to turn around and go teeth and claws, everything you've got, I'm still going to fight you. And I did and I won and it sucked and I hated every second of it. None of it was this epic journey and this hero's journey that is being shown all over social media. It was a disaster and it cost me my life and it cost me a future years I'm sure. And you know, I mean, a lot of it is the result of some bad people in my life where I made decisions to, you know, I mean, like I said, I I got ripped off almost almost 2 million bucks on my wife's dreamhouse. Turned out to be a disaster. And then the guy turned around instead of solving the problem turned around and sued us. And now that same guy is literally trying to [\h__\h] us financially. He's going to fail. Well, because I wear the armor of God. Doesn't matter. And when you're right, you tell the truth. There's less to remember. your best weapon, your best defense is always to tell the truth because it's easy. You cannot screw up your own story. But it's still not going to stop me, right? But I I came out and I went, "Holy smokes." And people started asking me for help. When I was posting every day on Instagram, when I struggled with that stupid oxygen, when I struggled, when I'd fall apart, when I'd cry, when I'd be angry, when I'd be frustrated, I just posted it all. I was like, "You want to see real? Here's real." Like even this, this is real. No, this is rehearsed. And they never are. My podcasts are never rehearsed. I don't sit there and go, hm, how am I going to make this sound fantastic? I just don't have the time for that. I really want to spend time with my wife and kids. And at the same time, God gave me a gift. And it is that I am incredibly exceptional at finding out what's wrong and solving it. I've always been like that. And when I leaned back into it, everything in my world fit. So, here I am every day, 300 plus podcast episodes. Love me or hate me, I'm giving you the answer you need. So, you decide. share me with everybody or bury me as somebody you would never want to listen to and listen to the muppets that guide you down the wrong path. That's fine. I I'm not here to influence anybody. I'm here to give you information. Like I said today, methylene blue, I've been asked a lot about methylene blue and I think methylene blue is one of those things that solves so many problems it's almost frightening and it's dirt cheap. And when people go, "Oh, it's not dirt cheap, bro. I spent a hundred bucks on a bottle or something." Are you out of your mind? This cell phone in my This is an old one. I think this is a a 13. I'm not getting rid of is you. So I bought my family all cell phones and my business partner, I got him a cell phone and they're all 17s, the new ones, right? And I picked up my son's cell phone. This is about 2 weeks ago. And I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] this feels like a piece of crap. It was so light and so gar just garbage and it felt almost dangerously light." And then I picked up mine. He goes, "Dude, I handed him mine." He's like, "This thing's heavy. This feels solid." He goes, "I hate my phone. It feels like garbage." And I I mean those are all intentional. And if somebody gets in my comments and says, "Well, it's because the batteries are more efficient and blah blah blah." No, it's because they're building them cheaper and cheaper. But whatever. Anyway, the point is is that I have this old phone and the phones now they're what,500 bucks and you complain about spending $1,000 or $1,500 on your health? You don't deserve to be healthy. You don't. I mean, how much is your mortgage? You know, my my mortgage I've had a mortgage that was $22,000 a month. I had a mortgage that was 650 bucks a month and anything in between. And none of those even come close to what I should be and I am willing to spend on the health of people that I am deeply in love with, my family or myself so I can keep on going. I think you just sometimes need to evaluate your priorities when you're complaining. If you're price shopping everything, you're not price you're not shopping the value. You're just shopping based on dollars and that gives you bad results. It never works out. So, like I said, join my black card. Sign up for Elite or buy something from Elite or don't. I don't know what to tell you. Knock yourself out. But methylene Blue, I mean, a lot of you guys, you just it's some dye, right? Some quaint oldfashioned stain from, to be honest, high school biology, right? If you know, you know. And that right there is the first part of the lie because that's what they're trying to tell you. Methylene blue isn't just a dye. It's arguably really it's one of the most potent and underutilized my god and intentionally mis intentionally misunderstood therapeutic molecules. No, I firmly believe that and I see it all the time with the indoctrination of stay away. It's poison. It's going to kill you. The medical world doesn't want you to take it. Here's why. Three words again. Follow the money. But how about this? How about I burn down the pillars of their deception. And the first one I've seen online is ridiculous is the tablets. The tablets. You guys are buying tablets and weird papers. They look like what are those things you take them listine strips, right? You stick them on your tongue, but now they're like methylene blue strips. What? Because you're it's all about convenient. So you you've gone watch here's what it looks like. You go out and you go looking for methylene blue and you find these tablets and they're garbage. I'll just save you all the I could stop right here and just get off this podcast. They are garbage. They're worse than useless. They're this deliberate misdirection. And why? Because the oral bioavailability in a tablet of methylene blue is destroyed by your gut's first pass metabolism. You swallow a pill because the process required to make it a pill. Your liver sees a foreign substance and it detoxifies it before it ever hits your bloodstream. The active redux active form is largely neutralized. The pills are a placebo sold by companies. Whether it's a peptide company, whether it is a a chemical company, whether it is a supplement company, it doesn't matter. They're sold by companies that are capitalizing on a trend, ensuring that you get just enough of a non effect to dismiss the whole idea. It's actually brilliant. It's a cynical strategy. If you want the real thing, I don't care where you get it. Just make sure it's real. It's the pharmaceutical grade, USPrade solution. Period. Period. That's it. Listen, I'm not telling you to go buy it at a dry cleaning store. Don't do that. You did not hear me say that cuz I'm not saying that. But whether you buy it from Elite, whether you buy it from some other company, just make sure what you're getting is what you're getting. That's all I'll say. So here's it. Here here's the question I get. Well, okay, Dr. Trevor, what is it then? What is it? So at its core, let me explain the mechanism because I think you need to understand this. It is a redux molecule. And that's not that's not jargon. Reox. And I'll explain what that is. It's like a job description. Redux means reduction oxidation. It's a shuttle and it effortlessly donates and accepts electrons. This is a big deal. The which is the fundamental currency of energy in your body. This simple property, just so you know, makes it a master key to the cellular power plants in your body. Mitochondria. I've been drilling down heavily on mitochondria lately because the more I dig into it, the more I realize everything is predicated on your mitochondria. Everything. Because energy is the is what's funding everything in your it's funding me holding my hands like this. It's funding me looking at my watch. It's funding me speaking. It is the account that is providing the funds to do everything that you do. And that account is constantly being replenished by the triricaroxyic acid cycle, the KB cycle, right? It's it's and part of that is the electron transport chain, the ETC. So, and I'll explain all this. Don't worry. I'm going to get into this. Let me just add a little more code zero. And I got to give a um props to someone in my group. Her name is Mia. Mia is pretty legit. She's ridiculously intelligent. And I always joke around about going and it's I mean it's serious, but I'm like, you know, if you guys want me to teach like a biochemistry class, I will. Or a physiology and like a deep human fizz, you know, I'm not doing cordate zoologology or anything like that. I'm not doing a microbiology class. Nobody needs to know all that stuff. But if you want me to get into human fizz, you know, like anatomy, physiology, real, you want me to do a neurology class, you want me to do a biochemistry class and then explain reactivity and how things work and how the Krebs works even that simple. It's AI mean, I could do a whole course on just the KB cycle and what happens on the inner mitochondrial membrane and all of that stuff. And I always talk about, you guys want me to then just say it. She doesn't miss a beat. She comes into my group and says, "Yep, I want that. That's awesome. I want to understand everything." And then like 10 other people come underneath in my group and say the same thing like we want that. This awesome. That makes me feel happy because I want to give you I have the information. I just I think it's it's an obnoxious flaw that society is indoctrinating people with to believe that if you have the knowledge, you need to keep the knowledge to yourself. I think it's your obligation to teach people. One of the coolest things I've ever done is learn things from other people. And I think that's awesome. I've had to pay for it tons of times. I've paid oh god millions of dollars in in knowledge. I mean real millions to acquire knowledge and it's been worth it about 80% of the time. It's that damn 80/20 rule, right? 20% of it is just garbage. But the reason I say that is because it's worth it and it's my job. It's my obligation to share the same knowledge with you. So I got to give her credit because she always tells me like, "Hey, listen. I'd be into that." And all of us, we want to learn this stuff. So that's cool. So if you want that, maybe I'll start throwing these out here once in a while. do some basic biochemistry and help you guys out. But understand that because of the properties of excuse me, methylene blue it and it does some really wild things in in human physiology and practical biochemistry. Listen, let's just get into the weeds. I'll show you because the the truth is actually in the biochemistry. Your body runs on um ATP, adenazine triphosphate, right? It's the molecular unit of currency. You make ATP in the mitochondria via the electron transport chain, the ETC. Think of the ETC as this series of progressive waterfalls, right? So, you got these waterfalls and electrons flow down and the energy from that flow is running pumps that pumps protons to create this batteryike gradient that spins a turbine ATP synthes specifically to produce a denazine triphosphate. Just stick with me there. There that is the fundamental most basic form of biochemistry I can give you. But the problem is this entire system is incredibly leaky. So 2% at least, it's usually more, but about 2% of those electrons slip out early. They just cut out of class and especially at complex 1 and complex 3 of the chain. So these runaway electrons is where it gets a little ugly. These runaway electrons react with oxygen creating super oxide radicals. These are the destructive little sparks that cause the most damaging thing in your body which is oxidative stress. So, it damages your mitochondria and it accelerates aging. And this is a major major source of your ATP shortage, which is the one of my three biological failures, right? So, methylene blue walks right into this chaos factory that you've got going on. And a lot of this happens because of what we eat, drink, put on ourselves, we're exposed to, right? All of the things in our environment. But methylene blue has this unique talent. It bypasses the notoriously inefficient complex one altogether. It in inserts itself as an alternative electron carrier and it donates electrons directly to cytochrome C which is further down the chain at complex 4. This is a massive shortcut. And so the it's like a traffic jam, right? There's a traffic jam. There's this tiny little access road that nobody knows about. So you got this big mess right here and you're stuck here for an hour, right? I lived in California for 20 plus years and so I commuted all the time. I know what this traffic is. Some of you guys know what I'm talking about. Just garbage. You'll sit at a standstill. I may as well pull out a book. Which is why my Audible library has,5,134 books I think. I have to check. I I get a new book almost every day. So I spend a ton of money on books and I listen to them all the time. Uh 1.5 speed sometimes two because most people speak far too slowly. But anyway, that's what I would do on my commutes all the way there, all the way back. I would just listen to audiobooks all the time. I've listened to all kinds of stuff. But it this is the road that bypasses that traffic jam and gets you to your destination. So imagine this is what's trying to happen, right? So this massive shortcut gives you an incredible result. The electron flow becomes smoother and more efficient and the electron leakage plummets. So follow me. Super oxide production dis. It just collapses because the flow is you're capitalizing on how the flow is supposed to be, right? You're it's optimized is the word. I just can't stand that word. So the proton gradient strengthens the turbine ATP synthes, right? spins even faster and ATP production you get this fat awesome skyrocketing yield of adenazine triphosphate and usually it's about 30 to 40% increase you need to assess that number because if you had a third just use use money cuz it's an easy analogy you money horsepower if you had a million dollars and all of a sudden you woke up tomorrow and there was 40% more in your bank account think you'd be happy here's a weird side thought if you have a dollar and you have 40% more Most people will go, but if you have a million and you still get the same 40%, people freak out. You need to understand the value of the 40%, not the value of the 40 cents or the 400 grand. I'm just saying if you don't like 40% when there's little, you're not going to like it when there's a lot because you're never you're never going to be happy with it. So, just understand a dollar is a dollar. Trust me, I pick up pennies all the time. I'll never walk past one. All these people going, "Well, it costs more money to pick up a penny." To who? That's why money doesn't flow to you because you're creating this negative charge against money anyway. So, as we're getting this 30 to 40% more like greater yield in ATP, you are fundamentally fixing your engine. So, you're not just pouring more fuel in, which is what a lot of these supplement companies are trying to do. You solve the ATP shortage in your own biology at its source. So, now apply this to some big ticket items that they will tell you are very incurable. Just follow me down this road. Dementia, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis. They are at their root, and I've gone over these, every single one of these to be honest. They are at their root energy crisis diseases of the brain. The brain is only 2% of your body weight, but consumes 20% of your oxygen and your ATP. So, when your neurons can't produce enough energy, they falter big time. Alzheimer's, you see amaloid plaques and talangles, right? But the initiating event is often it's 100% I'll just say it. It's 100% mitochondrial dysfunction. Neurons starve, synapses fail and memory goes offline. It just shuts down. Methylene blue crosses the blood brain barrier. It supercharges neuronal mitochondria. So now enhanced ATP means those neurons can maintain their intricate little structures and clear out all the toxic proteins like amaloid and fire properly. You with me so far? So if you look at that methylene blue inhibits, this is great. This is research. It's all proven. Methylene blue inhibits towangle aggregation. Let's go to multiple sclerosis MS where the immune system is attacking the myelin sheath. And I explained why that happens and how that happens. And I talked about the whole vascular inefficiency. But the insulation around the nerves, the algorodes that produce the myelin are immensely energy hungry. I call them energy hogs, right? You give them a boost and you support remination. It's not a magic bullet. It's attacking the foundational problem which is the energy deficit. Energy deficit is what almost everything is predicated on. Energy deficit, systemic inflammatory response, and insulin resistance. Solve those, eliminate, my opinion all metabolic disease. All of it. You're not supposed to be sick. You know that, right? Like you're indoctrinated to think that you're supposed to be sick all the time and you're supposed to get it's normal to get sick. It is not normal to get sick. You have inside you every single antibbody to every antigen in the in the world. You have the ability to fight it off. It's that your ability is hindered. You're not supposed to get sick. I'll just leave it at that. But listen, systemically, the benefits are staggering of methylene blue. Every cell in your body has mitochondria. There's not one that doesn't. More ATP means every system cranks up and works better. Your liver detoxifies more efficiently. Your kidneys filter better. Your immune cells like neutrfils and macroofagages that are hyperdependent on ATP to hunt down pathogens work better. You are building a more resilient organism from the ground up. You are becoming a more robust version of yourself. And there's no needles, by the way, for this. Do I think there's a bunch of other things that should be incorporated? Yes. However, got to start somewhere. Like look at people ask me about a pre-workout all the time. Well, what's a good pre-workout? None. I mean, I don't really favor any of them cuz most of them are crap. You do realize that, right? I don't care if you drink them. Knock yourself out. And I'll I have AI don't even remember what it's called. Piper, I think it's called. I don't know. My wife picked that up. I think she picked it up at Target. I have two big tubs of this stuff. And uh it gives me the tingles, right? The nascin tingle, but it's got like alpha ketoglutarate and creatine and stuff in it. And it tastes like strawberries or raspberries. Take my pick. It's a split container with this wavy line in in the middle. So maybe you guys know what it's called. I don't just don't remember what it's called off hand cuz I just don't care. I trust my wife. She goes, "Here, try this." Okay. Once in a while I drink that before a workout. Does it do anything? No. It makes me tingly, sometimes itchy, and I take a fraction. The dosages that I re that are recommended on the sides of these containers. What in the actual Holy hell? You guys need to stop listening to what manufacturers tell you. Just so you know, my st if there's ever any of my staff or my team that has ever worked for me in the past in the last two, three decades, they all know what I'm about to say. It takes me forever to drink one of these. Forever. So, I used to drink monsters. I don't drink them anymore because number one, they're terrible for you. Number two, they're terrible for you. And number three, they're effing terrible for you. But I used they they'd get me one of my staff, Linda, she's a badass. Linda was a badass. So she still is a badass. Linda's a badass. And so was uh Melissa and everybody that's worked for me is I I've had great team members for the most part on my my staff, but they used to bug me all the time cuz I would drink a little. They'd get me one once in a while and then I'd drink it and then I would put it in the fridge and it would last almost all week. And once in a while, Linda would throw it out cuz she'd be like, "You can't drink that, Dr. Tea. That's flat and gross. It's been in here since Monday. So, they know it takes me forever to drink one of these. So, I'm telling you, the reason I'm saying that is because the dosages that people are recommending, they're it's like boiling a frog, right? Just turn up a degree at a time. You guys look at how much people are telling you to drink and eat and for supplements and medications. Are you nuts? And medications don't do go bad, by the way. You can take an an aspirin, the old Bayer with the yellow label, the little weird shield thing on it, and it could be from, you know, 1947, and it's still fine. Stop believing there is an expiry date on most of your medications. Nope. It's a great way to get you to get more, though, and go through it, isn't it? Just saying. Anyway, pre-workouts, this stuff's a game changer, personally. Fatigue isn't just lactic acid, you guys. It's not. It's mitochondrial fatigue. When your muscles, the power plants can't keep up with the demand that your psychology is putting on them, which is where it's coming from, you hit a wall. Well, methylene blue increases mitochondrial efficiency and biogenesis makes more. So, you literally create more nuclear reactors, silos, and everything inside you, just real small. Increases nitric oxide synthesis, improves blood flow and oxygen delivery, which gives you a fantastic result. Increased endurance, reduced perceived exertion, and a whole lot faster recovery. So you're not just pushing harder. You've upgraded the actual hardware in your system. Never mind. Look at cardiac health. Your heart is the most mitochondria dense tissue in your body. It never rests. I talked about this the other day. Just bang bang bang bang bang. It's going right now. Everybody listening to this. Your heart is running 24/7, 365. And it does it thanklessly. Like you guys never sit there and go, "Thank you, God, for the heart that beats in my chest and the lungs that keep me freaking alive." Like, I'm going to tell you right now, you should be grateful that heart's working all the time because that's the only reason you can get online and whine and [\h__\h] and complain and get in somebody else's comments and throw hate because your heart works. Maybe you should have a little bit more. Leave that alone because it's just going to piss me off. Here, I'll make it simple. Just don't be a dick. Rules for life. Don't be a dick. But your heart never rests to steady massive supply of ATP with your heart is non-negotiable. Methylene Blue's cardioprotective effects are profound. improves the heart's resistance to eskeeia reperusion injuries. It improves the heart's resistance to eskeeia reperusion injury. It's the damage that happens when the blood flow returns after a blockage. Yeah, you guys didn't know that, right? Bad damage, mega bad. It stabilizes cardiac rhythm. It's like giving your heart a permanent high octane energy source all the time. And you're not overreving it or overdriv it. You're just getting it to work the way it's supposed to. And how about the cancer question? Because everybody asks me this. What about cancer? The fear-mongering is based on a misunderstanding. In vitro, in a petri dish, little tiny petri dish, right, with augur in it or whatever it is they put in there at that time. If you dump a massive concentration of methylene blue into cancer cells and shine a specific light on it, you can generate reactive oxygen species that kill the cell. Okay? It's called photodnamic therapy. By the way, this is not what happens in the body at therapeutic doses. In vivo, not in vitro, in vivo at the low systemic doses that I always talk about, methylene blue is a potent anti- oxidant and mitochondrial optimizer and stabilizer. It reduces the oxidative stress that will contribute to DNA damage and carcinogenesis. So what here? I'll translate that. It promotes healthy cellular function. Makes your cells do what they're supposed to do better. The claim that it causes cancer is gross mislication of lab data intended to scare you away. And here's what's frightening about what I just said. You'll hear that same scare tactic at the end of a commercial telling you to take rettoximab or humra or whatever it is they're going to tell you to take about the catastrophic effects it's going to have on your body. And you've been conditioned to go, well, they have to say that just in case that happens. And it's always during the, you know, there's a family at the park having a barbecue and some dog running around in the background. You're like, "Oh, it's so wonderful." Wrong. You don't understand there. You're Pavlov's dog. They're ringing the bell and that is your conditioning. It bugs me cuz I've been through a whole lot of hell health-wise. And plenty of people have. And everybody else would say the same thing. I never want to go through that again. The medical industrial complex does not want you healthy ever. They want you committed to all of that entire paradigm that gets you to pay more money. And here you don't. By the way, people ask me too, should I do I have to cycle it? I'm trying to hit all the questions that I get from you guys in my question. Keep them coming. By the way, I'll I'll give you everything I got. You don't need to cycle it. Unlike stimulants that whip your system and cause cellular burnout and desensitization and receptor shutdown, methylene blue is a restorative agent. It's like it normalizes function. It doesn't override it. That's what I was saying, right? It's not overreving the engine. It normalizes. You're supposed to run at peak efficiency 24/7 365. You're not supposed to run like at suboptimal levels ever. Those are you're conditioned to think this. You're not supposed to run at some 30% level. You're supposed to run at 100% all the time. Why Why would it Does it make sense to think you should do that any like you should just I'm supposed to run at 50%. It's normal. No, it's not. You should be cranking all the time. Long-term use of methylene blue safe, beneficial sustained mitochondrial support. Sign me up. Give me the blue teeth and the blue tongue. I will smurf my mouth all freaking day. And how about this? How about the elephant in the room? The money, right? The cognitive decline industry. Let me explain this cuz I didn't even talk. I just thought of this right now. Alzheimer's, dementia. It's like a gold mine. In the US alone, just, you know, in the US alone, caring for people with these conditions costs over 300 billion with a B billion. 300 billion annually. How many of you guys could use one of those billions in your life? Yeah. And that's not even take that's taking care of a manufactured illness and I've proven it. Well, this isn't up for debate. I have proven it. Binary like put me on a stage and give me the Nobel Prize because I proved it. I'm not kidding. And you know damn well I'm not kidding. I have a simple explanation. I'm going to be the doctor for mankind cuz nobody else is willing to take the smoke. I will because I want you to be I want you to just I'm going be all you can be. That's I just I want you to be everything. Take it from someone who has lost so much and gone through so much and looked at my wife and seen her crying and upset and hysterical while I'm looking at her laying in a bed with tubes in me and tubes coming out of me and the doctor going, "God, I hope he makes it." Like, that is what my wife has witnessed. My son seeing me black out on the driveway and gash myself open while my wife resuscitates me. That's what my son has witnessed. You guys, I don't come out here for me. But you need to you need to take responsibility and go, "All right, I'm in. I will solve every health problem you have. You can take that to the bank. I don't care if if doctors have said it's incurable. They can't do it." I guess they never met me then, did they? I don't do it for anything other than you deserve a better life. Take that however you want it. There's nothing selfish about why I'm here. Nothing. But there is everything selfless and wanting to help about why I'm here. like $300 billion dollars caring for these people with conditions that are manufactured. That's billion billion. Wrap your head around that number. Pharmaceutical treatments are paliotative at best. Managing symptoms without addressing the freaking cause. They are recurring revenue. A drug like aerosept for examp what kind of nonsense BS is that might cost a patient thousands per year a year's supply of pharmaceutical grade methylene blue a fraction of that where is the profit in a cheap non-patentable universally effective mitochondrial energizer that could potentially prevent or at least slow progression of any of those diseases. Where's the profit? There is none. There's none. The system is incentivized for chronic long-term managed freaking decline, right? Chronic care, not cures. They don't make money on healthy people. They don't make money on healthy people. They make money on sick people who are conditioned to believe the only direction they can walk is towards that white coat. Yes, it makes me upset. Listen, this principle of repair extends everywhere. Methylene blue upregulates cellular cleanup processes like autophagy, enhances DNA repair mechanisms all across your entire system. It does it by reducing oxidative stress and providing this incredibly abundant source of energy from you that you're designed to do. You create an internal environment where damage is fixed faster than it's occurring. It speeds up the repair. Your ability to outperform the damage happening to your body is how you slow down the clock. It's how you slow down aging. Right now here, listen, contrast this with what's promoted. Just look at the world right now. Most anti-depressants, especially SSRIs, are metabolic frigin poison. Long-term systemic harm, 100%. They disrupt mitochondrial function. They lead to weight gain, metabolic syndrome, which I've already talked about. They cause emotional blunting, sexual dysfunction up, down, and sideways that will persist long after discontinuation, right? PSSD is what it's called. An increased risk of bleeding, cardiovascular events. They treat neurotransmitter balance imbalances in theory, but I'm going to tell you right now that is exceptionally oversimplified and it's damaging the very engines of your entire body. Is this making sense? Like you guys need to get this because the research volumes of it showing harm volumes. There are so many studies showing proving how harmful MAIS or SSRI are to your system and you guys line up and take them all day believing and the 80 to 90% of the time it's a placebo effect. And if you get in my comments and go, "Well, a placebo effect is still just as good, Dr. T. It's still doing it." No, it's not cuz it's really not doing anything for you. This isn't a psychological experiment. This is your life. Listen, show me the research demonstrating long-term harmful effects of lowdose methylene blue. Show me. Show me. Oh, wait. You can't. It doesn't exist. The safety profile is beyond exceptionally clean. Listen, I'll even help you out. Give you the kangaroo stack. Let's call it that. I think everything's going to be a kangaroo stack. If methylene blue is the ultimate mitochondrial optimizer, then combining it with other powerful peptides and compounds is going to create this virtuous cycle of cellular regeneration. Right? So, let's spell this out and I'll explain why and why I think this would be the most effective thing to do. And it's not meant to argue. None of this is for you to get in my comments and argue. This is for you to look at and go, "Okay, I want Listen, I'm a walking billboard for what works." And if you go, "That's an arrogant statement. I am fit. I'm athletic. I'm 52. I'm married to the most incredible woman. I've got two decades plus of marriage with this woman. I've survived all kinds of hell that I've actually shown all over the place for years. I've never missed. We We generate millions and millions of dollars. We have an exceptional family and I come out here every day to give you guys the answers. Why would you ever not listen to what I'm telling you to do? I'm not asking you for anything. Like I said, buy from Elite Biogenics. Awesome. Or don't. Join my black card. Or don't. Those are all up to you. This is for you. It's not for me. But maybe look at the source. So the first thing in this kangaroo experiment would be Red Truth Tide. Zero hesitation. triple agonist, right? GIP, GLP-1, Glucagon. It is a powerhouse for metabolic health. It improves insulin sensitivity, promotes weight loss, has direct 100% direct line cardrotective effects. That right there, like it runs very close second to TB-500, which I told you repairs fibroic issue, a fibrootic tissue in your heart in the myioardium, there's nothing else that's they say once you've had any kind of eskeemic event, you will never get that tissue back. And then in walks TB-500 and says, "Hold my beer." That's how effective this is. Red a true tide is running running running a close second for the this is the cardoprotective aspect of it. It creates a metabolically clean slate out of your biology and that's just one MOT C. MOT C is the mitochondrial derived peptide. It's such AI'm not going to go into it because I talk about it all the time but it's essentially a signal sent by the mitochondria to the nucleus to upregulate metabolic homeostasis and stress response. Works on the AMPK pathway. It improves glucose metabolism massively. shoves it into the muscle like it's going out of sty. It's the only purpose it has, right? And enhances physical performance at an exceptional rate, by the way. So, here's the synergy. Let me explain and then I'm going to go cuz I'm already 42 minutes in. Methane blue provides the immediate raw electron shuffling power to maximize ATP production now. Right now, you take it now. M C sends the genetic signal to build more and better mitochondria for the future. So, we've got now and the future. Reddit. This is why I need you to understand this. Retatrutide optimizes the entire systemic environment, hormones, glucose, inflammation, so that these supercharged mitochondria with a big S on their chest can operate in the most ideal perfect ecosystem. They work on three different levels. Immediate energy, methylene blue, genetic signaling, MO C, and systemic regulation reduide. That's why understanding the physiology behind why these things work matters. You know, as much as I would love to sit here and just I almost did it, just spew out all these dosages, I can't. Why? Because the censorship of this world is beyond stupid. However, you want to know the rest of this equation, go to Rumble. I'll just spit it out there for you and I'll help you all out. All three, and I'll tell you when, why, everything. I just I want you to have it. I'm just not going to sit there and play their dumb game. I'll just go somewhere where I don't have anything to do with them. You can't censor me over there. And on a quick tangent, we're building an entire website dedicated to it'll be very YouTube like, but it's just me. All my videos all organized, all set up that you have to ask permission to get in and it's going to have it all, baby. And that way, the only person that could cancel me well is me. Not going to happen. I want you guys to have the answers, man. And there's even going to be a place where you can submit your questions. And it'll be one of these if like roll the dice and see whose question am I answering, but I want you to have the information. I just I can't answer everybody's questions every day. I do have other things to do with my life, but believe me, I answer a lot more questions than you think, but this entire blue mat tide cocktail is so much more. It's a systems upgrade. You're targeting the root cause of decay, energy failure from every single conceivable angle so that your system works the right way. And it all begins, it all begins with methylene blue. I mean, the research is here, you guys. The biochemistry is as irrefutable as gravity. It's as immutable as me falling over. or I'm going to hit the ground every time. The only thing standing between you and this tool is the wall of profitdriven ignorance. They want you sick, dependent, and confused. I'm telling you, be freaking healthy and independent and informed and do what you want. This is information for you to make an educated decision for yourself. Whatever you do after that is on you. It's not here to contest you and have you chirp like a little toddler in my comments, grow up, and actually just go, "Well, dang, man. maybe I should start reconsidering what I'm doing with my health. This isn't about the molecule. It's about taking back control of your biology from a system that has failed you 100% of the time. It's about recognizing that the greatest threats to your health usually wear doctor's coats or scrubs and have a stethoscope or a lab coat and they carry a prescription tablet. That's the threat. Listen, you guys, it drives me nuts. The power is not in some new billion dollar drug that's coming out of your bank account, dumbass. It's in very old simple tech. A profoundly effective truth that they've been trying to hide on a shelf and now you have to blow the dust off of it. It's called Methylene Blue. I'm telling you, man, your health is it's it's your sovereignty. Stop renting it from other people. You want to know the only thing you're entitled to in this entire world? Your health. It's yours. So, do something about it. Anyway, I hope you got some information out of this. I got to go. Never miss.