查第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一 My wife always says it, right? She says, follow the money. And I'm not out here selling a damn thing. And honestly, I don't think I ever really have. You want to buy from me? Great. And I'll say it right out of the gate. You want to buy from elite biogenics? I own the company. If you do, awesome. If you don't, still awesome. I want you to have this information. I think that's the important part. And the issue is I see a lot of people on social media clipping my stuff. I talk about it all the time, taking my stuff and using it to sell their brand of whatever peptide they're selling. Great. I got a pretty unique look to me. I think most people know who I am by now. And I'm trying to just give you the information. Yeah, I own a huge company and I'm not pushing it. And if you're going to be pushing it right now, not really. I'm just telling you, if you want to, I, if you trust me, then you trust what I have. If you don't, then don't. That's okay. I'm going to go buy from somebody else, but I'm not out here bashing anybody. I'm not crapping on anybody. I'm not trying to discredit anybody. I'm just giving information. So you choose somebody asked me. They're like, I'm confused. One, one chemist, he's not a chemist. One chemist says, do this. The other chemist says, don't do that. You say do this. And they say, don't do that. Choose who you want to choose. Okay, I'm not here to convince you. I'm giving you the info. You decide what you want to do with it. If you trust me and you want to buy from me, awesome. If you don't, I don't know why you're listening to me then. But what I don't need are a bunch of toddlers in my comments, complaining and whining and going, this guy's using your stuff and he says you're wrong. Okay. That doesn't matter to me. I'm trying to help you. I'm not out here going buy my stuff. If you don't buy my stuff, you're a communist. I don't care. And then the other part of it is if you want to, people ask me, okay, do you do consultations? No, I don't. I don't. I only have two programs. I need to clear this up real quick. I only have two things that I do. The black card membership, it's one year and it's still sitting at 10 grand. If you want to make payments on it, that's not going to happen. It is wire transfer only. I gave the finger to credit card companies because all they do is give you the shaft and they hold your money and I don't trust them. I just don't. So it is direct wire or Bitcoin. Those are the only two options. If you want to join the black card, it is access to my private Q&A that I do every Monday evening. It is the VIP community where I actually solve your problem. I have endless messages from people who have been struggling with all kinds of stuff who don't struggle with that anymore because they're better. And that's my main goal is just to help mankind. I really just want to save mankind and the health crisis. That's it. And you decide what you want to do with that, man. I don't know what else to tell you. But you want to join, send an email to rona or amber and say it's going to be apply at unlockthecard.com. If you ask them for a bunch more information, they're just going to send you a wire transfer sheet and say here, because I just explained what it is. And that's it. And then I have one on one or when you work one on one with me directly, you get my cell phone number. That's $250,000 a year. And it is, I think I'm at a three month waiting list and to get on the waiting list, you have to pay. So you choose what you want to do. I'm not here selling it. I'm not pushing it. I'm not saying, oh, you've got to do it. It's the greatest ever. You decide what you want to do. I know I'm good at what I do. And I know I give a crap about mankind. So you decide what you want to do with that. So methylene blue, just listen, methylene blue is it's pretty wild. Like I actually, I just took methylene blue probably about 20 minutes before I started this podcast. It's I love it. This stuff's awesome, but they're not all the same. And you don't have to pee blue to prove that it works. In fact, that's the excess. It's being converted in your system to the colorless version. So loosal methylene. And so it's not, that doesn't mean it's working. That's such a ridiculous Insta bro influencer thing. I'll explain the biochemistry behind it. So you actually understand. But I'm going to take everything that you probably thought you knew from following Instagram people, and even if it's me, probably didn't get it from me, but everything you knew about cellular energy and mitochondrial function and even human performance in general. And I'm going to set it all on fire. Yeah, I'm going to set it on fire with 140 year old synthetic dye that makes your neurons go do clear in a good way. Because listen, unlike 99% of the supplement industry in the peptide industry and the world out there on social media that sells you glorified fairy dust with Instagram marketing and affiliate codes and shills and sellouts and doctors who've sold their soul to make a break. I'm going to walk you through the exact biochemical mechanisms of why methylene blue is I believe it's probably the single most underrated performance molecule on the planet. And this isn't theory like this is all peer reviewed, get all my stuff peer reviewed. It's mechanism understood physiologically validated science based right it's not. I don't come out here and just go I don't know let's see what I can come up with today and see what it sounds like and if I sound smart. That's not what I do. I give you the information you decide what you do with it like I always say you want to buy great you don't great you want to listen great you don't great but what you shouldn't do is act like a toddler in my comments and just complain about what I said or try and get me triggered because I think it's ridiculous. That's your problem is you get all upset about things that just doesn't even matter. So listen here's what nobody's really talking about methylene blue right phenothiazinium chloride. You want to get all technical about it this stuff. Let that sink in just let that land for a second. This thing's older than your great grandmother's great grandmother the first fully synthetic pharmaceutical compound ever created I'm going to need some coffee because I'm about ready to go off coffee blacker than a witches crotch you guys want me to do one on caffeine. Explain why it's so gangster and why everybody should be drinking coffee I will just let me know. Don't say it in the comments because I won't answer say it somewhere on Instagram or don't send me an email if you guys sending me emails trying to sell me your stuff for your closer services I had someone dude started giving my executive assistant a hard time because hey I'm just wondering if you need any closers and she's no and then tried to chastise her so I get a job with me man and I have positions open so look Paul Eric it's the godfather of modern pharmacist. I'm a college he right used it to stain cells that's what he used it to do and here's where it gets really interesting because when he injected it into patients with malaria in 1891 that's a long time ago they got better they got better not because it killed the parasite directly but because it fundamentally altered the cellular electron dynamics so at a molecular level methylene blue is a thiazine die that exists in just two states and oxidized form which is the blue one that we all see I should have brought a bottle out here and a reduced form which is what I was talking about earlier colorless looso methylene blue and this is where the magic all happens because methylene blue doesn't just do one thing it's a cellular electron shuttle a molecular taxi service right that operating at this nanoscopic level inside every single one of your 37.2 trillion cells it does all kinds of things think about that if it's operating like that and it's transporting electrons what's it affecting three letters should come to mind by the way ATP so before I go into how this works you need to understand the problems it solves your mitochondria these little I talked about yesterday those little powerhouses that everybody on social media apparently is an expert with and they're all talking about how all mitochondria mitochondria listen all the people most people don't understand it I think I understand it really well and there's still things I'm learning that's how wild human biology is so they're running complex one through complex five of the ETC 2065 I know you guys just heard that one complex five complex five give me just listen this is the assembly line I talked about it yesterday that takes the food that you eat strips electrons from it and creates ATP adenosine triphosphate which is the only energy currency that every cell in your body accepts no ATP no life period there's no work around to this and I think that's where a lot of people are confused as they're going well but what if I do this instead no ATP but what if I do that no ATP won't work but what if I do this no ATP won't work like you have to always come back to the fundamentals and here's the problem complex one and complex three are very leaky it's like a garden hose that a squirrel chewed on it's just full of a bunch of holes so electrons escape they react with oxygen and create ROS's reactive oxygen species free radicals their cellular vandals that damage your mitochondrial membranes your DNA and your your proteins right remember cardiolipid SS 31 there's all kinds of things I could get into where just it's getting holes punched into the membrane and SS 31 comes in and helps that save that that's another podcast so 2012 a study in biochemica a biofisica acta showed that as we age yes that's really what it's called complex one efficiency drops by 40% 40 freaking percent so your cellular power plants are running at 60% capacity and you're wondering why you're tired at two in the afternoon I did a full test on fatigue but just if you could take one thing out of a bottle and you need to listen because this is the ATP crisis this is where methylene blue enters stage left like this biochemical hero for your life listen this is where most people's brains shut off and this is where the power is you have to understand this methylene blue except electrons directly from any DH at complex one and then it delivers them straight to cytochrome see by passing both complex one and complex three entirely it doesn't get caught in a traffic jam so let me translate what that means it creates a shortcut it's like an express link it's like a cellular bypass surgery that roots around the damaged inefficient reactive oxygen species producing sections of your electron transport chain 2017 study in neuro pharmacology showed that methylene blue at low doses we're talking one milligram you guys taking 1020 30 milligrams and I'll go over the difference between 1% methylene blue and 10% methylene blue and why that's a huge deal and why this dark blue these guys are all putting dies in it and I even have a list if you want of all the companies that peptide companies that are putting colored dye in along with yes I realize methylene blue is a die however they're adding deep blue die to make it look more blue so understand there is a lot of it's a lot of shit bags out there it's all I gotta say so it increases oxygen consumption by 70% and ATP production by 60% depending on the tissue type it's 30 to 60% but 70% 70% you know what you know what else increases oxygen consumption by 70% here I'll help you nothing literally nothing else you can swallow this is a good thing by the way not a bad thing but here's where it gets even better when methylene blue delivers those electrons to cytochrome C it doesn't just increase ATP production it decreases the reactive oxygen species production at the same time 2008 study in free radical biology and medicine showed methylene blue reduces reactive oxygen species production by 50 50% while increasing adenosine triphosphate production by 40% so it shuts off the damage and cranks up the power you're getting more energy with less cellular damage that's like upgrading from your 1972 gas toilet that's puking oil all over your driveway to listen to a 9-11 turbo s almost said a Tesla forget it not no I don't care get mad at me I really don't care I can't stand him so like a 9-11 turbo s like mine here's what everybody gets wrong they think methylene blue more ATP more energy it's an energy supplement wrong wrong wrong that's like saying my 9-11 turbo s is just a thing with wheels and stop getting caught up in the fact that I'm talking about a car if you don't like them it's like it's an example it's a metaphor methylene blue is listen I'll give you a very short synopsis of what it does it's an electron carrier and antioxidant at low doses I got to say this monamine oxidase inhibitor nitric oxide modulator it's an autophagy enhancer cellular debris cleanup hydrochondrial biogenesis simulator so it cranks out more power plants in 19 study in aging cell showed methylene blue delays cellular senescence literal aging by improving mitochondrial function and reducing oxidative stress in human we're not using mice anymore baby human fibroblasts it makes old cells act young again but it does it at the molecular level wait I'll sound like a Shamuel commercial right but wait there's more listen I yeah I'm being dramatic because this is dramatic methylene blue also acts as a selective inhibitor of what I talk about monamine oxidase a and b to be honest so you know what that means just to translate it slows down the breakdown of serotonin dopamine and norepinephrine for your brain more neurotransmitters hanging around equals better mood better focus better cognitive performance 2016 study journal of psychopharmacology showed one single dose one single dose of methylene blue one milligram at 10% improve memory consolidation and retrieval in healthy humans by 10% you might think 10% is not a big deal but start extrapolating that out think how badass that would make your memory one dose one one we're not talking a week of this that's why I'm saying this measurable cognitive improvement in healthy people listen I got to say this this is the framework that explains virtually all chronic diseases and I haven't talked about this enough and you have to understand this this is why I said where's my Nobel Prize systemic you have to understand why I'm bringing this up remember the three biological failures this is why and it proteins to methylene blue systemic inflammation insulin resistance and ATP shortage every single chronic disease diabetes heart disease Alzheimer's autoimmune conditions cancer involves at least two of these three and it's usually all three so here's the problem because nothing out there is addressing these things and when I point at what does it either gets censored or shut down or ignored and you guys go back to take you to do stupid things to yourself I'm trying to help you trying to help you so listen here's how methylene blue addresses every single one of them so you can put this in your opium pipe and you can smoke it you can figure out what to do with you can give me the finger and forget about it it doesn't matter but I'm doing this for you guys so look at the ATP shortage so we covered this at the beginning understand methylene blue increases ATP production by about 60% 30 to 60% by optimizing the ETC the electron transport chain function so more ATP more cellular function less cellular stress all good things look at systemic inflammation which is the primary problem here right 2015 inflammation research showed methylene blue suppresses NF Kappa B activation which is that master control for inflammatory gene expression I talked about this with GHK-Cu as well yesterday it also reduces IL6 IL1 beta TNF alpha the inflammatory cytokines that make you feel like human trash by reducing mitochondrial reactive oxygen species methylene blue cuts inflammation off but it does it at the source it takes the legs right off not with an immunosuppression with improved cellular efficiency now look at insulin resistance which is a big deal here's the smack with this one here's the rub 2011 study in diabetes journal demonstrated methylene blue improves glucose uptake in skeletal muscles 40% and increases insulin sensitivity through AMPK activation you guys remember what else does that outside of metformin which is crap mot C the same pathway that is activated also exercise by the way but out of all of those only two of those three matter I'm not talking about the methylene blue I'm talking about metformin mot C and exercise mot C and exercise gangster metformin riddled with side effects and causes all kinds of problems it is not a longevity drug only idiots call it that only imbeciles do that and pharmaceutical reps trying to get you to buy their stuff listen. With methylene blue causing these effects at a cellular level yeah this stuff geeks me out because I think it's fantastic this is just like you have a single molecule it has three fundamental disease mechanisms and it addresses all three simultaneously and people got an awful when I take it it tastes weird. Look your brain is 2% of your body weight but consumes what I always say 20% of your oxygen and 25% of your glucose it's the most metabolically demanding organ that you have wait till I get to your retina by the way you guys are going to be blown away at what I tell you your eyes your diabetes glaucoma. You're gonna go nuts when you hear what I tell you about methylene blue I should write it down here I have a you guys are looking going I have a post it right here but it's from my wife says I love you bed and I always keep it here why but I need to keep post it here because when I get things going in my head while I'm doing these podcast I have no notes in front of me this is. But I want you to understand this so your brain is starving just stop there starving right neurological conditions Parkinson's depression yes they've proven it Alzheimer's dementia brain fog. They all share one common feature mitochondrial dysfunction in your neurons 2014 study in Journal of Alzheimer's disease showed methylene blue reduces the towel protein aggregation right towel protein towel tangles the tangles that these are the things that define Alzheimer's 50% 50. All you have to do is take these drops 50 human clinical trials in 2016 showed stabilization of cognitive decline in moderate not mild moderate Alzheimer's dementia patients taking others as a significant amount 138 milligrams a day. Now you don't run out and start taking that much you don't have Alzheimer's or dementia don't want to prevent it that's stupid don't this is why I have to be very clear about this because a lot of you guys here this is oh my god I need that to. You start smashing I have a couple of guys in my in my black card group and they're taking like 15 different things I'm a goal the crosstalk is unbelievable don't do that fix your biology first and then start stacking things. But listen here's the mechanism methylene blue crosses the blood brain barrier like we're talking minutes like I took it 20 minutes ago or now 30 minutes ago or my 20 minutes 30 minutes ago and it's already in me and in my brain but once there. Concentrates in neurons ex blood concentration. 2012 study neuroscience showed it and go straight to work optimizing mitochondrial function right there on the spot just bang bang more ATP in your neurons better neurotransmitter synthesis better synaptic signaling better memory formation better neuro protection. 2010 study neurobiology of aging showed methylene blue increases brain glucose utilization 30% and improves men or memory retention in aged animals they're not doing this on humans yet. And improves memory retention to levels comparable to young people think about what I just said let it land. You're essentially giving your brain this premium fuel in a turbocharger slapped on it at the same time. So look at I was talking about energy and this is why this stuff works when some methylene blue works when caffeine right here in this cup if you're looking at my mug which I'm gonna drink some of when caffeine fails bad drink on that one. So caffeine blocks adenosine receptors right doesn't give you energy it masks the signal that tells you're tired. It's like putting tape I got nothing against caffeine but I need you understand besides before somebody goes I thought you said caffeine was good. This is a comparison people this isn't dogging on it it's comparing two different things and understanding which one is better. It's not saying they could both be great which one's more great just so you don't misinterpret what I'm saying I gotta be so crazy guys are so fragile. It's like putting tape over your car's check engine light methylene blue it doesn't produce energy it actually produces more ATP it fixes the energy problem the crisis at the source slide up in my chair here. Have to move this mic I'm gonna get a backache sitting here 2012 study disease models and mechanisms showed methylene blue improves muscle performance and reduces fatigue in CFS people with chronic fatigue syndrome 40 to 60%. But how many doctors are doing that they don't you know what they get for chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia they give methotrexate are you out of your mind that's a chemotherapeutic drug they also give it for rheumatoid arthritis they go it's off label helps the flare ups it also kills you. So look at here's why methylene blue works because muscles are packed with mitochondria. So when you capitalize on the ETC function the electron transport chain function muscles cells produce more ATP per oxygen molecule come consumed. But what I told you consumes oxygen increases oxygen consumption by how much the percent nothing else on earth does that that you can take orally you get more work output for the same energy input so you get a higher return if your return on investment with 70 X versus X which one are you gonna take this is efficiency at a cellular level like complete optimization. So here's something wild methylene blues been used to treat something called met hemoglobinemia since 1933. It's a condition where your hemoglobin can't carry oxygen properly right. But here's how it works because methylene blue reduces met hemoglobin back to the functional hemoglobin it literally restores the oxygen carrying capacity at the molecular level. This stuff should blow your mind if you hear this and go it doesn't make any sense to me. Just be happy about it and stand up and jump around and then sit back down and listen to this 2020 study published during covid by the way showed methylene blue reduces inflammatory markers and improves oxygenation in patients with severe respiratory disease severe respiratory distress. And yet how many of your doctors were dumping methylene blue and you none of them none of them they were giving you remdesivir. They were denying I've remected they were putting people on ventilators and watching them die. Don't even get me started on this. I lost a lung because of all that and I lost a lung because of a bunch of toxins and mold in my house because some jackass contractor builder named Lucian to Jack Jr. Who owns Dominion asset development by the way here in Texas. Look him up lied and didn't repair the brand new multi million dollar house that we built and gave him money for that needed a half a million dollars worth of work. The day we turned the key and he made promises for two years and then turned around and instead of solving the problem after I rolled out of the hospital in a wheelchair and being a lung almost dying. Because the insulation was filled with black mold everywhere which leaking under my hardwood floors foundation leaking roof out of snakes in the house. Yes fell on my son. You guys know the story. He slapped a nine hundred thousand dollar judgment on us instead still chasing us five years. So understand what if there would have been a way a doctor would have said to me to come full circle when I was laying in that hospital bed texting brandy going I'm not going to make the morning. We need to get you on methiline blue but he didn't. That's what I'm talking about. You guys need to take charge. I've learned so much. I told you when I came out of the hospital rock bottom lost everything. Lawsuit lost the house. No money. No physical fitness. You guys watch me. I thought I was a machine. Don't take what I'm telling you lightly. I realized God said you have stuff to do. You have a mission and you need to help. Give mankind the answers as many of them as you can. I don't do this for sales or pumping up my company or crapping on somebody else because I don't like what they said and I disagree with their analysis. I don't care. I come out here whether you like it or not because I give a crap about you because I care about you and I'm sorry but if you're too ignorant to accept that and understand that you're too busy chattering in your own head going. He went against what I said and it's making my products sell less. Maybe your products are crap because you're a liar. You ever think of that? Maybe you just do the right thing that so many people struggle to do the right thing. Don't they just to be very transparent. I'm out here doing the right thing to help you because I love you whether you get it or not. Listen, bypass the C 19 thing. The mechanism goes deeper. Methylene blue modulates something called this stuff gets me mad because nobody cares about mankind here on Earth right now. I believe as much as me. I just I don't get it. I'm not chasing anybody down. I'm not trying to crap on somebody's life and clipping their video. I haven't stolen a video ever. I haven't clipped somebody else's video and tried to go look at come by my stuff. But I'm going to lean on all this guy's knowledge. And when I did when I do use somebody else's information like my whole nicotine video I did. Who did I give credit for? Who did I give credit to? Who? Who? Oh, yeah, Dr. Brian Artis. Why? Because I got my information from him. Of course, I'm going to give him credit. What kind of a shill are you where you go out and you steal somebody else's stuff to market you? Your own stuff thinking that's right. I don't know. I guess I got ethics and morals and people that go out there and trash my videos and try and discredit me and use my stuff. I'm sorry. You got no ethics and morals because I've never done that once ever. I've also never gone into anybody's comments and trashed. I've never done a reaction video and trashed anyone. I just don't do that. I'm too busy winning because I give a crap about mankind. So this is the stuff that ticks me off and I get sidetracked and somebody gets in the comments. They go, yeah, but I wish he would just stay on thud decked. Don't listen to me. It's OK. You can go listen to someone else. Go listen to a fuchsia-haired chemist. I don't know. Go listen to some skinny bald guy. I don't know. Go listen to somebody else. That's OK. I don't need you here. I'm doing this for you and not for me. So what was I saying? I was like, methylene blue, it modulates nitric oxide signaling, right? Too much nitric oxide in sepsis or severe inflammation causes something called vascular collapse. You need to understand these things. This is why it's so good. Methylene blue inhibits guanylate cyclase. So it prevents excessive vasodilation and maintains tissue oxygenation. It's like having a smart thermostat for your vascular system. Listen, your endocrine system. Look at this. Let's just go line by line through systems. Your endocrine system runs on ATP, period. Remember what I said? ATP here. I'll help you. What runs on your body? What runs on ATP in your body? You ready? Every single cell. There you go. Now you know the answer. See, I tell you, if they go not this cell specifically, yes, that one too. Look at thyroid hormone production requires ATP. Thyrothromone synthesis. ATP. How about what about insulin secretion? Yep. You guessed it. T.P. 2013. Thyroid research showed methylene blue protects thyroid cells from oxidative damage and maintains thyroid hormone synthesis under metabolic stress. What are they giving you? Nope. T4, T3, armor, synthroid, levothyroxin. It doesn't matter. No. Look at sex hormones. Latex cells in men, ovarian cells in women have very high mitochondrial density. They eat ATP like it's a snack all day long. And they do it to convert cholesterol into testosterone, estrogen, progesterone. When you optimize mitochondrial function with methylene blue, you optimize the cellular machinery that produces these hormones. 2018 reproductive biology showed methylene blue improves sperm mobility and viability by enhancing mitochondrial function in spermatizoma. Your hormones are only as good as your mitochondria. Period. Full stop. Your life is only as good as your mitochondria. Full stop. Remember what I said? Okay, let's I was going to talk about the eyes. So look at your retina. The retina, this is nuts because you guys are going to hear this and go, come on. Your retina has the highest metabolic rate of any tissue in your body, higher than your brain, higher than your heart. It's essentially this thin sheet of neurons and photoreceptors running at max capacity, diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma both involve mitochondria dysfunction and oxidative damage to retinal ganglion cells. Now, listen, this is important. 2017 British Journal of Ophthalmology showed methylene blue protects retinal ganglion cells from death in glaucoma by improving mitochondrial function and reducing reactive oxygen species. But you need to hear what I'm about to say. 2015 study plus one showed methylene blue reduces retinal damage and diabetes and diabetes 60% through the same mechanism, optimized ETP production, reduced oxidative stress. But listen to why this is so important. You're literally saving cells that can't regenerate ever. Once a retinal cell dies, they are gone forever. People, methylene blue keeps them alive and functional. Why would you not take this stuff? Oh, I don't know if I should take it or not. Then don't look at cancer. Right. Look at cancer. Otto Warburn won the Nobel Prize 1931 for discovering that cancer cells preferentially use glycolysis instead of oxidative phosphorylation. Even when there's oxygen around, when there's the presence of oxygen, they don't care. They're like, nope, I'm going to do this instead. It's because their mitochondria are dysfunctional. I talked about this so many times, but here's the controversial part. 2019 frontiers and oncology showed methylene blue selectively kills cancer cells while sparing healthy cells by normalizing mitochondrial function. Cancer cells can't survive when you force them to use oxidative phosphorylation. Their damaged mitochondria can't keep up. They can't make the switch. Multiple studies, 2020 biochemical pharmacology, 2018. Cancer letters show methylene blue increases apoptosis in cancer cells while protecting healthy cells from chemotherapeutic induced mitochondrial damage. Listen, I'm not saying methylene blue cures cancer. The mechanism is there. It's documented and it's why people should be lining up for this. Listen, here's where people screw up. I think more is better. They take methylene blue every day indefinitely. Wrong. Don't do that. Don't do that. Chronic high doses, methylene blue can become pro oxidants that have an antioxidant right off the bat. That's a bad thing. If you don't know that 2014 toxicology and applied pharmacology showed continuous high dose methylene blue reduces glutathione primary antioxidant from your liver and increases oxidative stress. All bad things. Look at this. 9,200 days. Mitochondrial. It would be even better. It's the only time I'll say this. 70s on seven days off. Just cycle back and forth on that hypothetically for your kangaroo. Here's why. Because mitochondrial adaptation requires. Rometic stress. It's beneficial stress followed by recovery. You need to give yourselves time to upregulate the antioxidant systems. Think of it like, like training. You don't do squats every single day. You do squats a couple of times a week.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected risks, something called serotonin syndrome, which by the way is potentially fatal. Let's not do it. How about G6PD deficiency? It's a genetic condition that affects red blood cells. Methylene blue triggers hemolytic anemia in these people about 70% of the time. Not worth the risk. And how do you find out? Go to your doctor. Get some labs. Find out. If you're pregnant, if you're breastfeeding, no, absolutely not. This stuff isn't candy. This is pharmaceutical grade molecular compound with real effects. It's not a vitamin, you got to respect that. And I think that's the problem is, listen, I'm not dogging on you guys, but a lot of you insta bros stealing my stuff, trying to get people to buy from your little whatever Shopify store to sell peptides. You guys have no business doing it because you guys are telling everybody to buy stuff, but you're getting, you're using my videos to sell your product when you have no business doing it. You know what? Honestly, shame on you. If you understood it, you wouldn't do that. You're handing people guns that don't know how to use a gun, I guess is the way I would do it. Listen, there's so many things I could go over right now. If you're going to buy methylene blue, look for USP grade pharmaceutical methylene blue. If it doesn't say USP grade, I don't know, you're probably gambling in my opinion. I saw something the other day and I might even do a post on it today about the blue P, right? They're talking about these little sugar cubes. They look like little square gummy bears and they had sugar all over the outside and they were like, this is the methylene blue I take. It's the best one. You got to pee. You got to, you got to, your pee should be blue. What? Listen, first of all, let me talk about the blue P. People who see blue P and they either say, it's not working. I'm peeing it all out. I'm freaking out wrong. Okay. 20 2011 pharmacokinetic study and clinical pharmacokinetics showed this. Methylene blue has about A-50 to 70% oral bioavailability reaches peak plasma concentration at about one to two hours. The blue you pee out, you ready for this? It's excess body doesn't need it. That's your kidneys doing their job. You understand physiology. That's your kidneys doing their job. It's filtering out what your body doesn't need right now. Right this moment, but here's the key. Methylene blue accumulates in tissues with high mitochondrial density, brain, heart, liver, muscles. It sticks around where it's needed, not where it's not blue P means you took enough. It does not mean that it's working or it's real or that it didn't work and you're peeing it all out. It's that's not how it works. So listen, while I'm on this subject, let me address that too, because this is the elephant in the frigging bathroom that I've seen all over social media. And some of you guys are using it as marketing. You're going all if the P isn't blue, then it's fake. That doesn't even make sense. If my P isn't blue, the methylene blue is fake. Wrong, baby. That doesn't make any sense whatsoever. Less than none. Here's your sign. Stupidity. Here's the physiology, whether or not your urine turns blue depends on four factors that has nothing to do with authenticity. Let's go through. Let's go line by line. The first one hydration, your kidneys concentrate or dilute urine based on your hydration level. 2013 kidney international showed urine concentration can vary 10 fold based on water intake alone. If you're well hydrated, you're producing more dilute urine. The blue gets diluted below visible threshold. Your urine osmolarity, which is the concentration, it doesn't matter. It's got a range at the high end. The blue is obvious at the low end. It's invisible. Same dose, same absorption, different water intake, different color. Look at another factor, dosage, low therapeutic dose. You might just not excrete enough oxidized methylene blue to create a visible color change, especially if you're go up to the first thing I just talked about hydrated. Okay, the methylene blue is working inside your cells. If you remember what I talked about at the very beginning, I'm already four of it 40 minutes and I said, I was going to do 20 minute podcasts. And I just once you pull a string on my chest and you let me go like you let me off the chain and I go baby. But the methylene blue works inside the cell and it's getting reduced to what did I say? Luso methylene blue. It's colorless. It's shuttling electrons. It's making ATP, but the amount that remains oxidized, the blue one, right? You call methylene Azul gets filtered by your kidneys. It might be below the visual detection threshold that you've got. Maybe that's it. 2009 study, British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology showed urinary excretion of methylene blue varies from five to 40%. That's a huge number, you guys. 40% of oral dose, depending on the redox status in the tissue update. So here's the translation. Most of it gets used or stored, not peed out. Look at the third thing, metabolic redox state. Here's the biochemistry that's going to blow people's minds. And I'm sure somebody's going to take and clip and go, watch not really yet. My little cubes are magic. Your little cubes are probably lies is what they are. Or you have something filled with a real blue dye to make the blue dye look darker blue. That's literally what's going on in the social media world. It's disgusting to me. Inside your cells, methylene blue gets reduced to loosome methylene blue, which is colorless. This is how it specifically works. This is the electronic-accepting mechanism that we've been talking about for the last 35 minutes. 2010 study, Journal of Biology and Chemistry showed under conditions of high metabolic demand, exercise, stress, illness, all of it. More methylene blue gets reduced and retained in tissues rather than excreted in its oxidized blue form. You know what that means? If you're metabolically compromised, if you need it most, you might pee. You might just pee less blue, people, because your tissues are holding onto it. No blue pee might mean it's just working better, not worse. And look at individual enzyme variability. Your NADPH dependent reductase is the enzymes that reduce methylene blue to loosome, right? Methylene blue, loosome, methylene blue have genetic polymorphisms that vary between a ton of everybody. 2015, Pharmacogenetics and Genomics showed enzymatic reduction rates very five-fold between people based on genetic variants. Whatever the hell's going on in your physiology, baby. Fast metabolizers, for example, convert more to colorless, loosome, methylene blue. Slow metabolizers excrete the more oxidized, the blue form. So what? Same product, same authenticity, different genetics, different beagle. Yeah, go figure, listen, the bottom line is this blue pee is not, it's not QC, it's not quality control, it's not a test. It's a very crude, influencer-based indicator of excretion patterns that's shown, that's, it's influenced by hydration and dose and metabolism and genetics. You want to know if your methylene blue is real or not? Check your supplier, check your supplier. Here, I'll go even further. You want to know what, like I said, I don't care if you buy it from me or not. What I say is that if you, and by the way, the one I carry is 10%. The one on everywhere else, just look at it, don't take my word for it, is 1%. That is a massive, like orders of magnitude difference. That means, let's say at 1%, you would need 100 drops and at 10%, you only need three drops and it has nothing to do with the color. So just keep that in mind. I don't care where you buy it. I'm just saying, stop buying it because you think it has to make your pee blue because that's the most ridiculous thing in the world. Get it from somebody with a certificate of analysis showing USP grade that has spectrophotometric verification and I'll even give you what it is. Just so you know what it's supposed to be, 6.68 nanometer absorption wavelength and batch testing, just all of that. Just so you know, no push on my company, but that's what we do. It's not by checking your toilet bowl like you're reading frigging tea leaves, you guys. Your mitochondria don't care what color your pee is. They care about electron transport optimization and that you can measure with energy levels, cognitive function, performance, not bathroom selfies and a picture of your toilet going at what wasn't real. Listen, let me button this up. Come from full circle. Methylene blue, 140 year old synthetic dye increases ATP production 60, 30 to 60%. It reduces oxidative stress, 50% improves cognitive function. One dose. Remember what I said, one dose durably and one dose addresses all three causes of chronic disease, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage protects neurons, muscles, organs, mitochondrial level improves insulin sensitivity massively protects retinal cells. Remember they don't come back. Anti cancer costs about I don't know 50, 100 bucks for a month. Why isn't everybody talking about this than other than trying to sell it? I'm not trying to sell it right now. I'm just talking about it. Here's why there's no patent. It's old. It's tired, it's dated, boring supplement industry can't mark it up 10,000% and sell it with influencers and shills. So the peptide companies do it. But how about this? Now you know the biochemistry and you understand the mechanisms and you now have the physiological framework to know exactly what the hell it does. It's not biohacking. This is optimization theater. This is fundamental mitochondrial medicine backed by over 100 years of research and hundreds and thousands of peer reviewed studies. Listen, your cells, it's I'll make it very binary. We could wrap this entire podcast up into one statement. Your cells are either producing enough ATP to function optimally or they're not. That's it. You guys are complicating things and complexity kills everything. My buddy, Baydro Skulein says, you know what? Leadership is always a problem. Leadership is always the answer. Complexity kills everything. It's just a fact. Everything else, your energy, your mood, your cognition, your hormones, your longevity flows from that one simple fact. Either you're producing enough ATP or you're not. Methylene blue is that one molecule that tips the scales in your favor. And now, so I think the more operative question is, what the hell are you going to do with it? What are you going to do about it? What are you going to do with all this information? Go do something awesome with it and actually max out your life so you don't have to worry about being on managed decline medication for the next 40, 50, 60 years. Like I said, I'm out here to help you, man. That's it. Hope you got something out of that. I got to go. Never miss.