All right, so after yesterday's migraine post, I figured I'd do an entire episode on it to help you guys out because I got a lot of follow-up questions after it. And you know what? I empathize. I want you guys to think about something for all of you guys that have never experienced a migraine or even just a really severe headache. The problem with it is it's inescapable, right? Like when you have the sniffles, you can go do something. When you have a cold, you can go do something. When you have a cough, you can go do something. When your thumb hurts, you can go do something. And crushing headache are two things that pretty much shut you down for most people. It's very difficult for them to go over or to keep on doing things. And and if you can, then you're one of those people. And I'm not saying it's good or bad. I'm just saying it's very difficult to manage your life when you're you bend over to tie your shoes and your head pounds so bad. It's I don't know how much. Here's the question, right? Most pe and the medical world knows this. The big pharma knows this. You know, a lot of people that make a lot of money, billions and billions of dollars know this. How much would you pay to get out of pain? Not to solve the problem. They'll tell you that's what they're doing, but how much would you pay to get out of pain? And the answer when you're in the pain is virtually anything. When you're not in the pain, remember, it's a deficiency need. When you don't have any of the discomfort, you don't think about it. But when you have it, that's all you think about. It's like health, wealth, and relationships, right? They're all deficiency needs. when you have them, you never think about them. Or when you don't have them, that's all you think about. And so, I want you to think about that when it comes to migraines because I really feel for you on this one. My mom, I don't I don't know if she still does. God, I really hope not, but my mom used to get brutal migraines sometimes, and my dad once in a while, too, but I would see my mom just get shut down for the day. And I know some people, I've had countless patients, thousands, that have come to me for this specific thing for migraines. I'll give you the exact protocol I use with them. You don't even need to come see me. You don't even need to ask me. You don't And no, I don't have a clinic. So, you guys keep asking me, "Where's your location?" I live in Texas, but I don't do I don't do live patients anymore. I just don't. Oh, I'm transparent about it. You guys, let me let me touch on this real quick. Yeah, they revoked my license in California for a paperwork issue because Christine, that fat tub of goo, did I say that out loud? at the board was gunning for me because I kept shutting her down when she kept trying to come after me for nothing. And and I'm very transparent about I don't care. It doesn't change the knowledge I have. It doesn't change how intelligent I am or what I can do or how much I want to help you or how I'm just going to give you answers. It doesn't change that. I just I don't really care. And you know what it does is it takes away the governor on what I'm allowed to say or do cuz now I say and do anything and I don't have a board to worry about. I just help people. So, if anything, if you're a comic book person and you watch X-Men 97, it's like when Magneto pulled the adamantium out of Wolverine and it actually that was the governor. He just got way more powerful. Welcome to my world. Come on. I don't care who you are. I think that's a pretty cool analogy. Anyway, listen, you guys have gotten a story about migraines and it's actually pretty incomplete. I've gone down the rabbit hole for what I've seen online and all these people with your magic little cures and they're you rub this herb on your temple and it goes away. all this stuff and it's a very financially convenient for a multi-billion dollar industry is what it is and it honestly borders on it. So I'm going to tell you today that ends. If you listen to what I tell you to do, it ends. You can take control of all this. You just have to make the decision. But I'm not going to talk about your headaches. I'm going to give you a master class in human biology so you understand what's going on and show you it's the same thing. And I talked about this briefly in my post. It is it's the three system failure. And it might sound a little redundant, but this is the problem is this is the cause and you have to understand how to handle the cause of the problem. not just hide from the problem because here's the rule of anything. If you stop taking it and the problem comes back, you never solved the problem in the first place. So just keep that in mind. So when people go, "What about diabetes?" If you have type 2 diabetes and you ha you do not need to take metformin, you do not need to have a hummalog pump installed. You do not need to take insulin. You need to solve the problem. Because if you stop taking insulin and your diabetes is rampant, you never solved it. You just managed it with managed decline, which is always the problem I have. So, I'm trying to give you the answer so you don't have to fall into that trap and be a slave to a system that is designed to keep you sick, desperate, and a customer and a subscriber for life. It's this it's this. So, understand the migraine is this three system failure that's happening inside your body that your doctor, your neurologist, and big pharma are utterly unequipped to fix because they're not incentivized whatsoever to find a cause. They're incentivized to manage the symptom. And business baby is booming. You got to understand. So, look, it start with a lie. What is a migraine? It's not a headache. And I said that yesterday and boy, some of you guys got really mad. I'm like, it's worse. A headache is a symptom, first of all, and second of all, that's not what this is. A migraine is a full-blown systemwide neurological event. It's a it's this cascading electrical storm in your brain initiated by a hyperexitable cortex. Period. But there's a spark. The ignition, it's not in your head. It's in your gut. It's in your mitochondria. It's in your hormones. Which is why a lot of you women when you're going through menopause or pmenopause or when you have very strong ovulation cycles and you just get hammered to death which you shouldn't either. It shouldn't [\h__\h] you. I've seen people I've had women as patients who have been shut down for 2 days, 3 days when they're on their period bedridden cuz it's so catastrophic. And I got to say this, any dude that goes, "Oh god, just toughen up." You know what? First of all, squeeze something the size of a watermelon out of something the size of a lemon and let me know how you feel. And second of all, go and take a rock and repeatedly smash yourself in the crotch with a stone with that same rock for three days straight, non-stop. Just crush your balls non-stop. Let me know how you feel. I have no idea what it feels like to have brutal pain and menstrual cramps and all of that. I don't, but I know that I've seen people that have been crippled to the point where they're throwing up and they're balling their eyes out and they would do anything short of shoving an ice pick in their eye to make the pain go away. A certain pain I go, "Come on, you get a paper cut." I'm like, "Just toughen up. you're okay. But certain times I'm like, "Dude, most people that listen, most people that talk about how tough you should be, aren't that tough. They're just noisy." So, let me go over the phases because migraines, I've seen them [\h__\h] people. I've seen people get ocular migraines that it's it just gives them usually it's after insane exercise, by the way, and they call it a migraine. They give a label to scare you. It's not there's nothing. It's not a migraine, but you see this it's like scootois, right? just all these wiggly lines and squirly lines around you around your the periphery of your vision. Sometimes super or infraorbital. That's it. That's all you get. Now, that could be the preamble to a very bad experience, but not always. But you have to understand what's causing what so you can mitigate the problem and then make sure it never ever comes back. So, that's what I'm going to do. Okay, you ready? So, let's go through the phases so you actually understand what the hell this is. You get this quiet scream from your mitochondria. This is phase one, right? So, your cellular power plants are failing. Period. They're not producing enough adenazine triphosphate ATP. So here and here. Why? It's because you have this systemic inflammatory problem and this insulin resistance. It's gumming up and clogging up all the machinery. I talked about that in my post yesterday on Instagram and social media. This energy deficit though, it makes your neurons very unstable and extremely hyper sensitive. So they're sitting there just just ready. It's like they're just the rattles going in the snake and it's all curled up and it's ready to strike. Like it's just pissed off, ready to go. That's phase one. Phase two, the trigeminal nerve, which is the main sensory nerve of your head and your face. In case you're wondering what it was, it gets beyond activated. This isn't a gentle nudge. This is a 10 alarm, 20 alarm, 50 alarm fire. If it exists, it releases this cocktail of inflammatory neuropeptides. Alcatonin G related peptide. That's the CG, the CGP I was talking. That's something called substance P. But it doesn't just release it. It dumps it directly onto the meningis that it's the protective layers around your brain. This causes vasoddilation, plasma protein extravisation, which is just so you know what it is. It's this leaking of fluid into the surrounding tissues. Honestly, it happens a lot during IVs, during chemotherapy. It happens all the time. It just gets into the interstial space, right? And this brutal localized neurogenic inflammation. That right there is that throbbing pain. Your brain is inflaming the hell out of itself. We're not done. All the fun is just starting. Phase three, the brain stem gets involved. So your superior salvatory nucleus and trigeminal cervical complex go they go batshit like fully haywire. So they amplify the pain signal. They send it everywhere. So now light becomes agony. Sound becomes agony. Stabbed with a knife. Nausea sets in. Smells set you off. Even touch sets. This is a coordinated neurological breakdown of everything, every sensory ability that you have. And here's the problem. What modern medicine does. They see the fire and they try and do what? the building's on fire and they grab a roller and some paint and they start painting the walls. They give you tripads. That doesn't even make sense. Tryans are vasoc constrictors. So they try and squeeze these dilated blood vessels. They don't even come close to addressing the neuroinflammation. So how does that help? And if you go, well less blood still doesn't change the cytoines. It still doesn't change any of the problem that's being dumped onto the meningis. None of this changes anything. It just restricts what should be there to take toxins away. It doesn't address the neuroinflammation. doesn't address the mitochondrial failure, which are the root causes of this entire damn thing. This is a it's a it's a tactical nuke that unfortunately sometimes work. It sometimes works. It really does, but it fries your vascular system in the process. And the new CGP monocodal antibodies. Well, I called it a billion-dollar band-aid. Boy, did some people get mad. That's not That's insulting. What about the research? Listen, it's not research. Do you know that none of the research is to help you? All of the research is just to extricate money from you and keep you on the edge going hopefully they'll be able to cure this soon. How long have you been waiting for a cure for cancer? Is cancer on the rise? Oh yeah, I could do a whole podcast. I could do a series on cancer. If you want me to do a series on cancer, I will open up a can of whoop ass on the truth about cancer and I'll let you know everything. Even with the chemotherapy and who invented it, all of it, the whole mustard gas thing, everything I will let and it's not tinfoil hatwearing stuff. This is just historical fact. And they went, "Wow, we can make a lot of money off of this." Yeah. Listen, the CGP monoconal antibodies are a billion multi-billion dollar band-aid. That's it. They block one single one one single inflammatory signal, a symptom of the problem, by the way. So, your body being the brilliant and completely adaptive system that it is, you know what it does? Simply finds another pathway, another inflammatory cytoine, another pain signal. The house is on fire and they're arguing about which window the smoke is going to come out of. Oh, it's going to be this one block. This one just comes out of the other side. This is the failure of biology on three fundamental fronts. So listen closely because I'm going to go over this once and this is the core of everything and you need to understand this. So part one, the mitochondrial energy crisis. This is the basis of all disease. If you can and it's not solved the same way in everybody. It's the same problem that needs to be solved, right? So you have to understand that. But there's only three problems that cause 100% of all diseases on the planet, including migraines and all the other stuff that you guys keep asking me about. And I'm going to keep coming out here and just giving you giving free giving you the answers so you actually can do something about it. What you do about it is up to you, but I care that much. I want you to have the solution. So you have this not the first thing, right? The first failure, mitochondrial energy crisis. Your neurons are the most energy dependent cells in your body. They demand this constant, incredibly immense supply of ATP, systemic inflammation, which is driven by gut dispiosis, poor diet, and environmental toxins and all the nonsense. Like, if you live anywhere where I live in Texas, just east of Dallas, they have been painting the skies nonstop with chemtrails so bad that for the last 5 days, all our animals in our house have gone nuts. There's dead bugs all over the place. It's not cuz it's cold, by the way, cuz it's not cold. It's warm. We just got a thunderstorm last night and today. So, none of this. It's because they keep spraying the crap out of the skies and they go, "Oh, they're not doing that. You need to watch the chemtrail documentary on Netflix." I think it is maybe Amazon. I'm not sure. I have to maybe it's on Prime. I'm not sure where it is, but you need to watch it. But these environmental toxins creates this tidal wave of cytoines that just beats the holy crap out of you. IL1 beta, IL6, TNF alpha. These inflammatory signals directly inhibit the electron transport chain inside your mitochondria. They shut down the ETC. They literally It's like just throwing you like what is that? Spray string. Silly string, but it's made out of crazy glue. Into the works. No energy. Hyper sensitive neurons. Migraine trigger number one. We're not done. insulin resistance. This is catastrophic because your brain is a greedy crack [\h__\h] for insulin. It needs it just like this drip, right? It needs this steady clean supply insulin resistance in the brain. Yeah. By the way, your brain has insulin receptors. People I had somebody go with those. Yes, it does. Basic neurology just learned. It means neurons can't efficiently take up glucose. So, they're starving in a sea of plenty. This energy deficit again leads to neuronal hyper hyper hyperexitability. And high insulin drives systemic inflammation. It creates this vicious, you see where I'm going with this, right? It's the self-licking ice cream cone of catastrophe that I talked about, right? High insulin drives systemic inflammation. It creates this self-perpetuating disaster. It just never stops. So, I called it yesterday. I said, "You're fat, you're inflamed, and your brain is pissed off and starving." Still not done. Three, this is the inflammatory problem. This is the fuel on the fire itself. A leaky gut allows lipopolysaccharides, the LPS, the fra the toxic fragments, right, from gut bacteria to pass from your sewage treatment plant right here, your gut, into the nice, clean, perfectly wonderful cardiovascular system. it enters the bloodstream. This causes endotoxmia which is this chronic steady lowgrade systemic inflammation. This inflammatory soup crosses the bloodb brain barrier. This is where it gets problematic because it activates your micro ga which are your brain's immune cells right ga gal cells are the custodians basically and micro ga are the little warrior immune cells right and it primes your entire nervous system for the migraine concert you're about to have and it lowers the threshold. Let's just say significantly. These three failures, you guys, they don't just cause pain. This is where I don't I started bringing this up and people went what? They cause neurodeeneration you guys. Chronic neuroinflammation is the foundation of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, ALS, every migraine is not just an event. It's a test run, a practice run for cognitive decline. Your brain is literally quite literally quite literally cooking itself. So let's connect the dots that they don't want you to see. Hormones, right? Watch. Hormones, estrogen dominance, which is uh dominance, which is a hallmark of of our xenoestrogenfilled world potentiates those inflammatory cytoines, disrupts all the neuronal stability, which is why women are disproportionately affected, which is that why at the beginning I said, "You guys got to have a little empathy because not only are they building our children and suffering through it, they're also enduring the migraines. How about we be a little nicer, a little more tolerant?" I don't think women should be men, but I don't think men should be women either. And both of we both of us need to stay in our freaking lanes. But that's a totally other podcast. Cognitive function. During a migraine, your brain is in a state of spreading cortical depression. It's this wave of electrical silence followed by hyperactivity, right? Up and down. It's literally shortcircuiting. Brain fog isn't a side effect. It's a symptom of the ongoing energy failure and inflammation. So remember, they flip the script on you guys. They go, "This is the cause." No, it's not. It's the symptom. And until you get that, you're treating the wrong side of the equation. Look at alcohol. This is massive. This causes this problem all the time. It's a direct mitochondrial prison. It's a direct mitochondrial poison and a vasoddilator. It's taking gasoline, pouring it on both the energy crisis and the inflammatory fire. And you're wondering why it's getting worse. NADES. Oh, this is the fun part right here. People just take a tiny little ibuprofen, Advil. They inhibit cyclloo oxygenase COX. These the COX inhibitors, that's what they are. That reduces prostaglandins. is it gives you this short-term relief maybe, but long term and these things annihilate your gut lining. So you take that chemical broth in your gut that's spilling endotoxins into your bloodstream that crosses the bloodb brain barrier that fires up the micro ga to pour inflammatory cytoines all over your brain and meninges and you make it worse by taking an NC seed for a short period of time for a little bit of relief because it creates more leaky gut, more systemic inflammation. So it sets you up for the next even worse migraine. You're borrowing pain relief from Tony Tutoto's the lone shark with vicious brutal terms. And they'll give you these different names for this stuff, man. Aura, vestibular, hemoplegic, migraines, all that stuff to make it seem very complicated. It's not complicated, you guys. Listen, it's the mechanism is the same. Mitochondrial energy failure leading to neuronal hyperexitability and neurogenic inflammation. The trigger, maybe it's different. There's a bunch of triggers, but the kindling that starts the fire is always the same. It's the same three piles. Energy deficit, insulin resistance, and systemic inflammation 100% of the time. I'm not wrong. So, when people argue about that's not always the case. Yes, it is. It is. And I prove it every time. That's good coffee today. The business is a racket. This is such a racket. The global migraine market was valued at over 4 billion. 4 billion. And that was in 2023 and is projected to hit 7 billion by 2030. I think it's going to hit more 10. Do you think a 7 billion dollar industry wants you to take some magnesium and maybe some riboflavin, magnesium L3N8, riboplavin, CoQ10, fix your gut, handle the microbiome? No, they want you sick and desperate and dependent on their monthly CGP injection that costs thousand. What did I say at the beginning? You would pay anything to make the pain go away. I understand that. Costs thousands of dollars and doesn't work. It doesn't work long term. It's not even possible. Monoconal antibodies for a migraine make it make sense. Listen, these drugs cause biological damage. I don't know if you figured this out yet. They don't care about you. CGP inhibitors cause severe constipation, hair loss, weight gain, because CGP isn't just in your head. It's involved in gastrointestinal motility, and homeostasis. Tryans, which is the other side of this ugly coin, cause medication overuse, headaches, medication overuse, headaches, and coronary vasocal constrictions. So, let me get this straight. You're going to choke off the pump that keeps me alive in order to not fix the problem in my brain. You're trading a head problem for a heart problem and neither one gets solved. But you're adding a new disease. Tell me that's not planned. Of course it is. So let me let me talk about the exit because this is the cure. This is the stack that rebuilds your biology from the ground up. And I'm not suppressing symptoms cuz that doesn't work. I need to rebuild the system. That's how I that's how I operate. If you want to know how I operate as a doc, this is it. Listen, how you show up every day, that's you. So this is how I show up every day. Sometimes I cuss, sometimes I don't. I know my stuff better than anyone else because I care more than anyone else. So, I'm going to target the three failures, energy, inflammation, and insulin sensitivity and solve the problem forever. So, follow me on this. KPV, lysine, proline, veiling, right? KPV. It's this triple acting wicked powerhouse. This stuff's wicked. This peptide fragment seals a leaky gut by upregulating zulin proteins and it shuts down the primary source of the systemic inflammation, which is the endotoxmia. It's also it's an incredibly potent anti-inflammatory. It suppresses TNF alpha and IL6. It calms the inflammatory storm at the source. Oh, they bust my balls when I give dosages, man. I really want to so bad. It's just subq. And if you want the rest, you got to hit me up in the black card. I can't. I want to. And if you're like other people do, well, I care enough to make sure that I'm still here. But I can tell you on Rumble. How about that? I'll put exact dosages in Rumble for you because I care. And by the way, let me touch on the black card cuz somebody sent me a message yesterday about it. Can you can somebody call me and explain the black card? No, nobody's going to call you. Here's the black card. I do 52 Q&A calls throughout the year. Every Monday 5:00 central. I'm just east of Dallas. I stay on the call. I'm going to put a cap on it. 2 hours is my limit cuz I've been on the call for 2 and 1 half hours just banging out questions. So at 7:00 I'm going to go peace out. Why? Because I also have a life and paying me 10 grand is not even close to enough to make me eat up my entire night. It's not meant to be a jackass. It's that's more beyond fair. beyond fair because anyone here's why though because anyone in the black card also is part of the VIP community and you can just type in the question and I will come into the VIP community. I check every morning and I answer all the questions. So if you ask me at 4:00 I'm not going to look at it till tomorrow and it's 24 to 48 hours. I might not look at it for 2 days but it's faster than any doctor you're ever going to go see and I guarantee you I will give you the right answer that works. Do I think 10 grand is worth it? I think you could add a zero to that and it's still worth it. I think you could add two zeros to it and it's still worth it. It's your life. It's your health. Nobody does this better than me again because I care more than anyone else. But the black card 52 Q&A calls every Monday or like for throughout the year. It's every Monday. And my Saturday call, which is limiting beliefs, mindset, get your head right. The actual See, this is the one that people don't get. It's the most valuable call because it if I give you the instructions and you don't have the mindset to do it, it doesn't matter what I tell you to do. That's why I say it's a really valuable call. And that is Saturdays 10:00 a.m. again, Central time. I have a business call on Sundays, the inner circle. I teach people how to make a bunch of money because people ask me all the time like how are you successful? How did you do it in four years? So, I started doing it. But that call, my business call is not I'm not going to do my Sunday business call anymore on as of January. I'm done with that call. I have two reasons. One, people don't listen. And I give a ton of advice on how to do it. I still have people going, I just can't get my business to get off the ground. It's not for lack of anything other than you're not doing the work and you don't want to stay in the game long enough. And two, it's just demolishing my time and there's more than enough. So, you'll get access to the entire business archive, which is 3 years of instructions. Nobody's going to go through it and all the answers. Like, we're talking how to do automation, how to set it up, how to make there's a full blueprint on how to make a million a year and how to make 2 million a year without leaving your house. And it actually works. It's not this like passive income. Like, it really works. You just got to show up and do it. It's all in there. So, I'm just going to include it with a black card as of January. You can just get all that stuff. And then all the resources in the black card are included in the black card. All my protocols I've used with patients over decades of things that work. I want to help. It's one year. $1,997. I don't take credit cards. Somebody as sent me an email. Sent my staff an email this morning. Hey, I want to join, but it says that you don't take credit cards anymore. I don't. Oh, thank you. Wire transfers the only way you're going to get in. Why? Cuz I just don't want to give my control of my finances over to a credit card company cuz all they do is bust my balls and then they just say, "We're going to you're making too much money or you you didn't follow this rule or that rule." Listen, I'm not selling rails of coke. I'm helping people. But understand, this is a weird world we live in where they decide what you're allowed to do to make money even if it's within the confines of the law and it's actually helping people. No, we don't want to do that. But you can sell widgets and rip people off and give them medication that causes this laundry list of effects that kills them and that's okay. And you can sell it for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Make it make sense. Anyway, you want to join the black card support at Spartan ArmyLLC.com. Amber and Jessica with one s and a K cuz names matter. That's why I said it. J E S I K A Jessica. Those are my executive assistants. Jen is my CFO and they will send you the wire information. I use a local bank here and it's Frost Bank of Texas. And they will send you the account and the routing. You wire. It gets verified by my CFO. Sometimes it takes a day. Even if it's there, it'll say pending. So, we want to wait till it comes through. Why? Because that's smart. Only idiots go, "Okay, you you told me. Trust me, bro." No. And then you're in. If you want to work one-on-one with me, that's an entirely different conversation and significantly more. I don't do quick little consults or anything like that. It's either work with me or don't because you can ask me anything on the black card and it's for one year and if you don't like it, it might sound like a douchy thing. I really don't care. I'm not going to refund you cuz you need to learn how to commit and I know what I'm doing is incredible. So, I want to help you. That's what I've got. And if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics and get all your research stuff there, great. And if not, okay. I just know this. You're in good hands when you hang with me. I think my actions speak very clearly by coming out here every day. that sometimes people need a little point in the right direction. So, you choose. But there's the black card. Join the black card or don't buy from elite or don't. It's okay. So, let me explain this cuz this is I can go over all the stuff in there, do all the stuff you guys ask me. And anyway, there's my pitch that I can give you during my podcast. So, KPV BPC57. Now, this is understand why I'm saying this. It repairs the bloodb brain barrier right out of the gate. So, it's a huge thing. But it's the ultimate system regulator. It accelerate. This is the other part. Remember the up upregulation of zulin. So it tightens up the tight or it fixes the tight protein junctions in the stomach so you don't have this endotoxic leak. BPC helps in that too. All of this is subq by the way. Stop with your orals. Stop it. This accelerates healing of the gut drastically. It solves the leaky gut problem times more. It promotes angioenesis. It brings blood flow and healing to the damaged tissues which are everywhere systemat. They're systemwide in you. It regulates serotonin and the dopamine systems in your system in your neurology, right? It stabilizes neuronal function. It's like the leader of the repair crew. It's the one that's it's Axel Rose singing into the microphone, right? It's the leader of the band. Mephylene Blue. It's like a mitochondrial ninja. This thing at low doses. So, there's two ways it can be taken and the second way is IV and it's for a whole other problem. It has two radically different effects. But at low doses, almost a micro dose, right? It donates electrons directly to cytochrome C in the ETC, the electron transport chain. So it bypasses all the blocks and the traffic jam that's caused by specifically by inflammation. It dramatically increases ATP production about 30 increases oxygen utilization. It's an incredible antioxidant. It powers up all those starving neurons which is a gamecher for migraines. Lot C. I tell everybody with this one, start at a much lower dose than what is recommended by me to acclimate to it. Not because the dosage is wrong, because your system needs to get used to it. Because about 30% of the people that take MOD C get a histamine reaction at first. Oh, it's going to be the second dose. But just keep that in mind as you're doing this. There's nothing wrong with it. There's nothing wrong with you. It's just that this happens. Mod C is the mitochondrial derived peptide. I always say that because it comes from you for you, right? It's an insulin sensitizer. incredibly like violently insulin sensitive. That's how you become. It improves glucose metabolism in your muscles. It pulls sugar like a vacuum out of your bloodstream and gives your brain much cleaner fuel source. It attacks failure. Number two, rioplavin. This is vitamin B2. It's a core precursor for FAD and FMN, which are the essential co-actors to the mitochondrial electron transport chain complexes one and two, I believe, if I'm not mistaken. A bunch of randomized trials showed it significantly reduces migraine frequency because it boosts energy production. Magnesium L3enates another one. It's the only form of magnesium that's been shown to effectively cross the bloodb brain barrier. So magnesium is a natural NMDA receptor antagonist. So it calms the neuronal activity or excitability critical co-actor for 300 plus enzyatic reactions at least including though ATP production. It's a direct stabilizer of the hypers sensitive cortex that's setting off the violent category 5 storm here in your head. CoQ10, it's another critical electron carrier in mitochondria complex 3. This one reduces migraines if you take enough of it at the right time paired with all this other stuff. The days, the length of the migraine, even the number of days you have it, cuz some people have these for a week. 50% is what they've shown. It's like jet fuel for your cellular engines. This isn't a slap together protocol. This is stuff I've used with thousands of people and it's also not a pick one approach. So if you're like if I could only if I can't afford it and I can only pick one, don't do any of it. It doesn't work like that. That's like saying, I have this really amazing Ferrari. It's a V12, but I can only afford one spark plug. Which cylinder should I put it in? None. You just can't afford the Ferrari then. Enjoy driving your beat up 77 Impala four-door with three hub caps. I don't know. This is a synergistic stack because it takes on the entire problem from all the angles that it needs to be addressed. Right? KPV and BPC57 extinguish the inflammatory fire and they repair the gut which is the primary source of the issue. Methylene blue ribboflavin, CoQ10, MC C all supercharge the mitochondrial energy production and fix insulin resistance and magnesium althanate or thrienate stabilizes the entire nervous system. I think this is a pretty well put together protocol. How about you? Cuz it works. You're attacking all three biological failures simultaneously. It was a rhetorical question, by the way. I know it works because I've done this thousands of times. You remove the kindling. Remember what I said, the catalyst, you know, the trigger might be different, but the kindling is always the same. It's one of the three things, right? So, you repair the power grid. You fire the security team that's setting off all the damn false alarms. And the result is this. The electrical storm has no reason to start. That's I want you guys to start looking at your health this way instead of going how do I solve how do I handle the problem after it's shown up. How do I make it so the problem's not even welcome in my system? How do I make whatever pathophysiology is surrounding it in my life? How do I make it so it's not welcome? It can't show up. That's what this does. It prevents the electrical storm from even beginning. The threshold for a migraine event rises so high that normal life no longer triggers it. Does that make sense? Listen, the migraine business doesn't want you to know that a cure isn't in a patented syringe or an IV drip that you go get for a couple of grand every month. It's in understanding your own physiology, your own biology, which is precisely why I come out here. It's in peptides and minerals and vitamins and changing your lifestyle that are all safe and effective and dirt cheap compared to a lifetime of neurologist co-pays and thousand multi,000 injections every single month. I had somebody go, "Why come peptides are so expensive? Are you high? Stick a crowbar in your wallet, dude, and actually take care of your health." This is the same guy that'll spend 700 bucks on an Xbox and rips out 10 grand a month on only Only Fans. Take care of your health. They're not expensive. You're cheap. Your priorities are screwed up. You've been given a broken model of care designed for revenue, not solutions. I say it almost every time. So, I This is a brand new model. It's a biological model. It's based on science and fact and physiology and biochemistry and the model that works. I know cuz I've done this with thousands of people. You understand that the power to stop I'll say it any disease process. It's not in their hands. It's in yours. And the power to prevent the pathology from showing up in the first place begins with you. Make it unwelcome in your system. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Ever miss.