All right, let's hit the gas. Oh man, I am lit today. Sometimes I just get in these moods. I come out here to my studio and I just go full throttle. And today is is one of those days because I see so many listen so many of these bodybuilders with affiliate links who have no clue about peptides or sarmms or chemistry or endocrinology or physiology other than what they learned in muscle and fitness. It's like the coaches out there that have no business coaching people, but they're telling you how connected they are to their kids. Listen, if you want real information, then just follow me around and I'll give you the truth. You might not like my delivery, but I promise I'm going to give you the truth. So, I I I came on here and I was talking to my business partner and we were going over a lot of the things that that we have in in one of our companies and then I was bouncing some of this off Brandy, my wife, and energy and fatigue. That is a big deal. So, I'm going to hit all kinds of information to help you get out of it and rewrite the software and your physiology. Now, I have to say this. All of this is hypothetical. It's all research. It's not meant to diagnose, treat, prescribe, cure, or anything like that. It is purely for entertainment, and it is based on rodent models and kangaroo models and all the other things that have nothing to do with human beings. And it's not approved by anything remotely close to the FDA. All right? So, as long as I get that out of the way. Now, if you know, you know, right? I don't free speech my eye. fact that you have to put those caveats in there. But if you get where I'm going with this, you know what I'm talking about. So energy and fatigue destruction. That's what I want to talk about because this is going to change your life. And there are two honestly little known peptides that will fix your mitochondria, crush fatigue, and you could still drink your coffee because you like the way it tastes. I just want to make sure that you're not using any like this is going to fix all your energy problems, right? So imagine this cuz I I got a message. This is what tripped this. What triggered this in my head, by the way, is somebody that asked me, they've tried everything and they can't have any energy. They've drank everything and taken everything and nothing works and they're always dragging their ass. So, imagine the scene, right? It's o dark 30. Your whatever time it is, you get up. Your phone alarm sounds off. It sounds like a tactical nuke to you because your brain is so fried from the night before. And that high-performance Spotify playlist that you fell asleep to hoping to absorb is still looping motivational oneliners about hustle and grind and cold plunge and all that stuff. And you promised yourself last night that you were going to leap out of bed like a marine on a beach assault, but instead you keep negotiating with your snooze button or you put your phone in another room so you conveniently you just can't hear it. And it's like you're negotiating with your energy like a bargain hunter at a garage sale. You just keep looking for ways to stay fatigued. And I get it. I get it. If you're tired, you're tired. But the problem is three taps later on that snooze button or whatever it is you do or you're dragging or sitting there going through something in your head for an hour before you get out of bed. Okay, now you're vertical and you shuffle to the kitchen and you slam two or three cups of coffee back to back. You put on your I love this, your rise and grind hoodie that I always make fun of, right? Because you guys in your rise and grind, but you guys aren't doing it. You put on your rise and grind hoodie and you still feel like you are dragging an entire herd of elephants behind you. And social media, here's the problem. Social media says that fatigue is a mindset problem. Your doctor blames stress. Your friends insist that you need another vacation that you can't afford. And none of that is accurate. They're all wrong. So, have I painted the picture for most of you guys that are going, "Son of a [\h__\h] that's me." The truth isn't sexy. You might not like any of what I'm going to tell you, but this stuff works and it's permanent. It The truth isn't sexy, but it's simple. If your mitochondria, this is why I'm getting it. If your mitochondria are broke, the rest of you is bankrupt. All these people out there going, I take cold plunges every morning and I have this spectacular morning routine and I drink this magical protein and I got off coffee because now I have authentic energy and I am this lean mean fighting machine that happened to lose my life and completely get destroyed. But hey, I'm authentic. Listen, you guys got to stop listening to these people. I will go toe-to-toe with any of those guys live and I will burn out their eyes with facts and the truth and unequivocable or unequivocal facts and undeniable results. I am a walking talking product of everything I talk about for the most part or clients or patients or people that I've worked with. People in my my mentorship, people in my coaching program, I work with people every damn day. Like why you guys are still joining these Mickey Mouse rookie coaching groups is beyond me because I keep trying to I come out here and I help you guys and I do it for free and I show it. I prove it. I go here's what I can do and oh here's the proof. Not look at Tom. He had great results. I have people that are actually live that talk about this. So listen all of your motivation great but it can't fix a cellular power outage. You can't positive speak your way into more energy. You can't listen to gospel songs and have more energy all of the sudden. You can't heavy metal your way into per into more energy or drink 30 cups of coffee into it. Doesn't work like that. Your physiology doesn't work like that. So, you can't fix a cellular power outage. Pre-workout can't save an engine without a spark. Remember, electricity, gas, air, that's an engine, right? And no amount of positive thinking is going to outrun the biological math problem that most of you guys have. So, I'm going to hand you the blueprint that turns all of those math problems you've got into more energy than you know what to do with consistently, predictably, and legally, though the FDA would probably like a word, right? So, we're talking about two compounds specifically, M C M O Ts C and five amino 1MQ. And you've probably never seen them trending on Tik Tok or Instagram or YouTube because they actually work, which means they're not marketable as rainbow candy in a can. This is it bugs me because there's so many via my wife and I sat and watched a bunch of commercials stream across the television for semiglutide and I went this is ridiculous. First of all, the level that the it was an obese person talking about how much weight they've lost. I'm like, dude, you are still 80 pounds overweight. You are not bragging. You're normalizing being obese. It's like the person that is 19 years old normalizing taking seais. When I was 19 years old, the only thing that my junk kept trying to do was stand up and look around outside my pants. BS. It's not normal. There's a whole lot of things going on in the world right now that I can touch on in this podcast, but we have other things to talk about. Understand this. Marketing all this rainbow candy in a jar or a package or a bottle, that's not helping anybody. So, I'm going to break all these myths and I'm going to run straight through the science and I'm going to explain exactly what's going and get rid of that stimulant circus that most of you guys are doing. So, think about this fatigue. When people go, you're tired, do it anyway. Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. Neuroplasticity, your brain needs to run that that dialogue 247 365. Otherwise, you start to look for reasons to slow down. However, fatigue isn't a character flaw at all. Every cell in your body prints energy in the form of something called ATP, adenazine triphosphate. And ATP is made inside of mitochondria. It's like a furnace inside each cell. This is the cellular power plants that do all the heavy lifting. So, you can type your emails and send your texts and stupid emojis and watch whatever you shouldn't be watching on social media and lift your barbells and remember your anniversary. All those things, those are your internal battery packs. At 16, 16 years old, those batteries charge to 100% every night, right? At 25, you barely notice the drop. It's incremental. By 35 years old, right now, you're wondering why you need a nap after a grocery run. And at 45 or 50, you're googling, is late afternoon self-loathing normal? And you're blaming your age? Partly because people are telling you that. And the other part is because your mitochondria is struggling. It's not age, it's infrastructure decay. Your batteries have lost their capacity. They've got a memory and a bad one. Hustle culture tells you to press the accelerator harder. But when the fuel tank is empty, it doesn't matter. Right? So, you reach for another cup of coffee, another scoop of pre-workout, maybe an energy loaded with neon sugar and some proprietary label that reads like a chem quiz. Except those band-aids might yank you across the finish line today, but tomorrow you're deeper in debt because the stimulants borrow from your adrenals right at borderline shillock interest rates. Your heart rate skyrockets, your cortisol spikes, and you sleep like a cat on a damn trampoline, and then the cycle repeats. This is a problem. That's why I'm out here talking about this. I don't get paid for this. If you join my mastermind, great. If you don't, well, that's between you and God. And I think you're making a mistake. But real performance starts where your biology works, not where your mindset screams louder. And that means fixing the engines, not turning up the radio so you can't hear them knocking and pinging. Do you guys understand that? So, there's something called Mottz C. Okay, this is the hardware upgrade. The full name is mitochondrial open reading frame of the 12S RNA type-C. It it sounds like a Wi-Fi password, but it's a peptide. Your own mitochondria code and secrete when you do things that are incredibly inconvenient. Lift heavy things, sprint up hills, or skip food. Fasting, right? Nature made it expensive to produce. So, you have to earn vitality through physical stress. Which is why all these people saying it's okay to sit around and do nothing makes no sense to me. You're designed to produce the right things under duress. Like modern life has taken away the stress but kept the cupcakes which means indogenous mc flatlines and your energy checks into hospice. This is yes it pisses me off because it's self-made in the wrong direction. This is where Injectable M C walks in, kicks the door off the hinges, and yells, "New management. Now what?" That's how it works. So, hypothetically, because I need to say this, here's what 10 milligrams subq in the fat subq every single morning actually would do. Something called mitochondrial biogenesis, which means it tells your cells to build more batteries, right? More batteries equals more ATP. That's not hype. That's just thermodynamics. That's that's physics. Next thing is fat oxidation. It reprograms your metabolism to prefer fat as fuel, which is not normal, but the translation is the love handles become firewood. Why would you not want to do that? The third thing it does is glucose control. It smooths insulin spikes so you don't face this wall. You don't plant into the ground at 3:00 in the afternoon struggling to get home. And then the last one is stress resilience. It reduces oxidative garbage, meaning less cellular cellular rust is the easiest way to explain it. Less cellular rust, fewer free radicals, and a biological age that starts moving the the right direction backwards, right? Because right now you're aging too fast. So the subjective effect by day three, the mental fog is going to lift. Hypothetically, this is what I would expect. By the way, by probably day two or three, uh the mental fog is going to be gone. By say day seven or eight, gym feels like an adult playground again and you're not dragging your ass in complaining about everything that you have there setting your coffee on every machine and by day 10 you're going to forget why siestas used to sound amazing and romantic because you don't want any there's more the partner right this is something called five amino 1 mq this is the software patch right so we've upgraded the hardware with mod c now you have to upgrade the operating system the software to recognize what's there right so five amino know one methyl quinolinium that's what it stands for. So if if five if MC C just let me put this together so you understand the package if M C is installing new engines five amino is upgrading the fuel lines and deleting the limiter and making it breathe better and making it function better. It's like doing a full delete on a diesel and its primary target is an enzyme called NNMT nicotenomide and methyl transferase. That's what it stands for. It doesn't really matter. But NMT is the metabolic equivalent of a toll booth set to exact change only, which means it gums up the work, all the stuff, right? It gums up the works in your body. It lowers NAD+. We already know about that. And it slows DNA repair. All bad. And it quietly, this is the problem, though. It quietly tells your body to store calories love handle side. That's what this does. You do not want this. you block NNMT and that's when the magic happens hypothetically. So what would probably occur? God, this this is such [\h__\h] that I have to say that by the way because you should just be able to tell the truth and let people know and I come out here and I tell the damn truth. It bugs me so bad as you can tell. So when you block N&MT, all this is where it gets real. NAD levels, they don't just surge, they skyrocket. So cells shift from survival mode to growth and thrival mode, right? Inflammation dis almost disappears. So your joints stop feeling like creaky old doors in a haunted house. Just non-stop pain. You leave the crispy division, right? insulin sensitivity climbs. So now carbs become like a combustible fuel again and not fat confetti. And neural drive, this is a big deal, neuro neural drive improves. So the brain stops buffering everything and it starts streamlining in like 8K, right? If I was going to run a research study, it would be 50 to 100 milligrams a day. Yes, there are capsules. Do I think they work? You already know. Not an effing chance. Subq. Love handles. if I was running a research study. What this does is it turns N&MT into a paper weight and flips metabolic switches that you forgot even existed. Like we're talking the ones when you were eight and 10 and your parents were like, "Slow down." And you went, "I don't know how." So this is like a like a stack that 1 plus 1 doesn't equal two, it equals 11. Because individually, listen, individually, MC C and five amino 1 MQ, oh, they're pretty impressive all on their own, respectively. Like if you just got Mod C and you ran research with that, you are unrecognizable to yourself. It's unreal. Together, that's like compound interest at 20% daily. Here's the order of operations just so you understand the way this works. If you remember math, MOSI builds new mitochondria and five amino MQ floods floods the the mitochondria, those new ones with NAD+ and removes the metabolic roadblocks. The marriage turns you into a biological juggernaut in your research. So the result is you start printing ATP like the Federal Reserve prints dollars right now and you're only the only your product actually holds value though, right? Do you get the the metaphor? The energy is smooth. And if not, that's okay. This is how my brain runs. It's like hurting cats in here. There's so much information all the time. So, your energy is smooth, recovery is fast, fat loss comes standard. You don't have to think about it. It just does it. You don't have to play with what you're eating nearly as much. And you don't jack up cortisol or throttle your adrenals in the process. All of which are causing problems. Do you see how this all comes together now? So, think of the stack as installing like a twin turbo V12 in a chassis that's been stuck with a four-cylinder since college, same body, new engine, all gain, no borrowed pain, nothing. And by the way, I need to address the coffee thing because I caught a post today and this is totally unrelated, but there's this guy that keeps talking about how he's like, "Oh, I got off coffee. I feel so much better." Listen, great, great. But coffee is the good guy in the room. Just so you understand, right? Like it's America's favorite drug. Someone always asks, I get this all the time because they see some dimwitz post. Should I quit caffeine now that my mitochondria are fixed? If that's with this or should I just quit coffee and or I get these, I quit coffee. I'm amazing. Listen, this is the subtext when you're asking all these questions. Is quitting coffee going to make me more virtuous? No, not at all. First of all, listen. Caffeine, baby. I'm holding a Coke Zero for all of you guys listening. Coffee isn't the devil. It's not the damn devil. It's chemically loaded with antioxidants, polyphenols, and neuroprotective compounds that lower your risk of Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, type 2 diabetes, and a host of degenerative buzzkills. If you drink it black or with minimal crap, and it doesn't look like a cheesecake in a cup, coffee is a health food wearing a leather jacket ride on a Harley. That's what coffee is. Second, listen a second. The brag that you are off coffee is about as compelling as announcing, "Hey, I'm off oxygen." Saying you quit caffeine for enlightenment is like bragging that you can't get an erection. But hey, hey, at least you're authentic. No one hands out metals for self-imposed impetence. I'm just saying. So, keep the coffee. Enjoy the coffee. Use it for focus. Just remember, coffee is a volume knob. It's not an amplifier. It makes good signals louder, but it can't create any signals out of thin air. That's what your fixed mitochondria are for. Does that make sense about the coffee? Because I had to address this. And this is why energy drinks and all the STEM stuff are going to fail you, by the way, because energy drinks I I need to touch this, too. They market themselves as this this rocket fuel, right? But most are sugar disguised as a B vitamin rave, right? They hyper stimulate adrenals, they spike cortisol, and they deliver a blood sugar whiplash and then leave you more exhausted tomorrow than you were yesterday. It's it's payday loan physiology is the easiest way to explain it. So, stimulant pills are the same thing, right? They're just in a smaller package. They yank dopamine, crank heart rate, and leave behind a neurochemical hangover that you can feel in your eyeballs. I don't know if you've ever done this, but it just knocks me out. The worst part, over time, they blunt receptor sensitivity. So, you need more firepower for smaller returns until you're mainlining this jitter juice just to watch Netflix. I I don't know if you guys understand why I'm telling you this, but there's an easier way, a more effective way, and if I could go back to the energy levels I had at 12 years old, I'm all in. Peptides operate differently. That's why I'm explaining this. They don't hawk adrenaline. They raise baseline energy production. So, they're the terrestrial power plant, not the emergency diesel generator. That means no crash, no anxiety spiral, no 3:00 a.m. existential dread. You run faster because the road is clear, not because someone shoved a rocket up your ass. And so, look at what you're doing to get to where you want to go. not get to where you want to go as fast as possible at all costs because you're going to wind up the cost might be too great. So listen, I'm not your physician. I'm not your doctor. I'm going to be very clear about this. The FDA didn't send me a fruit basket. This is to talk about this and this is all research, all entertainment. I've said this before, I'll say it again. Basically translating the word research could be construed as you're the lab rat and the scientist. So act like you enjoy having a pulse. How about that? You get the way I'm saying it. If I was going to put it together, 1 milll of bacteria static water into each of those vials. Swirl it. Don't shake it like a rookie. We're dissolving peptides, not mixing margaritas on a boat, right? M C hypothetically 10 milligrams subcutaneous first thing in the morning align it with the natural cortisol peak so you're surfing biology right not fighting it and then the five amino 1MQ 50 to 100 milligrams a day listen I got to say something here you can't untake something in your research so I would start at the lowest and start adding over time my opinion for the research oral is convenient but sorry show me the bloods, they don't work. Nothing like a subq. Take it with food or even a pre-workout if you want. Like you can stab yourself pre-workout. Do you if you have to take the capsules, go ahead. You're just going to have significantly lower returns. You're going to have a sidebyside with someone using an injection and you aren't even on the same page. Does that make sense? It's wild. I know a tangent here, but I keep hearing thunder outside. We're supposed to get a smoking thunderstorm here in Texas. The length of this is important just because it works better with your own cycle. So 10 days on, 10 days off if you want to reset mitochondrial rhythm, right? It's like a a mitochondrial reset rhythm, I guess, is the best way to explain it, right? You can run 20 days straight if you're mid-season and you've never done this before. Let me get that back. Let me back that up. The way I would lay it out for my research would be 10 days on, 10 days off if you want a mitochondrial reset rhythm, right? You can run 20 days straight if you're mid-season back against the wall and need a turbo button welded down. Keep that in mind what I just said. After two rotations, consider adding something like reatride or a GH secret if fat loss or tissue repair is your jam. Right? That's what I would look like at stacks like this. Excuse me. They multiply. They don't just add. And there's no contraindications, right? Because remember, peptides are signals. They don't come in and demand that your body do something regardless of what it's designed to do with, you know, homeostasis is your body's trying to maintain balance at all times. Drugs override homeostasis all the time. Peptides do not. They take what you do and go, "Do this better, right?" So, I think maybe I didn't last time, but I should this time because a lot of you guys ask, and I get these questions. I feel these questions all the time. And for all of you guys sending me questions, I do my best to answer these as fast as I can, but I get anywhere from a thousand to 3 to 4,000 messages a day. Keep them coming. I come up with podcast subjects because of you guys. Because I want to help you guys build the most badass gangster juggernaut life possible with all the money, all the fitness, and all the loving you can possibly get in the world you're in. But you have to listen to what I say. So if you're not willing to listen to what I say, you're not going to like me at all. You don't want to listen. So, let me go over some rookie mistakes that basically is going to turn you into a meme on the internet and everybody's going to make funny. Expecting fireworks on day one with this. Peptides are infrastructure, not sparkles, not bottle rockets. Judge at week one, not at hour one. Right? So, just give it a little time. Overtraining the moment that you feel alive is a second one. And I Let me back up. I overtraining is not really the word I should use. It's over revving your engine. The second you start to feel it just going full throttle. You go from zero to 100 miles an hour that day. Your central nervous system gets happy before your connective tissue catches up. So remember, you're going to put yourself into a whole world of hurt if you start cranking and your systems, the infrastructure, the physical infrastructure is not ready for it yet. Add load gradually. Or honestly, of all things, I don't want to say book a date with your orthopedic surgeon because that's where you're going to go. You have to give yourself time to catch up. Physiology takes a little bit longer, right? Ignoring electrolytes. This is a big one. And I had a conversation with a client about this one day. More ATP. Listen, more ATP burns more sodium, potassium, and magnesium. Don't ask me what type of magnesium. There's a bunch of different kinds. And you have to use the one that works for you. Outside of chelated magnesium, go ahead. Chelated magnesium is going to strip heavy metals and toxins and all kinds of crap out of your system. So, you don't want to stay on that for a long time. Salt is not the enemy. It's the electrician. Just keep that in mind, right? Randomly stacking fat burners. I see you guys do this all the time because you're in a rush. This works faster than anything on the planet. How much faster do you want it to go? If you toss every powder in the cabinet on top of this stack, you are mixing rocket fuel and diesel and calling yourself an innovator. Really respect the chemistry or prepare to live on the toilet and it'll go through you like sauce through a goose. I promise. So, let me go back to maybe like a field test of the world. So, let's call her Sarah, right? I always use Tom. So, if there let's say there's this lady Sarah, 45, right? venturebacked startup CEO, mother of 2.3 kids, ex, you know, athlete, crossfitter, because I always like to bag on the crossfitters turned sporadic pelon rider. So that's your person because this is pretty much the whole planet right now. She drinks a triple espresso before dawn. Smashes a Monster Energy, the big one, at noon and then wonders why sleep is just a distant rumor for her life and she gets nothing in her life outside of what she does. Week zero, this is how I This is the best story ever. Week zero, she's crashing by 2 p.m. faking enthusiasm on investor calls, faking [\h__\h] in bed, and binging on ice cream at midnight to stay awake for West Coast emails. Week one on the stack. This is remember week zero, nothing. This is how I'm trying to explain this. Week one on this M C right five amino coffee down to one cup. No more energy drinks. Weirdly motivated to tidy her inbox and afternoons feel like the mornings used to feel. That's a week. Listen to me. That's a week. Week two, it's three workouts. All PRs relative to the last 3 to four years. Forgets to snack between meetings because she's just not damn hungry. Her partner notices that she's maybe glowing, feeling great, right? Which is code for I I can't freaking explain why you look younger, but I'll take it. Are you guys picturing The reason I have to put it in this stupid layout is because apparently you you can't have free speech about things that work. Oh, I could tell you all about all the drugs that are going to [\h__\h] you, but that's not going to help you at all. So, let's go. What are we? Week two. So, week three. Week three, seven hours of uninterrupted sleep per night. Down four or five pounds of fat, caffeine, just a morning ritual because she likes it. It's not a life raft that she's clinging to because the Titanic sank. All without adding stimulants or doing some weird spiritual cleanse or chasing herself around with burning sage. She fixed the batteries and the whole system turned on at 45. This is pure biological mathematics. That's what this is. So, I I think even just as I was explaining this, maybe I should go over coffee and energy drinks versus the peptides stack, right? The research stack. So, let me be real blunt because I'm getting hungry and I want to go inside. Black coffee is your responsible, gainfully employed friend who takes you to dinner, drives you home, and never asks for bail money. That's coffee. Black coffee, not a caramel macchiato. Energy drinks are the reckless cousin who shows up with fireworks, gets you blackout drunk, and leaves you to clean the living room when your wife walks in. Stimulant pills. Those are the That's like the sketchy acquaintance who says, "Trust me, bro. Internet is full of these people. Social media is full of these people." While the same person hands you unlabeled capsules, says, "Don't worry, they'll do magic." M C plus five Amino 1MQ are the silent investors who would rebuild your own infrastructure so you never need rescue again because you don't know what to do with all your money and how badass your life is. That's how you need to look at all this stuff. Keep the coffee. Fire the other two. Battles are won on logistics, not emergency adrenaline dumps. And peptides are logistics. Steady supplies, no missing shipments, no wild price spikes in morale. If your phone, listen to me, take it in in the way of a cell phone. If your phone never charges past 10%. You don't write affirmations about patience. You replace the damn battery. If your car sputters on the highway, you don't chain more air fresheners to the mirror. You fix the engine. I can't get over the level of idiocy on the internet about people selling products and things that just don't work because they want to make money. You know what? Oh, I want to make a ton of money. And I do and I'm going to make so much more because I'm just going to help everybody. Zig Ziggler, you can have anything in life you want, provided you help help enough other people get what they want. Well, I'm helping all of you. You might not like the delivery, but I promise you, I'm going to help you get so far ahead in your life, you're going to forget anything else existed other than, "Holy [\h__\h] my life is gangster." So, think this. This is important because this pertains not just to peptide stacks, it's also finances. When I teach people how to make money online, nobody teaches better than I do. When I teach people how to save their their marriage that they've been just pouring gasoline on and throwing matches at it for fun, their own broken psychology, their low selfworth, all of this stuff comes back to this. If you go, I just wanted some information on this. This matters though because you will not assimilate and apply the information if you're getting in your own way psychologically or throwing a bunch of emotional garbage in your way. MC installs new mitochondria and commands them to burn fat like a furnace in Winnipeg in January. 40 below five amino mq unplugs nmt bathes those mitochondria in NAD+ and clears out the metabolic trash. Together they give you energy that's real. It's durable and it's self-replenishing. That part matters because you don't have to get it from an exogenous source. Coffee, like I said, keep it. I call it brain lube. Stuff's awesome. Antioxidant rockin fuel. And frankly, I love black coffee. It tastes awesome. But understand, it's the side car. It's not the engine upgrade, right? Bragging about quitting it for purity points is like disabling a turbo on a Porsche and boasting about authenticity. Nobody's clapping. You're just a [\h__\h] Don't do that. Energy drinks and stim pills, these are the two you got to toss out. Number two and number three, right? Trade them for something safer, like juggling chainsaws blindfolded in the backyard. They promise fireworks and they deliver anxiety and invoice you in cortisol plus a whole whack of regret later. If you wanted to change your life from an energy standpoint and a longevity standpoint, you need to listen to this entire podcast again. Don't fast forward the parts that make you uncomfortable. Those are the ones you need to listen to twice. Here's the unforgiving takeaway on all of this. Low energy is very expensive, you guys. It costs you clarity, productivity, ambition, and years that you can't buy back. How many years are you going to get back get back? None. When people go, I'm going to join your mastermind. I'm going to join your mentorship next month. I want to say, you know what? I think I'm gonna just start going fine. It's going to be double. Don't bother. Go back to the cheap [\h__\h] because you clearly don't understand the value of time. I will start taking this software upgrade and this hardware upgrade with peptides. When I get around to it and I do a little when I do a little more due diligence, when's the last time you did due diligence on the medication you grabbed from the shelf at the pharmacy? You never did and you know it. You just saw a commercial and it it promised all these things. What it did was beat you to death with effects that you never wanted. Some of them aren't going to show up for a year. Listen, you can hustle harder and light bigger bonfires of willpower. Brag to everybody everybody about it. I have god tier willpower. You know it. I'm not saying it to brag. I'm saying it because it's a fact. Remember what I said. It's not egotistical when you do it. That's called a resume. But until you you can run these bonfires of willpower all you want. until you burn every resource that you have and you join the graveyard of I wish I would have or I could have been or you can fix your biology first. Upgrade the hardware with MC. Patch the software with five amino 1MQ. Use coffee the way it's intended as an ally, not a life raft. Abandon all the energy drinks and the stim pills that make you owe interest on vitality you never owned. When your cells run right, discipline feels real. That's authentic. fatigue vanishes. These guys that the more you talk about being authentic, the less authentic you are. Just so you know that if that's you. So when your cells run right, discipline feels authentic because it is. Fatigue vanishes. Mental drive is smooth and silky, right? It's not spiky and undulated, right? And instead of fighting through every day, you start cruising you and and we're talking fast and st like autobon autobon level and it's sustainable. Stop bragging about how hard you push with broken, busted machinery and start winning with rebuilt systems that you actually put the work in to do and it's very short. That's not just performance. That is freedom that everybody wants. That's why I come out here. I I'm trying to help you guys. If and when you do that, everything else starts to come together. You feel me? All right. Like I always say, it's your move. I got to go. Never miss.