 today I'm talking about SS31 versus MOTC, MOTC versus SS31 and how most people and especially, in fact, frighteningly large amounts of self-proclaimed clinicians and a lot of Instabros and everybody on Reddit and Quora, you guys got it backwards and I'll help you. New Year's Eve, December 31st, 2025, man, we are almost done this year. I have made it out here every day. It is a trip. Remember, I don't know if you guys remember January, I said I was going to do one of these every day and it's, I have a whole bunch that are backlogged actually, just need to be posted. But thanks for hanging out with me, you guys. Really, that matters to me, whether you like it or believe it or not, it's you guys, I'm here for you, I don't come here for me. I built my life, now I'm helping you build yours, which is always weird to me that people come out and you guys clip my videos and try and discredit me or you guys try and discount what I say or whatever it is you're doing, like your insecurity is so massive, it's frightening. We live, we thrive in a world right now that lives off of and feeds off of victimization and tearing people down. If that's you, man, you need to, you're 2026, you should just grow the hell up because I'm not coming out here to harm anybody. I'm coming out here to help people and I think it's weird that anybody goes, let me go and get after this Dr. Trevor Bacchmeyer. Why? Because I'm giving you the answer here. If that's you, happy new year. For everybody else, thank you very much. Give you a hand because I love you guys for that. Today, I'm talking about SS 31 versus MOTC, MOTC versus SS 31 and how most people and especially in fact, frighteningly large amounts of self-proclaimed clinicians and a lot of InstaBros and everybody on Reddit and Quora, you guys got it backwards and I'll help you. I'm trying to help you. You guys just do it backwards anyway because I'm not going to listen to him. So listen, I'm going to hit this hard and then I'm going to go inside and hang out with my wife and kids. Why? Because I love the hell out of my wife. So first, SS 31, it's engineered for one purpose only and that's it. And that is to hunt down and protect the most critical piece of real estate in your body, the inner mitochondrial membrane. We had some strong coffee today. Think of this membrane as the reactor core of your personal power plant. It's where the ETC, the electron transport chain complexes 1 to 4, spin up and generate via ATP synthase, the ATP, which is the currency of life. But this core is very fragile despite what you think. It's lined with a very unique fossil lipid called cardiolipid. And here's the problem when you're sick or aged or struggling or stressed or just beat up. Cardiolipid gets oxidized, gets damaged. It's like the insulation on a high voltage wire and it gets fried. And the result is the ETC shorts out. Electrons leak creating toxic sparks called reactive oxygen species. ATP production nose dives and the cell goes into a big giant energy crisis. Watch SS 2013, Journal of Clinical Investigation showed this molecule has near magical affinity for cardiolipid. It binds to it. We're shield. It's the ultimate electrician. It doesn't just generate power. It stops the leak. It stabilizes the entire architecture. Much 2016, nature communications proved it stabilizes complex one, which is the usual failure point. And it boosts ATP output by well over 30% in failing tissues. Just think about what I'm saying. SS 31 is pure structural repair. It's the foundation. Now just look at Mocino. This changes everything you know about genetics. We're taught that our blueprint is in the nucleus. Oh, absolutely wrong. Your mitochondria have their own DNA. It's called MTDNA. It's a relic from their bacterial origins if you really want to go down this rabbit hole. 2015 cell metabolism blew the doors off of all. This MTDNA encodes small peptides that act as incredibly powerful hormonal signals. MOTC is the most important one. And yet people just go, I'm just going to take it because it's good for bodybuilding. It's not what it's good for, by the way. So while SS 31 is the engineer, think of it this way, it's the engineer inside the power plant, right? MOTC is the plant manager who gets on the radio to the entire city. Its primary target is the AMPK pathway. AMPK is the master switch for cellular energy sensing, right? It's a little sensor. When AMPK is activated, it is this 10 alarm fire drill for your metabolism and it tells the body, feel as low, you need to smash the skinny pedal to the floor. That's the gas for people to have an idea what that is. MOTC forcefully activates AMPK. 2018 follow up in nature prove that this does one thing with brutal efficiency. It makes you insanely insulin sensitive, which is why I made a comment. Careful if you take this when you're empty. I learned a lesson. I went, whoa, man, I need to get cards in before I take this. It is that big of a deal. But it shunts glucose into skeletal muscle by activating the AMPK pathway, effectively bypassing, what do you think, the broken insulin signaling that characterizes type 2 diabetes and metapsyndra. It's a metabolic override code. And this is where 99% of people using this stuff. And like I said, at the beginning, especially clinicians, and you doctors are a bunch of coconuts. I have, I am a doctor and I've forgotten more than most of you guys will ever learn because I'm still out here learning. You know what doctor means? It means educator and teacher. You know what teachers do? Real good ones. The real good ones. Like my buddy Matt Bodro, he runs this empire called Apigee and he's a teacher. He's damn good. Holy shit. Is he good, man? And the reason I say that is because he's constantly learning. That's what great leaders do. I'm always learning. I'm not learning just for me. I'm learning for you. So you guys don't have to do it. So I can just give you the short synopsis, Cliff Notes version. And this is where with MOTC and SS 31, 99% of people, they got it, especially the Insta experts. What is wrong with you guys thinking you're smart? Stay in your lane unless you know the answer. I'm trying to help you and you guys get mad when I say that. There's a ton of things I don't know. That's why I don't talk about them. But they treat SS 31 and MOTC as interchangeable. They're not. They're sequential. They're complementary tools and using them out of order. It's not just inefficient. It's incredibly counterproductive. Think about why I'm saying this. If you do, if you pour the, if you build the house first rather, and then you pour the foundation, let me know how that works out. Here's, listen, here's the wrong way. I'll show you right out of the gate. People feel, this is so funny. People feel tired and sluggish. I hear this. I get messages from you guys. So maybe this will help you. People feel tired and sluggish, lethargic and brain fog and all this stuff. And they think my mitochondria are broken because they read it somewhere on Cora and I need SS 31 to fix them. So they jump straight into a repair peptide. This is like trying to rebuild the engine of a car that's out of gas and has a corrupt ECU. The repair work is handicapped from the very beginning. It can't work. Please listen to me. I'm here. I'm giving you this information so you have it. Not for you to argue. If you're going to get my comments and argue, just don't. This is for you guys. This is the right way. The hormonal preconditioning setup, if you want to give it a name. First, MOTS C, it's the metabolic reset. You impose, look, you impose metabolic order. You force the body into a state of high insulin sensitivity. And I'll explain how this works against some heavy hitters that screw up your biology like cancer and injury and things. You change it so it has the sufficient fuel utilization via AMPK activation. This is the system reset. It clears out the metabolic garbage, the high blood glucose, the lipid dysregulation. It prepares the entire cellular environment for repair. Now, by the way, because I've gotten messages, let me address this real quick. This can make you tire, give you a little fatigue as the body shifts its metabolic paradigm. It's not always the case. If you're getting tired and you're taking MOTS C, by the way, it's because you might not be able to handle what it's doing because it's putting such a demand on you, which means there is more. It's not a, it's not a, if you go, I took MOTS C, it didn't work. It made me tired. It's not a MOTS C problem. It's your biology. Listen, stop blaming the peptide when your biology is the one that's in the gutter. Same thing with SS 31. Same thing with a lot of things. It's never, ever going to be the signal unless where you bought the signal is from some knucklehead named Steve in the back of the gym. And by the way, I'll say this real quick, he biogenics I own. I run the black card. By the way, today is December 31st, 2025. If you guys haven't listened, December 21st, 2025, today is the last day to get into the black card for $9,997. There's no picture in this. I'm just going to sell it for $25,000 a year next year, starting tomorrow and two grand a month to maintain the membership. It's $25,000 just to get in and $2,000 a month just to stay active every single month. And if you, well, that's ridiculous. I've already got people lining up to pay and people that have said, I'm just going to pay next year's fee because they couldn't get the wire in time today. But I'll tell you this, if you're hearing this right now, I'll give you a TILF-27. I'm not going to extend it. This isn't an extension. It's because tomorrow is closed and I'm literally getting emails every 10 to 15 minutes of people going, I'm trying to get into the bank. So I'm being empathetic to help, but I'm not going to go backwards. But it's $9,997. You get access to my live Q&A that I do every Monday and I actually solve your problems. I don't care what your health problem is. I'll solve it. And anyone in my group will verify that. I'm very good at what I'm exceptional at what I do because I come out here and I care because I care about my people. My black card, I love my people. God, I love them so much. They are family to me. So if you want to be part of that, awesome. If you're going, well, I just want some dosages, bro. I'm probably not for you. I'm just not. If you have real problems and you want to be part of community and you want a real doc, me, to help solve your problems and you want actual access to me. And if you go, well, how are the questions asked? I have a giant screen with a whole bunch of people on it. You guys ask me questions and I'm live and I solve the problem and I tell you exactly what to do. And if you miss it, you can go into the VIP community where I'm the guy actually getting and answering the questions in the chat for you too. It's about a 24 to 72 hour turnaround if you're going to do it that way because I take my time. I don't rip through answers. I give bro science chat, GPT answers. I give real solutions. You get access to the protocol library, which is all the stuff I've used with patients and clients for the last almost three decades now. And if you want to buy all that stuff from Elite Biogenics, my company, you go right ahead. If not, I'm still here helping you. I just know that what my company sells is your fuel. I will not take a chance with whatever comes out of my company. It is going to be perfect or it's not going to go because I give a shit about people. I'm not bought out. In fact, just to be very clear, I am not viable. I don't care how much money you offer me. I'm not taking it if it involves selling my family, my morals or my friends because I care. And I would hope that you guys would go good. I'm glad. And I think over this last year, I proved it. I've been attacked a ton by some of you guys. Just nonstop. Some of you muppets with your own companies just trying to make the sending out emails. You guys are a bunch of toddlers. I'm just here to help. So anyway, if you get fatigued when you take ModC, it's not a ModC problem. It's not an SS31 problem. It's a biological problem. It's your body's trying to figure out how to upgrade the software and it might be too much. So that was ModC. If you look at SS31, this is the structural repair. Once the metabolic landscape is, it has to be this way. Somebody's going to argue about it. It doesn't matter. I'm still right. Biology and physiology and God are on my side. He built this machine that we are piloting. Once the metabolic landscape, the hardscape is at 100%, the mitochondria now receiving efficient fuel signals from the ModC prime system are ready to be fixed. SS31 can now do its job at max level, stabilizing cardiolipid and sealing the mitochondrial membrane and lighting up ATP production the proper way. And by the way, you can get tired here too. Fatigued here from the energy expenditure of active cellular cleanup and repair. It's a positive for the most part. It won't last forever. If you like to know, it was energized. It's not always like that. It's okay. ModC without SS31 leaves you with perfect software on old ratty nasty Commodore 64 hardware. SS31 without ModC is like taking the engine out of my 911 Turbo S and dropping it into an old ratty Civic with a busted transmission and missing two tires and maybe filling the tank with some old gas that you found in farmer Bill's field that's been sitting there for two years. Together in sequence, it's a revolution. Listen, let me explain how something that I'll go hard into the paint with this because I said I was going to talk about some heavy hitters. Let's let me explain how this works with something like cancer or training or injury or weight loss. Let's do cancer. So let me explain how this works. It heals healthy cells and the way it does and by healing the healthy cell, it also destroys the cancerous cells. I realize it sounds like a paradox. It's not. It's like biological jiu-jitsu, right? Cancer cells aren't magic. They're crippled, crappy little cells and they're cheating. And when you take away their ability to cheat, they die. It's really this simple. The fact that we have spent billions and billions, if not trillions of dollars on cancer research and have come up with a 75% increase in cancer should be massive eye openers for you. But they've got y'all convinced that, no, we're almost there. No, you're not. They're never trying to do it. They've got you dangling off of a hook going, yeah, we're almost there. Don't worry. Keep giving us more money and more time to oriental manager decline. Keep paying us. What if you just became a juggernaut of your own biology and you didn't have to worry about it because you made the environment resistant to pathology, which is how you're designed by the way. Listen, a healthy cell is efficient. It takes glucose and in the presence of oxygen, it burns it cleanly in the mitochondria through oxidative phosphorylation, max ATP, for minimum fuel investment. Cancer cells, they're a metabolic mess. Even with a ton of oxygen, it ferments glucose incredibly inefficiently, a process called aerobic glycolysis, or I talked about this before, the Warburg effect. And why? Because its mitochondria are broken. 2006 study in cancer cell proved this wasn't a side effect, by the way. It's a core requirement for cancer's rapid growth. The broken mitochondria allow the cancer cell to siphon off glucose metabolites to build new DNA proteins and lipids for uncontrolled unsupervised division. It's a trade-off. They choose fast growth over efficient energy. But that's their Achilles heel. This is why I want you guys to understand biology because they're dependent on a dysfunctional metabolic state. They have to live there, otherwise they can't exist. Remember, if you go back to how I explain what happens in the Warburg effect, when you are in this, remember, three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and ATP shortage. That is the primer for cancers, for all disease. Every single disease is predicated off of that foundation. All of them. I am right. Again, I'll say it again. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because I'm right. I saw a dull disease. And it's not an arrogant statement. It's not an egotistical statement. It's that I took the time to actually look at what's going on. Most people won't listen because they go, yeah, but that doesn't make a ton of money. No, it saves people and it makes them savagely strong. I'm in that game. I'm not in the your health and all your money game. I'm not going to do that. Never. You couldn't pay me enough. I just love mankind too much for the most part. I think there's about seven or eight assholes in the world. They just tend to move around a lot. Firstly, they just end up in my comments. If cancer is dependent on a corrupt biology, remember, your biology selects for these broken, these aerobic glycolytic cells because it's the only cells that can survive. So it's making a choice between survival or death. It's going to survive. Even if it's in this crappy environment, but now it's a mutated cell. Welcome to cancer. So you need to stop playing defense and go full offense on this. Watch. Mod C is next level. When AMPK is activated, it does several things that are completely catastrophic for cancer cells. One, it inhibits anabolic growth. AMPK inhibits MTOR, the master switch for cell growth and proliferation. We talk about this with even workouts of training. Cancer cells are MTOR hyperactive. Mod C through AMPK slams the brakes on all of this. 2018 OncoTarget proved AMP activation 100% directly suppresses tumor growth by inhibiting MTOR. The cancer cell is told to stop growing, but its entire mutated programming is screaming grow. Huh. Look at the second part of this bad boy. It forces metabolic normalization. Remember what I told you when I went over that? They actually pulled my podcast on cancer because they said it was medical misinformation. You ever noticed that the solutions are always medical misinformation that the drug ads are not? Interesting. Mod C's primary function is to restore insulin sensitivity and push glucose into oxidative phosphorylation in healthy. We know this stuff. This normalizes the metabolic environment. The cancer cell, which relies on this nasty, funky soup of high glucose and metabolic chaos, now finds itself in a very well-regulated system. Its fuel source becomes less available in the environment and is less permissive at whatsoever for hijacked metabolism. It doesn't work. This is where SS-31 goes in for the kill shot. It repairs the very thing that cancers the cells that they've broken to survive. What do you think? The mitochondria. It fixes what cancer broke so it could exist. It restores the apoptic trigger, which is the ability to destroy itself. A major function of a healthy mitochondria is to control my apoptosis, program cell death. They hold proteins like cytochrome C inside their membranes. I'll explain it. This is how it works. When a cell is severely damaged or receives a death signal, the mitochondria release cytochrome C, which triggers this cascade that leads to the cell's orderly, very polite suicide. Cancer cells suppress this. Their dysfunctional mitochondria are leaky, but in a way that avoids full apoptosis, SS-31 stabilizes the mitochondrial membrane. What do you think is going to happen when all of a sudden their machine treated as a foreign object, Matt, because you need to? When their machine isn't working and it's running on garbage and you take away the garbage it runs on and you force it to run in a clean environment, and your cytotoxic T cells and your natural killer cells are operating at just full power. What do you think happens to cancer? Ruminate on that. It can't exist. 2020 cancer research proved that by restoring mitochondrial membrane integrity, SS-37 resensitizes the cancer cells to apoptic signals. Cell death. It fixes the very mechanism that cancer cells disabled to become immortal. I'm not done. Now it induces this lethal stress. When SS-31 repairs the mitochondria in a cancer cell, it tries to force it to breathe properly, but the cancer cells genome is mutated. It can't. Its electron transport chain is a wreck, so forcing a damaged system to function at a high level creates immense internal stress. A flood of ROSs, reactive oxygen species that cancer cells antioxidant systems can't handle. So the oxidative stress becomes the final push that triggers the apoptic pathway that SS-31 is the ultimate duo. And that's just two things. I've gone full cancer protocol on here already and explained that. Listen, let me explain the kill chain for cancer. MOTC creates a hostile metabolic environment. Low glucose, inhibited mTOR, normalized signaling. SS-31 attacks the cancer cells' core identity. It repairs the broken mitochondria, restores their ability to execute the cell via apoptosis, and imposing lethal oxidative stress the cancer cell has trapped. Its external fuel and growth signals are cut off by MOTC. Its internal survival mechanism, the deliberately broken mitochondria now is being forcibly repaired by SS-31, turning its primary adaptation into its own executioner. They can't survive the upgrade because their entire existence is predicated on the system that's being broken. When you fix the system, the cheaters got no game to play. Baby, they've got nothing. This isn't chemo that poisons everything and hopes that the cancer dies first. This is biological precision, you guys. It's making the body's own regulatory systems so potent, so powerful that they simply refuse to harbor the chaos of cancer any longer. You're not healing the body, you're making it inhospitable to pathology, but this only works when you don't get the order back backwards. What did I say? You don't pour a foundation after you've already built the house. That's the catastrophic logical error that people are making. The rule is absolute. MOTC first, SS-31 second. This isn't a suggestion. It's a law of physiological sequencing. Listen, it drives me so nuts because the BroScience, they're so convincing with their non-biology. Look at injury recovery and cognitive decline. I will go over this one more time and then I'm going in the house. Your cells operate on a hierarchy of command. The signal, I'll explain it this way instead. Maybe this will clear it up a little bit more. The signal, number one, what is the cell being told to do? Grow, conserve energy, die. This is the software instruction onto the keyboard. The structure, organelles and infrastructure, this is number two, the physical machinery, mitochondria, ER, endoplasmic reticulum that carries out the order. If the signal is corrupted, the best machinery in the world will still execute the wrong, dang program. MOTC fixes the signal, SS-31 fixes the structure. You have to have the right signal before you repair the structure. It doesn't work any other way. Injured tendon or muscle or legament, whatever the hell you want to say, some kind of injury. An injury site is a metabolic disaster. It's inflamed, hypoxic, low oxygen. It flooded with glucose, but the local cells after an injury, I don't know if you know this, are insulin resistant. So they can't efficiently use the fuel to power their own repairs. Here's the wrong way. You come in and you slap SS-31 into your system. Sub-Q, it arrives at the injury. It tries to repair the mitochondrial membrane in the fibroblasts, the repair cells, but these cells are metabolically crippled. They're insulin resistant. They're struggling to take in glucose. The repaired mitochondria are like high-performance engines with no fuel line. Excuse me. The repair process is sluggish and virtually non-existent. You know what you just did? Wasted your SS-31, baby. Here's the right way. It's C-burst. MOTC, 2015 cell metabolism and 2018 nature studies proved it. Proved it. It has to be this order. It systematically activates AMPK and does two critical things for the injury site. You need this cancer injury, cognitive decline, pulmonary issues, cardiovascular issues. It doesn't matter. This applies to every single cell in your body. It forces insulin sensitivity. The fibroblasts, in this case, at the injury site, can now efficiently take in glucose. The fuel line opens up. It inhibits M-tor temporarily. I get it. This seems counterintuitive for growth. I get it. I get it. But it's crucial. It stops any misguided cellular proliferation like potential fibrotic tissue. Imagine the heart. TB-500 reverses the fibrosis. What if it never formed it in the first place? You see this? It shifts the cell, by the way, into repair and cleanup mode, clearing away the inflammatory debris. Second part of this. Now SS-31 shows up. It arrives at an injury site that is metabolically primed. The fibroblasts are ready for action. The repaired mitochondria. Thanks, Stu, by the way. Just so you know, 2016 Nature Communications data on Stabilized Complex 1 explains this. Now have a very clean, abundant fuel supply thanks to MOTC's insulin sensitization to generate this massive surge of adenosine triphosphate, ATP. This ATP powers the intense work of collagen synthesis, cell division, the tissue remodeling. The result isn't just faster healing. It's actual high-quality healing, not a bunch of fibrosis and garbage. Look at cognitive decline and brain fog. The brain consumes 20% of your body's energy. Cognitive decline is, fundamentally, an energy crisis in specific neural circuits of your brain. The neurons mitochondria are taking, they're failing, and the brain's ability to utilize fuel is compromised. The dementia, ALS, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, I could do this all damn the wrong way. SS-31 crosses the blood-brain barrier. 2017 Redox Biology, by the way, explained this very well. It starts repairing neuronal mitochondria. Sounds like a great idea, except the brain's metabolic, the global metabolic environment is still dysfunctional. So there may be systemic insulin resistance impairing glucose transport. So the problem with that is, is there's systemic insulin resistance that's impairing the glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier. The newly repaired neurons are trying to function in this energy-deprived, metabolically angry, hostile environment. The cognitive improvement is zero, zero. Here's the right way. C, first. Part one, MOTS-C. You administer MOT-C. Crucially, by the way, MOT-C has direct effect in the brain. 2021 study, molecular neurodegeneration, showed that MOT-C itself has massive neuroprotective effects. Systemically, its AMP activation is game-changing. It improves whole-body insulin sensitivity, which enhances glucose availability for this gray thing, this three-pound gray thing in your skull. Two, AMP activation in the brain promotes autophagy to clean up of all the cellular junk, like misfolded proteins, maybe, toutangles, amyloid plaques, all the stuff associated with Alzheimer's, preparing the neural environment for renewal, like your lymphatic system. The microglia do their job. Second part, SS-31. Now the repair crew comes in. SS-31 comes into the brain that is metabolically functioning at 100%. Glucose delivery is efficient. The cellular trash is being taken out. The repaired neuronal mitochondria can now draw on a very clean, incredibly abundant, by the way, energy supply because of the insulin sensitivity upgrade from the MOT-C. The result? Dramatic restoration of neuronal firing, synaptic plasticity, and clearing of all that brain fog that people can't stand. This is why doing it backwards, and you guys are going, it didn't work for me. Yes, it did. You're doing it wrong. 2020 cancer research principle applies here, too. By restoring mitochondrial integrity, you resensitize compromised cells, in this case, the neurons, to survive signals, preventing their apoptic death. Listen, I want to go inside. So the sequence is non-negotiable. You can do it backwards if you want just a spite. I see you cut off your nose despite your face, I guess. Maybe I don't know, but MOT-C is a systemic reset that creates the metabolic permission for SS-31s, structural repairs to achieve their maximum therapeutic potential. It's the difference between giving a construction clue, a blueprint, and materials after they've built half of the building haphazardly in a disaster. SS-31 first, if you didn't figure that part out, versus giving them the blueprint first, letting them prep the site. Anyone that's a contractor knows site prep is gold, and then delivering high-grade materials to the site, MOT-C, then SS-31. Ignoring this sequence, listen to me, please, let me just land the plane here. Ignoring this sequence is why people get zero or mediocre results at best. Following it is how you achieve biological rejuvenation. This is non-negotiable. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I'm going to go inside. Happy New Year. I love you guys. If you've been with me from the beginning, thank you so much. I appreciate you. I'll see you next year. Never miss.