viewerche查 subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected It's one of the coolest things I've ever seen. It's comfortable. It doesn't matter how cold it is. It's just a beautiful thing. Best day to go snowmobiling, so much fun. And if, but anyway, today I'll get into this real quick because I have a lot of things to do. It's Monday. Monday is my Q and A for the black card, the black card membership. So my Q and A is at five o'clock today. No, it's not free. By the way, like I always say, I don't care if you join the black card or not. I don't care if you buy from elite. My company or not, I do not own Bayside peptide. So those guys are stealing all my stuff and using my videos and you guys make your own judgment. But I know that what I make in my lab is something I would give my wife and kids. So you decide what you're going to do with that information. But as far as the black card is concerned, you know what? It's still got the sale price on it, $9997 for the year. It'll be $25,000 coming up shortly. So you decide what you want. It's only wire. It's access to my live private Q and A call. I do every month. I solve every problem you've got. It's access to the VIP where you actually answer, you ask me questions if you want, I will answer you 24 to 72 hours is my turnaround time on answering questions in the VIP. Usually it's the same day. I spend about three, four hours at least every morning. I get up, I get sun in my face. I look at the sun and I answer questions and help everybody out. You can send me your labs or whatever you need and you get access to the resource library, which that shouldn't be why you joined because there's so much more involved. And it's a killer community of people that I love very deeply and I care about very deeply. These are all family to me and there's a lot of people there and it's growing and it's a movement that we're trying to use to take over the world and give people real healthcare and give them real answers. So if you're tired of waiting for an answer from your doctor or whatever it is you're doing, then you know, maybe you look at the black card and if not, it doesn't matter. It's on you. If you're like, you want to get on a quick consult with me, I'm not going to do it. I don't do those. I have one on one, which is, it's a quarter million a year and that's direct access to my cell phone basically. And it is, and then the black card, which is currently 9,997. So you decide which one to do it. If you want to join, apply at unlockthecard.com. That's what you do. You send it there. My executive assistant, Mia, she'll take great care of you. She'll get you all set up. And if you make it before the end of the day today and you send the wire, you'll make it to the Q and A call today. If not, then you don't. But today is a master class on MOTC and it's important. I need to go over a lot of stuff because there's so much misinformation about MOTC people taking these hyper doses, people trickle effective at all, people doing these. God, it's unbelievable. I'm looking at my sorry, I interrupted my train of thought. I'm looking up here and yet again, Riverside screwed up and made a whole new trap again. You guys, if you guys sneak and listen to my stuff, Riverside, you guys keep effing with my recordings because you guys can't get this right. There's no reason for this to stop recording. It just literally starts a new track. It pisses me off every time, to be honest with you. But anyway, a lot of misinformation about MOTC by bro science people that think they know science because they can read a chat GPT answer, but they don't really understand biology and frankly, it's pissing me off. So I'm just going to come out and tell you exactly the way it works. And I'll explain exactly how this all happens and I'll solve all your problems. Now, the issue I have is I'm looking up here at the corner wondering what it's trying to tell me telling me heads up new recording track created started due to changes in your device, except I have no changes in my device. Man, so this is a Riverside issue that is very consistent with them. No, string yard does not work better. Actually, string yard works worse. I just need these guys to fix the pop because I like Riverside. Anyway, there's a lot of misinformation about MOTC in it. It's aggravating because everybody claims to be an expert. You guys keep clipping and using my videos and trying to say I don't know what I'm talking about. But yet I'm the one with all the results because I actually care. I don't come out here to sell. I don't come out here to have affiliate codes or I'm not a pharma shill and I'm not some pusher and I don't give discount codes. I'm here to give you the answer so you can do the right thing. That's it. That's it. Because listen, I'll go over MOTC as a masterclass and give you everything from A to Z and then you decide what you need to do and you decide whether or not you're going to listen and you decide whether you apply it. But I promise you this, if you apply what I tell you, you're going to have the results you want. If you don't, you're going to just be another Insta Bro or Insta Expert Victim that thinks they know what they're talking about or is mad that it didn't work because you listened to the wrong person. So let's get it started because I'm going to explain everything about aging and disease and energy and why that the information on social media is catastrophically wrong. You guys do not know that the difference, there's only one fundamental difference. Like the difference between a 25-year-old athlete and an 85-year-old with Alzheimer's and it's not motivation or genetics and it's not bad luck. It is mitochondrial function, period, full stock. And here's the part that's going to blow your mind. Your mitochondria for the most part, you guys, has been sending you distress signals for years. And a lot of you people have been completely ignoring them because nobody, not your doctor, for sure as hell not your trainer and not your biohacker guru that you follow on social media, has actually ever explained what MOTC actually is. So let me handle this situation for you real quick so you have the information. When a patient comes to me, tired, inflamed, insulin resistant, cognitively declining, everybody except me treats the symptoms. They're solving for X when they don't even understand the equation. So I'll give you the equation. It's brutally elegant and I'll explain how it works. So MOTC, regardless whether you want to hear it or not, Unreal, open reading frame of the 12s RNA. See, that's what this means before you're like, MOTC, MOTC, now you at least, but before your eyes glaze over and you get all weirded out, boy, here we go. It's a bunch of definitions from a Webster's Dictionary or a biochemistry book. Listen, your mitochondria, these little powerhouse organelles that you learned about, and I always make jokes about this and probably eighth grade bio, I'm guessing somewhere around there, have their own DNA. It's separate from the nuclear DNA. We're talking about what, 16,569 base pairs of ancient bacteria DNA that you inherited exclusively, by the way, from your mom. So this maternal line legacy code running in every cell of your body is vitally important. Buried in that mitochondrial DNA, there's this tiny code that 16 amino acid peptide, that's what MOTC is. If I'm going to give you a master class, I'm going to give you all the information, that's MOTC. They figured this stuff out in 2015, sound metabolism, like it's been around for 11 years, knowledge that we know about way longer since the beginning of time. But here's where it gets really wild. This is the peptide that your mitochondria use to communicate with the nucleus of your cell. It's a retrograde signaling molecule. So think of it as a, it's like a text message from your cellular power plants saying, hey man, we got a situation down here, we need to handle it. So when stress hits, I'm talking metabolic stress, oxidative, nutrient deprecation, injury even works. All of it physical, right? Your mitochondria up-regulate, MOTC, and sorry, the bracelet was hanging down, I'm a funny, feels weird, I'm just twitchy like that happens when you're OCD. Your mitochondria up-regulate MOTC production. It's encoded in MTDMA, translated into your mitochondria, and then exported out into your cytoplasm in the nucleus where it acts as something called the transcription factor. This little peptide walks into your nucleus and kicks open the door like it owns a place and starts regulating gene expression. It's pretty kick-ass. Specifically, it targets AMPK. So AMP Activated Protein Kindness. We've talked about this a lot, I hear these influencers talk about it all the time, you guys need to stop talking if you don't know what that means. It's the metabolic regulator that controls how your body uses energy, but it's so much deeper than this. So let me MOTC and ATP because that's where we go with the funding source for everything that happens in your life, which is exactly why I made the example about the 25-year-old athlete and the 85-year-old Alzheimer's patient. The difference is mitochondria, the baseline of that is a denizen triphosphate, ATP, the fundamental currency for life. So let's talk about ATP production because this is where MOTC goes from, that's a cute little peptide, to holy shit, this is a biological game changer. That's how badass this is. Your mitochondria make ATP through the ETC, the electron transport chain. Five protein complexes embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane. One, two, three, four, five. Five is ATP synthase. Electrons flow through these complexes pumping protons across a membrane creating something called an electrochemical gradient that drives ATP synthesis. Simple enough to be honest from a biochemistry standpoint, except when it's not. There's the problem. As you age, you get metabolically dysfunctional, oxidative stress accumulates, all this stuff. These complexes get damaged. Complex one especially, it's the most vulnerable. So complex one activity decreases about 40% with aging. American Journal of Physiology proved this in 2007. So this is why I give you this information so you understand. They've known the answers for a very long time. They're keeping them from you. I'm not. I don't keep anything. I give you all the answers because I give a shit. When complex one fails, electrons leak out and they react with oxygen prematurely creating superoxide radicals. Reactive oxygen species, ROSs. So these free radicals then go on to damage the very proteins they leaked from. So they just turn around and start attacking everything, creating this vicious cycle. More damage, more leaks, more damage, more leaks, more damage. You see this is called mitochondrial dysfunction. It's a common denominator in literally every single chronic disease. Here comes MOTC. 2016, diabetology showed MOTC directly enhances complex one function. It doesn't just protect it. It cranks up its optimization in a way that makes it function at 100%. But here's the genius mechanism behind this. Listen to me. MOTC activates AMPK, which then up regulates PGC1 alpha. This is the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis. It basically tells your cells, hey man, pay attention. Make more amount of mitochondria. Make stronger mitochondria. Make better mitochondria. So MOTC isn't just improving the efficiency of your existing power plants. It's building new ones and it's not just bootstrapping the old ones. It's upgrading the old ones. In the result, 40% increase in ATP production with MOTC. Cell metabolism, 25th to prove that. It's not a marginal improvement, you guys. Get 40% more wages. Get 40% more strength. Have a PR that's 40% more than what you lifted yesterday. That's transformational. You guys do get this, right? This isn't something where you look at and you go, yeah, okay, that's cute. But I was expecting this. Like most of you guys are like, how come I'm not a millionaire? I started my business yesterday. You got to get that thinking out of your head, that this stuff works so effectively. Because and here's where everybody gets this wrong. They think O-MOTC increases ATP. Cool. More energy. Got it. Wrong. Absolutely not. That's not how it works. That's like saying a Ferrari is just transportation. Technically, true, but you're missing the entire point. MOTC is a systemic regulator orchestrating dozens and dozens of biological processes simultaneously. Does this all at the same time? Look at insulin sensitivity. MOTC activates AMPK, which phosphorylates and inhibits acetyl-COA carboxylase. So now this shifts your metabolism from lipogenesis, which is fat storage, to lapolysis, which is fat burning, right? It increases glucose uptake and skeletal muscles. By the way, it's doing this is the cool part. It does this independent of insulin, which means it creates an alternative glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent pathway. All proven, by the way. In diabetes, MOTC, they've shown this 2015. Lee proved this. In diabetes, MOTC reversed insulin resistance within three weeks, not managed, reversed it. And that was without changing their diet, by the way. Look at the anti-inflammatory signaling properties of MOTC. So 2020, Nature Communications showed MOTC suppresses NF-Kappa B activation, which is the primary inflammatory transcription factor. I talk about this all the time. When NF-Kappa B is active, you get this cascade of pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-6, IL-1-beta, TNF-alpha, all the same ones I talk about. These drive systemic inflammation. MOTC shuts this down at the transcriptional level. It's not masking inflammation like an NSAID causing more problems depleting glutathione. It's preventing the inflammatory cascade from initiating in the first place. Look at the antioxidant defense it provides. MOTC up regulates NRF-2. This activates antioxidant response. This increases the production of what did I just say? The thing that gets depleted with NSAIDs, glutathione, and there's more. Superoxide dismutase, catalase. These are your cellular antioxidant soldiers in the army that keeps you alive. 2018, Experimental and Molecular Medicine, they prove this as well. There's so many times that the research is out there, you guys. It's that they don't want you to see it because it keeps you away from their drugs and garbage. But you see the pattern? MOTC doesn't just fix one thing. It's addressing the root cause of cellular dysfunction. If you go back to the beginning of what I was saying, difference between 25 and 85, it's a mitochondrial issue. So let me frame this out in a way that you're going to understand. Every disease, every single one comes down to three fundamental biological failures, 100% of the time. Systemic inflammation, the fire, insulin resistance, the fuel problem, and an ATP shortage, which is the power outage. Cancer, check, check. Let's see, heart disease, check, check. Alzheimer's, absolutely. Check. Dementia, check. Autoimmune conditions, check. I can do this all day with anything. These three failures create a biological death spiral, inflammation, and it's all, and I've explained this to you, but I'll do it again real quick. Inflammation damages mitochondria, reducing ATP production. Low ATP impairs insulin signaling. insulin resistance drives more inflammation, round and round and round and round. Low ATP cranks up inflammation. Like it is always, one begets the other. You have to solve them all, which is why you can't just solve one of these problems. So look at the ATP shortage with MOTC. You get an enhanced complex one function plus mitochondrial biogenesis. Here's what the result of that is. 40% increase in ATP production. Look at insulin resistance. AMPK activation plus enhanced glucose update equals restored insulin sensitivity proven in multiple studies. Aging 2021 did it the best way, by the way. Systemic inflammation. Watch, here we go. NF-Kappa-B suppression plus NRF2 activation gives you, let's do this, like a math equation, reduced inflammatory cytokines and reduced oxidative stress. This isn't treating symptoms, you guys. This is fixing the broken foundation that's causing all of your problems. Listen, I'm going to go into the molecular detail and I know some of you guys are like, really, this idiot out there that's, let me go and Dr. Trevor, know what you're doing. You're just stealing my videos and you're using them to sell your product when you don't even understand what you're selling. You're just trying to make your business bigger. I'm going to call you out because what I call you is all. But let me explain the metabolic detail and the molecular details because this is where MOTC earns everything. The electron transport chain is this series of oxidation reduction reactions, which is also why methylene blue is so effective because it handles and bypasses one and all the way to three. It goes right to four. This is why you have to understand a little bit of biochemistry. Watch, NADH and FADH2 are electron carriers from glycolysis and the TCA, the Krebs cycle, donate electrons to complex one and two respectively. These electrons flow through complexes three and four, which each, by the way, transfer pumping protons from mitochondrial matrix into the intermembrane space. Now, so this is what creates this proton gradient. So it's a difference in both pH and electrical charge across the inter mitochondrial membrane. I'll get to SS31 in a second because I know you guys are like, okay, it was not worth. Just listen. This gradient stores potential energy like water behind a dam. It's like holding a ball. The higher you get, the more potential energy the ball has. The energy is released when you let go of the ball. So this is the same thing. It's like the water, right? So go to water behind the dam until it has to go through a turbine and do something. It is potential energy. Plex 5, ATP synthase is the dam's turbine. Now do you get it? So now protons flow back through it and that flow drives the mechanical rotation of ATP synthase, phosphorylating ADP, adenosine diphosphate to ATP, adenosine triphosphate. One complete rotation spits out three ATP molecules. Beautiful, incredible, and really friggin fragile. Really. Because complex one is a massive protein complex. 46 subunits, over a thousand amino acids. It's vulnerable to oxidative damage. When it's damaged, everything downstream fails because you stopped the beginning. Right? So 2021 cell reports show that MOTC directly stabilizes complex one. I'll even tell you how it does it. It does it by enhancing the assembly of complex one subunits. How many subunits are in that? 46. Just because I want to test you a little bit. It reduces reactive oxygen species at complex one. It improves electron transfer efficiency beginning at complex one. And the result is more ATP per oxygen molecule consumed, better coupling efficiency, less oxidative stress, which is the shrapnel that's destroying all your cells. This is why MOTC doesn't just increase energy. It increases metabolic efficiency. I need some copy. Hold on. That's why these masterclasses, whether you like it or not, you should probably just listen to them. Your brain is, listen, your brain is, this stuff fixes neurological issues. Your brain is 2%. I just went over this yesterday with dementia. Your brain is 2% of your body weight but uses 20% of your energy. Neurons are metabolically ravenous. They need constant ATP to maintain ion gradients and conduct action potentials and recycle neurotransmitters. So when mitochondrial function tanks, neurons can't maintain these processes. And the result is the problem we should all be terrified of, which is cognitive decline, neurodegeneration and dementia, which I talked about yesterday and I even gave out the entire reversal protocol from A to Z. So it's actually, if you're listening to this and you didn't listen to the dementia one you're about to, the reversal protocol, and I already know here's the problem. You're going to do it. You're going to get it. You're going to look at it. You're going to go, I don't understand it. You're not going to go back and watch the video because you're too ignorant that bugs me. So the entire protocol is in the copy section underneath the video. I wasn't even going to put it there. I was going to make you go to Instagram to get it just because it's honestly, I just didn't feel like telling you. But I just put the link to the form. You got to go through the form. You decide which you want to use it. Great. You don't. You want to tell your neurologist and go and have him go or her go, no, you shouldn't do this. You should get back on Namenda. Then you go right ahead and enjoy your very slow cognitive decline of grandma instead of actually solving her frigging problem. That's on you. But I'm here to give you the answer. So you have it. You decide what you do with it. So if you look at this, look at MOTC in Alzheimer's, 50% reduction in brain glucose metabolism, follow the Journal of Nuclear Medicine 2008 showed the neurons are starving. This is the problem. That's why it is type three diabetes. Parkinson's, complex one deficiency in the substantia nigra, the dopamine producing region of your brain, Journal of Neurochemistry 1990. Let's do some math. That's a while ago, just so we know MS multiple sclerosis think Michael J. Fox, condrial dysfunction and axons leads to neuro degeneration, nature abuse, neurology 2014. This is the stuff that has been around for so long, and yet they keep coming out with new drugs that do precisely squat. MOTC crosses the blood brain barrier, moved it by the way, animal studies in 2019. And once in the brain, here's it increases neuronal ATP production. It reduces neural inflammation by suppressing microglial activation. Microglia are your brain's immune cells that when they get activated and they go rogue, they do more than just get a little pissed off. They cause massive neuro and from inflammation. They start chewing up your own synapses regardless all because of this aberrant complement protein issue. So the issue becomes that microglia when they go off script cause damage to the very cells that they're supposed to protect. So it reduces neuro inflammation by suppressing microglial activation. There's nothing there for them to attack except you. It enhances synaptic. I had to get me to understand that it enhances synaptic plasticity through BDNF up regulation, brain derived neurotropic factor, miracle grow to make the neurons do their thing and protects against excitotoxicity. We know this. So if you look at this Alzheimer's, they showed MOTC. This is so good. MOTC, they proved this 2017 by the way, let's do some math. 2017 is 2026 now. They proved in Alzheimer's MOTC prevented cognitive decline and reduced amyloid beta accumulation. How many of your doctors told you to give grandma? They didn't. I know they did. That's aggravating to me. Above all, do no harm. I'm tired of the white coats telling you that there's no answer but the pharmaceuticals. You're supposed to understand. Look at the cardiovascular system. I'm going to just go through some things that MOTC actually helps. Your heart beats a hundred thousand times a day. Each contraction requires this magic thing called ATP. Biosites, which are the heart muscle cells are packed with mitochondria. They occupy 30% of cell volume. When cardiac mitochondria fail, you get heart failure. Simple equation, right? 2018, the paramedicine medicine showed MOTC. You ready for this? You're going to love this one. Improved cardiac function in heart failure. Reduced cardiac fibrosis. Huh, worked hand in hand, by the way, with TB-500, which is the only, I don't care what your Insta Bro is telling you, the only peptide to reverse myocardial fibrosis, the problem when it doesn't conduct a signal, because it died because of ischemia, reverse the problem. Again, how many cardiologists have told you about that? They haven't. This stuff makes me angry because you guys deserve more information. You guys deserve better. It decreased inflammatory markers in cardiac tissue, enhanced mitochondrial respiration in cardiomyocytes. But here's the deeper mechanism. Listen to me. MOTC improves endothelial function by increasing nitric oxide bioavailability. So here's why that matters. Better nitric oxide, better vasodilation. I realize I explained, I'm not some, just follow me on this. Let me land the plane. But then you get lower blood pressure, which reduces cardiac workload. But what else it does is reduce the workload on your kidneys. By the way, your heart is a secretory organ. It works hand in hand with your kidneys. It's called the reninangiotensin pathway, a dosterone pathway. So it works hand in hand with your kidneys. So understand that when you're messing with one thing, you're messing with all things, your body is one giant synergistic organism. That's why when they start treating one thing with a drug, you guys have to shake your head and go, how does that even make sense? We're all connected. Every cell in your body is connected to every other cell in your body. You don't have a section that's walled off. By the way, here's what else MOTC does. It reduces atherosclerosis by preventing oxidized LBL uptake in macrophages. It blocks the formation of, I went over this before, the cells, which is the hallmark of atherosclerotic plaques. We can go into kidney. May as well talk about the kidney too. Your kidney is filtered, what did I say, 180 liters of blood every day. The proximal tubule cells that do all this heavy lifting have the highest mitochondrial density in your body, even more than cardiac cells. So now when these mitochondria fail, you get acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease. And then the last one, which is all kinds of fun, is called renal failure. So if you look at kidney disease, the study in kidney 2019 showed MOTC proved it. Protects against the skinia reperfusion injury, which is when the blood comes rushing back and it causes a bunch of damage to the cells. Reduced tubular cell death. Decreased inflammatory infiltration. Preserved glomerular filtration rates. So when you look at something and you have an eat, the GFR has got a problem. You got scratch, like sorry, you have a GFR issue. This solves that. Preserves the normal GFR. Huh, weird. But what do they do? Boy, we got to put you on all kinds of drugs that your kidneys have to clean out, that your liver has to clean out, that you have to pump through every cell in your body, just so you can go down the road to dialysis, which is a business, by the way. It's not for health. It's for business. Nobody should ever have to have dialysis. Your kidneys should not fail unless you have like hemorrhagic fever, and it's for the interim. And you have acute renal failure. And you're not putting out enough water because you're drowning in your own tissues, basically. But that's a very rare time in people's lives. It's not just normal because my kidneys have degraded and it's a normal part of aging. Kidney disease and renal failure is not a normal part of aging. They've got you guys so blind, and you can sit here and go, oh, it's another tinfoil hat wearing guy. Then, fine, I'll put on a tinfoil hat because I'm still right. I'll just be right wearing a tinfoil hat. This is for you guys. Here, look at the mechanism, how this solves the kidney issue. Enhanced ATP production in tubular cells means they can maintain ion pumps. They can resist hypoxic stress and the big one, they can recover from any injury. Just so you know, all cells are designed to recover. I explained that when I talked about the 700 rounds being created every day. Like, this is stuff you guys got to think seriously. Look at menopause. This is a metabolic shift that most people don't explain properly. And they don't know what they're talking about because they're trying to get their best seller off the shelves. Menopause isn't about estrogen decline. It's a metabolic catastrophe. They're not even close to the same. Estrogen is mitochondrial protective. Listen to me. This is why it's so weird when I see these. There's some best-selling author, lady, she's some doctor, but I'm sorry, I got no respect for you because you're trying to push your book and then you take a clip of mine and you post it going, it's wrong only to sell your book. I'm not selling a damn thing. That's what bugs me. If you take any of my information, by the way, any of you guys, and you use it to go, this is wrong, I tell everybody, all of you guys, just look to see if they're selling something. Go down the rabbit hole all the way, even if there's no link in their profile because nobody's doing, I come out here for free. Period. I got nothing to sell. I don't give a crap if you buy my stuff or not. Do care that you're here for the long haul with your wife, your husband, and your kids and you get to kick ass and take names. You're like Rowdy Rowdy Piper and they live. I'm here to kick ass and chew bubble gum and I'm all out of bubble gum. That's how you should be in your life. And if you want to get a bagpipe and a kilt, knock yourself out, but I'm doing this because I care. I'm just a gritty, grumpy old doctor that gives a shit about mankind and I'm trying to save everyone. How about that? How about that? Because like I said, look at that. The mitre just makes me mad because it is, it's so effective. MOTC is so effective and everybody goes, it's all about estrogen decline. No, it's not. Estrogen is mitochondrial protective. How is that? That doesn't even make sense. Listen, here's how it works. It enhances complex one and four, reduces reactive oxygen species production. It maintains mitochondrial membrane potential. All proven by the way, FASCB in 2003. So when estrogen drops, mitochondrial function collapses, but this is, listen to me, follow me. This explains the sudden weight gain because you have a reduced metabolic rate. You get the fatigue because there's lower ATP, the cognitive fog, neuronal energy deficits, the cardiovascular risk increase, which your doctor is not telling you or best seller ladies aren't telling you, but it's all because of endothelial dysfunction. Watch, here comes MOTC to slam dance all these problems into the next zip code. In post menopause 2020, they proved, this is six years ago, they proved this and they've done this so many times. Restored metabolic rate, insulin sensitivity, cognitive function and vascular health. Then it's providing the mitochondrial support the estrogen used to provide. The problem, it's not an ovarian issue, which is why when you guys have menopause, listen, I have, I'm never going to dog on somebody going through menopause symptoms. So don't you dare try and twist what I'm saying, because if you're going through something, it is living hell and you're sweating 20 times a night through your sheets and you're struggling and you're miserable and you're fatigued and you're overweight and you're cramping and you can't, you brain fog, you can't remember why you walked into a room 30 seconds after you walked in. All the stuff that happens, I empathize with you because I have no clue what that feels like. I'm a dude. I have no clue. I got it so much easier than you and I empathize with that. But what you're being, what you're being given are lies that don't solve the problem. And then I have people get in my comments and give me a thumbs down. How about you just f off? Just don't just move on like an adult and give me comments about how this isn't exactly accurate. And I'm, listen, do you want to suffer or not? I'm trying to give you the answer. But I empathize with you. I'm giving you an answer, but it's not and you don't need to shove some suppository in you. You don't need to get an injection or get a pellet. For the most part, there are so many better ways to do this to solve the problem. Getting a hysterectomy makes no sense whatsoever. You're taking the tissues that produce hormones. They don't stop. You don't just turn it off and they take them out and then you still have to be on the same things you had to be on when they're in, but they got to charge you a bunch of money for surgery and take out vital components that God built you with. Yeah, G F Y is what I'll tell every surgeon that's done that. Engle right to MOTC gives so much support to menopause. It's mind boggling. Look at injury. Look at injury. Okay, this stuff accelerates regeneration. You marry this with BPC and the world changes for you. Tissue repair requires massive energy. You need ATP, proliferate new cells, drive anions cell function, synthesize collagen and the extra cellular matrix. You need to scrape away and remove all the debris, your own wounds, right? Remove the damaged tissue. You look at wound healing. MOTC accelerated injury healing by 40%. 40%. I'll wait. You're like Deadpool or Wolverine at that point. Enhanced fibroblast ATP production equals faster collagen synthesis, right? Improved macrophage function. Follow me. I'll just go through it. All the debris gets cleared away. Increased angiogenesis, blood vessel formation, better nutrient delivery, better metabolites and toxins pulled away. Reduced oxidative inflammation, less scar tissue. These are  alboxes you want to check. Listen, here's the truth. If you take, and I need to address this, if you take MoC, because I just thought of this, I got somebody go, we have, but I took it, it made me tired. So if that happens, there's two reasons, and I'll explain both. If you feel more tired when you take MoC initially, that's actually not a bad thing. It's because your body is redirecting energy to the repair process. When your biology, just follow me, just stay with me on this, because I need to explain this, because nobody's doing this right? When your biology is broken, chronic inflammation, accumulated cell damage, dysfunctional mitochondria, your body has been in survival mode and it's barely maintaining basic functions. MOTC is what flips the switch to repair mode. But now, watch, here's the problem. Suddenly, your cells are clearing out damaged proteins. It's called autophagy, repairing mitochondria, autophagy, synthesizing new cellular components. It's doing all this extra work. All of this requires exorbitant amounts of energy. So initially, you might feel a little tired as your resources get reallocated from keeping you conscious to actually fixing the friggin damage. Usually, this takes about a week to two because then all of a sudden, here's what happens. You've got these newly generated, healthy mitochondria that come online and start pounding out ATP like you've worked 17 years old. I wasn't going to do this, but I'll talk about the SS-31 because so many people are doing this wrong and you do what you want. But watch, SS-31, mitochondrial target or peptide that stabilizes cardiolipid. We all know this. That's the phospholipid that's critical for electron transport chain function. But here's why MOTC has to come first. It has to. This is basic rudimentary biochemistry that somebody's going to try and twist around so they can be right because they don't like how it feels when they're wrong, except I'm not wrong. I don't say things if I'm not. SS-31 optimizes existing mitochondria. What if they're down? Follow me. MOTC creates new mitochondria and repairs damaged ones. If you take SS-31 first, like some InstaBro or InstaGuru tries to convince you, you're optimizing a broken system. You're making dysfunctional mitochondria slightly less dysfunctional and you're making them make new dysfunctional ones. It doesn't work like that. Understand, biology, you can't do that. It won't work. You're just going to make more of a mess. So watch, if you take MOTC first, you trigger mitochondrial biogenesis, you repair the damaged mitochondria, you clear out the severely damaged mitochondria, metophagy, then when you add SS-31, you're cranking up the juice on a healthy mitochondrial population. You're taking good and making it badass, not taking terrible and making it mediocre. And you guys got to understand this isn't for me. I don't care. I'm giving it so you actually get something out of this. And by the way, MOTC, you can't stay on it forever. You can't. You can't do that. Don't do it. Listen, your body regulates MOTC based on metabolic stress. So when you supplement exogenously, which means you take it from the outside, you're not making it as a result of in your own system, you're providing constant signal regardless of actual cellular conditions. So over time, here's what happens. Downregulation of endogenous internal production of MOTC. Receptors become desensitized and your biological response goes tits up. If I was going to do this for my kangaroo, four to six weeks, six is good, and I would go two weeks off, hypothetically for a kangaroo. But what this does is it allows your natural feedback mechanisms to reset the receptors to become resensitized and the endogenous production of your own MOTC to come back online. Now, I need to be brutally honest about this. A couple of people shouldn't take MOTC. I couldn't. I just don't think it's a good idea. Pregnant or breastfeeding or about to become pregnant? Zero, zero. The question I get all the time about peptides is always the same. What if we're trying to get pregnant? What if I am pregnant? What if I'm breastfeeding? Can I still take it? Here's a blanket statement for every single thing you're ever going to put in your barcode other than food. No, how about that? That's every peptide, every sarm, every sarm. You can go, what about this? I just said zero. If it's not food, no, don't be the experiment. Don't you dare take a chance with that child. You are their best chance at a kick-ass life and you're going to take that peptide or medication because you don't want to feel uncomfortable. My wife is a bad ass. I love her so much. She didn't take a damn thing for nine months now because I told her, I support my wife 100% because she went, I'm that baby's best chance. I'm building this as a gift from God. Are you out of your mind? She's suck kids are indestructible. My wife, indestructible. You guys have been convinced that you have to stick something in your body to make it more comfortable for you. I've never been pregnant. Listen, I'm not dogging on it. Again, just like menopause issues. I'm not. I can't imagine. I washed my wife's. I did everything I could to make her comfortable. I rubbed her feet, rubbed her legs, rubbed her belly. I ate food that she couldn't stand because of smell and bugger. I'd go outside. It didn't matter what you wanted to eat, what you needed. I took care of her all the time. She could sleep whenever she wanted. I didn't care. I'm like, I got you, Dave. You tell me what you need. I'll be the worker. You just worry about building that baby and I supported 100%. Anything should be done. By the way, that's what a man does, just to go off script. If you don't think so, you see much of a man. Here's the other thing. Acute people with acute infections. I get a little concerned with MOTC. Your immune system uses metabolic dysfunction. Here's why, because your immune system uses metabolic dysfunction as a weapon to limit pathogen replication. Here's what happens. Enhanced cellular metabolism during acute infection, depending on what the infection is. This isn't all the time. This is why I look at things case by case. Can quite possibly fuel the infection and not the immune system. That's it. That's only two. If you go on my doctor told me not to, if you ask me about cancer or hyperthyroid or any of that, I'm going to say, and why would you not want your cells working perfectly if there's cancer there? Why would you not? That's like saying that BPC or TB-500 has a risk of cancer. No, it doesn't. In fact, that's not even possible. Same with red or true type. No, it doesn't. We didn't even have the like the rats they used. It bothers me. They were designed to have thyroid tumors and then they went, but the rat thyroid isn't the same as a human thyroid. Not even close. Zero chance. And if somebody goes, I've read this one study. Okay. And eating ice cream causes strike attacks too. You just go with that. Anyway, I'm going off script here. Listen, just look at this. Since I brought up red or true type, let's hit this real quick. So red or true type, red or true type MOTC, you're building a monster for yourself in a good way. VIP, GLP-1, Glucogon receptors. It's the most powerful metabolic therapy currently available. Jastreboff, I told you, 2023, 24% body weight, 76% of that body weight was fat. Nothing comes close. Semiclutide, Giuseppi, blowballs, their garbage, sarcopenia, 100% of the time, it is not fat loss. It is weight loss of which, by the way, 70% lost on Semiclutide Giuseppi. You cannot manage. We go, I ate more protein and then it didn't happen to me. No, it didn't. It's a quick July. You're mad because you don't like being wrong because you fell for the scam. It is an appetite suppressant with some slick marketing. The end. Stop getting mad and getting in my comments because you don't like the truth. The truth is demonized in this world. I don't know why. The point is that 70 plus percent was metabolically active muscle, connective tissue, bone, proved by Dexascans, by the way, like hundreds of thousands of times. They did a study, half a million people approved it. I don't need to get into this. Anyway, here's why combining MOTC and retitrutide is borderline genius. Hypothetically. Watch. Just follow me. Retitrutide appetite regulation, GLP-1, the Satiety Centers. I'm going to be real quick on this. insulin secretion, GIP and GLP-1 affects pancreatic beta cells. Energy expenditure, glucagon, is forced to move to thermogenesis because the insulin is being held in check by the rest of the compound. The GIP and the GLP-1. It can't do what it normally does, so it only has one other direction to go. It's genius the way they put this together. That's why you guys are going, well, they're going with a quadruple agonist now. That is marketing. It's unnecessary. They're actually going to cause more problems. Stop trying to make a better wheel. It forces thermogenesis at the liver. Retrutide is badass. Look at MOTC. It handles cellular energy production, insulin sensitivity of the cell, and it handles mitochondrial function like a boss. Together, watch, they hit all three biological failures. Watch. I've got to do this because it's so cool to me. Look at the ATP shortage. MOTC directly enhances mitochondrial ATP production. Retrutide increases cellular energy expenditure, creates this beneficial metabolic stress that you need. Look at insulin resistance. MOTC. I will go line by line with you so you have it. MOTC, take it all. Use it. MOTC enhanced glucose uptake, independent. I said this earlier, independent of what? insulin. Retrutide increased insulin secretion and improved insulin signaling. So now your cells here insulin because there's no more insulin resistance anymore. So now it's doing its job. Oh, I'm not done. Look at the third one, systemic inflammation. Yes, I realize I did these backwards. I'm just messing around. MOTC, NF-Kappa B suppression, MRF2 activation. I already talked about this. I don't need to go over it again. Retrutide, weight loss reduces out of post-issue formation or inflammation rather. Correct and anti-inflammatory effects. Show that by the way, FriZ 2023. Put all this thing together in this wicked puzzle. The result, you're not just losing weight, man. You're fundamentally fixing your metabolism at the cellular level. Why did you not put them together? So let me land the plane on this. We've spent the last 100 years treating Z's like it's a plumbing frigging problem. Something broken or replaced the pipe, right? Something's inflamed, suppress it. Something's not working. Give it a drug to force it to work. That's why most drugs are metabolic wrecking balls. They destroy you, but a disease is a plumbing problem. It's an energy problem. Every cell in your body is a miniature power plant. When they fail, everything fails. Your brain, your heart, your kidneys, your metabolism, you've got everything you've got. It all runs on the same thing, the same currents, ATP, cellular energy. MOTC isn't a drug. It's not a supplement. It's a frigging message. When people go, I'm going to take this drug. It's not a drug. I had some knucklehead that was trying to be polite, trying not to drop any F-bombs who kept calling it medicine, kept calling methylene blue medicine. I'm like, it's not a medicine, but same with MOTC. Same with redotrutide. You guys got to understand the fundamental. It's the message that your mitochondria have been trying to send your nucleus for years, but they've been too damaged, too dysfunctional, too trashed, too overwhelmed to get through. They can't do it. So when you supplement MOTC, you're amplifying the perfect message. So you're not just cranking up a bunch of static, which is what happens if you do it the other way around, by the way, with SS 30, but first, you're amplifying the best cleanest message possible. The messages are build more power plants, fix the damage ones, clear out all the broken ones, make energy very efficiently, stop the inflammation, repair all the damage, fix the insulin resistance. Those are all the messages that come out of MOTC, and your cells go, cool, I got it, boss. Let's do it. Because there isn't a foreign chemical forcing a biological response screwing up your body. This is your body's own regulatory peptide encoded in your mitochondrial DNA that God designed specifically to coordinate with cellular stress responses. The research is everywhere. And the results, here's the best part, reproducible. 2015 when it was discovered to 2026 with ongoing clinical trials, watched MOTC. Listen, reverse diabetes, vent Alzheimer's, prevent dementia, restore cardiac function and heart failure, stand lifespan and health span 20 plus percent every single time, fix metabolic syndrome in human beings. This isn't hyper speculation. This is all peer reviewed, published, replicated science every single day. And here's the beautiful irony. The answer is inside you all along. Always has been in your mitochondria, your maternal lineage, right? These DNA that merged with ours whenever that happened, just forgot how to listen. MOTC is you don't need to be on it forever, but it's how you start listening again. So the question is not whether MOTC works. How long are you going to ignore what your own mitochondria have been screaming at you with all of these symptoms to brain fog, the heavy menopause, the pre menopause, the brain fatigue, the cognitive decline, the weakness, the tiredness, the muscle wasting like on and on the insulin problems, the diabetes. I could do this all day because every day that your mitochondria are failing, every day that they do that, you're another day closer to that disease running away with you, right? You're another day closer to massive decline, irreversible decline to a struggle that is going to be almost impossible to climb out of. But every day that you go on the other side of this equation and you support mitochondrial function is a day that you've just taken your time and takes what? People go, it's really expensive. Go to the hospital for emergency care. That's much more expensive than any peptide you live by. But it's another day that you invested in longevity if you take it. I don't care where you get it, but you're optimizing human performance. You're cranking up your biology to the way it's designed to run. You should be running around giving MOTC a standing ovation every time you see the word because your mitochondria have kept you alive. Just so you know, every single second of your day, even when you treat them poorly, what happens and you've been convinced that's not what the problem is. But your mitochondria are always the problem. But if you solve the three biological failures, they actually flip the script. They do a 180 and they become the solution. So maybe give them a little bit of support. Give them a little bit of love. I don't know. Hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.