 so I almost wasn't going to do this podcast, but I actually, thank you for the questions. Keep them coming, and I'll do my best to make podcasts and posts and answer things like that. And if you leave me a question in my Ask Me Your Questions post that I make generally about once a week, I'll do my best to get to it. I usually get somewhere in the neighborhood of about 10,000 to 15,000 questions, and I appreciate that. I appreciate the trust. I'll give you all I got. And I have a ton of answers, just single Q&A answers on Rumble. And you guys should all, if you're not following me on Rumble and you're not subscribed, you should, for two reasons. One, honestly, because I'm asking you to, and it's the safest place, it's better than YouTube, this crap that I'm on, and better than social media for, in general. So today, NAD+, actually, MOTC, NAD+, and SS31, as a mitochondrial repair. I hate to say the word protocol because it's so much more than that. It's like a repair blueprint. You're mitochondria in your life. Listen, all of you guys are sick. Just understand, you're all sick. And you might not be sick enough for a diagnosis, not yet, but you're tired, your brain is foggy, and you can't lose the last 20 or 30 pounds, no matter how you eat or how hard you work out or how long you fast or how many walks you go on or the water fasts or whatever it is you guys are doing, your joint sake and your doctor runs the standard panel, right, a CBC and goes, you're all within normal limits, right, WNL, which is BS, by the way, just so you know. And maybe they say your cholesterol is high or your blood pressure is creeping up and then they give you the, it's just age. Here's a prescription we're going to check again in three, two, one, six months. It's always the same standard. And yet the reason that I can say this with all confidence, knowing that's what happens is because that's what happens. And a lot of you guys that join the Black Card, I love that you're with me because I'm giving you real health care, real health advice. And I'll bleed from my black. There's a reason because I want you to have the answers. So like I said, you want to join the Black Card, apply at unlockthecard.com. If somebody sent me a mail, oh, I thought it was free. It's not free. It's not free. It's still, it hasn't changed yet. So it's still last year's price briefly, which is 10 grand versus 25 grand. It's wire only and you get access to my live Q&A call I do every Monday in the Black Card and you get the VIP community, you get protocols, you get direct access to me to actually answer your questions and you get to be part of one hell of a group. Really, my Black Card people are hands down my favorite people in the communities I've built. I just love the hell out of these people and their family. We're going to do a big Black Card meetup. It's going to be awesome this year and just to hang out, meet, great, hang out, eat some really good food, probably do something together. I'm not going to be one of these. We're going to work out in the morning and then we're going to have this seminar and no, we're not going to do that. We're just going to have a really good time and it's going to be a ton of fun. I don't know, maybe rent a bunch of quads or side by sides and go tear up some sand dunes or do it in the winter and just go snowballing throughout the day. I don't know. I just want to do something fun. So if you guys are my Black Card crew, by the way, throw ideas at me. I'm open and it's going to be a banger of a good time. But anyway, that's not what this is about. So MOTC, NAD+, and SS-31 as far as mitochondrial repair is concerned and all the nonsense I talked about, like the blood pressure, like I said, and all the stuff, hey, it's just age. Here's a prescription. Let me translate what all that means for you, that nonsense that comes out of your doctor's mouth. What they're really saying is your body is failing. We don't know why. We don't care why our job is to manage the failure. Just slow the slide. Welcome to the decline. Don't worry. We will treat you as a product because that's what you are. It's a lie. It's a profitable, multi-trillion dollar lie. And you guys, please, you guys are buying it because modern medicine is not built to solve problems. It's built to manage customers. It's a subscription service for your own decay. It bugs me, a beta blocker for your heart that we're too lazy to fix because we don't want to do it. SSRI for the brain because we're too ignorant to fuel it. Metformin for your insulin resistance, your diabetes, your metabolic syndrome because we're too arrogant to understand physiology because we aren't going to medical school to become actual doctors. We're going to medical school to become tradespeople, pharmaceutical reps. And if you think I'm wrong, look around. And if you're a doctor and that offends you, I don't care. I've been a doctor probably longer than you. And I've seen this and the decline of the medical system is embarrassing. So I'm out here solving every health issue you've got for free. And like I said, you want to join the black card? Great. You want to buy from elite biogenics? Great. You don't still come out here and do it. I am past a year now. I've been doing this for longer than a year every day. Retreating symptoms. And we're putting a bandaid on just a hemorrhaging wound. And they run around with the arrogance to call it a cure. That's what we do as medical professionals. I refuse to do that for all of you guys, all of you insta bros and you want to be science people copying my stuff. How about you give me some fucking credit for it because I spend 16 hour days working my face off for everybody, not for you to run around and steal my stuff and then what, try and take credit for it and think that you actually did the work. You haven't done any of the work. And that's what embarrasses me. I'm looking up at the screen by the way because what happened was the Riverside yet again in all its infinite wisdom decided to turn off a track and then start a new one. Why? Because Riverside FM sucks but I keep using it because it's the best one in the game and they know it. And that's the problem. If you are a whoever you are that runs Riverside, you happen to hear this, you know what? You need to fix your system because it blows. Anyway, I got that off my chest and my rant and my whining never condemned, criticized or complained and I did all three just now. I need to read Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence people maybe one more time today because today I'm in that kind of mood. But it's wonder, it's amazing the entitlement that people have right now. I have people, this is my favorite, people that didn't pay for something who want access to something because they feel they should get something yet haven't done anything that I've ever given them any sense. It hasn't. You're not gonna. You never will. It's like most people don't read past the first chapter in a book because they placate themselves going, it's on the shelf if I ever need it. And they do that until they get to the end of their life and then they go, I never did anything with it. Your life is going to end. You should do everything you can to max it out. That's why I'm telling you how to fix your mitochondria because remember three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage, but systemic inflammation and insulin resistance caused the ATP shortage because it's broken mitochondria. They all work together in a wonderful glorious harmony to destroy your physiology. So what if I told you that, listen, every single one of these diseases from heart failure that kills your grandfather, your grandmother to the Alzheimer's, the dementia that steals your mom's mind, that destroyed Bruce Willis where the doctors did nothing for all of you doctors that were on the Bruce Willis team. I hope you get eye cancer. You're a terrible human being because you took that guy and you let him suffer and you did nothing to solve it. I'll say it again. I'll take it to my grave. I could have helped him. I could have reversed it. You know, from the cancer that terrifies you to the simple grinding fatigue that robs you of your life, they all share a single common point of failure. It's not your genes. It's not your history. It's not hereditary. It's not bad luck. It is your mitochondria. If you understand how what is about to occur in this episode, just if you understand everything I'm about to give you, you're going to understand more about your health than 99% of the doctors in this country. I hope that insults the doctors because you know nothing and it's embarrassing. You should know everything and help everybody and teach them all. The mitochondria are not powerhouses of the cell. This is the part I've got to get this off my chest because it's bugging me. I'm in one of these moods today. That is a kindergarten simplification. It's like calling a nuclear reactor a hot frigging rock. It's an insult to one of the most sophisticated biological structures in existence. Mitochondria are these ancient aliens living inside you. This primitive cell swallowed a bacterium and instead of digesting it, they made a deal. They grabbed their hands and they shook them and the bacterium said, I'll give you energy a thousand times more energy than you could ever possibly make on your own. The cell said, okay, I tell you what, in exchange for that, I will give you shelter and replication machinery so you can do this over and over again. That symbiotic merger is the reason that you are not a puddle of crap every single day. It's the reason that complex life exists and that all your systems actually work because every one of the 37 trillion cells in your body, with the pathetic exception, honestly, of your red blear, RBCs, your red blood cells, is inhabited by hundreds to thousands of these little primordial power plants, but they are not just energy producers. They're CPU, central processing unit of your cell. They're the arbiters of life and death. I've called them this before. They hold the keys to apoptosis, which is programmed cell suicide. They regulate cellular metabolism, redox signaling, calcium balance. They're the command center and when the command center goes tits up, the entire operation collapses. It's not complicated. It's really not. Please just trust me on this. This one guy all the time, let me dumb down Dr. Trevor Bachmeier. You're stealing my stuff. Why don't you just say you're stealing my stuff? Because not one says that Muppet ever given me credit and yet I'm a pretty unique looking dude. Everybody knows who I am now. Why? Because I get phone calls and emails and people asking me for help because I actually understand it. Do you know why I'm out here every day? Because I have the knowledge it's my obligation to give it to you. It's my duty. It's my duty to give you every single ounce of what I've learned. It's not my duty to hoard it or gatekeep it or tell you I'll tell you the rest of it. If you sign up for my program or you buy my stuff, it's not my duty to sit there and go, I'll give you an affiliate code and if you bring me this, I'll do that for you. It is to give you the information so you can make an informed decision so you have a better life. So all of you jackasses out there stealing my stuff and making videos about my stuff and making reaction videos or dumbing down Dr. Trevor Bachmeier. Number one, I've forgotten more than you'll ever learn. I am smarter than you. It's not an arrogant statement. It's because I do the work to become smarter and more intelligent than you. But how about you give me some damn credit for the videos that I've done all the work for? Because listen, you don't even do it. People don't, I get you guys stealing my research all the time. You haven't done any. There's a guy in my group. His name is Josh. He's a stud. This guy's a nurse practitioner, solid dude. Love the guy. Even he was sending me research going, holy crap man. It is unbelievable basically how much research you put together and give out. How do you find it? Because there's three different ways of the same research in different studies. It's incredibly complicated. I'm so blown away at how you find it. He gets it. You have no idea how hard I work for you guys because you haven't had the discipline to do the work. And yes, it pisses me off. I told you, and this is the mood I'm in. So if you don't like it, it's my house. If one person listens or one million people listen to it, when a mitochondria fails, you get sick. When they fail catastrophically, you get dead. 2018 review in cell, hallmarks of aging specifically places mitochondrial dysfunction at the very center of the diagram. It's not a symptom. It's not a symptom. It's not a lack of something. It's a cause. So listen, you got to ask why are they the most important piece of your physiology? Because life is a transaction paid for in a single currency. The currency, adenosine triphosphate, ATP. Without ATP, nothing happens. You can't sell your money. You can't wire it. You can't work out. You can't drive the car. You can't kiss the girl, have sex with the girl, build the house, get the job, mow the lawn. You can't do, you can't have a thought. You can't dream. You can't sleep. Your heart doesn't beat. Nothing works. Your heart is a pump that requires ATP for every contraction. Your neurons are bioelectrical wires that require ATP to fire. Every cellular repair, every thought, every heartbeat is an ATP transaction. You guys need to understand this. Mitochondria produce over 90% of the body's ATP through a process called oxidative phosphorylation. It's the most efficient, hands down, efficient energy production system on earth. But when the demand for ATP exceeds, right, outstrips the supply, when you have a systemic energy bankruptcy, the body starts making brutal triage decisions. It's, it's like a city during a, you remember rolling blackouts. So in California, we used to have these brownouts of blackouts all the time because allegedly they didn't have any power. BS, you and I both know that everybody knows that. And if you would start true, I live in California. So did I dumbass. It's like a city during a rolling blackout. The hospitals and the police stations, listen to me, this is why you have to understand this, the hospitals and the police stations get the last drops of power, get them all, right? The suburbs go dark in your body. The suburbs are non-essential repair, immune surveillance and higher cognitive function. Just burn that into your head. You stop preparing collagen so your skin sags and your joints hurt. You dial back immune vigilance so you get sick much more often. You throttle cognitive function so you get slow thinking and brain fog. This isn't aging the way you're being sold, this dumb idea. This is managed energy failure, you guys. This leads directly 100% to my model of the three biological failures that underpin every single chronic disease on earth. This model is the key to understanding why you're sick, by the way. Where's my Nobel Prize? And people get really mad when they say, you didn't, you don't deserve. You think one plus one is orange. I think I deserve one because I solved health. And you know what's funny is somebody goes, that's a really ignorant statement. No, it's not. It's a factual statement because I solved all health problems on the planet. Every one of them, I solved all three or I solved one by solving all three problems, the biological failures. You have to understand that. I don't come out here because I want to brag, I come out here because I want to help. Look at, just follow me. Systemic inflammation. This is a constant low grade fire throughout your entire body and it is fueled by the standard American stupidity diet, chronic stress and environmental toxins. And the last one's my favorite, gut dysbiosis. This inflammatory cytokine storm measured by things like C, reactive protein, IL-16, does something pretty sinister, directly attacks the mitochondria. That's what I was saying at the beginning. It damages the very delicate inner mitochondrial membrane and mutates the mitochondrial DNA. 2015, nature of using immunology, actually detailed it step by step, how TNF alpha, which is a major inflammatory cytokine, directly inhibits the ETC, the electron transport chain, which is what spits out adenosine triphosphate. When it inhibits the ETC, it chokes off ETP production right at the source. Inflammation, listen to me, inflammation is the arsonist that's setting fire to the power plant that you desperately need for life. Failure two, insulin resistance. This is when your cells become completely deaf. They can't hear it to the hormone insulin. insulin is that key that comes in and unlocks the cell door to let glucose come flooding in. Glucose is the primary incredibly high octet, it's a jet fuel, right? High octane fuel for your mitochondria. When the cells resist insulin, they don't recognize that the glucose stays in your bloodstream. You've got blood, your blood's full of sugar. And when the mitochondria starve, this is like having a convoy of fuel trucks stuck in traffic right outside the power plant while the generators sputter and run on fumes and then finally die off. 2017, Journal of Clinical Investigations proved, listen to me, proved that mitochondrial dysfunction in muscle tissue is the, not a, the primary driver of insulin resistance. It's not a consequence, you guys, that they want you to think the other thing. You've got the science books, you've got those science books, it's just wrong. It's wrong, it's that simple. It's a vicious cycle. Bad mitochondria cause insulin resistance, which starves the mitochondria, which makes them worse. These two failures cause the inevitable predictable failure three. They created ATP shortage. It's an energy crisis of epic proportions in your physiology, you guys. This is not, listen, it's not a standalone event. It's the direct mathematical consequence of the first two failures. The fire, right? The inflammation has damaged the machinery. Then the fuel line, insulin signaling is caught. The result is a power outage. Every diagnosed disease that we see is a manifestation of this energy bankruptcy in the specific tissue. I'll prove it. Alzheimer's, ATP shortage in the hippocampus, heart failure, ATP shortage in the cardiac muscle, cancer, a corrupted alternative, right? Warburg effect, glycolysis, alternative energy pathway born from, wait for it, failed mitochondria. You're trying to solve the energy crisis by giving the city council more money, drugs, right? You just dumping more cash in that doesn't help anybody instead of putting out the damn fire, clearing the roads and repairing the generators. Therefore, mitochondrial repair isn't an option. It's the only logical first line defense. It's the foundation for every single thing that's going to happen on this earth in your physiology, your little micro world. So listen, how do we repair them? That's the question. Okay, fine. You talked a lot doc. How do we repair it? Okay, not with drugs that paper over symptoms. We fix them surgically at the molecular level by addressing the three core pathologies of sick mitochondria. This goes a little deeper. So buckle up. And if you have to go to the, I got a dumb down Dr. Trevor Bacmeyer guy. He's just stealing my stuff so he gets clicks. Okay, he's got a TRT clinic. He's an idiot. Three failures of the mitochondria. Faulty programming. I went over these yesterday in my Instagram post, faulty programming. So it's running on the wrong software. It's a fuel shortage has no raw materials. Follow me because this is really important to stay with me. And then structural decay, the physical machinery itself is trashed. It's broken. It's running with pieces of sprockets are all broken, right? So this brings you to the trifecta, the three compounds that it's the paradigm shift, mod C and 80 plus and SS 31. This is why you need to understand the stuff. This is not a supplementation. This is bioengineering of your biology. You guys, this isn't for me. It's for you. Look at mod C. Let's just go this. This is mod C consider it a, it's like a programming engineer. It's like the ultimate prompt writer, right? Cause that's what people do. There's actually careers prompt writers. Some of the things you guys do are nuts. It's so far beyond me. I'm going to be very transparent. It's wild, which you guys do. So for decades, we were arrogant. We thought the important instructions for life were in the nuclear DNA at the center, the holy genome, right? We're sequencing the genome wrong. 2015, University of Southern California discovered something that should have made the front page of every single newspaper in the world. It should be all over the internet. And I care to you, none of you guys have heard this. They found this peptide, small string of like 16 amino acids encoded, not in the nucleus, but in the DNA inside the mitochondria. They called it mod C. Mitochondrial derived peptide. This changes everything. It means the mitochondria have their own hormonal signaling system. C is a messenger when your body is under metabolic stress. So when you're drowning in sugar and sitting on your ass, let's see, is released, travels to the nucleus, interacts with key pathways and then activates AMPK. The cells master energy sensor interacts with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. Its primary job is to reprogram the cells metabolism away from inefficient inflammatory glucose burning and towards efficient fatty acid oxidation. It is a master key for the one thing that is causing a whole host of problems in your physiology. It's one sensitivity or insulin resistance, which needs to be turned into insulin sensitivity. And the data is obscene. It's staggering. 2019, Nature Communications gave mod C. Listen to this. This is wild. Gave mod C to mice on a high fat American style diet and the results it completely prevented diet induced obesity and insulin resistance. The treated mice ate the same garbage but stayed lean and metabolically healthy. The control group, the control mice they used became fat in the silicon diabetic like a lot of the population right now. Mod C doesn't just manage the problem, you guys. It fixes the programming area that caused it. That's the error. It's not the diet. It's the issue is so much further than that. It attacks failure too, right? Failure too. insulin resistance and it punches it in the face. It gives it the old Mike Tyson. Look at the second part of this. NAD plus. This is the rocket fuel. Remember what I said, right? There's three failures. So we have programming, wrong software, fuel problem, machinery breakdown. This is mitochondria, right? Not my three biological failures. This is a result of the three biological. And I hope you're getting the hang of this man because this is me, baby. This is all me. NAD plus, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide. This big fancy words doesn't matter. This isn't just a molecule. It's like the spark plug and the fuel line all at the same time. NAD plus is a coenzyme, a shuttle bus. And I explain this very well for electrons in the mitochondria. It's absolutely essential for the ETC, the electron transport chain, the final stage of ETP production. No NAD plus can't do it without NAD plus here. The chain grinds to halt. It doesn't work. No electrons, no proton gradient, no ETP, synthase spool up, no turbine, nothing. It doesn't work. It's also the primary driver for Surchin, by the way, which is a family of proteins that are like the mechanics and QC quality control, aimed for your entire DNA. And here's the crisis. NAD plus levels, Hank, I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 in less than three months. When you age, NAD plus levels, Tank, as you grow older. So by the time you're 50, so around my age, you might have at the most half the NAD plus you had when you were 20. Why? Partly because of this enzyme called CD38, which just it's like throwing NAD plus into a wood chipper. Just choose it up and it becomes more active with inflammation. That makes it even worse. Do you see how this is all connected now? So failure one, inflammation directly causes a shortage of NAD plus. It's this catastrophic feedback loop. Now, do you see how this gets married together? There's this research. This guy, David Sinclair at Harvard. This is legendary. That's how wild this research is. 2018 paper and cell, they restored NAD plus levels in old mice and the result, the mitochondria in their muscles and all their other tissues rejuvenated. The mice's endurance doubled. Their vascular health reversed to that of incredibly young mice. They didn't just slow aging. They reversed key markers of it. Boosting NAD plus is like pouring high octene fuel into an engine that's starving for fuel that needs the best of the best. And then it gets the spark back. It solves the fuel problem. That's how this stuff works. If you don't get that, please go back and listen to this part again. The third one, and by the way, the hierarchy matters. I'm tired of these insta bros going out there and going, just do this. Stop it. I don't care if you're a doctor. I don't care if you have all the PhDs after your name. It doesn't make a difference. You're still wrong. I'm giving you the information, not because I'm trying to sell you my stuff. Do you ever notice that? I'm not out here walking my stuff going, hey, let me tell you, I'll get the secret way to get it. I see this one guy is talking about redotrutide. I love when people go, it's called retatrutide. Shut up. No, it's not. The third one, I could do this all day. It's like I told you, I'm in a mood. SS 31. This is the structural engineer of this entire thing. This is the, it's like a sniper, not a shotgun, not a scatter gun. The inner mitochondrial membrane is where the electrical magic happens. It needs to maintain a strong electrical charge, membrane potential to force, that's what it's called, in order to force protons through, this is the turbine, the ATP synthase turbine and generate power. With age and disease, this membrane gets, it gets beat up, it gets whole shot in it, becomes leaky. Reactive oxygen species, the exhaust fumes of energy production, they scorch the very delicate lipid membranes and the charge dissipate, that's the problem, right? The charge dissipates, so the engine seizes, it can't do its job. No ATP synthase, nothing. SS 31 is a genius piece of chemical engineering. It is a very small, synthetic peptide with an incredibly unique property. Check this out. It has a positive charge and it loves fat, so it's like a fat happy person. This means though, it's electromagnetically drawn to and integrates directly into the negatively charged fatty inner mitochondrial membrane. Once it's there, it acts like a shield. It scavenges up all those destructive ROSs, right? Reactive oxygen species right at the source, preventing them from causing lipid peroxidation, trust me, okay? Which, now let me explain what that is because you're not, the burning of the membrane is basically what it means. Stabilize the structure and then restores the one thing I said gets destroyed because it loses, the charge dissipates, the membrane potential, which is important for proton gradient and ATP synthase and all the things that need to occur. The clinical evidence of this entire procedure is astounding. 2017 Journal of the American Heart Association of All Things gave SS 31 after a heart attack, after and the result, phenomenal reduction in the size of tissue death and improvement in mitochondrial function in the surviving heart muscle. Solved two problems. So they're protecting the power plants during a catastrophe. SS 31 also fixes the physical damage. Imagine, this is just another aspect to this, just so you understand how these marry together. Imagine SS 31 and TB-500 for myocardial damage to heal the myocardium. Imagine how that would work. If you take TB-500, which is proven to reverse fibrosis and solve damage to the myocardium and you add SS 31, imagine what kind of wild stuff you could have that wouldn't cost you your heart or all the medication that they want to give you. You guys need to start taking the thousand foot view on your health, please. Look it, this isn't, and by the way, this isn't one of these take three pills a day situations. This is a tactical strike on your failing myocondria. You don't send in infantry and air force and engineers all at the same time and some chaotic heap. You have to have a sequence. The hierarchy matters. You start with the programmers and the fuel, MOTC and NAD plus. You run these together. Okay, every really hesitant to even do this part. You run these together every second day and why this sequence? Because you're setting up a new efficient OS operating system. MOTC is the software update that tells the cell to become this fat burning insulin sensitive machine. NAD plus is the power surge that boots up the new system. So you're creating conditions for high performance energy production. Follow. I felt like Sabi, right? Just too much pirates of the Caribbean. So after a few weeks, let's say hypothetically for your kangaroo. Once the new metabolic programming is installed and the energy flow is normalized, now you deploy the structural engineer, you add SS 31. I would hypothetically give it to my kangaroo every single day. This is critical. You don't fix. Listen to me. You don't fix. Stop getting my comments and arguing about this. I'm still right whether you get, I've never read any of your comments. Just so you know, you guys talk to yourselves because I'm not going to sit there and go argue with stupidity who wants to sit there and complain or go, some Instabrow says this or some scientist says that or this bodybuilder says this. I don't care. I'm still right because I know the system. I know physiology. I know biology. I know biochemistry and I know how this works and why I know why this works, which is why people join my black card because they go, this guy understands. Yes, I do. And I actually care. Where have I done all kinds of crazy marketing in this podcast? I'll help you out at the beginning and it wasn't even marketing. I just went join or don't join. You want to join? Apply at unlawfulcard.com and say, here, I need the wire information so I can send you 10 grand. If not, don't join. If you didn't catch that, I still on sale, baby. So listen, you add the SS 31 every day because you cannot fix the crack foundations of a factory while it's running outdated inefficient machinery at full throttle. You upgrade the software and the power supply first, then once the new efficient system is humming, the software. Remember, you're not doing hardware. You guys are thinking hardware, but I'm talking software. So get this because you're not, you can't install new software on something that you have to do it this way. You send in the engineers to reinforce the walls so the whole thing doesn't disintegrate under a new significantly higher load that you have just designed it to take. If you do it the other way around, you cause problems. The energy or the synergy rather is mathematical. Mott C plus NAD plus equals optimized system. Mott C plus NAD plus then plus SS 31 optimized robust and fortified system. Look at how this is designed. The protocol by the way, this is what hurts. The protocol directly addresses the five most common lies of modern medicine. Conditions labeled as diseases. I'll prove it when they're merely symptoms of mitochondrial failure. Look at CFS and CFS. By the way, somebody asked me, they're like, hey bro, I think they asked for chronic fatigue syndrome, not fibromyalgia. They're married in the identical thing. Just so you know, they're the identical thing. So chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. It's not mysterious pain and tiredness with a couple of trigger points all over your back. It's systemic ATP shortage. The body has triaged energy away from muscle repair and CNS function, right? Central nervous system function. Look at type two diabetes. It's not a disease of blood sugar. It's a disease of mitochondrial failure in the liver and muscle cells. The mitochondria are so damaged that they can't utilize fuel property causing insulin resistance as a downstream effect. Look at Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and dementia. All of the multiple sclerosis, all of them. The brain consumes 20% of your body's energy, but is only 2% of its weight. So this is a big deal because it's an energy greedy, bitch is what it is. When neuronal mitochondria fail, these energy hungry cells are the first line to die. They're the infantry right at the beginning that just get taken out by the tanks. Nature studies.  cardionegid, naryneutroneroscience showed. Mitochondrial dysfunction precedes plaque formation in Alzheimer's dementia by years, if not decade. You need to hear what I just said. If you don't solve this now, the problem is going to show up later, but you're going to have a tombstone sitting there, which is the result of the problem. It's not the problem. And they're going to still try and treat the problem. Look at cardiovascular disease. The heart has the highest mitochondrial density of any organ in the body. Anthroschlorosis is now understood and proven, by the way, to be driven by mitochondrial dysfunction in the endothelial cells lining the arteries. I explained this, the whole foam cells, all of this stuff. I explained all of this on my atherosclerosis video. They proved it, by the way, just so you know when 2020 circulation research paper proved this beyond a shadow of a doubt. Aging. How about aging? This is number five, by the way, if you're keeping track. Aging. I can do this all day. It's not a time-dependent mystery. How did we populate the planet then? If we needed all these drugs before, no, we didn't. And if you go all week, that's right. We didn't need the peptides either. You are repairing the system. A peptide is a signal. A drug is a wrecking ball. I'm not saying they're not needed if it's going to save your life, but 99% of the time they're not saving your life. They're prolonging your life to make you a product so you're profitable. Get it through your head. Aging is not this time-dependent, like, weird phenomenon. It is the cumulative sum of mitochondrial decay across all 37 trillion cells in your body. Mitochondrial theory of aging is the most robust L-supported explanation we've got. Look it up. Don't take my word for it, baby. Look it up. Now, watch. Apply. Let me show you how this entire magic stack actually solves all of these very incurable diseases, Dr. Trevor. Cardiovascular disease. Watch. MOTC reprograms the cardiac metabolism to be more efficient. NAD Plus fuels the cardiomyocytes, making each contraction much more powerful and much more resilient. SS-31 directly protects the mitochondrial membranes during periods of ischemia and dangerous and hypoxia, preventing cell death. You're not thinning blood. You're making the heart muscle much more indestructible. How about neurological disease? Look at neurological. I could do this with all... Throw anything at me. Boosting NAD Plus is like giving your brain a quadruple... Here, hold up my coffee. Quadruple espresso. It restores energy to neurons, preventing atrophy, improving synaptic function. MOTC improves the insulin sensitivity in your brain, which is crucial for memory formation. And SS-31 protects the neurons from the oxidative stress that leads to the characteristic plaques, amyloid plaques, tautangles. You're not managing symptoms. You're preventing the cell death that caused them in the first place. Look at aging. This protocol that I just talked about, right? MOTC NAD Plus SS-31. It's a direct assault on every single aspect of aging. It counters genomic instability by fueling DNA repair via NAD Plus and those magic proteins I talked about called certuents. It addresses epigenetic alterations through metabolic programming. MOTC. And it directly reverses mitochondrial dysfunction. All three. You're not slowing aging. You're reversing the biomarkers of aging at a cellular level. Look at cancer. You want to go really hard into the paint? Look at cancer. This is critical. Actually, 1931, Otto Warburg discovered that cancer cells have a broken metabolism. Proved it. You got a shout out of it. Want a Nobel Prize. They have oxygen. They ferment glucose, a very primitive, inefficient process called the Warburg Effect. I wonder why they called it that. Why? Because their mitochondria are catastrophically damaged and cannot process and cannot perform oxidative phosphorylation properly. So by restoring systemic mitochondrial health, you create a metabolic environment that is hostile to cancer. It makes the pathology an impossibility. Anti-mitochondria promote apoptosis, the cell death. They force damage to pre-cancerous cells to self-destruct. 2018 review in cell metabolism shows, proves that fixing the mitochondrial function is the most powerful anti-cancer strategy. And nobody out there listening to this has ever heard that. This doesn't cure cancer. It attacks the root cause, the metabolic dysfunction that allowed it to initiate and thrive and exist in the first place. The problem is the pathology. The problem is that you got it because your system wasn't running right and they know that and you keep forgetting that thinking you need a drug or a pill to make it go away. The current medical paradigm is a concession speech. It's a sick care system designed for a lifelong customer retention. That's it. It is the ultimate business model and it demands that you stay because it makes sure you have no choice. It waits for the power plant to blow up and then sells you a flashlight and a monthly subscription for batteries. It doesn't fix the power plant. You are, please listen to me, you guys. I want to go eat. You are at a crossroads of your life and your health. We have so much stacks and stacks, thousands and tens of thousands of people. Where are these research studies? I literally quote them in my podcasts and my actual studies. Remember, I'm doing all the work and all the insta-brows and bro science and Reddit forums are stealing my stuff. How about you just give the doctor credit for actually the guy that does the work and spends his entire day making sure you have the answers because I friggin' care. We've got the peer-releaved research everywhere. We have the molecular tools everywhere. We have a physiological model that actually makes sense. It's based on your biology, your physiology. The choices and you guys, it's not between some drug or another drug. It's between managing a dying system and engineering a healthy one that you are already predicated to have. You guys have to stop accepting this decline and then funding your own decay thinking it's the only option you've got. I don't care where you buy your stuff as long as it's real. Most of the time it's not by the way. Most of these guys are selling crap. Do you know how I know? Because I have people in my group that go, I was taking this and it didn't do anything and then I switched to elite biogenics and I went, holy crap, it actually worked. Stop buying it from your friend named Steve in the back of the gym because he happens to sell peptides. I'm going to say that's ridiculous. That's absolutely ridiculous. But you do you, bro. You do you. The power to change is not in some doctor's prescription and their pen or their digital or I really send it now. It's in understanding the root of all health and what it is and its energy, not magical energy. Your ability to produce it and the root of all energy is the same. The mitochondria on fix the mitochondria. What do you think happens? You fix the person. You fix the biology, which means in order to fix the mitochondria, you solve the three biological failures, solve systemic inflammation, solve insulin resistance, solve the ATP to ATP shortage because it's the byproduct of the first two. If you get what I just said in this entire podcast in the last 10 seconds, even you'll get the era of symptom management is you have to be willing to accept that. And I know a lot of people aren't. I hope you got something out of this. I really do. Never miss.