I got an interesting question the other day and one of them was from one of my clients and then a bunch from you guys and you guys are asking me a lot about longevity. So, I'm going to go over some really cool things that work better than what is being talked about on Reddit and Kora and all the Insta Bros and even the health doctors who really don't know what they're talking about for the most part and it's to help you. So, M and metformin. So, the question I got was, "Hey, I'm going to take M metformin. I'm going to I'm going to take it for longevity." Yeah, that's a terrible idea. I'll explain why. And I'm sure right off the bat, all you guys just ran to my comments to start dropping all your Insta facts. But listen, hear me out. I'm not doing this for me. I have no stock in Metformin. I have no stock in any peptide company. I don't think any of them are public anyway. But what I'm saying is this is for you, not for me. The coffee is good today. So, I'm going to go over Matzi. I'll go over Metformin. I'll explain why Metformin is a catastrophe. And not just for longevity, but I mean for diabetes, type 2 diabetes. I'll explain exactly because they work on similar pathways, right? The AMPK, but how they do it, why they do it, and the long-term effects of each one are radically different. I don't know. I think maybe you're going to want to stop your car, park, and you're probably going to get mad. Especially if you're on Metformin, you're going to want to throw that stuff in the trash. Remember, Metformin is a approved drug. It's oral, and the stuff it does to your GI tract is unbelievable. It just trashes you. And M C is a peptide. And they are spectacularly different. And they both can help with type 2 diabetes in a way that one makes it permanent and the other is I'll change your HbA1c numbers to make everybody happy. Let me explain. That's a big deal because changing a number that's like saying changing a number on a scale means you're healthy. But that's not true. According to the BMI, I am obese because I am just I'm almost 200 lb. I'm just south of 511 510 and a half and I may as well just say 510. Those halfs are what kids do. I'm almost the tall, right? I'm 6 and a half. But the reason I'm saying it is because your job is to live as long and healthy and as robust as possible. And according to the rules given to you by people that you're supposed to trust, most of the things you're doing that make you a juggernaut are actually according to them causing problems, which is not true. Just so you know, it's not true cuz the BMI says I should be about 155 lbs. You guys have seen me at 150, 150ish, in a wheelchair with big old knobbyby elbows and knees, skinny and weak, barely able to squat a 20 lb slam ball. I couldn't do air squats. And I was unhealthy. And according to the BMI based just solely on my my weight, which is a number invented by an insurance company, by the way, it's not invented by any doctor. Nobody that gives a crap about your health. I wouldn't have come up with that. It's ridiculous. 200 lb is a solid weight for me. And I'm lean, I'm fast, I'm athletic, and I got one balloon. and I only have one love and I'm still doing it the right way. So, I'm trying to give you the answer so you can do it better than me. I don't want you to rely on me. I want you to do it better than me. MC versus Metformin, there's no contest and I'll explain why. And they're infinitely different in price point and long-term effects, too. But the BMI is it doesn't make any sense because we, like I said, I could stand on the scale at 200 lb and I look fit, athletic, and lean at 52. And you could have somebody that's 200 lb, that's 52, the same height, everything as me, same weight, and they can look like a circle because it's just a number. That's what HbA1c is. It's if you're just trying to I'm not saying it's a number that should be discounted. What I'm saying is if you're doing something just to change the number, that doesn't help because at 150 plus pounds, me, I was skinny and weak, so I changed the number so my BMI according to them is I'm healthy. But I wasn't. And you all saw it. Listen, for the last 70 years, we've been fighting this war on a disease every against every disease. And we're losing it fantastically. To be honest, we've thrown billions of dollars. The collective genius of our best minds and an entire pharmacopia of drugs at cancer and heart disease and lung disease and diabetes and dementia and Alzheimer's and multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's and ALS and this tumor and that tumor tumor and the other tumor and lupus and you name it. And what do we have to show for it? Just ask, what do we have to show for it? A bunch of sick people getting slightly less sick temporarily. We're not saving lives, man. We're not. All of you doctors, you think you're saving lives. You're not. I wasn't. I was managing decline. We're landlords of a body that is crumbling, applying a bunch of cheap paint to it and just to cover up all the rotten crap that's underneath. It's If you've ever seen a car that has a stuff called Bondo on it, and you It's like buying a car under a street light and street light doesn't work so well at night and it's polished and washed and it's a Bondo vehicle and you didn't bring a magnet or anything else you needed to do or somebody that understands body work on a car and you buy, you're like, "This car looks awesome." And the next morning you wake up and you This car is a piece of crap and it's just wavy and it's nothing but bondo which is body filler. It's by the way you can use that to link together the slate the pieces of slate for a pool table. Didn't know that. Huh. I used to put these things in all the time. Works really well. Problem is it's stronger than the slate. So it'll chip away the slate if you don't clean it off with a razor blade. Anyway, the point is useless information that I can handle. I can hand you. The point is that Bondo is garbage. It would look great on the surface until you actually get up close and realize this thing's a piece of junk. That's what's happening because people are treating the symptoms. Doctors are treating the symptoms. The pharmaceutical industry is treating symptoms. We're playing, it's always what I say, right? Whack-a-ole with downstream effects, ignoring the three fundamental catastrophic biological failures of every single disease happening upstream. Listen, I'll go over them in 32 seconds. One, systemic inflammation. Memorize these because they will save your life. Systemic inflammation. The body's fire alarm is screaming 24/7, 365, burning down the entire house. You are the house. Failure two is insulin resistance. Your cells have stopped listening to the delivery driver. So fuel piles up in the bloodstream. It's very toxic and completely destructive and it destroys you no matter what they say. And I don't care what the research says. It's a lie. And failure three is the ATP shortage. The power plants, the little mitochondria, the little nuclear reactors in your cells are sputtering and bankrupt and pissed off, puking out nothing but exhaust, leaving you running on fumes producing precisely squat. And every single major disease, every single disease, every especially every age related disease, every single one of them is a manifestation of this disastrous unholy trinity that yet has been accepted, that has yet to be accepted. And we have a drug, a centuries old drug that millions of people are taking, convinced it's this longevity miracle. It's not. It is a metabolic trap door waiting for the nuces already around your neck, people. And the trap door is there and you're the one going, I'm going to just pull a lever cuz I just want to see what happens. I'm just going to pull a lever. You're dead. The drug's metformin. It's garbage. Listen, I'll talk about mods. Just you need to hear all this because people look at them and they're like, I'm going to I had a friend of mine. What do you think of Metformin? I think I'm going to start taking it. I think you're stupid. I'll tell you right now, if you have type two diabetes and you send me a message, no, it's not going to be free. I can reverse it in you. I don't cure it. I just get your body to do what it's supposed to be doing. I've done it for thousands of people. I've reduced type 1 diabetes to almost where they're like, I can't believe I even have type 1 diabetes. Lupus, MS, dementia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, name it. Rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, because my blueprint's always the same and it always works 100% of the time. I'm trying to help you guys. Listen, I'm going to I'll go over M C. So by the end of this you're going to look at metformin and it's going to be like some medieval bloodletting that you're like oh why did I even do this? This was so dumb. This peptide is so fun. It's so powerful so fun. It doesn't just treat any disease. It rewrites the rules of the game. That's what MOS does in a way that will benefit you for decades. Listen, get clinical. Let me just go over mod so you actually have a baseline and then you can go all right where do I go with this? Dr. T. Okay. So forget everything you know about hormones. Forget everything you know about the endocrine system right now. Just Matsi isn't some messenger made in a gland like thyroid or pancreas or anything like that. Even the heart by the way is a gland, right? You didn't know that, did you? Yeah. Rean angotensin pathway for your kidneys. The heart is a secretary gland. But MOS C is the mitochondrial derived peptide. And I'll wait for all you guys to grab your biochemistry textbooks and freak out. Yes, it's encoded in your mitochondrial DNA. This is the blueprint for the cellular power plants. This is my universal sign for cooling towers. If you haven't figured it out yet, it's not women, right? Or the Starbucks symbol, which is quite similar. This is a hardcoded emergency signal that is in your cells that they release under stress. It's not a drug. It is a fun fundamental piece of your biological instruction manual that we didn't even know we had. Not at all. And you think there and it's not patentable. Let me explain. So here's how it works. MS C transllocates to the nucleus and it directly regulates gene expression. This is important. It's a master key. This is one of the best things you can look at when it comes to peptides is they're essentially keys. They're master keys. They fit into a lock, right? They turn the key. They're very specific. That's why you can't take them orally. You take them orally orally, the key doesn't look right. It's like taking a key and throwing it into a like having a grinder grinding wheel go through it and you're left with all the bits of brass and whatever it is, metal, aluminum, and then you try and shove that into the keyhole and wonder why it doesn't open the door. That's essentially what happens when you take an oral peptide. Please stop. Please. You're just screwing yourself up and making some company incredibly large amounts of money under the premise that they know what the hell they're talking about. They don't. You just keep buying them cars and jets. Knock yourself out. This is a master key. Its primary target is this transformalise cycllohydraise enzyme complex. Basically, it boosts the folate methane cycle. Now, listen, this is really important. This is the translation. It optimizes one carbon metabolism which is the core process for cellular repair, detoxification and energy production. You know what else it does? Very potently activates EMPK which is the master regulator of cellular energy homeostasis. But it does it smarter because I know some of you guys metformin does that. Listen, they're not even in the same game. Look at this impetent imbecile. this incumbent metformin synthetic it's primary mechanism right off the bat that just should be a big red flag right primary mechanism it's like a bull just smashing through China it inhibits mitochondrial complex one in the ETC the electron transport chain it literally this is why it's so ridiculous it doesn't when as soon as you hear this mechanism of operation you go how does this even make sense it literally partially suffocates your mitochondria but this art this is why it does it this artificial energy crisis tricks the fell into activating EMPK. It's not the same. Now, do you see the difference? Mod C goes, "Do this goes, I'm going to starve you out until you have to do it." They're not the same. Not even close. It's like fixing a cash flow problem by burning down the factory. Okay, sure. The boss gets a phone call or a text message, but the means of production are destroyed. You can't do anything. Your widget factory is broken. This is why people are using metformin for longevity, and it's causing them more harm than good. I'll even explain this. The tame targeting aging with metformin. This is a trial. Well, there's a bunch of these now, but this was the trial that showed this fair reduction in all cause mortality. But this is the problem. They only show one side of the equation. Remember, there's two pieces to this puzzle. They ignore the metabolic cost by chronically inhibiting complex one. This is the problem. You're suffocating. That's like going, I make you appreciate air more by keeping you from getting air. Make it make sense. So, here's here. Listen. By inhibiting that complex one, this is what metformin does. Impairs mitochondrial biogenesis so you have fewer, weaker power plants over time. 100% proven. disrupts the redux balance. So it increases oxidative stress in the long run. Active oxygen species do what? They kill you. They destroy things. Look at the inner mitochondrial membrane cardipin. This is the whole problem, right? This is the best part. Most people don't even hear about this. They're like, I'll just take B12, right? I'll take cyanocobalamin. Listen, it causes functional vitamin B12 deficiency by interfering with its absorption. So it leads to irreversible neurological damage. 2020 study in BMJ open diabetes research and care confirmed this. widespread and massively underdiagnosed problem. You know what else it does? It blunts the benefits of exercise. Maybe you guys don't care. I do. A study in Nature Aging showed Metformin negates the improvements in mitochondrial capacity and insulin sensitivity gained from physical training. So when you go and you work out, it makes you more efficient. It makes your system better at procuring energy, creating energy, and rebuilding tissue. And it makes you a juggernaut without getting into the fancy biochemistry of it. So now with Metformin, you're sacrificing your adaptive fitness for a pharmaceutical crutch. And they go, "Yeah, that's what you need to do." The best thing you can do if you are a type two diabetic, by the way, is getting your seat warmer up out of the chair and going for a walk. Change your diet would be the first thing. By the way, I love you, but you got to stop eating like an [\h__\h] Metformin fails because it doesn't address the three biological failures that underpin every single chronic disease from atherosclerosis to cancer to ALS to Parkinson's to Alzheimer's. It all of them. Every single one of I've proven this time and time again. I'm right. I'm right. And it's not me going, "Look at me. I'm right." It's like, "I don't want to be right, but I'm right." Because now you have a solution. So if you know what the problem is, you can solve it. They keep renaming things so you don't get that. I'm right. Here's the issue. This is why it fails. So systemic inflammation. Look at them. We have systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and ATP shortage, right? So watch. NFCAPPA B is just freaking out. It's screaming. So inflammosomes are activated at a massive scale. Cytoines are flooding the system, and metformin comes in and just mops up a little bit of the problem, but the pipe is still puking water. So, it's mopping up the floor while the pipe is still pouring water everywhere. It's not getting anywhere. insulin resistance, the insulin receptor is deaf. Deaf. It can't hear it. So, glute 4 transporters are asleep. That's on the outside of the cell. Metformin kicks the back door open to shove some glucose in, but the front door is still bolted shut and it's rotting off its hinges. It doesn't work. In the ATP shortage, the mitochondria are gassed out. Imagine doing the hardest workout you've ever had in your life and then trying to do it again. The mitochondria are fatigued, fragmented, and being systematically destroyed. Metformin solution. Punch them in the throat so they gasp harder. It's not a solution. That's abuse. It doesn't work because here I'll just do a side by side. Look at MC. Same thing. Here's how MC delivers real longevity. It's the physiological opposite. It's anabolic for health. 15. Cell metabolism wasn't just a study. It was a paradigm shift. They took mice. This is so badass. This is one of my favorite things I've ever read. They took mice and they fed them this diet that should have made them obese and diabetic. And then they injected Mott C into them at the same time. And the result, you ready for this? Buckle up baby. Zero weight gain. Zero. Zero weight gain. Zero insulin resistance. Not reduction, prevention. The treatment group was physiologically indistinguishable from the healthy controls. Let that sink in. Just let it land for a second. It didn't manage the disease. It made the animals immune to it. Can you say that about Metformin? No. But Metformin's approved. It makes a bunch of money. Look at the cost difference between Metformin and Matzi. They're not even in the same league. And if you go, "It's only $5 for me." Yeah. Plus your $1,200 a month insurance premium that you're paying cuz you're stupid. Yeah, but my co-pay is really little and it'll pay for all my catastrophic surgeries. How many catastrophic surgeries do you think of having? How many how many do you plan on having? You're going to spend $14,400 every year and you're going to sp you're going to use $1,000 worth of care. And you go, "Yeah, but it's just in case." Yeah. Make it make sense. Imagine if you would have taken a thousand bucks of that 14 grand and dumped it into Bitcoin in 2010. You'd be a billionaire, just so you know. Yeah. Hello, McFly. That's what I'm seeing right now. This look at MC. It solves the three biological failures. Systemic inflammation. Watch. MC reduces TNF alpha, IL6, and all the other inflammatory cytoines at a transcriptional level. It doesn't block the fire. It fixes all the wiring that's shorting out causing the tinder to catch on fire. Look at insulin resistance. It restores insulin sensitivity by optimizing the folate cycle and enhancing EMPK signaling without you ready though without causing any kind of an energy deficit. It fixes the receiver on the cell so it can hear it can pay attention. It can go oh I got it. There's the insulin. I see you. I hear you. Awesome. It does it so you can hear insulin again. And look at the ATP shortage. It enhances mitochondrial function. It promotes fatty acid oxidation. increases betal meta metabolic rate, basil metabolic rate. It doesn't choke the engine. It goes, what's the biggest turbocharger we can put on this thing? Let's do that. And you don't burn out the engine. The differences are they're catastrophic for metformin. These are the symptoms. If you're listening to podcast, you can't see. I got my fist out. These are the symptoms. And metformin goes and covers them up. MC goes, "These are the symptoms. Let's get in here and fix the whole thing." Metformin impairs, shuts down adaptation. M C demands adaptation. Metformin is a drug you have to take, which means it's not native to your body. Bells should be going off. M C is a signal that your body already knows how to use. It's designed to use it. It speaks the language that your body already speaks. Get get specific. Get granular. Look at just take a physiological deep dive in this. Look at this. Look at fatty acid oxidation. Modi doesn't promote it. It commands it directly. Watch. Activates AMPK which phosphorolates and inhibits acetal COA caroxilase ACCs. relieves the suppression of CPT1, which is the is awesome. The rate limiting step, the enzyme that shuttles fatty acid into the mitochondria for beta oxidation. It doesn't ask doesn't ask. Just flips the metabolic switch from fat storage, lipogenesis to fat incineration and torching. That's just fatty acid oxidation. Man, if you haven't if you have any struggles on MC C, it's because there's an underlying problem. It's not the peptide problem. I addressed this in one of my Q&A's. It's on Rumble. And believe me, I'm putting these all on Rumble because I don't trust anybody other than somebody that is going, "We actually do believe in free speech." So, you're welcome because I actually care about you. I want you to have this information. Look at the liver benefits, the hypatic benefits. Liver does isn't just some glucose factory. This is the body's chief metabolic officer. This thing is you can't live without your liver. Period. I know cuz I lost my dad 14 years ago because he died of endstage liver disease. You can't. Mod normalizes the liver's function. It enhances hypatic insulin sensitivity. It suppresses denovo lipogenesis and it promotes fatty acid oxidation directly at the hpatocytes. It doesn't go anywhere else. Doesn't just lower liver enzymes on a test. It actually makes the organ young again. Find me where you find me the research that says metformin does that. Just I'll wait. Find me. Find it for me. You can't look at the neurological benefits. This moatzi crosses the bloodb brain barrier. Right? So it upregulates BDNF which is brain derived neurotrophic factor. This is the brain food. The miracle grow. I give it all these names. It's the stuff that makes your brain have all the components that are required to repair, grow, enhance itself. It activates the CREB signaling pathways. It enhances synaptic plasticity. It protects against oxidative stress, exytotoxicity. It's neurotrophic. Metformin. This is the best through its induction of functional B12 deficiency leads to elevated homocyine. Wait for it. Some of you guys just caught that. Homocyine. Homocyine is a known neurotoxin that damages endothelial and accelerates cognitive decline. So it trashes endothelial cells and epithelial cells by the way and it trashes cognitive decline. Accelerates it. So one builds the brain up and the other goes, let me help you tear that thing down, but we can do it at a price. So you're paying money to tear your own brain down. Cardiac benefits are off the charts. The heart is a mitochondrial packed machine. This thing is beating right now as you're listening to this podcast. MOT C optimizes cardiac metabolism, improves fatty acid utilization. It boosts ATP production which is the currency for life. ATP is what it is the fund that everything uses to pay. That's the bank account and that's the currency that's in it. It increases eskeemic tolerance, makes the heart more efficient, more resilient. It's a tuneup for the most vital engine you've or the most vital component. It's not even just an engine. It does it's like I said, it's also a secretary gland, right? Reang and angotensin. It is a tuneup for the most vital piece of equipment you've got in here because it's keeping you alive. I don't know. I just don't screw with stuff like that. If I look at something and I go, "If this is going to cause me any harm, I'm not going to do it." But that's why they keep sprinkling this harm spice everywhere. You can't take these. They're research only. They're very dangerous. We don't have any FDA guidelines on it. That's good. That's good because if they approve it, run the other way. Do the opposite. Oh, I'm sure I'm not supposed to say that. I just don't care. You have to care about the people in order to not care about the dogma and the indoctrination that they're giving you. If you guys don't know that I love you by now, you're stupid. The only people getting mad at the things I post are the people that it's costing them their money because I'm exposing their BS. All you Insta idiots and your peptide companies and your lies and your shaker cups and your affiliate codes. All of you guys lying, telling people about how great it is, but not doing anything and just going, "How do we get them to buy more of our stuff?" Here, I'll help you. You want to join the black card? I'll leave it. I'm very clear about this. Somebody would Let me show you. Show me where it's clear. Here, watch. The black card is a year you join. Wire transfer only. $9,997. No, there's no payments. No, there's no zel. It is wire transfer only. I use a bank here in Texas, Frost, and you get every Q&A call every Monday for a year where you can ask me anything. You get the archive of all the calls where I've solved just about everything. You get access to my protocols that I've used with patients for decades. Plus, you have a VIP community where you can type in questions and ask me stuff and you guys can all talk and hang out. That's 10 grand. You can buy from Elite Biogenics. I don't think anybody does it better. And I test the crap out of everything there. And I own a badass company because I care about people. Or you don't have to. I'm still showing up. If you want to join, don't ask me peptide questions at the email that I'm about to give you cuz if you do, you'll be ignored. Some of you have. And just so you know, my team didn't answer. They literally just deleted your email. Plyunlockthecard.com. That's how you get into the black card. It is the only way you get into the black card. Now, listen. Let me address the cancer issue because I had some people go, "Mom, Matsu and cancer, man. Everything." Listen, they can just stick the they can pin the word cancer to something and people will go, "Yeah, yeah, I better not take it cuz it's an easy scare." The ignorant critique. This is it. You're boosting metabolism. That's going to feed cancer, right? This is grade school biochemistry. It's pretty embarrassing. It's pathetic because cancer thrives on disregulated metabolism. The Warberg effect, right? Glycolysis, anorobic glycolysis in the presence of oxygen. 31 Otto Warberg he exposed the whole thing and said this is the issue C promotes healthy oxidative metabolism. Oh there's research to prove it. Enco gene demonstrates that it acts as a tumor suppressor. It inhibits cancer cell proliferation. It does it via the very pathway that it's supposed to tap onto which is the AMPK pathway. It doesn't just fuel the fire or it doesn't fuel the fire. It takes away all the ignition source and all the matches for the cancer. It doesn't even allow it to thrive. It makes it unwelcome. That's how your biology should be. Just so you know, your biology should be an ecosystem that is unwelcome to pathology and then you have a lot less to worry about. But they've created this monster where all you do is run around and you're worried about getting sick, which creates cortisol problems, which makes you go and get tests, which means that every 6 months you need to go get a battery of tests to find out what's wrong just so they can tell you what's wrong so they can give you another drug to make more things wrong with you. That doesn't make any sense to me whatsoever. My grandparents lived late into their 90s and they didn't go and get a bunch of tests at They lived on a farm, ate real food, shot real guns, and you know what? They ate tons of butter and meat and eggs and real food, and they were healthy. Listen, the model of disease, the current model is Newtonian, right? For every action, disease, there's an equal and opposite reaction, a drug. It's mechanistic and reductionist. It's actually it's broken as hell. MC introduces the quantum model. Let's say it changes the state of the entire system. It doesn't oppose pathology. It makes the state of pathology untenable by elevating the entire system to a higher state of order and function so it can't show up. That's the best way to make your body resilient. Right? What do you want? You want to treat the bullet wound or do you just want to have a bulletproof vest so bullets bounce off of you? And before somebody gets it, what if I shot this gun? Stop. It's an example. Metformin doesn't offer solutions. It offers delays. It doesn't reverse coronary artery calcification. It doesn't prevent towangles or amaloid beta plaques. It doesn't solve the neuroinflammatory problem. It doesn't stop foam cells. It manages the downstream numbers while the upstream train wreck continues. It doesn't offer any long-term solutions. It's what I said at the beginning. It manages HbA1c numbers. It doesn't stop the progression of liver disease to NASH and cerosis. I know cuz my dad died. It doesn't reverse any of the plaquing, the athoscllerotic plaquing. It doesn't even address the problem. It doesn't prevent any neurological decline whatsoever. In fact, it contributes to it. It sure as hell doesn't cure cancer or get in the way of it. MSC addresses the root cause in the liver, the heart, the neurons, the muscle. It is systemic restoration, which listen, you need to understand this. Watch. I'm going to go over diabetes, type two diabetes, because I think a lot of people are going to ask about this. What do I do? Here you go. This is how MC permanently solves type 2 diabetes. Are there more aspects to this? Yeah, don't eat like a jackass. Get up off your butt and actually move around. But this is how you start. Type 2 diabetes is the poster child for the three failures. inflamed, insulin resistant, energy depleted cells. You can check each box for type three or type two diabetes and type three diabetes. Actually, Alzheimer's dementia, type three diabetes could be Alzheimer's, dementia, MS, it could be all of them. Just so, you know, Parkinson's, they're all the same. They keep changing the name. That's like saying all cancers are different. No, they're not. They're all the same and they are all a product of the same problem. So, watch. Here's how it solves it. Here's how Matsi does this. It dowses the systemic inflammation, removes all the intracellular noise that disrupts insulin signaling. repairs insulin resistance by restoring the cellular response machinery itself. It can hear insulin again. It solves the ATP shortage by taking the mitochondria and slapping a supercharger, a turbocharger on it, giving the cells the energy that they need so they can all function properly. They can repair. They can divide. They can grow. They can become stronger. They can bolster the defenses. So your biology becomes undeniable. It doesn't lower blood sugar. mod C. It makes having high blood biologically impossible because it fixes the system. Watch 2015 cell metabolism study showed restored insulin sensitivity was maintained even when you stopped you. This stuff isn't like they're vitamins. You take vitamin C all the time. That's the other thing you have to understand about peptides. You don't take them forever unless there's certain like my forever group. But I'm saying you don't have to. It solves the problem. If you have to stop taking a drug or if you stop taking a drug and the problem comes roaring back, you never solve the problem. Agreed. If you stop taking a peptide, it's already given you a new set point. It's repaired everything cuz it's just using a signal your body has in it already. You have to understand that. I've had these conversations with some people in my group where they're like, "Okay, I'm going to take all this and I'm going to take all this and I'm going to take all this." What are you doing? Take it till you have the solution, then stop taking it. You don't need to listen. Just to come back to Metformin, it doesn't offer a permanent solution, you guys. It doesn't. It forces glucose into cells that are inflamed, insulin resistant, and energy starved. Remember the back door while the front door is bolted and rotting off its hinges. The moment you stop metformin, watch. The moment, just don't test it because nobody needs Don't be I'm going to try. Don't do that. What I'm saying, the moment you stop the drug, it is a drug. The blood sugar skyrockets. It is a lease on metabolic function with this everinccreasing payment in side effects. It treats the number, not the damn disease. The evidence is everywhere. I just quoted a bunch of studies that prove it. The physiology is irrefutable. I say this all the time. Biochemistry is biochemistry. It doesn't change. So you can keep on doing this. I say it every time. Just going down that paliotative care road. The paliotative pharmarmacology, the managing decay and decline with drugs that impose their own diseases. Look at Parkinson's give you L-dopa and just creates a new disease in 10 years. Okay. L-dopa induced diskynesia. You have a choice. You can keep listening and going maybe I'll trust the science and the FDA actually has my best interest in mind and big pharma actually loves and cares about me. Or you can run a paradigm of restoration and listening to the language that your body actually speaks. I'm not dancing around holding incense. I'm saying like eat real food, move around, take peptides to reset the system so your biology actually functions the way it's designed, the way you were born. And then you don't have to do it anymore. And you just now manage the juggernaut that you've created in your own biology. Like the future of medicine is not better symptom management. That's what they keep trying to sell you. It's biological optimization molecules like MC and reatride and SS31 and TB-500 BPC and all these things. They don't fight against the body, you guys. They work with the its deepest most powerful mechanisms of the in the language that your body actually speaks. The war on on disease is not it's you don't need bigger bombs, man. You don't you need a much better plan, another a much better playbook. That's what I keep coming out here and giving you. Metformin was a disastrous tool from like last century. It's crap. M C is longevity. It solves so many problems and I just explain how it's like the foundation for life. Anyway, I hope you guys got something out of that. I got to go. Never miss.