 feteag. I've actually gotten an alarming amount of emails and messages from you guys. Thank you. I try and answer as many as I can about fatigue and how to handle fatigue. I drink coffee. It's black. If your coffee isn't blacker than a witch's crotch, you're drinking a dessert. Like it or not, it's not meant to upset anybody. I'm sure somebody's going to go off because you wake up every morning standing on the edge of your fence, waiting to be offended on somebody else's behalf. That's not the problem. The problem is you're adding a bunch of extra garbage in your system. Black coffee, and if you start talking about adenosine and why it's such a pseudo energy and it's robbing Peter to pay Paul and all this stuff, you don't understand biochemistry. The point I'm making is fatigue isn't, it's not a sleep problem. Outside of genuinely being like you're exhausted because you pulled three all-nighters and you did, that's just common sense. For the most part, fatigue is a deeper problem and it's three biological failures every time. I'll show you. Listen, watch. Imagine this. You're crushing it. You don't have to get up at 2.30 in the morning either. By the way, that is idiot. That's just idiocy. Don't do that. But let's say you're crushing it at 7 in the morning. You've already smoked a gym. You've answered most of your emails. You've got your coffee, like I said, blacker than probably your soul. And by noon, you're a zombie and you're dragging your heels and you hit this wall. And no matter what you do, no matter how much coffee you drink, no matter what you take, no matter how many naps you take, you still are fatigued. And your brain fog is so savage and your muscles are screaming like they're filled with concrete. You just ran two marathons back to back and you probably wore flip flops and your eyelids can't stay open. And the second you hit the couch or the second that you sit down at the dinner table, you're going to put your hand on your head and you're going to start to fall asleep. And you smash another red bull or a monster, god damn. You smash another red bull or a monster. God, those are terrible for you. I cannot stress that enough. You blame your kids, your wife, your boss, and you crash even harder by 7 PM. Does that sound familiar? Because that's what I'm hearing from you guys. That's not a life. You guys, that's not a life. That is fatigue owning the hell out of you. And the problem isn't going to some neurologist and having them prescribe like the Adderall or some SSRI or Modafinil. And listen, I think Modafinil is fantastic, but it can have some pretty crappy rebound effects if you're not responsible with it. And drinking 17 cups of jet black Cuban coffee that you can cut with a pair of scissors isn't the answer either because it's not solving the problem. So I'm trying to give you the information to solve the problem, not sit here and get into an argument or some weird flame war in my comments. Like some of you guys just get all butthurt because I tell the truth. Yesterday I made a post about how blends with copper blends in general are ridiculous. Listen, you guys in your blends and getting all butthurt and going, well, they work for me and I tend to disagree. I had some real estate agent go, I disagree. What with all your expertise in selling homes? And when I went down the rabbit hole and it decided just randomly to tap her profile and she's selling $270,000 houses, at least if it was surhaunt, I'd be like, OK, you got some street cred as a salesperson and you're incredibly frigging successful. But this is just some has been trying to sit there and tell me that biology doesn't work for her. Like I can stack irrefutable proof for everything I say because I make sure that what I tell you is right because I actually care about you. I don't give a crap about some Reddit forum or people in a Facebook group or some hate group that you guys make because you don't like that I'm telling the truth and it's going against what you've been told by Joe Insta, bro or Insta expert or because you're the peptide company that's selling the blends. How about you just stop selling garbage? Even you guys asking, so if we take copper out it, can we still put BPC and TB-500 in the same vial? You can. You're stupid. How can you dose properly then? If you take less than five milligrams of TB-500, this has nothing to do with fatigue, by the way, if you take less than five milligrams of TB-500 and then you take it again tomorrow, the half light doesn't work. You're supposed to take it every five days. It's designed this way. So follow me. If you have BPC-157 in the same vial as TB-500 and you take BPC daily, if not multiple times a day and you take TB-500 every five days and you put them in the same vial, explain to me how you can dose properly. You can't. But all you guys heard was, okay, so as long as copper's not in it, then I can do it and I can still buy the blend because I'm looking to take less injections. Sack up. You don't have to take them in your belly, right? You can pinch skin here. Look at that. There's fat I can go here and I'm lean as hell and there's fat I can go here. You know what, I pulled out my pants. There's fat I can go on my ass. There's fat everywhere. You guys are so worried about why I don't take needles. Do you like taking pills? Do you like being sick? Do you like relying on managed decline thinking that's actually making you better? Do you like relying on peptide companies that don't give a crap about you? If you understand that I own, the company I own, Elite, right, I give a crap about you guys. If I wouldn't give it to my wife or my children, there's no way in hell it's ever going to leave my lab or my warehouse ever, which is exactly why I'm also not going to sell you bunking on sense in a blend to make it more convenient. I'm doing it so you actually get something you can control. I think a lot of you guys think that peptides are like vitamins and if you take a little extra or a little less, it doesn't matter. It matters very much. So just listen, I'm out here to help you. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics and support my company. Thank you so much. I love you for that. Really, I do because you could choose anyone else. But if you don't, that's okay. I still show up here. If you want to join my black card group, which by the way, I am stacking so many people in with victories and health changes and in ways that we're talking menopause symptoms gone, night sweats gone, depression gone, cardiovascular issues gone, AFib gone. You name it. Mycotoxin problems gone. In days, these are people that have been seeing doctors for a decade and gotten nowhere. Why? Because most of you doctors are sellouts to the pharmaceutical company. Yes, it makes me mad. I realize this has nothing to do with this podcast, but I'm out here trying to give you the answers because I damn well care. It's not that I'm passionate about it. It's because I really care. I've been a doctor a long time, so when I hear some knucklehead go, I don't really agree. You have no knowledge whatsoever and yet you're doing it because you have this emotional knee jerk reflex that you don't like what I'm saying. You don't have to like it. It's still the fact you don't have to like gravity, but you catch heelside on a snowboard. Gravity is going to let you know it's real because you'll spend the next three days with whiplash because your SCM, sternocleidomastoid muscle, are going to feel like you just got rear-ended at 50 miles an hour. If you don't know, you don't know, but if you've been on a snowboard and you catch heelside, you friggin' know. You can argue with gravity all you want. It's still real. You can argue with me all you want. I'm still right. I'm not right because I'm like, look at me. I'm so smart. I'm not right because I actually pay attention, so I give you the information so you can make an informed damn decision. That's why I'm out here. Just like fatigue. I'm sure somebody's again in my comments and you guys, why would anyone even give my video a thumb down? Just don't say anything. That's so weird. That's like driving by somebody's house and going, I don't like your house. Let me stop. Put a post-it on it about how I can't stand your house and I think your paint job sucks. By the way, the car and your driveway is garbage. Like that doesn't even make sense to me. I guess because I'm 52 going on 53, I have morals and ethics and a frigging spine and emotional maturity that I don't run around dropping hate. There's this lady I follow. Anya, I don't remember her last name, her husband, and she's got some kids. She says all the things that she gets so much hate and I don't know why because she says all the things that are true. We are a society built on victimization and tearing other people down. How do you expect everything to get better in this world if that's all you're going to do? If you're not willing to listen to the thing and if you spin it and go, baby, you're not willing to listen to my opinion, but yours is an opinion. I don't claim to understand the fundamentals of making this mug. I have no idea. I don't claim to understand how to be an attorney or an engineer or a contractor. But what I do know is biology and physiology and biochemistry, endocrinology, neurology. I know these so well and I'm giving you this stuff for free. I've never crapped on anyone that's given me something for free and yet what's weird to me is that people come out and crap on somebody giving you the information for free. You guys are screwed up. If you're one of those people, you guys are psychologically screwed up. You should just probably get beaten around the head and face with a big giant stick because it irritates me. So fatigue, listen to me. I will solve your fatigue problem if it falls into this category. If you go, it didn't work for me. Maybe it just doesn't fall into this category or maybe you're an idiot that runs on Adderall all day long and you're in burnout and now your mitochondria are giving you the finger. There's a lot of reasons, but this is probably 80% of the fatigue will be solved by watching this. I will help you out. I will not go as far. Normally, I don't do this. I will even go as far as to give you some kangaroo help. And if you know what that means, great. If you don't, wait till the end. Kangaroo, I'll define it for you before somebody says, I don't know what that means. That means kangaroo is going to, the kangaroo is going to get the dosages for the kangaroo. Wow. And I never do that. Why? Because I'm so tired of you guys. I have you guys sending me messages. Why do you never talk about dosages? Talk to their local government. Talk to all the government officials who say it's illegal to do that, but I could tell you all about how many Advil to take. This is ridiculous, right? I'm going to blow the lid off of fatigue, what it really is. It's not some vague, you're tired, bro, nonsense. And it sure as hell isn't, you just have to shut up and suck it up and grind harder. That's ridiculous. Like I'll explain the physiology, the bio, the biochemistry, the science that makes it irrefutable and shows exactly what's going on. And you're going to know why your energy is tanking and leaking and why big pharmas, band-aids always fail. And I'll explain even all about three things that you need to know. Motsie, redotrutide, methylene blue, and why they are so effective when it comes to fatigue because they fix it at the root. So buckle up, baby. We're going to get bumpy. This ain't a nap. It's time to go to war. So listen, what is fatigue physiologically? Let's just do that, right? Forget the psycho babble. Fatigue is your cells, so as a point blank, it's this mismatch between energy demand and energy supply. That's it. That there's no, you can get fancy, you don't need to. If the demand is exceeding the supply, you're fatigued. The end. And at the core, mitochondria, little cellular power plants, they're failing to churn out adenosine triphosphate, ATP, which is the universal energy currency of your biology. ATP powers every single contraction, every neuronal function, every firing neuron, every thought, every breath, every heartbeat, every time your fingernails grow a micrometer. When your mitochondria shut down and sputter and puke, the ETC, electron transport chain backs up. Reactives at reactive oxygen species explode. And what that is, biological shrapnel and the damage, everything. It's not a lack of willpower. All you guys going, would be just toughen up. Listen, I sleep four to five hours a night. I have for as long as I can remember. And my memory is still incredibly good. It's not, I've been this way and I people go, that's not healthy. Man, I will outgun you all day long. People take an eight hours of sleep. It is not. Some people need 10 hours. Some people need three. Some people need seven. It's whatever your body needs. Your biology knows what the hell it needs. The problem is when you start infiltrating with stupidity and wondering why it doesn't work. It's not a lack of willpower. Being, having fatigue. It's not. It's biology that is betraying your butt. 2021 study, Journal of Physiology show chronic fatigue syndrome patients. CFS, by the way, CFS and fibromyalgia, they're the same thing. I'm tired of people going, they're completely different. No, they're not. They're identical. I've proven it so many times. But these patients, CFS, fibromyalgia patients have 50, 50, that is so much 50% lower ATP production in muscle biopsies. Your body isn't lazy, you guys. It's not. If you're genuinely fatigued, it's not that you're lazy. It's not that you're lacking caffeine or Adderall or Modafinil or some kind of speed that you get at the 7-11. That's like some trucker pill that you used to see on this spinning things. If you know you're a kid from the 80s, it's not. It's that your system is starved. Your ATP is trashed and your mitochondria are flipping you off and they are so desperate for help. And I'm trying to give you the help. Listen, here's the most common. Some of you guys don't even know that you have fatigue. Here's the most common physiological symptoms straight from your own biology. Cognitive fog. So neuroinflammation flood. Listen to me. Neuroinflammation floods your brain with cytokines. Interleukin-6, TNF-alpha, right? Tumor necrosis factor alpha. Blocking glutamate signaling and hippocampal neurogenesis. So if you look at FMRI studies, 2017 Fatigue Journal showed prefrontal cortex hypo, very low. Hypoactivation, your executive function goes, if you've seen Playdate, tits up. If you listen to Alan Richardson, it flatlines. Your executive function flatlines. That's the first one. Muscle weakness. Most people don't know this either. ATP depletion hits fast twitch muscle fibers first. Okay. Sarcomeres, they can't cycle the actin myosin cross bridging, the cycling that needs to happen without it. So 2019 muscle and nerve prove this. Fatigue muscles have, this is another huge number, 40% reduced force output because of calcium mishandling in the SR. SR is the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Okay. Autonomic function. Third one. Autonomic dysfunction. Heart rate variability. Tanks. Autonomic function is all the stuff that's happening right now while you're listening to this and getting all pissed off and you don't know why your heart rate's going up in your blood pressure skyrocketing. Right. Because I'm pointing out all the problems that you've gotten. You're like, damn it, my doctor lied to me. Yeah. This doctor is not going to lie to you ever. You might not like what I'm going to tell you, but I love you enough to tell you the truth. How about that? Your heart rate variability tanks from sympathetic overdrive and vagal withdrawal, the vagus nerve, the barrel reflex sensitivity tanks, circulation. Your, this is what it is. Basically, a barrel receptor is, it doesn't matter. Anyway, the point is in circulation, the study in circulation proved this at 2017, your fight or flight or freeze never shuts off, you guys. That's a nightmare. Imagine laying in bed like you're hanging onto a NASCAR going nuts. Forget it. GI sluggishness. This is another one and most people don't even see this one. Your gastrointestinal system, your enteric nervous system, inflammation slows all this motility down. Listen, and it does it via the vagus nerve suppression. Vegas nerve comes across the chest. But Vegas nerve, the gut microbiome dysbiosis spikes LPS, endotoxins, LPS lipopolysaccharides that bleed across the gut barrier. One cell, thick man. One cell into your nice, clean cardiovascular system. And it fuels the cytokine storm and it causes systemic fatigue. 2023 gut journal proved it. Immune exhaustion. This is real bad when your immune system is tired, you get sick all the time. This is the first place I always look with patients when they are old, when the people get sick at like three times in two weeks. I'm looking to see if you're, if you have a mitochondrial issue, not an immune system issue. But the first thing they do is they go, you better take some immune boosters, better take emergency. That's not going to help you at all. That's not going to help you at all, you guys, because that doesn't solve the mitochondrial problem, which is exactly why it doesn't work. T cell senescence from chronic NF Kappa B activation, NF Kappa B, which always come back to this inflammatory response, right? Lymphocytes can't proliferate. So they leave you like this, you're like gravity for viruses and trashy bacteria that come to you, like a bunch of nasty hookers that want to screw up your life. Journal of Immunology 2019 proved it. But you guys, these aren't symptoms. They're not. There's not, they're not symptoms that you should sit down and go, okay, I just got a grinder. I got, I got to just suck it up for the rest of this week and push through. This is your biology going, Hey, man, pay attention, pay attention. And conventional pharma, three big treatments that they give you that don't work. Adderall, modafinal. I realized you're going to be like, didn't you talk about a modafinal? And I thought you said it was great. I think modafinal is frigging amazing. If you don't live on it, I mean, if you go, what about Adderall and you want to argue, then you just want to argue. Here's your sign. I don't have time to argue with stupid. You'll beat me to death with experience. So Adderall, modafinal, antidepressants, SSRIs. Like Prozac, they give you sleep aids like Ambien. If you've ever taken Ambien, you know how bad that is and why do they flop? I'll help you. Physiology. Watch stimulants, Jack dopamine and norepinephrine. And I'm not talking test-efensing levels. I'm talking nuclear levels. So they borrow tomorrow's energy today and tolerance builds up in weeks, in weeks. Do you know why Fennel peracetam hydrazide builds up a tolerance so fast? Because it doesn't have the fuel alpha GPC. If you, and here's just a side note for you. If you're taking Fennel peracetam hydrazide 75 to 100 hypothetically kangaroo milligrams for your kangaroo every day, you need to take alpha GPC 300 milligrams every day. Otherwise you're 150 to 300 milligrams every day. Otherwise you don't have the fuel. You're going to get tolerance. And I'm telling you, you're going to have a tolerance in about two to three days. So here's the issue. Tolerance builds up the stimulants, dopamine and norepinephrine because of these things, Adderall and modafinal tolerance builds because you're, it's the down regulation of that transporters. New England Journal of Medicine meta analysis 70%. Now these are massive numbers that you shouldn't be trifled with 70% efficacy drop after six months. And then the problem is you crash worse because they ignore the cause, the famine in the ATP crop. Right. Do you get this? Right. I'm really, I'm trying to help you SSRIs. This is another one, the boosts serotonin, but chronic fatigue is mitochondrial, not monoamine. So that doesn't even make sense. So when I see a doctor do this and say, we're going to give you an SSRI, what you want to do is you want to prescribe a drug because you're too lazy, too stupid, too ignorant to solve the patient's problem. I don't do that. I'm solving your problem. 2022 Lancet psychiatry on ME, CFS, I chronophysic. Right. So SSRIs improved mood. This is good. 15%. But fatigue scores unchanged. Nothing. Zero serotonin doesn't refill some mystical cellular gas tank. You guys look at sleep aids like a Zolpidem, right? Binds the GABA A. So it forces sleep, right? You're out, but you don't fix Delta wave restoration or the glimphatic clearance, the pressure washer that comes in when you sleep and the channels open up, right? The glimphatic system pressure washes amyloid beta plaques out of there. Go for all kinds of other stuff, but that's a huge one because dementia and Alzheimer's type three diabetes, amyloid beta plaques, those are the, that's the tombstone. That's what comes because of the result. But there's so many factors to this and so many facets to this diamond. I'm trying to give you bits and pieces because I could stay on here for 10 hours and do a thesis on this. Sleep medicine reviews. Listen, rebound insomnia, next day groggyness from fragmented REM sleep. They mask. They don't mend a freaking thing. An ambient personally scares the shit out of me. You're going to wake up in somebody's front yard with your pants missing. Forget it. Aggressive fatigue is not normal. Human physiology evolved for endurance. You did. If you listen to my buddy, I talk about him all the time because he's a good dude. He's a really intelligent Judd, Leenhard, right? So he talks about how most of your workouts are actually, you think you're working out really hard, but your workouts are very short. Throw on a ruck, go for a two and a half, three hour walk with a bag on your back. That's what we're designed for. That's what we're designed for. Like I am more impressed by somebody putting 40, 50 pounds on their back and walking for three hours straight than I am for somebody blasting Fran in a sub two minute time because I just don't care. That's not a life skill. Rucking, that's a life skill and it impresses the shit out of me. So that's the kind of stuff where I'm like, you have to understand you've evolved for endurance and he talks about this. Judd talks about this. Your workouts should be significantly longer, at least a couple of times a week. Hunter gatherers, listen to me, they trekked 20 miles daily on 2,500 calories. You know, two max peaks at 15 to 20 times basal metabolic rate, utter fatigue from desk life. A bull, bull. If you all my day, I'm so wrecked. You sat at a desk all day. You got no sunlight. That's part of the problem. Your cortisol rhythm is destroyed. Get outside, open your eyes. The first thing in the morning stare at the sun for 30 minutes. You're not going to go blind. That's a lie. Okay. 2023 nature metabolism study, healthy mitochondria can sustain 16 hour output without any crash whatsoever. Proven. Research proven. You shouldn't be getting betrayed by your mitochondria after 30 minutes because your mocha wore off. Fatigue stems from three biological failures. My three biological failures every single time I'll say it again, where's my damn Nobel Prize because I'm going to tell you right now, you might say it's ignorant. I deserve it. I damn well deserve it because I solved it. Do you know why Pfizer isn't lighting up my phone? Because Pfizer wants to make money off of you. I don't want to make money off of you. I want you to have the solution so you can go live your damn life. What a struggle that you're always fighting this up. You're like Sisyphus always pushing this stone, but you never solve the problem, but they keep giving you more and more drugs. Do you know why I have the black card? It's to solve all the problems that nobody else is solving and I'm damn good at it because I care and I'll bleed until I get the solution. I am, my group is filled with solutions. Sometimes in a matter of days, even a day, I read one the other day. Like I do my calls every Monday at five. I do my private Q and A call with my group every Monday at five. And I had so many people telling me how many radically awesome changes they've had like this. I was so proud of my group because they stuck to what I said. They listened to what I told them. And I love my group. So you want to join the black card? You need to send an email, apply at unlock the card. Don't ask me what you get with it or to explain or explain what it comes with because I've done this a ton of times. You get access to my private Q and A call every Monday. You get access to the VIP community and some of the protocol resource library, but I'm changing that anyway to be better. You, the VIP community is where Dr. T answers in 24 to 72 hours. It might not be the next day. Don't freak out. You've been trying to get this all for 10 days. It takes me three days to get to you. It's because I actually take my time because I want to make sure you get the right answer and I've never missed. Do you know why I don't miss? Because I will not take a chance with your health ever, ever. You come into my world, you join my black card. You know who you become? Family. Pardon my language. I'm trying not to curse a lot anymore on these podcasts. Really, I don't fuck with the health of my family. That's how much you matter to me. So you decide it's still at last year's price or 97 bucks. It's by wire. No, I don't take credit cards. No, I don't take anything else. Yes, I take Bitcoin. But other than that, because I do this because I give a shit. So you want to join great. You don't want to join great, but I saw these three biological failures every single day in slow resistance, systemic inflammation, TP shortage. I will dissect every one of these. Look at this. Estemic inflammation is always the first one. It's the one that causes so many problems. People go, so wait, I'll have to do a solve inflammation. Sometimes that is all you have to do, but it's not taking an Advil. You have the cytokine storm, IL-1 beta, TNF alpha from a leaky gut or just being obese. Listen, if you go, you offended me because you called me fat. Are you doing something about it? That's all I care about. Knowledge of the fact that you're the fact that you're fat and then just do something about it. I love you. How can I help? It's not the your fat make fun of you. I'm never going to do that. But I'll tell you this, if you're fat doing nothing about it, demanding that everybody else around you subscribes to your narrative and makes you feel better for making your bad decisions, forget it. You don't want to be part of my group either because everybody's going to hold you accountable. This is what happens though. So the cytokine storm also inhibits PGC-1 alpha. That's the mitochondrial boss for a biogenesis, creating more power plants. So the result is this. You have less, right? Fewer and much crappier mitochondria. Mitochondria would turn out your ATP. Your ATP is the currency your life runs on. Low ATP, small bank account, get to the things you want. Look at it that way. 2015, Selma Tabolism showed inflammation causes this is such a big number, again, 50% ATP drop. It is not a coffee problem or a sleep problem. That's just the first part of this. There are three, insulin resistance, muscle and liver. They're deaf, right? To insulin. So they ignore it. Starving glucose uptake through something called Glute 4 translocation failure. They don't migrate to the cell surface to allow them to open up the doors to take in glucose. Just that's the simplest way I can explain it. Hyperinsulinemia spikes ROS, reactive oxygen species. So worsens mitochondrial damage. 2017 diabetes care. insulin resistance patients have 35% lower muscle ATP turnover. That's a giant amount. Imagine taking 35% of your lifespan and cutting it off. That's where you're at with this. ATP shortages, the third one. Mitochondrial electron leak dumps electrons prematurely. So now you trash the proton motive force failing to spin ATP synthase at a rate that's high enough to generate a nice fat, chubby ATP yield that's just dripping over the sides of the containers because you have so much of it. Complex one and two inhibition from reactive oxygen species kicks in. So it becomes this vicious cycle to ATP synthesis is down in this is an NAS. ATP synthesis down 40% in any fatigue state. 40%. I want you guys to think of it as something where you wouldn't want to lose 40%. So I wouldn't want to lose 40% of my lifespan. Right. I wouldn't want to lose 40% of my bank account. I wouldn't want to lose 40% of my children or 40% of my marriage. 40. I don't, I wouldn't want to lose 40% of the people that I love and care about. My black card. So you understand that this is a real number. Low energy, you guys, is a symptom. It's not a cause. It's what I always say. It's the smoke. These fires are what burns underneath. Theology 101 feedback loops do one thing very effectively. They amplify it. Boy, do they ever, it's not a sleep problem. You guys just need more sleep. You just need more sleep, bro. It's not that complicated. Okay. Okay. And if that's for you, awesome. You're still wrong and you're ignorant for people that sleep and still don't have a solution. How about you maybe stopping such a jackass? Right. Sleep restores. Look at mitochondrial fission versus fusion. That's a problem, a topology, but the pro and it causes a topology, which cleans up all the mess. However, chronic fatigue persists post sleep. We'll explain that here. I'll help you. Polysomnography in sleep journal. Listen to me. Chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia patients. They're the best example because they're always fatigued in the trash because they're running on low ATP. They have normal sleep architecture though. So they're getting the rest they need, but their daytime ATP deficits are atrocious 45%. 45%. Sleeps a pit stop. You guys, you need to fuel. What do you think you do when you sleep? Anyone that works out, anyone that's an athlete, by the way, athletes regenerate all their ATP to back to normal levels inside of 48 hours. That's normal. Now that's a highly trained athlete, but you should be that way. You're born that way. You screw it up by listening to people that tell should be like that. So here, look at the fixers. It's funny. Feel like I'm going to a business and I have to chop it up. Right. Like I'm like KPMG, right? Business transformation service. I go in and I find out where all the money leaks are. So in time leaks, if you don't know, then you don't know. But anyway, MOTC, redotrutide and methylene blue, they obliterate these three failures. Watch MOTC up regulates and I'm trying to make this short, but I'm already 30 minutes in. MOTC up regulates AMPK. The, it mimics the best way you can explain is it mimics exercise, not as effective in that department as SLU, but that's another conversation. It does it differently. So it mimics exercise and it boosts glute for. So it fixes. So they go to the cell, open up the goers, open up the doors, let an insulin, right? So it fixes the insulin resistance to inflammatory. It suppresses the NLRP three and flamazon. It drops, listen to this number. It drops interleukin six, 50% cell metabolism, 2015 proved that ATP nuclear, nuclear mitochondrial crosstalk through the PGC one alpha, which I just talked about causes biogenesis, which means you get more power plants by the, to the tune of about 30% 30% nature communications 2020 proved that number. 30% more power plants. If you had 30% more money in your bank account, 30% more years to your life, would you be okay? 30% more muscle, 30% less fat. You could go either direction and see what it does. Look at human trials, aging cell 2022 obese adults used. Let's see, you probably can't see that, right? Mosse and their fatigue scores, 45% change. That's almost half you guys. You know why it did it through improved VO two peak and insulin sensitivity and their insulin sensitivity, by the way, doubled. That's just one of these three things I talked about. Most people are doing this wrong. I'm going to tell you the dark side about this in a second too, because you need to know both sides. Otherwise I'm not doing you any favor. I'm doing you a disservice. Look at red and true tide, right? Just a horror, triple horror or fat GLP one, GIP, glucagon, I guess I've explained how it works, how to hit the brakes and one hits the gas and it has only one place to go, which is thermogenesis and the liver, right? So physiology one on one, ELP one drops glucagon, stabilizes glucose and GIP enhanced insulin, enhances insulin secretion. I could run through this so fast because I've done this so many times on torches, liver fat only though, only listen to me, glucagon by itself is not going to do that. We're gone in the presence of GLP one and GIP is what allows it to only have one option. It puts it in a cage and it says you can only torch liver fat. Thermogenesis is the only thing you can do. It fixes insulin resistance massively, by the way, phase two, New England Journal of Medicine. This is such a great study 24 week trial, 150. By the way, you wanted to know dosages, 150 micrograms weekly. Just do the math. I'll wait. 150 micrograms weekly, HbA1c sub diabetic levels. 24 pounds minimum weight loss, 70% of that weight loss was fat, pure fat inflammation adipinectin up 60%. C-reactive protein down about 40%, ATP through fat loss. Listen to this. Ectopic lipids clear from muscle, mitocin,  ectodendria. This is probably one of the most effective peptides ever invented. For the people that I love, great. For the people that are here just to complain, you guys are screwing with it thinking you can microdose and hyperdose and all this stuff. It's not designed for that and all you're doing is screwing with your own biology. Excuse me. So if you want to go, I don't care, I just want to get lean. Great, you can. Somebody asked me if I use red or true tide. That's funny. As if this is built by red or true, it just does all the work for you. You don't have to do anything. It's like taking testosterone and going, I'm going to be jacked and lean and athletic just by taking it. If you guys have seen my work, I just don't post my workouts anymore because I just got nothing to prove. I know what I do. I'm not doing it to impress you. I'm doing it because it's my obligation to be the best version of myself. You can do what you want. Look at methylene blue. Old school dye, baby. This thing's heroic as hell, though. Low dose. When I say low dose, half to one milligram. Somebody asked me, by the way, about, I got a touch on this real quick. Somebody asked me why the elite, my company, right? Our company's methylene blue is 0.25 per milliliter versus seeing like whatever that one is, Merlachy, Merkali, whatever it is, that guy with that UFC guy on that. Why theirs and why theirs is so dark blue and stains your teeth? One, because they use dyes and you want me to prove it, it's going to really piss off that company if I do because they're not going to guess it's proof. That's number one, but number two is, oh, yeah, I'm sure somebody's going to hear that and go, no, it's not. I can prove it. Are you on that one now? Your pee does not have to turn blue to show that methylene blue is working, by the way, it doesn't need to stain your mouth either. If you're taking it in gummies, it's not nearly as effective. But the problem is this, they're running theirs at 1%. I'm running mine at 10. 10% concentration. Yours is at 1% concentration. So that says, just do the math, that says that 0.25 of mine at 10% is significantly better. You can doubt it, but I've never felt a difference at the dosage that is required. You shouldn't have to take 10 to 15 milligrams. You should have to take half a milligram to one milligram because this is pharmaceutical dose. So again, it goes back to why I am so fussy about the company because I care about what you guys put in your body. Otherwise, you know what else, what I would be if I didn't, I'd be another pharma shill. I'm not, I won't even put it on my site if it's garbage. So methylene blue is next level, it's wild. Yes, it needs to be cycled. So even that, I gave you a hypothetical, gave you a hypothetical kangaroo dose, half to one milligram every day. I gave you a hypothetical dose for red and true tide. Most of you guys didn't pick up on it, 150 micrograms weekly. I gave you a hypothetical dose for MOTC, five milligrams every Monday, Thursday, but you guys aren't listening to this. You're going to, when are you going to talk about dosages? I literally just spelled it out for you. If you argue about the dosages, then why are you asking me for help? This is where my head's at today. Like, I'm just frustrated at people going, I want the help, but then you give me the help, but I don't want the help because I'd rather listen to the bro sign single, listen to the bro sign. That's okay. Low dose, it slips into complex four. I passes the traffic jam in one, two, and three, that is just all blocked up and gummed up. It shuttles electrons directly. And what it does is it cranks up ATP. This is a massive span, 30% to 70% proven by the way, FASCB Journal 2017. Anti-inflammatory, by the way, it's also that inhibits NOx2, reactive oxygen species, shuts down NLR3, NLRP3, and flamazone. Look at that's proven in biology. Real study, 2022. It's not just me saying the word. Look at Alzheimer's. This is one of the coolest ones ever. If you're worried about it, you should probably listen to this. Microglial IL1 beta, 60% change. There's human proof, by the way, JCI Insight 2021. Here's a great one for you. Long COVID. You guys suffering from long COVID, the fatigue, right? Randomized control, the RCT, randomized control trial. This is the best part. One milligram twice a day, two weeks, fatigue down 52%. ATP and ADP ratio normalized, and they did it through MRI spectroscopy, by the way, so they proved it. You guys need to listen to me because I'm out here to help. I'm not out here to sell a product or a service. Okay, so I need to flip the script on this because you need to look at these heroes and how they can backfire. MOTC, here's why it makes you tired. I was going to do a whole Instagram post on this, but I'll just, I still might, but we'll see. MOTC, the over-stimulation city, that's the problem. It ramps up AMPK far too hard, so the Glute 4 Translocation overloads cells too much, far too much. This is why, with glucose minus their mitochondrial prep that they need, and the result is this, you get this oxidative burst, so you get more reactive oxygen species, and you get a fatigue rebound. So it's not the fault of the peptide, it's the fault of the biology. Yours. You're inflamed mitochondria. This is why I'm talking to you about this. The inflamed mitochondria can't handle the flood of fuel, so if you take mitochondria and you get tired, it's not a peptide problem, it's a yield problem. They proved this, 2018, aging cell. High dose MOTC, initial energy spike briefly, and then a 20% ATP dip from uncoupled respiration. So it can have the reverse effect. This is why you have to repair the system, not just take it because some Instabrow told you to take it and you like this hair. Look at red and true tide. It'll do the same thing. It'll make you tired as hell. GI slowdown, dehydration, electrolyte crash, does all this stuff. Rapid fat loss just unleashes free fatty acids, so you get this temporary insulin resistance spike before you have any adaptation. Jastreboff 2024, Nature Medicine, Phase 3 interim, 15% of the people reported fatigue. The glucagon surge taxes adrenals pre-mitochondrial repair. Mitochondria are damaged primarily from inflammatory processes. So it's not a peptide problem, it's a yield problem. Your depleted ATP can't fund the metabolic shift, which is exactly why MOTC and red and true tide will make you sleepy. Now bypass that and if they don't, and if you want to solve, that's more of a conversation about what I had on my MOTS SS and NAD plus or MOTS NAD plus and SS 31. That's a whole lot. Look at that podcast. But together, whoa, these things nuke the fatigue problem. Inflammation, look at this. Let's just go right to it though. MOTC, NLRP blocks, and this is in NLRP 3 and flamazon 2021, red and true tide, adipose macrophage shift. This is obesity 2024 and methylene blue. Remember, enos and inos, the nitricosic acid synthase ratio, so inos inhibition. So this combo, this triple combo that you have in your lunch bag that you're taking of MOTC, red and true tide and methylene blue, dump cytokines. The grand total is 70%. Big number, folks. That's just the inflammation. But remember, the primary driver of all these issues is inflammation, causes yourselves to become insulin death, definitely shuts down mitochondria to produce ATP. Do you see where I'm going with this? So no, you can't just fix one if you're about to ask me that. You have to fix all three. insulin resistance, MOTC, AMPK, glute, solves that problem. Red and true tide, triple agonism, the Lancet 2023, phase three preview, you can see it. The diabetes 2019 shows MOTC solving the insulin resistance problem. Methylene blue, glucose uptake via the PKB, biochem, pharmacol 2020. insulin resistance crashes 50 to 80%. That's a huge number, you guys. If I had insulin resistance, I'd be looking all over the place to solve that problem because me, I want to spend a whole lot more years with my beautiful, sexy wife, Brandy and my awesome kids and all the people that I love and care about, the people I don't care. You guys, I'm not interested in you. Look at the ATP shortage, MOTC, PGC one alpha. What does that do? Cranks up biogenesis, red and true tide, fat clearance for mitochondrial fuel. So it's doing all the things to make your system work. It's not just coming in with a wrecking ball and demanding that your system works, which causes long-term problems because you get a rebound effect the second you stop, right? Methylene blue, electron transport chain, it goes right to complex four. So listen, the synergy three times the ATP up. So now we've solved inflammatory problem, we've solved the insulin resistance and we've solved the ATP shortage. Real studies, you have to look at this and understand they use methylene blue by the way on a side note, in sepsis, the peptide methylene blue stack, in sepsis, this one, the specific one, MOTC, Rata, methylene blue, 2024, naps 2024. They use this 90% survival. How many of your doctors are talking about this stuff? They're not. Why did they survive by the way? Their ATP was restored. They had the energy to get in the fight. Human analogs screen, yes. Look, you guys, I'm going to go because I have other things to do, but you guys have been sold a bunch of lies. Just sleep more, pop a pill, hustle harder, bro. Just suck it up, be a man, whatever. That is slave programming. Your biology demands better from you and I'm trying to give you the answers so you have it. Fatigue isn't your destiny. It's not your future. It's not because your mommy or your daddy had fatigue. It's not because your boss is working you too hard. It's diagnostic. Fix the fires. Fix the fires. Just put out the fires. Inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Fix those. Right? Mod C, red, a true tide, methylene blue. None of this stuff is complicated. They want you to think it's complicated, but you guys are not broken. You're not. You're underpowered. Stack these because here's why ultimately everybody that's listening to this for the most part, don't get offended to what I'm about to say. Grow up. For the most part, everybody that listens to this at some point in their life walked, except everybody that's got children, has watched their child roll around on the floor and then try and get up and bang their dome, their head against every piece of furniture that you have in your house, learning to walk, but not one single child has ever gone, I quit. I'm going to sit here and play on my Xbox instead at one year old. They kept doing it until they did what? Until they damn well walk. Evolution did not build quitters. It didn't. You're not a quitter. You've been taught that. And physiology doesn't lie. That's why I give you this information. The problem, like you have to, science doesn't negotiate. It just doesn't. Why are you? That's exactly why. Why are you negotiating? Why are you getting in my comments and complaining? Why are you griping about things when this is the doctor right here who's just giving you the answer so you have a better life, man? Sometimes you guys shock me. I gotta go. Hope you got something out of this. Never miss.