Whoever that guy was that said, "Burn it all down, Doc." Dude, I want to use that every single time I open my podcast and start speaking into this microphone because that's what I want to do. I want you guys to have all the answers. You know what's weird? You deserve to have them. Why Why would you not deserve to have the solution to a disease process that somebody is gatekeeping? I want you to really think about that. People are gatekeeping the solution in order to keep you sick. Make that make sense. Above all, do no harm. They're doing it to to generate profit at your expense. Manage decline. Well, that makes me mad. I got that same clean canteen here right now if you're just listening to the audio. But look at that. I mean, it is so beat to hell. Glad I put the cap on. I would have don't want it all over me. So, listen. Settle in. Buckle up. I'm going to talk all about multiple sclerosis, just so you know, and what to do about it for real. It's yet another conversation. You know, I wish I would be friends with Michael J. Fox. First of all, I think Michael J. Fox is a stud. I one of my favorite movies, Secret of My Success. Everybody would be like, Back to the Future. Ah, Secret of My Success, man. Where he is Brantley Foster. It is just such a great Except he plays this character also called Carlton Whitfield. It's just a great movie. It's just a great Cindy Wells is a girl he falls in love with. It's just one of these amazing It's a good movie. You just got to watch it. And if you don't like it, I don't know. I'm not here to convince you to enjoy my movie choices. There it is. Black as night. Blacker in a witch's crotch. That's the coffee, right? I know it's a late podcast today, but you know what I did last night? I was laying in bed and my wife I'm 52. My wife is 46. So, I mean, we grew up watching the early versions of Star Wars and Tron and things like that. Last night I went, I kind of want to see that new Tron Aries. What? The one with what's his name? Jared Lotto. Man, he was kind of a rock star in that. People said they just didn't like him. They didn't like the movie. It bombed. I don't know. I thought it was pretty rad. But I'm also a product of the8s. So to me, I just like I listened to the movie. You heard me right. Listen to the movie on a on a record that came out of a book that you had to cut out the back of a book and then it had the record on a page and it was all floppy and you put it on your little record player and you listen to it. I listen to Star Wars like that, too. Just so you know, I'm older than you think. But anyway, so today it was the entire theater, just Trevor and Brandy. Go see Tron. I just I literally just turned off today and just took my wife and it it was the best. Like we just sat there and had a great time. Like it was awesome. And you might you might hear that and go how dull. I don't know, man. I love being with my wife. Like I love being with Brandy so much. And I I would do anything with her. I just like being with her. And we had so much fun. So anyway, that's why this podcast is a little late. Totally irrelevant story, but I really don't care. It's my show. So multiple sclerosis, listen, just settle in or don't settle in. Whatever you want to do, I don't really care. But for about 20 or 30 minutes, I'm going to basically tell you what a trillion dollar medical industry has failed to do in 50 years, and that is make sense of multiple sclerosis. Here's why understanding neurology and physiology and stitching together human biology matters because you can start to make sense. It's like an excellent mechanic that just I told you this, right? They can just listen to the engine and go, I know what's wrong with that. That to me is wild. And I'm a gearhead. Like I'm a wrencher and I I can do that a little bit, but not to the level some of these dudes, these old-timers that just know their stuff. I love that, right? I love that. It's like an actor or an actress just bang, they just know their lines right away. Like I imagine Tom Cruz like that, right? Just so intense. So, with multiple scerosis, first of all, get the lie out of the way. The one they taught me in medical school, which is financed, by the way, by the pharmaceutical companies. Like it or not, I don't care what you say. MS is an autoimmune disease, right? That's the story. That's the story. No, no, no, no. That's not what it is. That's the story. Your body's immune system, the very thing designed to protect you, goes bananas. Just goes rogue. Decides to randomly attack the insulation that's around your own nerves, the myelin sheath, right? For no reason. None. It's like a security guard who just starts setting fire to the building that he's supposed to protect. Just starts throwing grenades, pulls out a fire, you know, a flamethrower, just starts torching the building for no reason. None. Great story, man. Simple, easy to market. Catastrophically, tragically, and almost intentionally wrong. I'll I'll prove it. Here's what MS actually is. And I'm not going to keep saying multiple sclerosis. I'm just going to say MS. I was heartbreaking with Michael J. Fox, right? I don't know. He just a lot of good movies out of that guy. But here's what MS actually is. It's a disease of chronic cerebral spinal venus insufficiency. It's called CCVS1. It's a fancy term for a very simple problem. The plumbing of your brain is all backed up. The veins that drain deoxxygenated blood from your brain and CNS are stenotic. They're restricted. They're very narrowed. They're malformed and they're inefficient. This creates this state of chronic hypo less right hypo perfusion. And increased, this is where it gets screwy, increased iron deposition in the brain. So the iron builds up, it creates oxidative stress, inflammation, and the micro ga, which are the brain's immune cells, get turned on. They get activated, right? They get fired up. They're not rogue. They're doing their damn job. They're doing what they're supposed to do. You get that, right? They're like, "Oh, this is not supposed to be here." They go full attack. So they see the iron induced damage, the inflammation, and they launch full cleanup operation. So the cleanup operation involves breaking down the damaged myelin. The myelin damage is the symptom. The inflammation is the symptom. The immune response is the symptom. That's why this is such a screw ball diagnosis coming from the medical world. You're not treating a disease. You're treating the janitor mopping up the flood and blaming him for the water on the freaking floor while ignoring the pipe that burst in the ceiling. Make it make sense. Somebody said I was getting too mellow. But this stuff really pisses me off. I just at some point some days I just come out here just to be very transparent. I go, "Why do I bother? Why do I even bother giving the information to anybody? Nobody does anything about it." You know, if you want the solution, you send me an email and you go, "How do I work with you?" Or you just go figure it out on your own, but do something. But honestly, I tell people I sometimes, why do I come out? You want to be a sheep and just pray that the medication, if you just medicate harder, it's going to go away. It won't because they're never ever treating the real cause. Like, let's talk about the current standard of care. How about that? The medical estab est establishment. Let's bust this wide open since we're breaking open pipes. Looks at this problem, this complex biochemical cascade of drainage failure, iron overload, inflammatory response. And their genius solution is to suppress the immune system. Listen to what I just said. It's essentially to fire the janitor that's doing all the cleaning. Okay? They use a sledgehammer. It's like a nuclear bomb to kill a mosquito and in the process they wipe out the entire city. All 30 trillion cells. Okay, look at the tools in their toolbox. The disease modifying therapies is what they call them. Interferon beta is my one of my favorites. So the effects flu-l like symptoms, depression, liver toxicity, thyroid dysfunction, you feel sick to not get sicker. That's the value prop here. Okay. All right. I love it. How about this acetate that they use? this random polymer that they inject supposedly to distract your immune system and the effects immediate post- injection reactions that can mimic a heart attack an MI lipo atrophy where the fat under your skin literally disintegrates sign me up so far these are doing great right all right we're batting a thousand on all solving the problem not at all fingolomide traps your lymphocytes in your lymph nodes essentially creating this state of medically induced lymphopenia and the effects macular edema 500 listen to what I just said 500% increased risk of viral infections. Brady cardia, slow down heart rate, elevated blood pressure, liver injury. So you you trade something for the chance of not even something that's going to help you, but you sign up for something that's going to make you so susceptible to an illness that is good chance going to kill you. Okay, you want to keep going because this is fun for me. How about natalysmab blocks immune cells from crossing the bloodb brain barrier? This it just gets dumber when I say it out loud. It almost hurts. Fantastic. Great. Also prevents your brain's own surveillance for spotting actual threats, real ones. The effects brain infection called PML. That is progressive, multifocal, and lethal. By the way, you're going to die. So, you trade MS for a death sentence with A-50% mortality rate. All right. Love it. Where else are we going with this one? How about oklesiumab? Wipes out your B cells completely. Not a little bit, completely. You have zero humoral immunity. Increased risk of cancers, severe infection, HEP reactivation. So if you've ever had it, okay, good. How about alum Tajimab? This one's everywhere. You see this all over the place. They advertise this stuff on TV. This is chem warfare. It nukes your entire immune system. It's a controlled demolition. Secondary autoimmune disease is one of the effects it gives you. Thyroid disease, immune thrombocytoenia. 50% of patients get a new autoimmune condition from the drug meant to treat their first one. Did you listen to what I just said? They get a new problem because of what they just took and it's a new autoimmune condition for the treatment for an autoimmune condition. Huh. Sounds like medical insanity to me. I need some more coffee cuz this actually is starting to piss me off. You know what's wild is YouTube is hunting. Either that or some [\h__\h] is trying to get me pulled off of YouTube, which is hilarious cuz I just keep putting my stuff everywhere else. I just go to places that don't have censorship. I don't care. But I I mean I come out here and I tell the truth and I give solutions and YouTube in its wonderful algorithm goes, "You can't say that." But I could come out here and I could post all kinds of murders and death and all talk about all the drugs I want. Problem? No problem. Listen, the model isn't the treatment. It's a management. It's a subscription service for what do I always say? Managed decline. The goal is not health. The goal is a slower descent into death. The entire economic model is predicated on a patient for life. It's a customer if you understand what the the business model. It's a customer. It's not a person to be cured. It's a customer. The longer we keep you dangling on the edge of that on the end of that line that's holding you from going over the precipice, the more money we make. But they write you off. A diagnosis is a label. It's a life sentence of incredibly expensive pharmaceuticals. They'll tell you to manage your expectations. I heard this the other day. Somebody sent me an email about how their dad was just diagnosed with MS at 84 84 years old. And they said just manage your expectations. That's why I'm even saying it pisses me off a lot. I miss my dad. I miss my dad a lot. And like I said, 67 years old is far too young to go. But I couldn't imagine if somebody would have said, "Manage your expectations." I probably would have punched him in the face because here's what that translates into. Prepare to get worse, just slower. Are you out of your mind? A doctor, above all, do no harm. Let me help you. Let me solve your problem. You're going to trust me to take care of you, to teach you what's going on, and then get you out of it. That's what a doctor does. You know how few I see doing that? Almost none. It makes no sense because they're treating the effect, not the cause. They're treating the smoke and then they're calling the arsonist the hero. So, how about we look at the cause and um man, I'm almost afraid to say this because there's so much censorship in the world right now around the truth, right? And then the reversal. Try and leave a space there and see if that does anything for it. This the cause is I'm going to have a little more coffee. The cause is a multi-system failure driven by poor venus drainage, mitochondrial dysfunction, toxic inflammation, and hormonal growth factor deficiencies. Both of those, the reversal is not one thing. It's a bunch of things. It's a precisely orchestrated biochemical operating system upgrade and reboot. You're not suppressing the system. You have to upgrade it in order to solve the problem. So, let me go over the protocol from A to Z for a kangaroo that would go through this kind of an experiment because the exact bio mechanic or the exact biochemical stack is not to to halt progression. Listen to me. This isn't to slow it down. It's to flip it the other direction and do a 180. You're going this way now. You're going that way. That's how this is supposed to be. So, part one, let's just go over everything from A to Z. You have to handle the drainage and the anti-inflammation, right? So, let's go over everything. Let's go over everything from A to Z. You have to stop the flood. That's the problem. Remember what I said, the flood, the backup, the stenotic issue, it's not draining out. So the iron, the metabolic waste, all that stuff. So BPC-157 master healer peptide always drastically accelerates angioenesis, which is the growth of new very healthy, very organized blood vessels to improve that faulty venus drainage. It's an incredibly potent anti-inflammatory. TB-500 works synergistically with BPC-157. They should be married cuz they work all the time together better than solo acts, right? Promote cell migration, repair of the endothelial lining of those damaged veins that are just all over the place. Part of me doesn't even want to get into this cuz it bugs me so bad. Dip. This is the one that nobody's even going to talk about. This is how you can tell people know what they're talking about. People that don't desip, but it's critical because you need to regulate the sleep architecture. You need deep restorative sleep because that's how where your CNS gets repaired. But that's also when the lymphatic system opens up those channels and flushes out all the stuff in your brain. Tow tangles, amaloid plaques, never mind the venus problems. It's like pressure washing your brain every night. This is why this stuff matters. Meth blue low dose because it's an electron cyclinger and it can cause some issues. And if you're on anti any anti-depressants, not at all. By bypasses complexes one and three in efficiencies in the mitochondria. I've talked about this a lot, but it improves ATP production and energy starve neurons. Right? So you have these energy starved neurons. They need ATP because that's a currency for life. And the byproduct of methylene blue, it's neuroprotective. So now not only do you create a big fat giant ATP yield, you also protect the neurons. Oh, I'm just getting started. How about the second part of this? You, this is where you give the cells the tools to actually rebuild themselves. SS31 targets the inner mitochondrial membrane, which reduces the ROS's, the reactive oxygen species, increases ATP synthesis because it handles the rips and tears via the cardipin that I talked about before. It's like a fire extinguisher for the oxidative stress in neural tissue. NAD+ subq always. Right. By the way, don't sit there with oral stuff cuz orals don't work. I don't care who says it. I don't care who says orals work. They can't. Please stop buying into that stuff. This isn't for me. It's for you. I don't care. If you want to do it, knock yourself out. You're just going to have expensive piss. You are boosting NAD+. You're boosting the core enzyme. You're boosting the core co-enzyme for energy, metabolism, and DNA repair. You're refilling the tank so it can you can stand on the skinny pedal. And SR9, it forces this metabolic shift. It enhances fatty acid oxidation and mitochondrial biogenesis. It makes the nervous system here easiest. Makes the nervous system this incredibly efficient fat burning any energy efficient machine. I'm still not done. And you know what somebody's going to say hearing all this? Well, that's a lot of stuff. Can't I just take this one pill? That one pill's going to kill you. Knock yourself out. Now, you need to handle the myelin and the neuro regeneration. I haven't even touched on that yet. The body knows how to repair myelin, just so you know. You have to just give it the raw materials and the instructions to do it. Cerebralin comes walking in the door to handle this. The closest thing to a miracle drug in neurology, by the way, and you're never going to hear anybody talk about it. It is so effective. So effective. It's like miracle grow for your brain. It's a neurotropic peptide complex that mimics natural neurotrophic factors. It stimulates neurogenesis, synaptogenesis, promotes the survival and differentiation of oligodendrites, which are the cells that produce myelin. By the way, copper, GHK-Cu, upregulates over four 4,000 genes, including the ones that are responsible for tissue remodeling and regeneration. It's also neuronal armor. It's the literal signal for rebuild. That's what copper is. Five amino inhibits NMT, which is that bouncer, right? It's an enzyme that consumes NAD+. But this dramatically reduces NAD+ levels. So it shifts the cells into this high energy repair focused state of action which is where they need to be when you have a problem. Metabolic master switch for regeneration. And I'm still not done. I'm still not done. You don't suppress the system. You have to educate the system which is I'm talking about the immune system. Thyson alpha 1. It's like the conductor of the immunological orchestra that you have in your system. It modulates TE- cell function, enhances dendritic cell activity. It shifts the immune response from a destructive TH17 inflammatory profile to a regulatory healing T-reg profile. Can't stress this enough. It doesn't kill immune cells. How about that? It makes them smarter. KPV. Oh, this thing's like makes predinazone look like a joke. The most potent anti-inflammatory tripeptide I've ever seen in my life. It specifically calms micro gal cells. The activation in the CNS cuz they're freaking out. They're doing their job telling the janitors, right, that the flood is over. It's okay. Stand down. Turn off the machine. You can turn off the floor polisher, right? That's running around your brain just banging into myelin and ripping it off the nerves, right? And now you need to get some growth in there and hormonal regulation because the body's repair signals are when this happens, they get very blunted. In chronic disease, it always happens. And this is the one area you're never talking GH. It's not the same. Exogenous GH is not going to help you. It's going to cause more problems. I'm going to tell you that right now. Whatever you might think, you need to get your own system back online so you don't have to rely on anything. You don't have that laundry list, the litany of side effects that come with HGH. You have to reignite the repair signals that your body has. CJC1 1295 always with DAC. It's just 7 days. It's longer. Provides this very stable, long-asting pulse of growth hormone releasing hormone. It elevates IGF-1 right at the liver for this very sustained and powerful tissue repair, remination, metabolic health. It fuels that MK-677. It's this oral, if you don't know what it is, it's this oral ghrelin agonist that boosts growth hormone and IGF-1 profoundly, by the way, improves sleep quality and cellular regeneration. All things that are required in this level of I don't want to call it disease. Max, fennel, paracetam, hydroide, anorasetam, oxyracetam, alpha GPC. It's that whole combination is a match made in heaven. They're the cognitive stack that drives acetylcholine and all the other neurotransmitter systems to restore the executive function, the memory, and the processing speed of this computer that's been blunted and beat up. Epitoolon wouldn't even think twice about that for telmir length and cellular aging. And read a truth tide metabolic dysregulation that often accompanies most chronic illnesses, just to be clear. But this isn't a a pill that you take. It's not one little injection. This is a very aggressive, very intense change. This is a paradigm and I'm I'm like you're not asking the body to stop attacking itself. You're giving the bottoms You're not asking the body to stop attacking itself, you guys. You're giving the body zero reason to be in a state of attack. They're very different. You fix the drainage, remove the iron, power the mitochondria, signal for repair, and recalibrate the immune system. This is you're addressing the cause, not the symptom. But if you look around at everything in the world currently for whatever it is, it's addressed the symptom, not the cause. Because the symptom is easy, cuz it's it's tangible. You explain any of this, you explain a Venus insufficiency and people aren't going to understand that, not because they can't, but because they've never been taught, but you've been taught to take a pill and make a symptom go away. The current model is a life sentence of pharmaceutical surfom. It's a bet on your continued decline. I'm going to tell you, my opinion is declare your own independence. bet on your biology's own profound innate ability to heal when given the correct supplies and signals and direction and the blueprint like they want to manage your disease. I'm telling you right now, unless your doctor's helping you with that, hustle a bye-bye, man. Take back your body and then build a new one. You know, you know the real reason why the standard model fails, it's because they're treating the label. Like I I need you guys to understand this. Please get this. They're not treating the system. Multiple sclerosis is not a unique monster. It's not. It's a perfect textbook example of a very predictable biological cascade. It's a cascade built on three systemic failures. Miss one and your treatment fails every time. It's the same thing I talk about all the time. It's the same three biological failures. That's why you need to understand this and start going, "Holy [\h__\h] I'm starting to see the similarity." Right? There's a power grid collapse, which is the first biological failure is an ATP shortage. Your cells run on ATP. Your illegody, which are the cells, I said that produce and maintain the myelin sheath are among the most energyintensive cells in your entire nervous system. Wrapping miles of fatty insulation around nerve fibers is a brutal ATP consuming process. In MS, the mitochondrial function in these cells is crippled. So, the electron transport chain becomes inefficient. The power plants start to sputter and puke out nasty exhaust. But this isn't a secondary effect. It's primary. The venus insufficiency and iron overload create this state of chronic hypoxia and oxidative stress that directly 100% directly sabotages the ATP production. So now do you see why this is married together the illegody can't keep up with the maintenance. So the milin degrades because the workers don't have the energy to do their damn job. So the energy crisis is the root of the structural failure of the entire system and that's only biological failure number one. How about two? the forever fire, the inflammation, the systemic inflammation that's remember chronic low-grade inflammation and then an insulin issue. Those are the three. So modern medicine cause calls this autoimmunity and tries to bomb the fire department. Pardon? Huh? But the inflammation in MS is a symptom. It's not a cause. It's the logical consequence of the first biological failure, the ATP issue. The compromised venus drainage leads to iron deposition. The iron creates this rampant oxidative stress damaging the tissues. Yeah, I needed some coffee. The mitochondrial failure produces this flood of ROS's, reactive oxygen species, your micro ga, which are the brain's innate immune cells, see this damage and do their job. So, they launch this inflammatory cleanup operation as they should. See, here's where it becomes problematic is you're being treated for something that your body is doing because it's supposed to do it, but they're treating the wrong problem. They break down the damaged milein. That's their job. But the current model sees this cleanup crew and calls them the arsonist. That's insane. The inflammation is the smoke alarm suppressing the immune system is like it's like going into the house and disconnecting the alarm while the house continues to torch itself. The fire, which is the oxidative stress and cellular damage from the ATP shortage, is still burning. It's like the tire fire from the Simpsons. It's just raging on. And then the third biological failure, which is the broken fuel line, insulin resistance, right? It doesn't matter how much glucose or how much insulin is there. If your if your system is deaf, this is a master metabolic breakdown that accelerates the entire process. When the cells throughout the body, including the central nervous system become insulin resistant, they can't efficiently take in glucose. So their primary fuel, the brain is right, they can't they can't efficiently take in glucose, which is their primary fuel. So the brain can become very in the brain becomes very insulin resistant and it's what people call you ready for this? I've said it before and what do I always type three diabetes, Alzheimer's, dementia, MS, most cognitive issues, type three diabetes. But the problem is you don't need to be treated with metformin or a humalogue pump. An insulin resistant cell is an inflamed cell and an energy inefficient cell. It's a pissed-off angry fat little cell that's doing nothing. insulin resistance drives systemic lowgrade inflammation. Pouring gasoline on a fire from failure 2, it exapp it exacerbates mitochondrial dysfunction, worsening the ATP shortage from failure number one. It's this vicial v it's this vicious self-reinforcing cycle. No fuel leads to no energy which leads to damage which leads to inflammation which worsens insulin resistance. Okay? It's like this unshakable triad. You see the patterns. MS is the manifestation of this triad. ATP shortage. The alg the allegodendraites lose power. Systemic inflammation. The immune system responds to the damage caused by the power outage. And then insulin resistance. The metabolic system fails ensuring that the power can never fully be restored. Got it? And the pharmaceutical model attacks one s one symptom of one failure the inflammation with drugs that worsen the other two particularly by way by the way the mitochondrial function. It's a guaranteed losers game. Everything I went over in this podcast is because surgically it targets all three points of this entire triad simultaneously the three biological failures. Well, I'll run through it again if you really want me to. Resto Listen, the disease label multiple sclerosis is a distraction. It's a description of the wreckage. It's the triad of failure. ATP shortage, systemic inflammation, and in insulin resistance. That's the actual problem. And it's a problem that can be solved not by managing decline, but by engineering a biochemical renaissance in your own damn system. Watch this. Fix the symptoms. Watch this. Fix the symptom. Watch this. Fix the system. And the symptoms disappear because the disease is gone. I don't know what else to tell you, man. I literally gave you the answer. I hope you get something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.