What's up, smashers? Guess what? Over at Delta, check this out. We got a bunch of stuff going on in the background. We're going to be doing thoracic mobility. I had a bunch of you guys ask me about thoracic mobility, so I'm going to be doing thoracic mobility video. Hey, by the way, that right there, that's Jose, bonafide badass. Super legit dude. So, I will tag him in my Instagram just so you guys know who he is. But look at these guys. A bunch of savages. Pretty awesome, huh? I got the shakes cuz I did something pretty gnarly. So, thoracic spine. If your thoracic spine doesn't work properly, what happens is the entire system gets uncoupled. So, this is my camera stand today. But what happens is as that thoracic spine doesn't move right, problem is the anterior longitudinal limit tightens down and you wind up rounding out like this. Your shoulder mechanics are off, your low back mechanics are off because you start to arch your low back trying to feed slack into the system and then all the erector spiny muscles get glued down like uh like old nasty crispy bacon. So, I'm going to show you how to unglue that stuff. It'll be super fast mobility video today. And uh super good juju here today. It's awesome. And uh and you got to thank Eric for letting me throw a video out here. But what you can see is we're going to be using a med ball, a uh a uh let me get this straight. A lifting uh or a mobility band and uh and a barbell. That's it. Some super gnarly funky stuff, but it's going to hurt. Oh, it's going to hurt good. It's going to hurt good. We did uh we did some gnarly stuff that needs thoracic mobility. So, we're going to go like this. See if we can see that. All right. So, going to grab your ball. You're going to get this. So, I'm trying to be quiet just so I don't interrupt the class. Even though the music's just kicking in here. So, you're going to grab this. You want You want it to be just just below the elbows. What this is going to do is this is going to force you to lock out, keep you from cheating. Remember, no bro reps in the gym. Bro reps in the gym are no reps in the contest. Remember that. Think like a Spartan. You're going to grab the bar as wide as you can. And you're going to pull from over the med ball to peel away that anterior longitudal ligament. Open up those ribs, the intercostals, uh, internal and external. And here's what's really cool. So, check this out. You're going to open up the shoulder. So, you're going to get that shoulder working the way it's supposed to because you're going to wind up peeling away the latitaries, the subscap, the serratus. Get that scapula glued. Man, this is like the angry version of the hang. Super cool. which is one of the uh pinnacle moves for my boys over at Active Life, Dr. Sean, Dr. Jeremy. Super legit, dudes. Check them out if you haven't. Okay. All right. So, what you're going to do, you're going to go as wide as you can. Oh, and then you're just going to hang out and full. You know, for how long you going to do this? How long do you think you're going to do this? Just going to hang out. Grab this. Go as wide as you can. Lock up those elbows. Hang out. Yeah, I'm waiting for you guys to yell. 2 minutes. That's going to open up the shoulders. It's going to peel away that anterior capsule. That's number one. So, the other part of thoracic that's missing is that lateral rotation or that lateral deviation. So, the ability to train translate this way or to uh to go around the axis this way. If you can't accommodate this kind of motion, you're going to wind up having a hard time in your setup because you can't adapt to the way the weight is because gravity, remember, is completely consistent. It never changes. So that weight above you, the only variable is you holding the weight. So if you can't get that weight locked out above you, your spine has to move around about a thousand times a second. You're getting all this neurological input. If it doesn't work right, the problem is you're stiff as board. If you're moving like this, you don't want to move like a cinder block anyway. So we're going to work on that lateral movement as well is to open up each side because I guarantee you one side is more tight than the other. And here's the way you find out. This is a 10 lb, so it's a little mushy. You're just going to get you're going to face out like you jiu-jitsu guys. You get what I'm talking about. You're going to base out. You're just going to reach over and you're going to grab the barbell. So, this is going to force you to fulcrum over that medall. And you're going to hang out here for how long? 2 minutes, baby. That's it. That's all you got to do. So, that's opening up that thoracic spine. Little side bonus edition. opening up the shoulder and then setting that lateral movement of that thoracic spine free the way it's supposed to. Hey, I'm Trev Delta CrossFit today. I'll check you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day. Smash you later, ninjas.