So, it's Sunday and you guys know on Sundays I do my webinar. Yeah, it's free. I teach you all kinds of things. I basically teach you how I went from where I was four years ago to where I am now. And I don't gatekeep. I don't hold anything back. That's not what this is about. But I always have good energy. It's quarter after 6. And um well, that's some good water. And normally I got coffee. I'm going to need a little more. Don't worry, I got coffee, too. But listen, I made a post earlier today. I just want to see how many people actually watch this episode of my podcast, listen to what I'm saying. So, I left out some key details intentionally. I'm not You think I'm going to just drop my pants, let you see all my goods just because what? You think I should do that for you? No, man. I want you guys to pay attention and learn everything. Oh, I give you everything. I don't gatekeep. But I dropped my personal quote unquote stack exactly what I do on a post on Instagram today. And so, I'm going to just go over it from cover to cover. Everything you want to know. Yes, all the stuff that you're asking. But I I need to explain something first because the problem I'm having is the idea that God that some of the comments, it's hilarious to me. The haters and the trolls or the not even that, the explain away people. Let me explain away why you're winning and I'm not. Let me explain away why I can't win and you're actually not really authentic. Go [\h__\h] yourself. If you don't want the results I have, don't watch. Don't listen to me. Go back to listening to your fuchsia hair colored overweight nine medication, miserable, godhating, unpleasant, woke, [\h__\h] up human being crowd that you spend your time with. I'll be over here hanging out with solid men and women who want it all. I don't need to cater to you. You don't need to cater to me. But when I give you information, it's because I care more about you than you care about you right now. And I'm going to tell you, I'm the only doctor on the planet that can say that with real authenticity, all you, you're not authentic. You should be authentic. There's this ass clown on I used to be friends with this guy. I'm not anymore cuz he's just the I can't can't be around people that are just losers like that that just it's all about authenticity. Guy lost his I'm not even getting into it. just turned into this. His life went into a dumpster fire. So, let me explain this managed and I'll give you the whole thing, everything I do, the timing, when I do it, how I do it, how much I all of it. I just want you to have it. You can take it all, do what you want with it. Most of you guys aren't going to use it anyway. And whether you buy from Elite Biogenics or you don't, that's on you. Whether you join the black card and actually have somebody that can handhold you through everything, which would be me, you understand? I'll say it again. the black card. You get to join and you get to go on a Q&A with me every single [\h__\h] Monday at 5. I live just east of Dallas, so I don't care where you are. I'm not changing my time for you. And if you go, I can't make that call. Then don't join or get your butt out of bed or skip out of work or whatever is required to make sure you can get on the call. And I stay on that call and I'll answer questions. But the Blackard VIP community, you can actually ask me questions in that community, too. Nope, not getting on the phone with you. Nope, not giving you my email. But you can ask them to me in the community and I'll answer them. 24 to 48 hour turnaround time. If you don't like that, don't join. If you think I should be at your beck and call for $5,997, you got another thing coming. Cuz I have people that pay me $150,000 for one-on-one coaching. And even they don't think that. In fact, they're the most courteous people that I have as clients. But oh, I'm touching my nose. I'm probably lying you guys in your weirdness. But I I want you to have everything. Most of you guys just won't do it cuz you don't want the solution. you want easier and it just hasn't happened. So, think about that. Manage decline. You guys sign that check all day long. That psychological check, that financial check. That's what they're selling you. This is why I do this. We've had the same four years, man. I started with nothing. No health, nothing. Missing a lung. You guys, it's mind-blowing to me that people run around to justify and validate why it's different. It's You don't understand what we have to go through. Dude, I lost my house. I had a contractor rip us off for almost 2 million bucks. I almost died because of the [\h__\h] that contractor did and because of the remesae they stuck in me. Are you crazy? I broke. And this [\h__\h] con man Lucian Tujac Jr. is still trying to make it trying to bury us. I just don't care, man. I'm just going to keep telling you the truth. You know what your best weapon is in any situation is just tell the truth. There's less to remember. So that's all I do. But listen to that. That's even why I come out here and I tell you the truth. You might not like it, but that's because you're used to having the truth demonized. But that's what they're selling you in the healthcare world. A a multi- trillion dollar industry built on one idea that your best years are behind you. That your body is essentially this condemned building. And the best they can do is just put up some reinforcement and scaffolding to slow the collapse. Like statin, BP meds, CPAP machines. What the hell? If you go, I have to sleep with it. No, you don't. No, you don't. Shut up. No, you don't. Prozac, Effexer, Paxel, like God, the stuff you guys take, they don't fix a damn thing. They manage. They make you a customer for life. I've said this before. So, I'll tell you this. That's lie. That comfortable, profitable, pathetic little lie. I'm going to disrupt and disassemble the entire thing and show you the weapons that I use every single damn day to burn that lie to the ground because I will not fall for that anymore. And I promise you, look at me. Look at me. I am a walking talking billboard all about what works. I'm not 270 lbs, muscle bound, can barely do anything. I can't even scratch my own ass. I'm athletic as hell at 52. I run a sub22 5K. One lung, one balloon, man. This one's here. This one's gone. 52. Wife, two wife that I adore. Two kids, businesses, everything. Same responsibilities as you. I'm healthy. I'm strong. I'm fit. I'm connected to God. I'm connected deeply to my family. I'm the billboard of everything you want and I'm trying to give it to you. I'm trying to give it to you. And if you want help getting there, then you join the black card. It is one year. I'm not giving you a damn dime back if you join. So if you go, I'm going to join then I'm going to bail, dude. I will come to your house and make you do burpees until your [\h__\h] head explodes if you try and ask for a refund. But most of you guys aren't going to do what I'm about to show you because most of you guys are lazy as hell. You think anyone who's lean and energized and mentally razor sharp and focused has some hidden little secret genie that does all the work for you. You want the result without the relentless daily incredibly unsexy application. The genie is real. The bottle is the little vials that you use that are peptides. That's the mindset that you use when you want to struggle and quit. It's the Bible you read when you need to get yourself reoriented and connected to our God. It is our family. It is the love. Those are the genies. The magic is just applied human biology. It's nothing. It's nothing wild. It's not theory. This is my daily protocol, my personal stack. The reason I don't have any of the problems that you guys run around complaining about health-wise, you guys managed decline. And I've gone through more than you. I've been through cancer four times. I've gone through chemo and had all kinds of crazy [\h__\h] I had to do. And I went through surgery to the point where they took one of my balloons out, one of my lungs. Like, come on, man. And I You guys will drink alcohol in justify. You'll take Tylenol while you're pregnant. You'll pop Advil, Alka-Seltzer, statins, metformin, Prozac. All to manage the decline from conducting your life without any damn in impulse control or that impulse control of a toddler. Yeah. You'll look at what I do and you'll call it cheating. Are you high? The most intelligent thing you could do is emulate exactly what I do. It would solve 90% of your problems. It would financially copy how I run my business model. Just copy. You don't even need to do my business. Just I got five companies. I started with none. I a guy that had a fantastic business partner and his wife. I wouldn't trade him for the world, man. When I started this, I had none. We lean on each other, man. That's [\h__\h] family. I got a wife who supports me, works. She came out of retirement, works her fingers to the damn bone. She doesn't have to. She doesn't get paid. My daughter works 10hour days in one of our companies. My son, who's sick as hell right now, working, cutting bubble wrap and putting on labels and doing all kinds of things, running books, doing all kinds of things. He's still sick, coughing away at the dining room table. He's working four or five hours a day. I work 16our days. So what? I have all the results that you want, and I'm trying to give you a way to get it. But your best thing to do would be to emulate what I do. Well, I wouldn't want to work all like that. Yeah, but you should emulate everything else. And if you don't want the if you don't want the results of what I work for, that's fine. But health-wise, you should listen to every damn thing I tell you to do. Except my my protocol comes married to this other thing that you desperately avoid, the discipline to do the damn [\h__\h] work. So, for those of you with the grit to actually do this and apply this, here's my daily arsenal against all the mediocrity of the world, my rebellion to my disruption to modern healthc care lies. So, listen, I got I'm holding up my hands right now counting numbers. If you're listening to this, tons of things if you go, "Well, that's why." Okay, so let's go through it line by line cuz I don't have time to do that. I want to go hang out. I'm going to go watch church with my watch Pastor Josh, with my wife and kids. We're going to have dinner. It's going to be an amazing Sunday night. And then tomorrow we're going to get right back to the grind. That's how this works. So, first thing, and by the way, this is not meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, advise, solve, diagnose, whatever it triage. This is purely hypothetical and entertaining and educational, all theoretical. And all of this is just a big giant story. It's [\h__\h] made up. If you know, you know. Cuz I'm tired of saying that. But apparently, if I don't say that, I can't tell you the truth. You have to blanket it with this. Well, it it it's actually just manufactured in. Look at me. Follow me around. Look at me. Look at how I train. Look at how I talk about my wife and my family and my kids and my friends that I love and care about. This is as real and raw and gritty as it gets. I am the most honest doctor on the planet. So, I will just keep giving it to you. So, first thing, first, mephilene blue. Let's just start there. 30 milligrams every day. I split AM PM. So, this is mitochondrial. I will give you the exact layout. So, you just might want to grab a pen. This is mitochondrial jet fuel. And if you start, you come in here and you What about cancer? What about this? Shut up. I'm not for you then. I take more pride and care of this machine that God has blessed me with than anyone else. I'm not going to give myself anything that's going to hurt me, but I am going to give myself all the things that are going to put me in a place that I can max out what this machine does. This is mitochondrial jet fuel at and it's it is a powerful, incredibly intense electron cyclinger. I'm not going to get into the details. I give you the the fastest way I can do this. It makes the energy factories in every cell, those little nuclear reactors, those little ATP machines run cleaner and more efficiently. So, more ATP, less oxidative stress. It's the cognitive edge. Yes, it helps you get smarter. Paracetam hydroxide, 50 milligrams every other day. Hits acetylcholine receptors, incredibly hard, by the way. raw mental energy, focus, neurop protection. So it protects these cells in my dome in my brain called neurons. I take this anytime I need to crush complex tasks, which is every damn day. I take it every second day so I don't build up a tolerance. Alpha GPC 300 mg this backbone to the fuel to run the acetylcholine system. So the fennel paracetam hydroide I don't build up a tolerance to. That's why again and again and again I talk about how you need to understand physiology which is why these instab bros, these muppets come out and tell you all about what to buy with their discount code and how they just open up a new store and they're on some beach and they're like, "I'm so good, bro." No, you're not. Cuz you don't understand physiology. You're paring stuff that you read on Reddit or chat GPT, which gave you the wrong information, by the way, because I can smell it a mile away. The alpha GPC is the raw material for memory and learning and it allows fennel paracetam hydroide to do its job. Oxyraetam 100 milligrams anorasetam 500 milligrams two times a day. I take lots of this stuff. These rasetams are my mental clarity. I talked about this already on what my new mental brain boost. I want to just see how smart I can get, how intelligent I can become, how long-term my memory can get, how far back I can take it, how intense I can go, how much I can recall at the drop of a hat. I want to see if I can memorize nothing but book after book, even more than I can already. Yeah, there's my secret. I memorize all kinds of stuff because my brain runs that fast. Now you know you're welcome. But 100 milligrams oxyracetam 500 milligrams anorasetam twice a day. Twice a day for both of those. These rasetams are what keep me mentally focused and clear. Oxyraetam for the logical focus deep work and anorasetam for the creative big picture thinking and angolyis. Now I go into let's go into some of the training. Carterine GW-501516 20 milligrams 30. I take that about 30 to 45 minutes before training. PP AR delta agonist. It's like installing a nuclear reactor in your muscles. It shifts your body's primary fuel source, the substrate that it chooses, from glucose to fat. The endurance goes through the roof. No, that's not why I have such great endurance. I have such great endurance because I work towards it. See, again, it goes right back to the beginning. So, if all you're hearing right now is, "Well, of course, this is why you're like this." No, it's not. I do all the work, so this stuff actually does what it needs to do. But this intensifies everything I do and it scoops up fat. It makes my muscles run much more efficiently. Ostster. I take 20 milligrams every morning. This is like armor for my muscles. It's a sarm that selectively tells my muscles and bone tissue only to grow and stay. And if you go, "Well, that's why you're muscular." Dude, it ain't stacks of testosterone, man. That's not even close. But this works especially well in a caloric deficit. It protects everything I've built. So, if I'm running a little leaner and I don't know, cuz sometimes I miss meals because I run that intensely and I have so much to do. This makes sure that I don't lose what I'm working so hard to do because what muscle allows me to do is take a hit. When I came out of surgery and I opened my eyes and the doctor told me that they took out the tumor that was the size of a damn football and my lung had to go with it, which wasn't the intended plan. I came out and that was one of those by the way we had to conversations. He said, "If I hadn't gone into the hospital with the muscle and shape that I was in, I wouldn't have made it." Understand for all of you people justifying big body and being fat, having a dicky where your belly sticks out more than your dicky do, you are ignorant. I will call it out the way I see it, you are ignorant. Damn rights I'm a doctor and damn rights I care about you. You're ignorant to what you've been given. respect what you've been given because I'm going to tell you as a man that laid in a hospital and texted his wife, I'm not going to make it to the morning. And this wasn't one of your stupid conversations that some of you guys have where it's like, bro, I almost died. I was dying hooked up to machines keeping me alive. They locked my wife out of the [\h__\h] hospital cuz of all of you C19 [\h__\h] while she talked to her friend hysterically outside thinking she was never going to see me again. I don't remember her coming to the hospital except for two days. The day that I got dropped off with 106 degree fever. Yep. 106. My brain was frying. I couldn't even walk. And the day we left when she said, "I don't think." And she she told me this later, she goes, "I don't I don't think they're helping you, Trevor. We need to leave." That was God working through my wife Brandy, who is without any doubt in my mind an angel. Without any doubt, man. And I spent nine hours in a hospital trying to escape. It was like a prison. They were every single roadblock they could think of to keep me there. How is that healthcare? It's not. Every lie, every excuse, every shift change, every couldn't find it, can't get it, can't read it, need to sign it. All of that occurred. My wife got me out of there because God told her never to quit on me. But let me explain something. I'm here because I am relentless, cuz that's what God fuels me with. I'm here because I make the right decisions to make my body as as strong and healthy and powerful as it possibly can be. Because I have an incredible woman that I married of 20 years, by the way, and two incredible children that count on me. That I have a best friend, Shawn, that [\h__\h] counts on me. That his wife Joe counts on me. God forbid something ever happens to him. I have no choice. I have to make sure that I am in the best possible shape mentally and physically. For the people that rely on me, for all of you guys that rely on me when you come here and you go, I want to learn because this guy's intense. He might cuss. Get over it. I come out here because I care about you. I don't need to be out here. I come out here because I want to help so you can have the same life. So understand that you better make sure you take if you go it's okay to be a big-bodied fat sloppy person. No, it's not. You're insulting God. You're insulting your parents. Grow up. Get over yourself. I spend my Here's the next thing on my list because I'm going to do this all day and then I'm just going to wind up ranting. BPC57 1 milligram every day. Oh, I thought it was. Don't even get my comments about what you thought it was. This is my personal stack. You do you. If you want my results, then you pay attention to me. This is like a walking, talking, living, breathing handyman that runs through your system. It's a sequence that found that's found in gastric juices. It tells your body to repair tissue everywhere. Gut lining fixed. Joints healed. Systemic inflammation gone, reduced to zero. Rubble, non-negotiable. I will take this every day. I don't care. I will go out and try and find it anywhere I can if I don't have any. That's how important this is. TB-500 5 milligrams every 5 days. This is the most bodybuilding not bodybuilding as in muscular as in building your body. Peptide possible. Promotes healing. Reduces inflammation. Increases muscle growth and mobility slightly. Speeds up recovery dramatically. Allows fibroblasts to crawl into the wounds and gives them a way to even get there and solve all the problems that you keep doing. And it helps repair repair the myioardium your heart. It is the when they tell you you have heart damage, listen to me, you guys. Oh, it's permanent. You can't there's it's never going to get changed. It's never going to go away. It's never going to get reduced. It's never going to heal up. There's going to be a dead spot. The conduction is not going to work. The perkingi fibers aren't going to conduct their signal. The bundle of H can't this the SA node can't transmit through the bundle. None of it works. That's what they try and tell you. Lies. Lies. TB-500 repairs. It'll even reduce and repair and reverse athletes heart. It's the only muscle you don't want in your body to get bigger, by the way, is your heart because the sack around the heart does not grow. So then you get a friction rub and you get paricarditis. You got all kinds of problems. Listen to me. Have to understand. I'm giving you this stuff cuz I care. 5 milligrams every 5 days. This is non-negotiable. MK-677 fractional dose on this because this stuff makes me unbelievably hungry and makes me very hypoglycemic. So I take 10 milligs. You can go up to 25. I don't suggest it. I take 10 milligrams before bed. It's a growth hormone secret. Boosts my body's own growth hormone and IGF-1 production. Improves my sleep quality radically. I sleep very well, increases a little bit of muscle mass, accelerates fat loss, and like I said, it is a very fractional fractional dose. I take between 5 and 10 milligrams because it'll help me avoid the hunger issues that come with MK-677. Otherwise, you're going to wake up in the middle of the night and eat your entire pantry. Pitilon 10 milligrams 30 minutes before bed, 20 days on, 3 months off. Do not screw this up. This is the telomeir peptide. I've talked about this before. That's why I'm flying through this stuff. Tells your pineal gland to rejuvenate and has been 100% shown to lengthen the telomeres. Longer telomeres, more healthy cells, longer life. Your cells don't become senicent. these little biochemical terrace that I talk about caps the it the caps on your chromosomes that shorten with age that lengthens the telomeirs. It keeps those caps strong and healthy so they don't fray because every time a cell divides the telomeir gets shorter and more frayed until it gets to a point where the cell is just running but nobody's there. Lights around, nobody's home and they just destroy your system and just become this cytoine factory. This prevents all that. Keeps cells very healthy. This is a life extension peptide and none of this is very expensive. If you go, well, it's all relative. Get rid of your ESPN and your Apple, your uh iTunes or whatever it is, the stuff that you guys buy. Get rid of the car that you can't afford that you're just driving around because you want everybody to think you've got a bigger dick. Stop spending money on stupid things and spend it on the one thing that allows you to do everything else. And what'll happen is everything else will show up because you'll be a you'll have the ability to become more efficient at the work that you do on this planet. You'll be a benefit to mankind instead of a hindrance to people that love you. This epitolon is reverse aging at the genetic level, you guys. Dip 200 micrograms before bed. 20 days in a row. I'll go two to four weeks off if my sleep is disrupted. I don't do it for sleep. I do it for circadian rhythm. Sleep is the most potent peptide quote unquote. This induces slow wave deep sleep where the body does all of its critical repair. This is when the magic happens. This is when the glimpmphatic system flushes out and pressure washes the brain. gets rid of the amaloid plaques, the towel tangles. This is when it heals up the tissue. This is when growth hormone pulses. This is so important because if you're not sleeping, it does. And if you're using an aura ring and that's tracking your sleep, take that thing, throw it to the bottom of some [\h__\h] river. It has nothing. Listen, you know when you're recovering, if you're getting sick all the time, you're not recovering. Your aura ring isn't magic. What do you think they're taking from you, by the way? You're going to wear this little radioactive ring around your finger and go, "It's telling me everything." Most of you guys use it because it's trendy. I just I can't with some of you people. C 5 milligrams every other day. You can take it every day. If you're a female, I would take a little less, but this is my personal stack. Five milligrams every other day. Condrial derived peptide. This improves metabolic function. insulin resistance. Solves an insulin. It increases insulin resistance or in sorry, it increases insulin sensitivity. It cranks up physical performance. No, this isn't why I can do the things I do again. I'll say it again and again. It is a signal from the mitochondria to the nucleus of the cell to optimize. You ready for this? Everything. It makes you run better. And none of this is overdriv, over revving or blowing the engine. GHK-Cu, copper, 500 mill or 500 micrograms every day. This stuff stings a little bit. Get over it. It's a copper peptide that is a master regulator of gene expression. About 4,000 genes it works with. Do not mix this with any peptide. In fact, do not take these and put them in the same tube ever. It's not worth it. Grow up. The pin is 30. It's 30 to 31 gauge needle. You can use a 29, whatever. I use a 29 cuz it's faster. Do not mix. Copper shreds every peptide you ever mix with it. So, do not do it. Just take it by itself and take it at a different time of the day. So, this is the master regulator of gene expression. It shifts genes from an aged inflammatory state where things are breaking down and slowing down and it's causing all kind inflammation, stomach inflammation, just to be clear, is what causes a lot of catastrophic damage, long-term neurodeeneration, cardiovascular problems. It's where cardiovascular plaquing comes from. It comes from an insulin problem. It comes from inflammation. It does not come from cholesterol. That's [\h__\h] The Framingham study proved it. They proved that your cholesterol should be around 300, not or more. It should not be 160 to 190. Let me get this straight. The thing that allows your body to make all of the things it uses, all of the hormones that are required for life, they're trying to reduce. How do you guys not put this together? How do you guys not put this together? Listen to me. How How are you guys not comprehending this that they do not? They meaning the people that keep telling you what the health standards are, they do not want you healthy. They don't. It's the most insulting thing in the world that you guys fight and defend these people going, "Yes, they do. Yes, they do." and you line up to get a free whatever Starbucks to go get a vaccine if they have to bribe you to do it. How is that making any sense? You know what a doctor should be there for? Make sure you're all right and solve the problem in an emergency. That's it. Not go, "What's the next drug and next injection you can get?" And if you go, "What about these? These are injections. These are signals. None of these are drugs. And these are all things making your body, my body in this case, work to its capacity that God has built me to because I have to live in an environment that is loaded with toxins that I drink, that I breathe, that I rub on me, that they spray on our sky, that they screw up. Isn't it weird that the government shutdown happens and mysteriously, I've never seen bluer skies in Texas for the last [\h__\h] week. Seriously, you guys, I don't know how to say this. I'm not going to put on a tin foil hat. Maybe just start lining things up and understanding this is for you. This isn't for me. Like I said, I don't need to come out here. This is for you because I care. Damn well care. But I'm also not going to be nice about it. I'm going to give you the answers. You need to understand GHK-Cu is one of the coolest things you It's one of It's like a wrinkle reverser. Turns you into this youthful hyper repairative state. Good for skin, tissue, hair, memory. It's neuronal. It's uh neuronal armor. It basically puts armor around your neurons. SS31. I talked about this the other day. I want to drink some water. Hold on. I got to tell you, by the way, I am so excited to go inside and eat dinner. My wife, God, Brandy is such an incredible chef. She's not a cook, she's a chef. She's good. I'm excited to see what she's making. SS31 2 mg. This is a mitochondrial protective peptide. Works on the inner membrane. Prevents reactive oxygen species. It prevents oxidative stress, cardiopin, lipin, all the problems that happen when this occurs. It's the bodyguard for the mitochondria, the little cellular nuclear reactors that you have. Nicotine. You can see it. Can you see it right there? That little patch. That's it. 7 milligram patch. Rugby. I had somebody in my group the other day. I told they said not to use rugby. Who said that? Rugby is the one you want to use. Knock it off. 7 mgram patch. I change it every single morning. It's a neutropic. Improves focus. Improves attention. Improves it activates cytotoxic killer tea cells. improves immune system surveillance where it's looking around my body. It kills viruses and bacteria that are not supposed to be there. Solves arthritic problems. Nicotine is a supplement, not a drug, even though the FDA classifies it like a drug. I wonder, excuse me. I wonder why. Well, that's right. Cuz it prevents a ton of things. Even go down the cancer road if you really want to. I'm not going to on this podcast. Nicotine. I'll just leave it at that. It works through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. It is far safer and far more effective than pounding monsters and Red Bulls all day. Now listen, I can already hear the whining from the intellectual lazy virtue signaling fuchsiahired keyboard muppets who are typing their validations to make themselves feel better about their own inaction in my comments. So, I'm going to help you out you guys. And I talked about this in my in my my post with you guys going, "Well, no wonder you're fit. You have energy. No [\h__\h] No [\h__\h] That's the whole point. Why the hell wouldn't I? Why? Why the hell wouldn't I do this? Like, why would I do this? And why would I run my life with try with my hands tied behind my back just because you go, "Well, it's more authentic." No, it's not. It's more stupid. That's not virtue. That's stupidity. We have the health tools. Use them. Try doing it authentically without all that. I've heard that from people, too, from some of you guys. You know what's not authentic? the authentic experience of being fat, sick, tired, and on a dozen pharmaceuticals to manage your self-induced decline. You'll take a doctor's poison pill or injection, but lecture me about my peptides and my health protocols. [\h__\h] save it. That's cheating. It's not fair. That's what you guys do. Like, I'm thinking of all the things I've heard in my comments, which is hilarious to me. Fair. You think nature is fair? Nature is ruthless. Biology is brutal and it is relentless and it's going to outdo you. It's decay and death. We are intelligent beings who use tools to overcome nature. A pacemaker isn't fair. insulin isn't fair. They're tools that work. This is just the next generation of tools. Get over yourself. You know, I heard the other day, well, where the long-term studies, bro, can you can you connect me to the research? Double rainbows to you for that. You get two fingers. That's the most stupid thing I've ever heard. The long-term study on statins. Let's do that. When you go, where are the long-term studies? This is the mood I'm in today, by the way, in case you haven't figured this out. is I'm done with people questioning what works just because they're so ignorant about their own health and they've bought into the dogma of what they think they should be doing even though it is exactly what's causing 99% of their problems. The long-term studies on statins is that they give you diabetes and brain fog. The long-term studies on the standard American diet is obesity, heart disease, heart attack, and neur neurological degeneration. I'll take my chances with the compounds that have robust mechanistic data showing that they improve health biomarkers, not just mass them. Thank you very much. This only for the rich, though. How can somebody afford this? It's elitist. It's elitist. It's only for the rich. It's elitist. Seriously, elitist is believing you deserve to be sick and medicated. This protocol costs less than your monthly co-pays for managed freaking decline. It is an investment in the one asset that generates all other wealth, your health. The real elitism is the system that wants you to believe that you can't afford to be healthy. And they make damn sure that you can't. How about you stop and you grow up and stop acting like a toddler being told what to do. Just let that all land. Let that all land. The problem was never information. It is a lack of application. The discipline to stick a needle in your leg or in your belly fat every single day. The discipline to meal prep. The discipline to work out. The discipline to prioritize sleep. The discipline to have conversations with your wife. The discipline to go how can I make your life better? The discipline to connect to God, to go to church, to have conversations, to bring tight people into your group so you can build a better life for everybody combined. The discipline to go, you know what my mission is. By the way, just to be very clear, I said this on my webinar. is to build a life so big, so huge, I mean massive, so big that I can take every one of you that wants to climb to the top of a mountain underneath my wing, my shield, and I can help you get all the way to the top with me. That's what I do. Because I sure as hell am not climbing back down just because you go, I can't afford it. I don't have the time. I'm too tired. I'm too lazy. I'm too busy. I'm too stressed. I have too many responsibilities because I've had the same things and I had to climb up. So, don't you dare act so ignorant and arrogant that you think I should climb back down the mountain in order to appease you because you're unwilling to make the same climb I had to make. I am 52, married 20 plus years, almost 21 years, two kids, stress, bills, brutal life experiences sometimes, missing a lung, and I started this four years ago in a wheelchair after they pulled that stupid that balloon out of my chest. Broke, angry, weak, bitter, tired, scared, lost. We've had the same four years. I don't need to be here. I'm here because I give more a damn about your potential than you do. This is my stack. This is exactly what I do to make sure I have it all. So, you can manage your little decline or you can actually do something about it because you've got the tools. And listen, let me go raw for a second and talk about you your real stack. Cuz I now Yeah. Okay. Now, you poked the bear. The one you're already on. The one that you never question. Let me talk about that one. You'll pound a bottle of wine. Listen to me. This is what's wild to me. You will pound a bottle of wine, a known neurotoxin, a class one carcinogen, and then justify it by quoting Bible verses about Jesus turning water into wine as if that sanctifies your nightly self-poisoning ritual. The cognitive dissonance is breatht breathtaking. You'll pop Tylenol while you're pregnant because some politician you hate said not to. Willingly poisoning your unborn child to own the libs or own the cons. You'll use your baby as a political prop while a metabolite of a drug shreds its tiny developing liver, depleting glutathione that your liver has to work almost to capacity to use when it's time. Really, that's where you're going with this? You walk into some woo woo wellness clinic, whether you're an acupuncturist or a medical doctor, a chairo, I don't care what you are, but some wellness clinic run by a trust fund [\h__\h] hole with a curated Instagram aesthetic and pay 300 bucks for a jar of white label generic ashwagandha they bought in bulk for $8. You'll swallow their magic voodoo powdered tea because it feels righteous, because it looks authentic, cuz their labeling is great. And they go, "Yeah, no, no supplements are as good as ours." while scoffing at my pharmaceutical grade peptides because they come in a sterile vial instead of a bamboo [\h__\h] jar. Your medicine cabinet is the most embarrassing thing you've got. And if you go, "Oh, we don't have a medicine cabinet." Whatever it is, your kitchen drawer, wherever you hide it, your purse, it is an example, a living, breathing bottle upon bottle, monument to the truth of your disgusting behavior. Advil for the inflammation from the crap that you eat. Alka-Seltzer for the heartburn, from the stress you won't manage. Nyquil to knock yourself unconscious instead of fixing your [\h__\h] sleep. Predinazone to nuke your immune system instead of finding the source of the inflammation. Finasteride to save your hair while you risk destroying your dick in your brain. Percoet for the pain that you created. Monsters and Red Bulls for the energy that you have squandered. Statins for the cholesterol from the seed oils and the carbs that they told you were heart healthy according to a pyramid. Prozac and Paxel to numb the depression and the anxiety from the life that you're not living that you wish you were and a year of antibiotics because some doctor nuked your gut and now you have endless infections. Metformin for the type 2 diabetes that you baked into yourself with a fork. You are a prisoner. You are a prisoner in a cell that you have built brick by brick and bar by bar. It is all by just nothing but bad decisions and poor judgment and mortar made of excuses. And you're paying your jailers a fortune for the privilege of staying locked up. And you have the audacity, the sheer unmitigated gall to look at what I do at the man who has none of those problems and dismiss it. To whisper cheating. To say, "I heard it causes cancer." From some headline that you skimmed while taking a drug that actually causes cancer. Are you high? Are you clinically insane? You don't want the results because the results are married to the and you hate the work. You want the appearance of results. You want the acceptance. You want the acknowledgement for your struggle. You want permission to stay right where you are in your comfortable misery with a ready-made villain to blame when it all finally goes right to hell. I am not your villain. I am your walking, talking, breathing billboard of what's possible. I am the man who four years ago was in a wheelchair, had a lung cut out of his chest, who was broke and broken and lost and attacked and sad and terrified and disappointed, had no self-worth and bitter. I am 52 years old. We have had the same four years. And I am sitting here right now today with more energy and more focus and more strength and more vitality than I had at 30. I solved the puzzle. I cracked the damn code and I just threw the entire [\h__\h] code book at your feet. Your excuses are now officially invalid. Just so you know, your validations don't exist and your victimhood is a costume that you need to take off. Like, listen to me. The door to that cell of the prison that you are paying to stay in is wide open. You can choose to walk through it or not because the choice to walk through it is the only thing that's ever been yours. So, it's your move. I'm out of time. I got to go. Never