And I am I think 240 almost episodes in doing this for a while. So when I see these guys that have a,000 2,000 5,000 podcast episodes, I think, man, like after doing this now for as long as I have, that's a lot of work. I mean, that's a ton of work. Anyway, I I got a question from one of you guys when I said, "Give me your questions." And I try and do that honestly every day. I just don't have time to do it every day. I do have other things to do other than answer your questions. As much as I would like to sit here and parlay with you guys all day long, I do have other things to do. I have a beautiful wife that I love to hang out with and some kids I like to spend time with and I like to train and do other things. But that being said, I also think I owe it to everybody to give you guys all the knowledge that I have tucked away in my brain that I've accumulated over the last 30 40 years. And I think that's what makes somebody an excellent teacher, an excellent coach, an excellent leader is sharing the knowledge in a way that helps you guys go further than wherever you are right now. And clearing up a lot of the muddy water and the nonsense that's unfortunately the vast majority of what's on social media, what's on YouTube, what's everywhere else. And you know, none of this is meant to be anything other than telling you what's fact and what's not. And uh the flip side is burning down all the Insta influencers and Insta gurus and people that have pseudo intellect that think they're experts because they know how to type a phrase into AI. I just I don't have a tolerance for that. I talked about that yesterday. And I'll go toe-to-toe with anybody in my field because I know my stuff. And even if I'm it's not in my field, if I know nothing about it, I'll just flat out say, "I have no idea, man. But can you teach me?" That's what the smart people do. I don't know if you guys have have put that together or not, but the smart people go, "You know more than I do. Teach me. Show me. I want to learn. I'm addicted." Like right here. Addicted to learning, right? I just I have to know in a good way. Not I have to know the facts and find all the gossip. I don't care if somebody spills the freaking tea. I don't care about that. I care about knowledge that's actually going to help people get further in life. Whether it's financially, psychologically, physically, with their health, it doesn't matter. All of it. Marriage, God, all of it. Because if I learn something and I don't share it with somebody, I die with that knowledge. And how does that benefit anybody else? So, I learned it. Great. The best way to learn something is to teach it. And there's a lot of God, there are a lot of judgy, arrogant [\h__\h] out there right now. And I hope you listen to this because I just don't care. I'm going to set you on fire. So, you have no business telling people what you think and what your opinion is if it hurts them. If you're bullying people, I mean, I have fake skin. I just don't really care. I'm too old to care. 52. I just don't care. But if you're bullying some kid and they don't even want to leave the house, dude, you're a dick. You need to be smashed in the face by somebody. I don't care who you are, who you think you are. If you're bullying people online because you don't like how they make you feel, don't watch. Toddler, move to the next feed. Move to the next account. Don't watch. It's just like this. If you don't like it and you go, "Oh, I'm going to give you a thumbs down." How about instead you just f off and go watch something else? Because that's what juveniles do. Let me tell you about how I feel about your thing. And by the way, if you go, "Well, isn't that what you're doing?" Yeah, but this is my show. If you don't like it, you can leave. I'm not leaving my own show. It's my show. So, just my opinion about that stuff and you can take it however you want. If you go, "Well, you put yourself online. You kind of put yourself out there." No, I didn't. Because most of you guys, if you say anything to my face or or say anything online that you wouldn't say to my face, I I promise you, say it to my face and you will meet the hand of God coming out of my fist. Because I think it's rude and that's how I was raised. Take it however you want it. Cuz I think that's what respect is. I respect people. I don't go into other people's accounts and feeds and challenge them on things they know better than me. I think that's weird. But to each his own. Toddlers will be toddlers. But then don't ask to play at the big kid table or sit at the big kid table if you can't hang with the big kids because their opinions hurt your feelings. So I I started thinking about the one of the questions before I keep going. So I'm already like 5 minutes in just running on is I get one of the most common one actually probably the top three questions I get is always the same. What are your favorite peptides? What are your top five peptides? What are your top 10? What are your top three? All this stuff. That is a very open vague question just to be very clear because top five for what? Top five for injury repair, for longevity, for health, for cardiovascular health, for neurological health, for weight loss, for sleep, for I there's any multitude of categories. So I thought about it and I thought, okay, what about standalone peptides that don't I'm not talking synergistic effects with any other peptide. I'm not talking stacks, none of this. So, if you start getting in my comments and go, "What about stacking it with this?" Shut up. That's not what this is about. And just to be very transparent, I'm about to turn off my comments on YouTube because some of you guys don't know how to be adults. So, that's fine. But the problem is with you, not with me. If you have to sit there and say stupid things in my comments, again, act like an adult. Like, grow up. Same thing in my Instagram. I just blocked delete. Now, I don't even care anymore. I just I don't need your following. I don't look at this and go, I lost followers. I just don't care. Some of you guys are like, "Oh, no. I lost followers. Oh, they didn't like my shit." Nobody cares except you. So, your value isn't determined by followers or likes or whatever other nonsense engagement. It's whether or not you can help at least one person. So, five peptides. And if you go, I disagree. Again, I don't care. The question was presented to me. What are your five all-around best peptides? So, this is not meant to treat, diagnose, triage, prescribe, advise, nothing. It is purely hypothetical, educational, for entertainment. All just a bunch of research for you guys to have fun with and I don't know, play in your sandbox and see what you do with it. I don't know. But I I think so. I'll give you the five and I'll explain why. You don't have to like it. You also don't have to agree with it. Still doesn't change the fact that I'll say it again. I'm still right. And it's not a personal feeling that I like this peptide better than this one because of this. Most people that say that when they go, I'd rather swap this out for this one because of this. You don't understand the whole picture. So learn physiology before you start substituting things out. Might sound harsh, but don't be stupid. Your body isn't a play set to screw around with chemically. It's to maximize so you can do the best things in your life for as long as possible before God says, "Okay, you're done, brother. You're done, sister. Let's go." And then he says, "Well done." And you get up to heaven and you go, "Thank you." Not, "I have all these questions." And then he looks at you and he goes, "Interesting. So do I." So most people, I think the issue is aging. So I'll give you my five. And they don't all have to do with aging. I just want you to understand where I'm coming from. Most people right now especially, they age terribly. Terribly. And it's so like you guys are stinking up the room like just rotten old milk sitting in a container or just some nasty funk you left sitting there. Old dish rag that you never took out of the sink and it's just getting nasty. It's like a toilet full of crap that you just never flushed. And the issue is this. The people in society are calling it graceful. You have to age gracefully. What the hell does that mean? That is ridiculous. That is an old person or somebody that's broken down, just some daughtering old man or woman who's only 45 going, "Well, I'm aging gracefully because I'm not going to do all that stuff, take all those things. I'm aging the way God intended." Yeah, but you're not living the way God intended. So, how does that make any sense whatsoever? You're cherry-picking it. So you don't have to do the work, but you can live on the other side of the equation where you can make all the mistakes and then mitigate those mistakes by going, "I'm aging the way God said." Yeah, but you never lived the way God said. So that's not authentic or natural before you start getting in that. That's not graceful. Aging gracefully is the most ridiculous statement on earth. It's pathetic. When you age and get all beat up and rot in your own skin, that's pathetic. We've normalized that decay and even more so romanticized weakness. That is a that it's a positive thing. People shuffle around shuffle around at 50. 50. Like they just got the crap kicked out of them in war. I mean, they're busted, creaking, nasty knees. Their brain fog. They can't hold a thought for 5 minutes. Their guts all inflamed. Their energy is tanked. And then they sit around going, "You know what, Dr. T Spartan? That's just getting older." No, it's not. It is being completely uneducated about biology. Listen, biology is brutal. That's a fact. I mean, that's a hard reality. Biology is very brutal. But the other hard fact, and it is a you're like immutable truth. It's programmable within the confines of the laws of nature. It's programmable. Your cells aren't some mystical weird thing. They run on code just like this computer. And just like this uh Roadcaster Duo next to me, they run it's like my cell phone. It's they run on code. And right now, your code is that old nasty malware like with the pop-ups. I had a pop-up bomb go off on my computer one time. I couldn't do anything. I I don't know the number of pop-ups, but the second just pop up. This is about 15 years ago, just torched my computer. That's how you guys are running. And the pop-ups are all the distractions and validations and medications and crap you take. And at the same time, you're trying to stream like you have fiber at light speed. Like, it doesn't work. That's why your system screwed up. And here's the wild part. We've already cracked the cheat codes. Molecules that turn on switches and flip switches and upgrade your operating system and reboot things and extend not just lifespan, but health span. Being connected to a machine for your entire life is not living. Just so you know, I was connected to machines keeping me alive for just a very short period of time. And it sucked. I wasn't living. I don't even remember my wife being at the hospital for a week. And my son went, "Mom was there every day." I don't remember at all. At all. That's how drugged up, screwed up, and disconnected I was. You guys don't understand. But that's not living. That's why I'm saying we're talking lifespan, hell span, your ability to live long and and just like a juggernaut. Not just long and useless. I already know half of you guys just went right into the gutter with that. By the way, it's still funny as hell though. I'm trying not to laugh, but that's why I put the coffee up to my mouth. It's like I can't admit that that was funny. Sometimes the stupid things that just go through my head. But out of everything out there, listen, I'm talking hundreds of compounds, peptides, sarms, serog, and the fairy dust supplements that are sold everywhere. There are five things that I think I do I really believe they stand out head and shoulders above the rest. These are the the leaders of the game. These are the hardest players. Five peptides that even on their own regardless and that's why I said these are standalone. No stacking, no synergy, nothing. These will change the the complete trajectory of your biology forever if you do this right. And you're either going to understand it when I go over this stuff and you're going to go, "Wow, I have all these possibilities and ideas and things I can do about my health." Or you're going to hate me for pointing out that you're just a rotten old man or woman sitting in your house denting your couch eating danishes that have been left in a box for a week going I guess I'm just aging gracefully. I'm not willing to be inauthentic. You're not willing to do the work. So you choose, man. I'm going to like if you understand chemistry either way, entropy doesn't care. So buckle up because it just the chaos doesn't care. Biology doesn't care. That's why I said it's it's brutal. It's ruthless. So if you and I'll start right out of the gate, write a true type. This thing is like a guillotine. It it just cuts off the head of everything that gets in your way and tries to screw you up. If you look at the it's like the elephant in the room, right? The millions of elephants, to be honest, waddling around society demanding that they shouldn't have to pay for an extra seat for their big giant butt to get on a plane. Yet they're the ones that created the big giant butt. They get upset when a ride can't take their big giant butt. When they get when they're not put in a commercial, they give fingers to Sweeney, some fat lady giving the finger to Sweeney because she thinks she's better looking. And if you go, "Well, beauty is subjective." No, no. Sweenie is a beautiful woman. When you look like a manatee, the problem is I'm insulting the manity. That doesn't make any It's not. You're not beautiful. Your body positivity is not let me see how gross I can get and how much I can let myself decay and then you get mad while your knees and your cardiovascular system and your spine. You're in you're just this giant inflammatory nuclear bomb about ready to go off. Fix your [\h__\h] with the same fervor and and drive and verve that you had creating it. Waddling around, man. It's just hard. Just look around. Go to Disneyland. It's embarrassing. 70% of Americans. a rough guess, but from what I last recall, 70% are morbidly overweight. 40 to 50% of those are obese. Of that number, diabetes is exploding. Heart disease is still the number one killer outside of ADR. Adverse drug reactions and medical doctors, like it or hate it, it's still the truth. And what's the solution that everybody is being told? Go keto. Count your macros. [\h__\h] If I see one more of you knuckleheads get in my comments, I told you block, delete. I'm just not taking it anymore. I don't care if I have a hundred followers. I'm not listening to you bozos. Get in my comments and think you have an opinion that is negative or doesn't matter. Bye, Felicia. Count your macros, bro. All you do is count your macros and actually do some work. Maybe people should just do that instead of relying on red a true tide or something else. But maybe they've been so conditioned and indoctrinated and now they're so lost and their chemical system is so demolished that unwinding that knot, it's the Gordian knot. It's impossible to unwind without help. So why don't you save your righteous virtuous judgment for someone else if that's you? Maybe people just would like a little help so they can reprogram their biology to work properly and then go because is it permanent? Yes, you upgrade the operating system permanently. That's the beauty of Reddit tide. It's not stay on it forever. You have to take it for life or any of that. So all of you guys if you ask me that question I have now answered it. It changes the operating system so it works. All you can do is screw it up after that. join another spin class isn't what you need. That's like grabbing your Super Soaker and going, "Hey, listen. Thousand acres over there is on fire. Get to work. Put it out." Not going to happen. Most modern humans, I think, especially in North America, metabolically broken. You guys are torched. You're the circuits that control your appetite, they're hijacked. Your pancreas has no idea what's going on, and it's completely overworked because of what you put in your barcole. All your fat cells, they're not storage. They're these little metabolic biochemical terrorists that are just cranking out inflammatory cytoines that choke off your organs and shrink your brain and put you in a hurt locker 24/7 365 and then you try to willpower your way out of it. Good luck. That's the problem. So when somebody dangles a solution in front of you, you look for all the reasons not to take the solution because it still involves work. True tide, not semiglutide or biolutide or tzepide which are crap crap and more crap. Just listen. These are the watered down garbage versions of reatrite. Retatrutide is the one I called it. I called it the way it is. It is the trifecta. It's the best way to explain it. GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon agonist. It pulls all three of those levers. It's the nuclear option for getting you to where you want to go without hurting your system. They are biological switches that when you work them together, that's why the other two don't work. The other three don't work. Bioglutide, not possible. Just leave it at that. He's a [\h__\h] idiot in my comments. He's like, "Well, I think you're dead wrong, bro." Okay, that's why every picture of you is like this, but you can't hold a conversation. Got it. Retat true kicks on all of those metabolic switches, resets your hunger, works with your hypothalammus, solves the neuroinflammatory problem, resets the dopamine mess that you've got going on, it torches fat, and restores insulin sensitivity. How is this not a good thing? Again, here, I'll I'll explain it in basic English. GLP slows down digestion and shuts off hunger. No, it doesn't cause food to rot in your intestines or in your stomach, which is what some guy said. Yeah. And it causes food to rot in your stomach. Tell me you know nothing about physiology without directly saying it cuz that's what that statement says. AP makes your muscles, they're like a sponge for nutrients. It fixes the nutrient partitioning issue, right? Instead of just shuttling them into fat all the time because insulin, by the way, is a fat storage hormone. And glucagon, it gives your body no option but to burn fat, fat oxidation, like it's a nitr furnace. That's how effective this is. But the result is you end up eating less. Your body runs incredibly lean. And the fat, the same fat by the way that is strangling your heart, your liver, your the visceral fat, your brain causing the inflammation. If you don't know, and nobody has been very clear about it, fat is dumping. It is alive, is living. It's not just a little box that sits there. It's not an atyposite that does nothing. It is dumping things into your bloodstream that are causing you to be one giant inflammatory problem. All of that stuff gets obliterated. Listen, obesity isn't just about looks. I don't care. I love my wife so much. I don't know if you guys really understand. I adore Brandy on a level I I can't like even just it's hard because I love her so much. two decades and every second that I see my wife, she is more my best friend. Anytime I'm stressed out, which is a lot, I just think about Brandy. I look at Brandy. I talk to Brandy. I feel better. Anytime I just I don't have the strength psychologically sometimes, I just think about Brandy. Anytime I'm questioning whether or not I should or shouldn't, I think about Brandy. I don't care if she was as big as a house. I love her. However, I would also do two things. get in her damn way if she was on her way to do that with her conduct and behavior. And if you go, "Well, that's controlling." No, it's because I love her and I I selfishly want her around for a really long time. And if she ever got to that point for some reason that was unstoppable, I'll help her unwind it until she's where she wants to be. and I will lean on her and push her and love her and support her and give her everything I've got to make sure she loses every ounce of fat so she's not unhealthy and not walking around a ticking time bomb again. That's called love. It's not judgment or oppression. It's looking at my wife and going, "I give a damn about you. I take care of myself so I don't bring the demons in the house. I leave them in the gym. I take care of myself so my wife has a husband." So I I it's not just about looks, you guys. And I think maybe that's where a lot of the problems are. It literally shrinks your hippocampus. It makes your brain smaller and kills your heart and your liver and everything else faster. There's anatomy and physiology in a nutshell. You know what red or true tide says? Nah, we're not doing that today. We're not. It's the like I said at the at the beginning, it's easy suede is it's like just cuts the head off of metabolic disease because that's literally what it does. Because if you're fat in 2025, don't get offended about it. It's not genetics. It's not. You have a bad management team and you are the management team. So if you look at redrue tide and that's what solves the metabolic problem. There's a it's like a apex predator I guess is the best way cuz it's inescapable. You're never going to escape it. That is always hunting you. That's time. You cannot escape the clock. I don't care how many weird chambers you get in or what frequencies you listen to or how many times some weird Hollywood celebrity goes to drink some kids some poor kid's blood. Whatever the hell they're doing with the adreno chrome and all that stuff. I I don't care. Time is always hunting you. Every single cell in your body is on a countdown. And every time it divides, I explain this about about a pitilon, which is what I'm explaining, right? This is a pitilon. It's helping the telomeirs, but every time it divides, every time a cell divides, the tieumirs, which are these little, it's like an aglet, the shoelace cap on on your DNA, they get shorter and they fray and they start to shrink. And when they fray too much, the cell taps out. It goes senocent, alive, but useless, which is what that means. It's I don't know. It's It's like your drunk uncle sleeping on that couch after Thanksgiving dinner and he's just like, "I ate too much. I need to take a nap." Like I My uncle Roy was like that. He just didn't drink, but they would just take an after dinner nap. And my uncle Roy was a badass. Got attacked by a grizzly bear. No [\h__\h] And uh he had a room full of death [\h__\h] that he's killed. Miss the guy that shot a rattlesnake, slammed on the brakes, and shot it when I was in the back seat. Just pulled out a 357 out of the glove box and blam blew the thing in half. Like he's no joke. This guy's a savage. But that's what's happening to a That's a Sennison cell. It's alive, but it's totally useless. This is where a pitilon shines. Honestly, it's Listen, it's tiny. Four amino acids, tiny. Huge impact. Sorry, my eye is itchy. It turns to timmerase back on. So, timmerase rebuilds telomeirs, which is like it's like repairing the the fuse, lengthening the fuse, I guess, would be a better analogy, on your DNA. So, it's starting, it's fizzling and burning towards the explosive end, and it lengthens the fuse again instead of watching it blow up. If you look at animal models, it's the only one. It literally extended lifespan. Not just, hey, they looked healthier for their age. No, no. They lived longer. Period. The end. This is You should be dumping so much money and time into using this. And you know what people do? Ah, it's just a hassle though, man. I have to take it every day and I don't have time for this. I Where's my Netflix special that I was I need to watch Game of Thrones and then try all that stuff with my wife. Like, that's not going to work. It's going to be some other dude trying it with your wife because you're going to be dead. Fix the machine. And here's the thing, it gets better, too. A pitilon resets your circadian rhythm. it your pineal gland, right? Your pineal gland is like the master clock. It starts to just run like [\h__\h] when you get old to be honest. Melatonin breaks down, sleep fragments, immune system becomes chaotic and repair on all the tissue cuz you're constantly in a state of repair. Your body turns over about a billion cells a day. And so you're repairing and replacing all the time and all of that stalls out the older you get. So epitoolon restores that deep sleep melatonin uh your immune system starts churning and doing things like it's getting the right signals to do its job recognize self and other not we're not sure what's going on and it's not like it's always on watch your immune system and it actually makes sure it's watching for the right things not going I don't know how I let that slip by I fell asleep at my post and suddenly now your biology is actually doing what it's supposed to be doing it's repairing at whenever you're asleep midnight 2 in the morning instead of when you're asleep it's doing nothing you're just falling apart just doing it while horizontal. So, think about this. Redat True Tide saves you from lifestyle disease, your conscious decisions. Epitoolon saves you from the clock itself. I could stop here. You're gold. Listen, listen. You can meditate and zen out until you have the biggest dopamine rush and I don't know, some mental orgasm, whatever you guys have. But without timmerase, your DNA is guaranteed right now burning down like a cheap crappy candle that's sitting on your kitchen counter. A pitilon is the only thing that fixes that. It's that simple. BPC is the next one. Hands down. BPC57, man. This is repair like Wolverine and Deadpool both on gear because you have to look at braking. If you go, I'm not really feeling any problems. You have a bunch of injuries you don't even know. you have a bunch of tissue degradation you don't even know when you know it's already been there unless it was a catastrophic incident like this but look at when you break because you will just so you know you will I break all the time you're going to trip you're going to fall you're going to rip you're going to tear you're going to rupture you're going to bruise you're going to get shredded from stress and garbage food your guts just going to get demolished right that's what I mean your joints are going to creek and snap and pop and joints are noisy but not to this level and modern medicine's Answer is rest, ice, and sades, and then eventually surgery. That's not treatment, just so you know. That's management and punting the problem. You look at BBC157. I've gone over this a lot, but really listen to me. Naturally found in gastric juices. No, it is not something that you can take orally for about the hundth time, it still gets demolished the second it hits hydrochloric acid and then the proteolytic enzymes on top of that, which are designed to demolish peptide bonds. You're not going to survive it. I don't care these. If you're one of those bros that go, "You're dead wrong, bro." Shut up. That just proves you know nothing about physiology, you need to stop using chat GPT cuz you sound like a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] So, it's found naturally. So, how do you fix your gastric issue by the way? Cuz oral is not the exception. Pep or BPC is not the exception. Inject the peptide. Let it hit your system. If it is for an injury, sight specific, does it work better? 100%. Before somebody asked me that question, too. So, it's found in gastric juice. It's once it's isolated and they refine it and clean it all up and all the things they have to do and they you put it to work. This is it's the Inspector Gadget if you remember that show. I was a kid. I was like fourth grade when that show was on. You never saw Dr. Claw, huh? I don't remember if we ever did, but I don't think we ever saw him. Just him with a cat. He was like the guy from Spectre in Bond. It's like my dad's favorite series. That's what got me into Bond. But anyway, that's what it is. It's the Inspector gadget of the repair. It just has the tool for everything. Tendons, ligaments, connective tissue healed, bone fractures. healed incredibly fast, like accelerated beyond what you can comprehend. Gut lining restored, leaky gut taken care of. You marry that with a leaky gut protocol. That's not what this is about, but even standalone, it's going to work incredibly well. All the nerves, they're protected. All the the wiring problems and the static and the signal issues, the propagation issues solved. Blood vessels, angioenesis, micro tears are all repaired. Cardiac tissue, this is huge. Oh, and this isn't even the cool one. BPC isn't the cool one for cardiac repair. There's one more I'm going to drop on you, but it improves microvascular healing. This is stuff that should just be in your like why do you take vitamin C or vitamin D3 or fish oil or weird krill oil that you hyper pay for that doesn't make any difference by the way or because you get a magic supplement from some, you know, doc that sells them out of their clinic. That doesn't make it any better. It's a white label supplement. But here's the issue. BPC turns on angioenesis. So growth factor cascades nitric oxide modulation is massive. So you open up the valve and everything flows through. It stops inflammation from demol just destroy chewing up all your tissues and it forces all the regeneration that you are designed to do by the way to crank up the way it's supposed to like when you were 10. So all of those injuries that you thought were permanent, all the tendons that have never felt the same, your hip, your elbow, your eyeball, whatever it is that has a problem, every scar that you just accepted, BPC says, "Hold my beer. Watch me." That's how cool this stuff is. You're not old, you guys. You are under reprepaired. And if somebody goes, "Well, that's cheating." Then go be busted. I don't care. It doesn't hurt my feelings anymore. You're not going to make me feel bad for functioning at 100% just cuz you're willing to suff suffer and function at 50 thinking you're so virtuous. You can take your virtue signaling somewhere else. I've got a fresh batch of these for you. I just Yes, I'm a doctor that flips people off. I just don't care. I care that like I give a [\h__\h] that you actually get to where you want to go in the best possible way. Money, fitness, marriage, health, like all of it. That's my job. So, you're under under reprepaired. That's it. BPC57 does not make you young again. It makes you resilient enough to bounce. Bounce back ability. Instead of snap, you're more willow than you are oak tree. And yes, somebody goes, "Oh, Austrian oak." Listen, save your dumb arguments and comments cuz they irritate me. M. This is gangster. M handles the thing that all the other things are predicated upon. Let me explain. So, we've got metabolism and repair. They're great. Awesome. But if your mitochondria are failing and they're not functioning, it is done. Energy is the currency that your body runs on. Not Bitcoin, not fiat, not ethereum, nothing. Energy. Mitochondria are the power plants. They're the little nuclear three-mile islands of your cell. They produce ATP. And with age and stress and inflammatory problems and bad decisions, they start to just sputter out, just like I was saying before. So, what happens when that when they start to sputter and carry on like that is ATP tanks. When ATP tanks, you tank fatigue and then you think that grabbing a monster make gives you more ATP. No, it doesn't. Not at all. But when your ATP slows down and if you go, well, it's supposed to slow down. Why did Methusela live over 900 years then? Sorry. You can challenge me on the Bible all you want. You're going to lose. Bible is undefeated. Science is repeatedly defeated because I said the other day, the purpose of science is to disprove the science that came before it and prove something new that's they haven't found out yet. It's constantly evolving. And yet for some reason people go science. Where's the science? Prove it. Yeah, but you've disproved all the things that you proved before. Bible's undefeated. God is undefeated. The end. But what happens when your ETP is tanked is that you become the embodiment of a couch cushion. Nothing. It's this energy bankruptcy. You walk around and you just can't function. MC C solves that problem. It's And it's not just another peptide. Trust me, this one's wild. M C is actually encoded in the mitochondrial DNA itself. It's actually there. Not a synthetic version, nothing. This is the most wild stuff. If you want to drop your life savings, I don't care if you buy it from me. That's not why I'm saying it. Yes. Do I think you should? Of course, because I'm the one out here actually helping you guys cuz I give a [\h__\h] and not some big marketing ploy for the last half a year. But if you want to put a lot of time into something, it should be this. Because it's the it's the firmware that the firmware update that all of your cells have gone, I've been trying to get this download. I just can't get it to work. It's like when your phone is all crappy and all of a sudden it gets updated and yes, you have to turn off all the weird settings, but you also have a phone that functions a little better because it clears up all the mud. So, here here's what it does in a nutshell. Improves insulin sensitivity, increases fatty acid oxidation, using them for fuel, boosts exercise capacity massively, and makes your cells much more resilient to stress. And by stress I mean not impact but I'm talking cold epoxy low oxygen oxidative just insults free radicals things like that which means here it's before I get too far into the chem about this biochem about this. It keeps you from running on vapor. Your mitochondria begin churning out energy like they are decades younger. You just don't feel better. You are better at a molecular level like at a cellular level at least. Sign me up. Absolutely. To think that it is insulting and offensive to not do to to do this makes you an idiot. And if somebody goes, "Well, that's insulting. You're telling somebody they're an idiot just because they're not going to do that." Yeah, absolutely. That's like going, "I don't drink water because I don't like the taste, even though you're dehydrated." M C, listen to me. M C makes stress the ultimate training tool instead of this horrific catastrophic. It's not trauma, cold shock, fasting, exertion, even even injuries. Instead of breaking you, they make you stronger. That makes you antifragile because it's it's written in your biology. Literally, it just goes do this code even more. You don't need more coffee or another energy drink. As I'm looking at my coffee, you need mitochondria that aren't running on like a giant battery. You remember those big old batteries a flashlight stuck on the top? Like an old battery from a mash episode. You need your system to run right. Mod C is like the reset button for your mitochondria to turn out ATP the way it's supposed to. Anyway, this is getting a lot longer than I thought. The last one is TB-500. This is probably one of the most gangster ones I've ever seen. For one massive reason, the heart. It solves cardiovascular issues, ibotic issues, cardiac damage, fleets heart. If you don't know, look it up. I don't want to get into it right now, but that alone makes me go, I need to take this all the time. The number one killer of humans is cardiovascular collapse. Your heart doesn't get second chances, you guys. really good friend of mine, Mike, had a left anterior descending artery issue. It's a widowmaker, right? And led in the heart and he's young. And it was because of all the crap they were giving him and all the medications they told him he needed to be on. If you'd see him now, man, his name is Mike Luca. Look him up. This guy, he's a client of mine. He's a really good friend of mine and he's one of my OG clients. You know, I'll tell you this, he's turned his entire life around. He's got a fantastic wife, Shel. Just amazing people. But he went through something that would have killed most people. and he went, "Nope, I'm doing something about it." And he did. I think that's gangster because he gets it. Vascular cardiovascular collapse. You You usually have that happen to you once and then it's over. You go have a conversation with God and go, "Where did I screw that one up?" When muscle dies, listen to me. It stays dead. Which is why so many people don't survive long term after a heart attack. They never recover fully. Except, boy, I got to be careful how I say this before somebody freaks out. You sprinkle in some TB, things radically change for your health. It's a fra just to give you an idea of what it is. It is a fragment of thyus and beta 4 and it is riddled with superpowers. Actin regulation actin is is the biggest one. Actin polymerization. I talk about this a lot. That's the scaffolding protein that lets cells move, get around, divide, repair. TB-500 mobilizes actin. So in turn it drives cell migration at angioenesis which is the creation of new vessels, wound closure, stem cell recruitment. You guys are all buying all these stem cells, dude. TB-500. Just leave it at that. But here here's what this looks like for you. Faster recovery from muscle tears. Faster healing of your skin, bone. I just read about this the other day in a study. Your cornea. Cornea eyes. Your cornea. Listen to me. Do I need to say it again? You guys are messing around with all kinds of stuff and not doing the things that your body knows what to do. and they just don't know how because you've clouded the conver the neurological conversation in your body with all the crap that you've been taking or not doing. But the biggest thing TB-500 I always say and I've said it thousands of times is cardiac repair literally improves cardiac remodeling builds new blood vessels reduces eskeemic damage damage caused by lack of oxygen and blood flow right hypoxic damage eskeemic damage. It gives your heart something that modern medicine says it can't ever have. Oh yeah, this is going to make people mad. Regeneration. Yes, really. I don't get any magic. I'm not getting a Nobel Prize for this. I'm just telling you the truth. Think about it. Just follow me on this whole thing. So, retatride fixes the fat that's crushing your heart. Visceral fat. And pinolon gets in the way of the what? Apex predator, the time, right? The clock that's just trying to take your life from you. It slows it down. BPC57 repairs your tissues everywhere, including your gut, GI, like cardiovascular, all of it. M C keeps your cells firing on all cylinders, cranking out energy, and even making more little furnaces so you make even more in TB-500. That keeps your engine running when every statistic says that you should be failing and dying. Listen, you can squat 500 lb, but if your cardiac plumbing looks like Flint, Michigan, all you guys are going to look it up. Yes, it's an accurate It's an accurate analogy. You're a dead man walking or dead woman walking. TB-500 is laying all the new pipe while you're lifting. This is why I'm picking these five. You can argue all you want. I'm sorry. I in fact, now I'm at the end of this. So, I think I'm going to button this up real quick and land the plane cuz I have things to do. And uh it's my wife's birthday and it's date night. Doesn't get any better than that. I freaking love spending time with my wife, you know? I just do. I even just being out here right now. I just I like you guys, but I [\h__\h] like you that much. I love my wife. I want to go and hang out with my wife. So, listen. Here's this is you can argue about I would pick a different five. Then go pick a different five. I'm still right. So, I'll give you a quick rundown. Redatride handles your metabolism. Epitoolon handles the time that's trying to shut you down, that's chasing you down, right? BPC57, systemwide repair of virtually everything. M C is the mitochondrial reset, the energy procurement system, the ATP furnace, the machine, the nuclear island, whatever you want to call it, turns it into overdrive and not by overreving the engine by actually making it function better. And it's gen it's coded in your DNA, in the mitochondrial DNA. And TB-500 cardiac regeneration despite all the other things it does. So we've got fuel, we've got the clock, we've got BPC, the structure, we've got power, the MC, and we've got the heart. If you cover those five, you don't just live longer, you live stronger and tougher, you can take a hit, you repair faster, you live younger. That's the easiest way to explain it. I can get fancy and give you a bunch of big words. It doesn't matter. You live younger. There you go. And here's the truth that I think most people just don't want to face. You're not, you guys, you're not losing the game of life because of some bad luck or bad genetics from your family history. You're losing because you don't know where the level where the levers are. And you're too busy pulling the ones that some imbecillic influencer or some knucklehead with their own opinion about something that has no basis in reality who doesn't understand physiology whatsoever tells you to do because you like their car or their abs or she's got a big set of boobs like whatever it is. So here these five are the buttons you need to push. Those are the levers you need to pull whatever you want to call them. You know they're the switches you need to turn on. And I can give you every analogy under the sun that I've heard in every bio class and physiology class for the last 30 plus years. So here's the choice you guys. Again, like I said, I come out here for you guys, so you guys have the information. I'm not getting anything from this. You can keep pretending that your hydration tablets and your weird vest and your kale smoothies and positive affirmations are going to stop entropy. Or you can just admit that biology actually is programmable and then take the damn cheat codes for the love of God. I mean the clock is ticking. You know that because today you are older than you were 2 years ago and yesterday and tomorrow you're going to be older than today and you're either degrading slowly or you're degrading fast and just destroying your system. So the clock I said it's ticking and entropy is laughing its ass off at you. But for the first time in human history, you don't have to sit there and take it politely sitting down. You can do something about it. I don't know. It's your move. Hope that helps. I got to go. Never miss.