I think I'm almost at 300 episodes, if not more. I've been a doctor a long time and I've seen a lot of things, but nothing like the mindless blather that comes out of people claiming to be experts. These charlatans trying to sell you things. And I mean, not even sell you on an idea. Sell you products and services and I don't know, prescriptions and drugs and supplements and ideas and morning routines and workouts and some proprietary blend that they think they have the market cornered on. But none of those are true. You know what it comes down to? Especially you doctors, right? And you guys get so mad, you're so upset because I'm out here exposing. Listen, I don't care what you ever say about me. And I think that's the problem is, you know, damn it, this guy really doesn't care. I don't give a [\h__\h] You could talk about me all day long about every single mistake I've ever made, every screw up, every deep, dark, dirty secret I've got. You could talk about anything and everything about me. I just will never care because I come out here to tell the truth. I don't care what you say about me. I don't I'm not coming out here hawking all kinds of programs and saying, "You got to buy my stuff." What do I say every time? Go ahead. buy from Elite Biogenics. Go ahead. Don't. I don't care. I don't care. Join my black card. Or don't. I also don't care. And you guys think that you're like, cuz you have to. No, I don't. I really don't care. I We've got plenty of money. We've got plenty of success. We've got a bunch of other things going that don't involve ever coming out on YouTube or doing anything. And they're just to make sure my family and the generations to come after me are all set up for forever. And I because I broke the generational mindset that my parents had and my my wife's parents had which was make money to pay your bills and save a tiny little bit so you have a little to retire on if you're lucky. But that's it. And this isn't about this isn't about money. I just think you guys I made sure I do the work for them, not for anything else. For my wife and for my children. That's why I come out here. They have a better world to to be in. And so my children have a better world to inherit, not one filled with a bunch of liars and people that say, "If you don't take this pill, you're going to die." I don't care if you take any peptides. I don't care if you take any secrets. I don't care if you take vitamins or supplements. Go get vaccinated up, down, and sideways. Which, by the way, hospitals have now changed the word to biogenics. So you better be [\h__\h] careful when you go to the hospital and you start signing things because they're going to vaccinate your ass without your consent. And if you think for a second that I'm one of those antivaxers, know what I am is a very scientific, incredibly intelligent man that gives a [\h__\h] about you and is giving you all I've got. And Jonas Sulk is the guy that invented the vaccine. The polio vaccine is where he started, which we all learned. Where did polio really come from? It did not come from any kind of disease. It was created by man and the poison they were giving people, spraying on everything, DDT. But polio was already on the decline when Jonah Salt came out with a vaccine. And the first thing he said was, "I fear I've created a monster." And he was right. What a profitable model that is, huh? It's right up there with diabetes and hypertension. And you guys scoop that [\h__\h] up like 31 flavors of ice cream. You just eat it all. And you attack people like me that actually have a brain and question things and understand physiology and biochemistry and are willing to share it with you for for no cost. I get asked to speak at colleges every day and not a little bit all the time. And you know what my criteria is? If you have some weird screwed up fishing lure hairdo woke agenda and 32 genders, a million dollars is my fee. And that's an hour. Go ahead, sign the check and I will liberate every student at your entire facility. If you are a solid place, dude, I'll come speak for free, but I've yet to see it. Well, I get asked, but there are places I would never want to speak at because I don't want to be associated with that kind of stuff. Just like the medical world right now is a disaster and I'm unraveling the entire lie. And boy are they getting pissed because I got everybody talking about me now, including politicians. And if you go, "Well, that's nothing to brag about." It sure is when they're talking about you in a good way. It sure is. I come out here because I care. It's the only reason. It's not to sell my product. It's not to go, "But wait, there's more. It's not to be a used car salesman and run around with my [\h__\h] books." And I don't none of it. It is literally because I go, if one of you guys has a better life, if you make a better decision and pivot and go down the road that says, I'm going to build a juggernaut out of myself and my spouse and my kids and everybody that I love and care about, then I did my job. Then I did my job. You want to join the black card and go deeper into it and actually ask me questions and go, hey, help me solve some things, you go right ahead. If not, then don't. It's okay. Doesn't bother me any. You buy the cheapest [\h__\h] on earth, too. I don't care. You want to buy from Elite? Great. You don't? Great. That's on you. It doesn't matter to me. And you guys think that I am so or not me, but cuz I'm not. But you guys think that people are so fragile that they're just going to bend to any little whim you have and any insult or attack you make. But then you meet a guy like me that just goes, "I don't care." And the second a person is comfortable with who they are and gives a [\h__\h] about anybody else's opinions about them, they're pretty much invincible. So maybe you guys need to think about that and be that. Be an army of one where even in your business, a competitor of one. Just become the best at what you do. Your business is your your parenting. It's your your training, your physicality, your actual business, your finances, your mindset, your connection with God. Those are all businesses. And you need to run them for a profit. And a lot of you guys are running them in a deficit and wondering why your life sucks. You're welcome. I just told you why. Because of how you're running them. My buddy Bedro says all the time, "Leadership is the problem. Leadership is the solution." And he is absolutely right. He is a monster of a businessman. He knows his [\h__\h] And he is a strong, good man. might want to give him a follow, give him a listen. But let me come full circle before I just keep talking here 7 minutes in. But I want you guys to understand when I come out here, it's cuz I care. So I don't care if you talk about me. I don't care what you say. I come out here for the right reasons. You come out for the attention. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you look my direction. It makes me laugh when you think, "Oh my god, they're not I don't know. Likes and follows have never put money in my account." So knock yourself out. I've made more money from things I've done that nobody's ever known about. All legal. that just happened to be at the right place at the right time making the right decision and bam had nothing to do with people and I've made plenty of money helping people. I don't know. You guys have to make the decisions with what you want to do with your life. I think this listen doctors love symptoms. All of you doctors, boy, you guys just get queer for symptoms. You just all horned out for this stuff. You know why though? I'll tell all the the rest of the people. I'm going to blow your secret. All you do, I'm a doctor, so I get it. I know exactly what you're doing, but I just never did that. Symptoms are billable hours. They love giving fancy names to your decay, metabolic syndrome, fibromyalgia, adrenal fatigue, all this stuff. Big fancy words that mean one thing. They all mean the same thing. Your body's electrical system is failing. Because that's what it all comes back to. Energy, inflammation, or insulin. It's always the same. And they'll, these docs, they'll throw pills at the symptoms and they'll never address the blown damn fuse. I'm going to talk about NAD Plus, by the If you're like, "What the [\h__\h] are you talking about, doc?" NAD+ the fuse is blown because you're burning out the wiring in your system in your biology, right? The wiring is your mitochondria and the insulation protecting that wiring has worn incredibly thin and the insulation is a molecule called NAD+. You guys are all running on exposed sparking shorting out screwed up wiring. NAD+ nicotenomide adinine ducleotide. It's a big mouthful. You know what else? So is congestive heart failure. Get used to it. You have to decide what what you're doing. Your body is a dictatorship. It is a very brutal, unforgiving, authoritarian dictatorship of ATP. It's the only currency. Doesn't allow for anything else. There's no other currency. None. Every thought, every heartbeat, the very act of listening to this podcast or watching my screen or driving your car, wherever you are right now, every singing your eyes, taking a breath, all of it is consuming ATP, adenazine triphosphate. Yourselves are screaming and begging for it all the time and you're giving them [\h__\h] monopoly money. Most of you guys, that's the problem. It's like you run off to Canada and you just a bunch of snow pesos. That's what you guys are spending. Canadians, you guys are What happened to you guys, man? I lived in Canada for a long time. What happened? We used to be a bunch of tough people. You guys all turned into like what is up with Canada? What an embarrass I would drive to North Dakota and jump up and down on the border and just hope that Canada breaks off. I just I have nothing. You guys just hand over like you just bend over and take it up the tailpipe and throw a ball gag in yourself. Just a disaster. Take your country back, man. Same with Australia. Take your country back, man. I don't know. That's another conversation, I guess. But here's what your mitochondria are trying to do. Yeah, I'm all over the place today. Just get used to it. This is me. My brain is always running about Mach 35 and it's like hurting cats. Your m Let me explain what your your mitochondria are trying to do just so you understand. And they would do it if you would ever get the hell out of their way. Watch. Just follow me. You take food. So food becomes glucose with me so far? Glucose is broken down in the cytoplasm into something called pyuvate. This is basic biochemistry, but it's very inefficient. It's messy and it's like starting a fire with a bunch of damp rags and they're not damp from gasoline. They're just damp. You get a little bit of heat mostly. You get a bunch of smoke, you throw a bunch of green leaves on it, and it's still smoking. That smoke is lactic acid. That burning you're feeling in your muscles, that's you failing at basic energy production. And before you get in here with your CSCS or your NASM pseudo expertise, shut up. Shut up and just pay attention. Nobody's attacking your fragile little egos. This is why it's important to understand what I'm saying. Pyu pyuvate wants to get in to the mitochondria. It just it wants in there so bad because that's the real power plant. In order to do that, it has to go through this little turn style called the pyuvate dehydro pyuvate dehydrogenase complex, the PDC. But the problem is the bouncer at this turn style is NAD. Watch. No NAD+, no entry. Pyuvate gets turned away and it fermentss into more lactic acid making you weak and stupid. Yes. Really? Really? It's not good for you. Listen, lactic acid has a purpose, but it's not a chronic thing. So, let's say here, just follow me. Let's say you have a little bit of NAD+. So, peruvate gets in, becomes acetal COA. This kicks off the KB cycle, the the citric acid cycle. if you want to call it that, right? This is a the cycle is a series of eight chemical reactions designed to strip electrons off of molecules at three very critical points to be honest. Isoccitrate to alpha ketoglutarate to suininal COA and then malate to oxalloacetate. The enzyme responsible demands mentalize the reactions without NAD+ accepting electrons. It will sit there idle like a pissed-off union worker that never is just on strike with a [\h__\h] sign until NAD+ shows up. That's why this is important. That's why having some fundamental grasp of biochemistry or at least physiology helps you understand what you're doing. I mean, this is your body. You should I don't know. To me, I think you should just be invested like crazy in what this machine does. And that's why I keep trying to give you the information. But these electrons are the real prize, right? Accepting electrons. So this is the real prize because follow me. The harvested NADH drives the inner mitochondrial membrane which is the site of the ETC the electron transport chain. I talk about this all the time. NADH dumps its electrons into complex one. This forces the complex remember complex one. It goes to cytochrome C. That's where all the that's the etc. Right? So this forces the complex to pump protons across the membrane. Stay with me. Please stay with me. This creates a pressure gradient and an enormous a huge amount like unbelievable. You are such a juggernaut of energy production when this [\h__\h] works right. Just an enormous amount of potential energy. Massive so much. But the only release valve is a molecular turbine called ATP synthes. So now when this works, boy, this is so cool. protons flood back in through it and the rotational force is so violent it slams a phosphate group onto ADP adenazine diphosphate creating ATP adenazine triphosphate this is called oxidative phosphorilation it's the difference between a lady finger firecracker and a nuclear bomb that's how crazy this difference is between ADP and ATP no NAD+ no electron donation no proton no turbine spin, no ATP. That's why this is important. That's why NAD+ is a big deal. That's just the energy side. By the way, NAD+'s other job is damage control. And this is the one that nobody, you're never going to see this on the back of a container. It activates certuins, right? Cert 6. These are like emergency response proteins. They come in and they do stuff that you don't even pay attention to, but if it didn't, you wouldn't survive. So C one, this activates DNA repair and tells the nucleus to build more mitochondria. That's one. C 3 this is inside the mitochondria. It tweaks the mechanics, the machinery for max efficiency and stops all the energy leaks so you stop just bleeding out horsepower. Cert 6 reinforces the DNA and protects your telomeres. Remeal timmerase, right? Which those aglets the caps on the end of your chromosomes that shorten with age. So all of this stuff is working together to make you more efficient and make you more like into a more robust, more of a juggernaut. You become more like Wolverine and less like a potato. This is the ultimate management crew that keeps your entire city of what did I say yesterday or the day before, whatever it was, I said 30 trillion cells all in the same city, all with their own power supply, mitochondria. It this is what keeps all those 30 trillion power supplies inside each one of those homes from from crumbling. And right now they're without NAD+ they're on this unpaid LOA leave of absence because you got no NAD+ to pay these people. It's like a government shutdown. God, I feel for you guys, man. Like I How can I help? And if you go just write me a check, then give me more than that. Believe me, I if I was a multi-billionaire, I I would I wouldn't even think twice about it for the people. I wouldn't even think twice about it. That's how badly support what you guys are doing. public servants. Like, are you kid There's people in like my niece. My [\h__\h] niece, her husband isn't can't come home because of this. She's going to have a [\h__\h] baby. Do you have any idea how much that pisses me off? Oh, I love my niece, man. Don't get between me and my family. I don't talk to her a whole bunch, but oh [\h__\h] do I love my niece. Yeah, I remember bouncing this little [\h__\h] on my knee when she was like 8 months old. Now she is a grown woman having a family of her own, living on an island without her husband. Quite possibly having a baby without her husband because of a shutdown because of all you [\h__\h] that aren't doing a damn thing about it. I'm talking about the politicians that aren't doing it need 60 votes. 13. Are you nuts? So right now, why take it personal? Because Sky Pie, her name's Skyler, her she doesn't deserve to have a baby without her husband there. Not even close, man. That's my family. So when you guys think that the shutdown doesn't affect you or that you guys need to pay a little more attention, but that's exactly what's going on. Unpaid. So watch, let me just follow like come full circle. The the symptoms there are a ton of symptoms for ND plus bankruptcy. It's what you guys call usually I'm 52. It's what you guys like do I ever look like I'm running low on energy? I don't have another switch. Like and it it's not the coffee, son. This is just I love coffee. My daughter the other day three cups in I think three four cups in. He goes, "Dad, isn't that like you drink a lot of coffee?" I'm like, "Yeah, I love it." And it, look at this. Blacker than a witch's crotch. Why would you put crap in your coffee? It's awesome. Black coffee is good the way it is. Stop [\h__\h] around with your coffee. So, listen. Life after 40 ND plus bankruptcy. Just put that together. And there's a lot of other factors, but right now I'm talking about this. Neurons cells in your brain are they're a bunch of pigs. They're energy hogs without any without NAD plus without ATP, which is the byproduct of all that, right? Without ATP, the energy currency, neurotransmission slows, plasticity fails, toxins build up. You guys call it brain fog. I'll tell you what it really is. Early stage neurological decay. You're not forgetful. Your brain is suffocating. Listen, we get to get into the whole dementia thing if you really want to talk about it, but you already know. If you're on statins, there's your dementia. If you are have any kind of glucose problem or actually insulin problem because it's not that. If you have an insulin issue, type two diabetes, there's your de there. We could get real ugly on this if you want because you're not I'm trying to help you understand that what they're doing is they're treating you to manage your decline, not not treating you to solve the problem. So look at muscles fast twitch fibers die first you with NAD+ shortages, right? So you lose power, not not just strength. You become very slow and you can't recover from exercise because exercise is an energyintensive process. You're not sore, you're broken. Look at your metabolism. Your pancreas can't sense blood sugar properly without ATP. So, it doesn't do its job. Your liver's metabolic machinery stalls out and tanks and you start storing fat because your body is too inefficient to burn it. And you're not big boned. God, you guys, I have seen hundreds of thousands of X-rays that I've either taken myself or had given to me or handed to me. You're not big boned. There's no such thing. You're metabolically incompetent. Look at your immunity. Immune cells are, oh man, they're hypersonic when they're active. They need massive amounts of ATP to chase pathogens and create antibodies that go ahead and kill everything. Low NAD+ means a lazy, sluggish immune system. Don't screw around with that. Don't screw around with that. You catch every cold and you can't shake it. You get sick all the time. You're not unlucky. You don't have a weak constitution. You have you're immunologically pathetic because the system is running on fumes. And this starts in your 20s. And by 50, NAD+ levels are a ghost. They're a fraction of what they were. So you you're a shadow of your potential self that's designed to just run perfectly fine. So watch. Let me follow up with what I saw the other day. It came. It's probably because my phone is always listening, which creeps me out. It's like the billiondoll lie. Oral NAD+ supplements. What are you nuts? If any of you guys went, "No, it worked for me, bro." Ball up your fist. Punch yourself in the eye until you black out. Here's your sign. It's not possible ever. Oral can't work. It is a scam. The molecule is number one, it's huge. Number two, it's charged. Your stomach acid and digestive enzymes shred it into useless components. Nicotenomide, adenazine, before it even hits your bloodstream. It doesn't even get there. The research is unambiguous. The bioavailability is zero. And anyone selling it to you is lying to you. They're capitalizing on your ignorance. And man, they send you every possible [\h__\h] research they possibly can. This is what But hold this is what happens. This is why they sell NMN, which is a slightly less stupid version of this because it's a precursor. The problem with it is, and believe me, I said Elite Biogenics, full transparency, we sell NMN. You know what N what the NAD plus is that we sell though? Subq, not oral, subq. Why? Because it works 100%. I'll get into it and I'll explain it just so you guys understand why. But NMN is the precursor. Your body might might con, but here's the problem with this. Your body might convert it using enzymes that are also degraded with age. But wait, NMN in order to convert needs energy, correct? In order to convert. But if it doesn't have the energy, it can't work with the enzyme. There's no enzyatic conversion. It doesn't convert. It's just wasted. So if you're going to take oral NMN, I don't care where you get it hypothetically, because this isn't meant to treat, diagnose, triage, advise, prescribe. It's only hypothetical, entertaining, and educational blah blah blah. If you know, you know. But if you are going to take NMN for your kangaroo experiment, make sure you take it with something like methylene blue. Not at the same, not in the same. Don't put it all in your mouth like that. You look like an idiot. [snorts] Methylene blue. Mott C. You do not need SS31 in order to have MC work. Doesn't even make sense. All the Insta gurus telling you you have to do SS31 first and then you do MC. What are you crazy? That's like saying you have to drink water first before you drink water. That doesn't make any sense. And I could get into the physiology and the biochemistry. I just don't have time because I have other things to do and so do you. But if you're going to take NMN oral, no, I don't care if you put it under your tongue, it doesn't absorb any faster. Shove it up in your cheek, it doesn't absorb any faster. You guys nonsense. The stuff that I see people come out with in order to convince you that it's going to absorb better, faster, stronger, it's going to do it's not. Your body is a machine designed to destroy and demolish molecules and make them into usable parts. The end. That's it. The end. That's biology. And then it takes these parts and reassembles them into whatever the hell it needs in order to make the system run as efficiently as possible. You're welcome. There you go. That's it. That is physiology 101. Now, if you're going to take an methylene blue, MC C, well, M C is an injectable subq. Methylene blue is an oral. But put those together. at least you have the energy to run the process then because your body might convert it using enzymes that are also like I said degraded but the issue is this it's very inefficient and it's kind of poorly absorbed. So you're paying for the hope of a result not the result itself. It's like buying a it's like buying a blueprint for a car and then staring at the blueprint and wondering why it doesn't drive you to your job. You still have to build it. And if you're exhausted laying at staring at this blueprint in bed, it's never going to work. The only rational and effective delivery of any of this NAD+ is subcutaneous injection. And that's what I was just saying because it bypasses the digestive demolition derby that comes in like just this destructive sewage treatment plant you have called your GI tract. The intact molecule goes straight into systemic circulation almost. It's almost I think it's near 100% bioavailability last time I read the research. It's not debatable. This is just plain pharmacocinetics. That's why when people make arguments and I have some one some this one [\h__\h] when I talked about micro doing Reddit truth tide and I he tried to make a video about me and then go you're wrong and let me explain why but you need to put away chat GPT and actually just understand biochemistry. I don't care how many degrees you have. That doesn't mean anything. It means that you bought a piece of paper. I actually spend time learning this cuz I give a [\h__\h] I'm not selling a damn thing. I'm just telling you the information so you guys make the right decisions. That's it. And what's funny is people get so triggered. No, you're wrong in the comments. But what are you, five? This is for you. I don't come out here for me. I don't want to hear I don't care about listening to myself speak. I'll go speak with my wife and my kids. I'll go talk to my dog. I do this because I fully believe it's my obligation that if I have the knowledge here, it's my job to tell you. I think if you're not doing that, you're holding back. You're gatekeeping. I think you're a piece of [\h__\h] But I also think if your ego is so fragile that you're getting mad and trying to contest something because it goes against what you were saying, even though you're wrong, you don't take the time to actually go down the rabbit hole and figure it out. Kinetics the way I do. You're a toddler. Besides, you just make me more popular. So knock yourself out, baby boys and girls. This is funny watching people lose their [\h__\h] going d this guy micro doing reatride doesn't know what he's talking about clearly never seen a patient over a million provable by the way I don't know I don't know what to tell you I think it's funny when I see stuff like that but look at let me let me talk about ND+ cuz I'm going to go back and forth like this the kind of mood I'm in must be the coffee the effects are systemwide with ND+ the the effects are systemwide it's like a reboot for your entire operating system cognitive clarity goes through the roof so you don't just have fog that kind of disappears you're like I'm feeling a little better it's gone on mental processing speed is like you overclock the computer. Memory recall is almost effortless. Yes, for real. If you don't notice that, then you did not buy NAD+. Your neurons are finally oxygenated. That's why it's the system's breathing and working. Your physical energy endurance goes through the roof. Your muscles burn fat and produce clean energy instead of this lactic waste puddle that you walk around in that's wrapped up in your skin. Your metabolism takes a hard shift, right? and your biology and your well your body itself becomes this fat adapted well functioning machine insulin sensitivity goes through the roof to the same level almost as using M C. So imagine imagine hypothetically just so you understand physiology and how this works. Mod C reatride and NAD+ together. What do you think would happen with that with your insulin sensitivity? Just saying. Maybe look into it. It's a subtle hint. Pay attention to this old dock. He cares. Even your cellular repair systems, the way it works and how you put your machine back together after the day of damage that you do every day. DNA damage is fixed. Old dysfunctional mitochondria are either cleared out or repaired. and your inflammatory responses go down to zero. And here's the best part. The protocol isn't even complicated. It's not rocket science at all. Ideally, with NAD+, I've seen people talk about loading phases. No, you pick the same dose. Yeah, you guys are waiting for the dose, huh? Join the black card. There's my pitch. Join the black card. It's going to cost you six grand and pretty soon I'm just going to change it. I know I've said that for a while, but I'm just tired of people going, you know, do can I get more? What's the black card? I'm not even If you send me an email, just say this right now. If you send me an email asking me, I'd like to know a little more about the black card. I'm going to like Amber, my executive assistant, is just going to send you the link. If you don't buy, that's your problem. I'm not going to explain it cuz I've explained this so many times. You get a year, you can ask questions, you get all protocols, and you have access to my Monday Q&A call. You're welcome. There you go. You take it two to three times a week. And you don't need to take it every day. And just maintain the new upgraded baseline. That's it. It is physiological replacement. Honestly, definitely. People always ask me, should I cycle on, should I cycle off? Why do you cycle on and off oxygen or water or food? Just follow me. Listen, NAD+ is a catalyst. It makes other interventions profoundly more effective. So, hypothetically, if I was going to st I'll even help you out. If I was going to stack things together, this would be the stack that everything else could be built on. Because remember, the whole issue is if you don't have the energy to do anything else, it doesn't matter what you're doing on the outside of that. Does that make sense? If you don't have gas in the tank, it doesn't matter how many performance parts you have in your car. So, look at maximum impact to allow everything else to work. NAD+ to Samarellan, CJC-1295, no DAC because then you just you pulse it on your own and that would be important. BPC-157, SS31. Oh, you guys want me to tell you all the dosages and why, right? Okay, cool. No, but I'll tell you. I'll explain what's going If you go, I hate this guy. Go ahead. I'll just hate you back. I don't care. This is the if you look at tamarellin and CJC this is the pulsing growth hormone that you need for deep sleep tissue repair for muscle preservation for fat loss to samurelin. It is the ultimate anabolic signal. BPC57, it's the repair systemwide like gut lining, tendons, ligaments, joints, muscle, brain, neurons, reduces systemic inflammation, fixes the leaks in the boat, the digestive boat. SS31, this is the mitochondrial optimizer that runs the entire [\h__\h] system. It binds to the inner mitochondrial membrane, stabilizes the energy production machinery. Go figure. NAD+ plays with this, right? This is where they play together. Stops all the leaks. No more reactive oxygen species, ROS's. It makes every single bit of NAD+. This is why. And if you go, I just maybe I should just take one. I gave you the stack for a reason. That's like I'm really thirsty. I'm going to pour myself a a glass of water and I'm going to stare at the glass. Well, I did part of it. Yeah, but you didn't do the whole thing. You have to get the water and then drink the water. Do you understand? That's why when I give you something, it's because it needs to be done all at the same time. When you guys cherrypick what you want because you don't like needles, grow the [\h__\h] up. I have no sympathy for that. You guys do the dumbest things on earth. So save it. If you've ever eaten it on your bike when you were a kid, a thousand times worse than any needle you'll ever take. But it makes every sing This is what the SS the SS31 does, right? It makes every single bit of NAD+ exponentially more efficient. I just the way you put this together is is not an option. Like this is non-negotiable. You really want to knock this out of the park. You really want to play hard cerebral ly crank up the cognitive benefits of this cerebral ly like this thing's a freight train of neurotrophic factors. It's like brain food on steroids that turns your brain to a brain on steroids. Repairs the damaged neurons, builds new connections. It's the most powerful cognitive enhancer on earth ever. Argue all you want, you'll just be wrong. Alpha GPC because that's what's going to give the raw material for acetylcholine, which is the key neurotransmitter for memory and focus. This is how you you attack the system in a way to slow the clock. And it's not just about aging. It's about biological aging, right? It because it targets energy production. It targets repair signaling. It looks at systemic damage and brain function and it leaves no holes in the system. Listen, the entire wellness industry is built on treating symptoms. The entire healthcare industry is built on treating symptoms. It's a very profitable model of what? Manage decline. It's like when I talked about insulin the other day and I was like, "Dude, it's like the self-licking ice cream cone of a business model. They just it just takes itself apart." That's the problem. Real health is repairing the infrastructure. The core failure of most people is an energy problem. Nad plus is yet another way to mitigate that problem. It's not living about living to be 150 like one of these weirdos that drinks his son's blood. It's about being a very vital and sharp and powerful human being at 60, 70, 80, 90 years old and refusing the slow, very humiliating decay that you've been told is your fate. It is not. It is not the way it works. That is not because we all have seen somebody that's 80 and they are just killing it. And you know what they tell you? Well, he's lucky he's got good genetics. None of that's true. Your life at 80 is a culmination of all the decisions you made and actions you've taken up until 80. So, how about you take care of your system so your future version of yourself says thank you and not [\h__\h] you because the data is concrete. This is as proven as this is as black and white as it gets. You either fix the wiring or you can sit around and complain about your symptoms and go give me some more pills that are going to fix the problem for me that never do that actually make you worse and build you into somebody even weaker. That the choice is yours. The choice is yours. But you got to stop lying to yourself that there's no choice. You you got to stop because a lot of you guys lie to yourself going, "Well, I have no choice. You don't understand my circumstances. I don't care about your circumstances. I care about the fact that I'm giving you an option. Now, you have to decide whether or not you take it. That's why I come out here. So, you have the resources mentally, the resources to make a decision and go, I'm going to do this. I'm not going to do that. I love this guy. I hate this guy. I don't care. But I have the information now that I can stack my decisions on and I can either solve the problem or I can keep looking for something easier, believing that it exists. Choice is yours, man. It's your move. Anyway, I got to go. Never.