What is up, Smashers? We got Jackie in the background getting ready. She's getting primed. Primed for neck and shoulder issues. So, neck and shoulder issues. Let's go. CSA 4.0. By the way, if you guys don't ever watch the movie 300, that guy over there, that's Leonitis right there. He's trying not to laugh cuz he's playing on his phone. But what we're going to be doing is we're talking about the uh the trap, the first rib, the scalines. We're going to unglue that spot while Jackie is doing this cuz she's the superstar in my video today. There's this spot right here between the uh between the shoulder blade and the spine romboids, the trapezius, the levator scap, which is what she's on right now. I'm going to just have her do this for half an hour. You know why she's doing this over and over again right now? See? See that? That's the pain cuz it hurts. And she's telling you that she needs to do this a lot. But what happens is you lose a lot of this overhead mobility. But she and I were talking earlier. She made a good point. What don't CrossFitters train? Terry's, right? Terry's. So, I'm going to show you how to strengthen up that terries because if you look at someone like Jackie who's got muscles on top of muscles, he's got muscles. This this is the uh the head of the humorris. It's got to sit inside the glenoid faucet in here and it's got to sit in the middle. And if it doesn't sit in the middle, it's that terry's that's hijacking the mechanics. So, we get this crossfit position which is like this. And this isn't just catered to CrossFitters, fighters, you know what, baseball players, football players, bodybuilders, not so much because they're working isolation. But even then, that Terry's tiny little muscle, super important. So, here's how to fix shoulder and neck pain, clear it all out, and knock some of those ribs back into place. So, the first thing we're going to do is Jackie, if you look, she's got it pinned in right here. She's been doing this for like a half an hour. She's got it pinning the uh the levator scalp, which runs up into the base of the skull and the trapezius. I tell people, load up the bar because if you load up the barbell, what winds up happening I'm shaking, by the way, because Teddy kicked my ass in a workout. You load up the barbell, she's going to turn her head. I know. I'm making her do this again. And she's going to tuck her chin. And now she's raising her arm all the way up and down. It's rough, isn't it? She's like, I'm going to put this right here so you can see. Oh my god. She's like, this is so horrible. Okay, so that's number one. We peel away on this. We do the same thing on the other side. I'm not going to make her do that. Number two is we're going to take a lacrosse ball and we want to clean up all that tissue between the uh Look at the size of this freaking phone. This is like an iPad. I need a bigger phone cuz I'm getting older. So, she tucked the ball. I'm going to have a roll a little bit to the side. She took the ball and tucked it underneath there. That's between the scalp and the spine, and it's hitting right on the top where that sticky area is. Now, this is a fun part. She's going to bring her arm all the way up. I got to stop shaking because my arm is hurting so bad. All the way up. And then she's going to skate it. If I can move my hand all the way out. Yeah, that's awful. And then she's going to do it again. All the way up. She goes all the way up to the top. Can you see it's miserable? We're blocking her pain face. She's sweating and she's going to bring it all the way down and around. That is number two. We do about 2 minutes of work on that one. Number three, she just wants to hang out. You know why she wants to hang out? Cuz it feels good, right? She's like, I need to do the I need more of this in my life. She needs more Smash works in her life. I think I do. See, did you hear that? You know what she just said? She said, I do. It's cuz it's true. This works. Does this work? See, all the time. So, we take if that's right. What did you just say? If you do it. Yeah. You notice if you do it. So, we take the This is a PVC pipe. I have it anchored just against the mat. It doesn't matter where it is. She's tucking it in. I'm going to hold it for her. But, she's tucking it in. There's a notch right here. So, I'm going to slide up towards me. Gentle, gentle. We have to go easy, easy. Oh, I almost dropped the phone. That'd be really crappy. So, there we go. So, the PVC pipe. There it is. There's the face. PVC pipe tucked in, shoving down the first rib all the way. And she's just gonna go up and down. I'm gonna kill um Teddy because I can barely hold my arms up. So, she's going to do this. Honestly, 2 minutes of work. It's pretty miserable, but it's a good hurt, huh? See how her hand is? Thumbs up. Why? Cuz we're doing this thumbs up. All right, that's number three. Here comes the fun part. The terryries. This is exactly what we all need to stabilize the shoulder. I got it. There you go. We're going to put Jackie on a bench right there. We actually have two more movements to do. She knows this one cuz we did this one before. This is like a selfie. So, this is the cool part. She takes her shoulders, sucks them down as hard as possible. So, elevate your shoulders a little bit first. That's how everybody's doing it. No, don't do that. Drop the shoulders. This is already loaded. She's going to keep the elbows pinned to the sides. Pull the arms as hard as you can. It's hard, huh? She's trying not. She's like, "Oh, I'm going to do this so freaking hard." Hold for 5 seconds. Come back. Keep this tense. Three sets of 10. It's just that easy. That's working that terry's and it's helping keep that uh shoulder joint the way it's supposed to so you don't start recruiting what traps, right? Like, which is what she's been doing. And this is someone who's strong as I dropped an Fbomb. Jackie never swears. Good. Come on with me. We got one more. We're going to take this. She's going to hold this. Just like that. All right. this. She's She's doing a pretty good job for not seeing it. That's not so bad. All they see is a thumb. Oh, that's all right. Let me do this thumb. That's That's a dirty thumb. All right. She's going to take this, wind her wrist up in it. And we're going to go all the way up and behind. Grab the uh There you go. Notice how she does that like everybody else. She's going to take a knee. Yep. And she's going to twist this in behind her. Bend the elbow. There you go. Oh. Oh, did you see it? There it is. That's That's so miserable. That's all I do. That's it. That's all you do. You just sit there. So, she hangs out. What that's doing is it's recovering that internal rotation on that long head of the bicep. Jeez, I'm dripping sweat. That's how awful this was today. But this is the problem is most people are missing that internal rotation. So, the shoulder pitches forward. And again, trashes at Terry's. That's all you got to do. Hang on here for how long? 2 minutes. She knows it. I know it. CSA knows it. Hey, that's it. Trev. Jackie crushing it as usual. I'll check you guys out tomorrow.