this world and all its hearsay and insta experts and people who come running into the comments all of you guys cancer cancer cancer what about the cancer [\h__\h] the cancer cancer is manmade oh I better say this because people are going to lose their mind and I've gone through it four times personally not because of friends because of me I lost a lung because of it so save your anecdotal my buddies friends grandma's uncles brothers 's dog died from cancer and magically came back to life because of chemotherapy. Save it. Save it. It's they burn you, they slice you, they poison you. This isn't about cancer, but that's the hearsay in the world right now. when I made that podcast about testosterone and some of you lemmings just lost your mind because you went any you went hard in into the paint against the facts because you had to try and find something to justify why you are fat, miserable, depressed, anxious, and just can't get your head out of the clouds. But I'm out here going, "This is free information from an extremely intelligent man, me, helping you because I genuinely give a fuck." Listen, you you want some guy in a white coat and a stethoscope, you need to find another doctor. I am not that doctor. I am gritty. I'm real. And I tell the truth. I'm just so tired of all the lies pushed on social media by bumble clots with baseball hats turned backwards and the next best thing and an affiliate code. So here, I better say this quick. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, triage, advise. This is only hypothetical, entertaining, and purely for education. If you know, you know, right? Garbage. That's what that is. That statement is garbage. Listen, everything you know, this is all about nicotine. And then I'm even going to tell you at the end of this, this isn't to get you to stay to the end. You should stay to the end just to learn and take notes. Like, you should listen to my podcast multiple times in a day and just take notes on all the facts that I I just drop for you guys. Remember, I I walk around with this knowledge in my head. I'm blurting it out so you have the same knowledge and you can access the same library of information in your dome so you don't have to listen to these muppets on social media telling you stuff that is just not true. Everybody is an just a combative argumentative juvenile emotional toddler because they don't want to be wrong because it forces them to look at themselves and realize that everything they've been taught has been a lie. So, it's exactly why I put together the black card membership. This isn't a plug for my membership. Don't join. I don't care. I don't need your money. You're damn well going to pay before you go and do it for free. You would never appreciate it. You'd never listen to it. All you do is come in. I have people that come into my my community and then try and either post somebody else's link. [\h__\h] you. You do that, you'll be deleted. You do that more than once and Amber's going to kick you out of the group and keep you all your keep all your money. That's absolute disrespect. And two, try and sell things to people. Dude, I don't want you selling all your wares and all your garbage. I put together a group so you can actually get real answers from somebody who genuinely cares and knows more about this subject than you do. If there was a my buddy Dennis, Builder Brigade, if you follow him on social media, he knows so much about building a house. He knows more than me. Why do you think I follow him? Why do you think I ask him questions? Cuz that's his area of expertise. You guys have to be experts on everything and you wind up knowing nothing cuz you're too busy defending being that that you might be wrong. You have to defend your your ego instead of going, "Shit, I really don't know this. Maybe I should learn." I lost that a long time ago. Like we're talking the third grade because I want to learn. The more I learn, the more I can help you. The more you challenge somebody giving you actual information to solve your problem, the less solvable your problem becomes because you keep cutting off the opportunities and the conduit of all the solutions. Eventually, God and the universe goes, "Fuck it. I'm not giving you a damn thing until you get your head out of your ass. You start listening to people that are smarter than you." That's why I come out here because it's my obligation to help you. So, that's why I made the Blackard membership. So, you have a place to go to ask a real person who knows a doctor who knows damn. It doesn't matter if I'm a doctor. I could be just a guy that knows everything. It doesn't matter what my title is. Yes, I'm a doctor, but that's not what I Who cares? If I hold more knowledge in a subject than you do, you should go, "How do I learn that? Please teach me. Please help me. My goal is to make human beings as bulletproof and indestructible as possible. I chase around mankind to make you better because God, that's my mission. You don't have to like it. But then don't complain when you're sick. Don't complain when the solution is given to you by me. And you go, "Do you have anything else that's cheaper, easier, and hurts a little less, cuz you don't want the solution then. You want the convenience." Which means you just want to hide from this thing called the truth. I never tell you anything that's not correct. I don't make up statistics. I don't come out with flashy commercials. And when I talk about my black card membership, you're going to give me $6,000. It's good for one year and you get access to a VIP community where there's all kinds of protocols that I keep adding to, by the way, that are real, not these bumpkin written protocols that some guy throws together on chat GPT. These are real protocols that I've used with real clients, real patients that have had real results where when people call me. I get calls from celebrities, politicians, athletes, moms and dads, it doesn't matter, CEOs all the time because they go, "I'm sick and tired of the doctor not helping me. All they're doing is giving me the next pill." And if you go, "Isn't that what you're doing when you're telling people about peptides?" A peptide's not a drug, [\h__\h] It is a signal that your body already uses. It's a messaging system that your body already knows. I'm just helping you get directions. And you know what makes it very effective is understanding human biology, human physiology. Believe me, I'm putting together a course to teach you everything I can possibly cram into it. No, it's not going to be cheap at all because you're paying me for 30 years of knowledge. You're paying me for all of the mistakes I've made. So, you don't have to make them. But when you join the Blackard membership, you're paying for getting the the right answer right away and having access to a doctor where you don't have to wait four you don't have to wait 4 months to get an appointment. I'll just help you. That's my job. But you're damn well going to pay me for that after six grand, after the spots are gone. I had, listen, I had the executive assistant release another 25 because it went crazy. You guys, thank you for your faith and your trust in me. I damn well know that's earned cuz I've been out here for a decade. So, I'd got street credit. And if somebody goes, "What about your mistakes?" [\h__\h] you. Everybody's done it. I own mine. How about yours? But the point is that I actually come out here to care and give you the information. And I care enough to spend time out of my day to help you instead of just driving around and spending money and doing stupid things and watching TV, watching athletes, gladiators fight gladiators and drink $20 cups of beer and complain while while my why my belly is so fat. Like I don't understand some of you guys. But the black card is 5,997. The link is you want to know what it is? You get access to two calls every week. One is live Q&A me. Well, they're both live. One is a Q&A every Monday at 5. I live just east of Dallas. Every Monday at 5:00 and I stay on. And I stayed on for 2 and 1/2 hours yesterday. There were well over 70 people on the call and I just started answering questions. Throw them at me. I had I had a queue that sometimes at some point had 50 60 questions in it. But the that the black card includes that. The mastermind that I run is not going to include that anymore. I am only offering that Q&A to blackard members from now on. I'm not you don't get a chance to do it. The last day I sold that in any other package that I have, any other program I've got was Sunday. It doesn't exist anymore. So, the only way you get my live Q&A is through the black card or through one-on-one with me. But then why would you? You have my cell number. The other call you get is Saturday, the Spartan Live, which is me and I fix your limiting beliefs. And if you go, "Those aren't very important. I need a protocol." No, you don't. What you need is the psychology to actually [\h__\h] do it. People go, "I want your morning routine." No, you don't. You want my morning psychology. fixing your the thought process you have between around why you do or don't do things is more important than what I give you to do and until you get that you're going to struggle because you're going to say it's too hard but you can ask me real questions in this community any day of the week and I have a 24 to 48 hour turnaround time so don't expect an answer right away I don't work for you you're not my wife I will get to it when I get back in and I check every day twice a day I go in that community and I go through answers and if some of them require a little more in-depth of an explanation I don't answer them right way because I want to make sure I give you the right answers. So, I sit and I put it all together and then I put it out later for you. If you don't want your question answered in the public area, message me privately in the in the community. But if you are in any other program I've got, you're not getting an answer except on Monday. And if I don't get to you or it's you forgot to ask or you didn't get the right answer, I'm not answering it again till the next week ever because that's how this works. Saturday is at 10 o'clock, by the way, 10 a.m. There you go. That's what you get. Plus all the archives of all the calls. I've had people that just said the other day, they said, "Actually, I solved my problem because I went back and I watched a video like two weeks ago and you actually answered. It was awesome." So, there you go. You want the link? It's down on the bottom. If you don't, wait. It goes up to 25 grand for a buyin and $2,000 a month membership fees forever. And that's going to go up. If you want me one-on-one, that's a whole different conversation. But it is significantly more than $6,000. Before you go, can I do that? Do I have a 1-hour consultation? No. I have a 25-day program, a 100 day program, and a one-year one on one-on-one program. That's it. And all of them are significantly more money than six grand. And take it however you want, I am more than worth it because I I give a [\h__\h] I don't accept people that aren't going to do what I tell them to do. And I don't accept people that I know for a fact probably just can't help. It's very small list. I want you to think about nicotine because I I'm going to I'm going to give you I'll even give you the full layout of how to make yourself smarter, prevent dementia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and multiple sclerosis and just neurocognitive neurodeenerative disease. I will give you all of it at the end. I don't care if you stay or not, but if you don't stay till the end of this podcast, you're going to miss all of it. It's not to get you to stay. It's because I'm gonna that's how I just lay it out in my head. I need to rattle this all out first and then I'll explain exactly how to do it from cover to cover. I might even just give you dosages. I don't know. We'll see. But I'll tell you exactly what to do. But I need you to understand everything you know about one of the most powerful beneficial molecules on the planet is a lie. It's a politically convenient, scientifically illiterate, multi-billion dollar lie. Nicotine. That's what I'm talking. I'm just talking about nicotine. It's just a It's a lie. Everything you know about nicotine is a lie. Cuz everybody's like, even my attorney was like, "Oo, I don't know, man. It took me really long time to get off of cigarettes. I don't know if I ever want to go back." But nicotine is not addictive at all. Guarantee your brain just recoiled, right? like cancer addictive death that's the mantra you guys run chant science just listen what what if I told you that real science real hard reproducible by the way science tells a completely different story tells the truth by the way that nicotine in its purest form is not only not addictive but is good chance might be the single most beneficial cognitive and neuroprotective supplement known to men just let that let that dangle in your brain a little bit listen the disconnect here is so vast that it's it's astrophysical icle. We've perfectly confused the delivery vehicle with a messenger. It's like blaming my 9/11 Turbo cuz it matters for a drunk driver. It's not the car. You're not addicted to the car. You're addicted to the booze. The car didn't get you killed. The driver got people killed. The drunk driver killed everybody. So, how about instead of looking at the car, we run an autopsy on the on the booze on the whiskey? What makes cigarettes and vapes and pouches and chewing tobacco like dip, whatever it's called, so addictive? It is this cacophinous discord. Actually, it's a symphony. It's run so well of destruction. It is beautifully orchestrated to make sure you guys don't even know what's going on. Nicotine is the innocent chist in this whole orchestra. It's the first air chair chist if you know what that means. They sit right there. They're the best one in the group playing the cello and they're just innocent. They're like, I'm playing for this orchestra and this orchestra is playing music that kills people. First, let let me explain. Let me just run through it all. Mao inhibitors tobacco contains cuz otherwise you're not going to get it. It contains compounds that are incredibly potent monomine oxidase inhibitors. MAO is the enzyme that that breaks down your feel-good neurotransmitters like dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, which are also, by the way, the things that tesens works on. That's why you feel good when you take it. So when you smoke, you're not just getting a little nicotine. You're bombarding your brain with a pharmacological sledgehammer that prevents the natural recycling of these chemicals creating this massive and artificial and very uns unsustainable flood. You're inducing this state of euphoria that your body can't replicate on its on its own. That's the hook. And then it really, this is why I'm explaining this cuz you need to understand all the ways of of nicotine administration into a human being. The next is the speed of the delivery. That deep lung hit from a cigarette or a vape that delivers nicotine to your brain in seconds. This incredibly rapid onset creates a very powerful and almost instantaneous reward loop. That's problematic. It's a neurological hijack that because it speeds the addiction. And then the hand-to-mouth action, the smoke, the buzz, that's behavioral conditioning at its finest. It's the purest, most Pavlovian type. So now remove all that. Take all that away. This is why I'm telling you, take all that away. Remove the MAOIs. Remove that rapid lung hit. Remove the smoke and the ritual, the psychology behind it. Yeah, but my Saturday call isn't worth it, right? Right off the bat, you should know it is. What are you left with? You're left with nicotine. Just a molecule. Nicotine. That's it. Like, it's like saying you're addicted to vitamin C. It makes no sense. So, the research on the molecule alone is breathtaking. Study after study after study on clean nicotine administration via patch, even gum, but do not swallow the spit. It'll make you [\h__\h] your pants all day long. Shows something that's going to shatter your entire worldview. It is not addictive at all. Nothing. No, it's not addictive. Before you keep saying, "Yes, it is." No, it's all I did. Okay, cool. Study published in psychopharmarmacology demonstrated that without listen, that without the MAO inhibitors present in tobacco, nicotine's addictive potential plummets to pretty much near zero. They did studies, there's so many, you can look these up. Don't ask me to cite them cuz I'm tired of it. I'm not doing all the work for you. I do more work for you than you do for you right now. Participants using pure nicotine patches did not exhibit a single compulsive addictive seeking behavior. Not one. They could take it or leave it. The reason is physiological. Without the MAO or MAI induced neurochemical tsunami that hits their brain, the dopamine surge from nicotine is moderate. It's clean and it's very very sustainable. By the way, it doesn't create this devastating crash that demands immediate redossing. Right? You don't get that like put it in redossing. The addiction was never about the nicotine. It was all always about the toxic cocktail that it's delivered in. So, how about Do you get it? You better get it cuz there's another one coming yet, too. Murder the sacred cow that everybody preaches about. It's [\h__\h] cancer. Nicotine does not cause cancer. Say it with me, everybody. Listen to me, okay? Stop if you're driving, if you're listening, if you're in your gym, if if you're on the treadmill, whatever the hell you're doing. I don't care if you're at dinner and you have this in your ear, which would be hilarious, but awesome. Stop whatever you're doing and say this with me. Nicotine does not cause cancer. Did you say it with me? Because if you didn't, I'm going to make you rewind this and do it again. The carcinogens in tobacco are tobacco specific nitrosamines, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and this litany of other toxic compounds that are created by this thing, this very small controlled burn called combustion. By setting a plant on fire and sucking smoke into your lungs, nicotine is caught in the damn crossfire. It's guilt by association. It's like blaming the water in a polluted river for the industrial waste that's being dumped into it. It's like saying, like when I said the other day, I said it's like blaming the fire hydrant for arson. It gets even more insane. The real peer-reviewed science shows nicotine might not just be innocent. It's actually the hero in the whole [\h__\h] story. Nicotine is an incredibly potent agonist of nicotenic acetylcholine receptors. Now, let me explain what these do. These receptors aren't just in your brain. They're on the surface of cells throughout your entire body, including cancer cells. By the way, here's where it gets really wild. Well, you're going to love this. Some people are just going to have nuclear meltdowns listening to this. Get in my comments and chatter away about your bro science expertise. I'm smarter than you. So, just accept the answer and go, "Okay, cuz I'm coming out here cuz I care." So, shut up. Activation of these receptors triggers apoptosis on the cancer cells. Programmed cell death. And in certain cancer lines, it is almost reflexive. Studies have shown nicotine inhibits proliferation of breast cancer, non small cell lung cancer cells. It is not a damn carcinogen. If anything, it's this incredibly potential cytoatic agent. You understand the difference, right? Nicotine's anti-inflammatory properties are so profound, so profound that the like chronic inflammation is a known cornerstone of cancer progression. We know this already. I talked about this the other day. So, by modulating the immune response and reducing the inflammatory cytoines, TNF alpha, IL6, all the ones I always talk about, nicotine creates this cellular environment that's less hospitable to cancer growth. Sounds pretty good to me. I'm not saying blaze up. That's not what you're what you're doing. If you haven't listened to anything I said, you're going to screw this up. The molecule that we have been taught to fear. Pretty much telling rogue cells to calm down and die. Let that cognitive dissonance ring through your head. It's like two symbols crashing in your brain because your brain is arguing against you going, "There's no way that's possible. My uncle died of cancer because he smoked three packs a day." But that's not why your uncle died. The nicotine wasn't why they your uncle died. Let me explain what this molecule is actually designed to do. It's designed to supercharge your brain. It's designed to make this fat ball between your ears incredibly effective. Your brain runs on acetylcholine, which is the primary neurotransmitter on focus, learning, and memory and attention. Nicotine is the direct key. It fits perfectly into that acetylcholine receptor lock. It's perfect. Just goes right in there. When it turns opens it up, it doesn't just open the door. It kicks it the [\h__\h] off its hinges. Enhances it. I'll tell you what it does. enhances attention by increasing the signal to noise ratio in the prefrontal cortex. It's a like a biological laser site. Accelerates memory consolidation in the hippocampus. So you don't just learn faster, you cement that learning in permanently. So it's not this short-term memory. It's like, wow, I can recall stuff that I learned 2 years ago. It boosts neuroplasticity. Oh, this is a big one. Helps your brain rewire itself, adapt, and grow new connections so it functions better. This is why study after study after study link nicotine use again separated from tobacco to a reduced risk of neurodeenerative diseases like Parkinson's, Alzheimer's. It's actually protective. It's fortifying the very structures that these diseases actually seek out and destroy. How is this stuff not making sense? And yet nobody's going to How many times have you seen this on television? Never. Radio, never. Satellite, never. Instagram, social media, YouTube, never. So listen, here's you need to you need to harness this thing. You just need to do it responsibly. So you have to avoid the dirty delivery systems. Use a patch. Hypothetically, if I was going to do this 7 mgram transder dermal patch, I would suggest Rugby. I have no interest in the company. I don't make any money from these guys. I know that Rugby is the cleanest company out there that makes the cleanest patches. Period. Don't sit there and go, "Well, can I use a pouch? Can I use a vape? Can I use this other? Can I use gum?" [\h__\h] I'm answering it right now. Rugby patches, 7 mgram patches. Don't ask me what you can use other than that because there is nothing else you can use. That's how simple it is. This is the way. This is a very steady, clean, low-level. I got one on right now. Low-level infusion. Find the side. It's on. Low-level infusion of nicotine into your bloodstream right here. Without the spikes, the peaks and valleys, without the crashes, without that that without a single carcinogen. Actually, it's the perfect delivery system. No MAOIs, no combustion, just the molecule doing its perfect damn work. And to make it not just beneficial, this drives me crazy. To make it not just beneficial, but cataclysmically effective, stack it. We're going to have some fun right now. You ready? You create this synergistic neurochemical like special forces unit like my buddy AF, right? Like just this human killing machine. This is where Here I This is actually going to be fun. I wasn't even going to do this. I'm going to need a Coca-Cola instead. Look at this. It's like I'm two fisting, right? You guys are looking at me going, "Holy [\h__\h] whacker than a witch's crotch." And well, you know this. If you go, "How can you sit there and talk about nicotine and cigarettes and cancer while you drink this Coke Zero all the time?" Cuz it has a Star Wars label on it. That's why. I don't know. I always wanted to be Luke Skywalker. You know, nobody wanted to be Yoda, right? until they saw him come out in the very first Star Wars where he went bananas and he started doing back flips and bouncing off of people and swinging his sword around like a little three-foot green ninja with giant ears and gray hair. Like what the hell? What the [\h__\h] was that? Right. Unbelievable. And Yattle. Who the hell's that? Like I When did that guy come out? A girl. I didn't know any of this. I don't even know. By the way, before you start correcting me. Anyway, no. I thought Vader was badass. He's just the ultimate bad. Anyway, listen. I could do this stuff all day. This is how crazy it's like hurting cats in my head. I'm gonna bury the 70 billion dollar neuotropic supplement industry. By the way, watch. Their products are so underdosed, so poorly absorbed, and based on shaky science at best. They sell you, this is, somebody asked me this. They sell you ashwagandha to slightly lower your cortisol while you drink your inflammatory latte. That's a joke. Are you nuts? You're not We're not going to play that game. I'm going to just so you know, that stuff's all crap. Okay, just just take all those neurotropics and throw them in the garbage. None of them work. None of the ones you I don't care who you are. I don't care how big your company is. I don't care if you have a $5 billion market share or whatever it is you've got. Your if it is not what I'm talking about, your product is trash. Put me on a panel in front of everybody and I'll prove it. You won't do it because you're like, "Shit, I can't tell this. I I can't let this guy out." Bet your ass cuz I'm the tiger that's going to go for the throat every time. Let me explain what would be a real neatotropic stack that will blow your this is this will make you smarter not temporarily I mean smarter it will provide a level of barrier armor against neurodeenerative diseases that is unprecedented and unmatched by anything else on the planet. So I'll give it to you straight. You n this is your cell remember your cellular energy currency. It boosts NAD+. We know about this already. It reverses mitochondrial decay which is the precursor for all kinds of problems which is no energy right which is also why I talk about methylene blue and mod se and uh SS31 for the inner mitochondrial like with cardioipin protecting the inner membrane but mitochondrial decay provides this raw power for everything else to work without energy you've got nothing you guys nothing so is the first one then you need a precursor for the the follow-ups to actually work so you've got the energy Alpha GPC. This is the raw material for acetylcholine. This is the Excuse me. Hope that I hope that mic didn't pick up that burp. Sound like a drunk dude at a bar. Alpha GPC is like It's like if you had a Well, this is a pencil, so I'm not going to pick it up. It's like a pen. You have a pen. It's dry. This is the ink. This is what allows you to write all the smart intelligent things. It shuttles pure choline directly across the bloodb brain barrier. And then you need the key, which is exactly what I talked about. Remember the key? Nicotine 7 milligram patch. And if you go, "What about 23? What about three and a half? What about 30?" Seven. You guys, if you want the answer, great. If you guys ask questions, just ask questions to engage with somebody to make yourself feel better about yourself, knock it off. You guys went to a different school than I did. I asked questions in school to learn more, become smarter and more proficient at what I did, not to make the teacher like me. I didn't give a [\h__\h] if the teacher liked me. In fact, I think most teachers didn't like me because I was smarter than most of the teachers. So, my son said when he came home, somebody goes, "Here's another proud dad bragging about his kid." Yeah, you bet your ass I'm going to brag about my kids. By the way, my 16-year-old kid could probably kick your ass because he's a fighter and he's really good. So, there's that, too. He rolls with Yago Duza. Are you out of your mind? So, this is the nicotine patch is that nuclear key, right? Like the nucleus. This is it's like the force multiplier of this entire equation because it takes that alpha GPC and makes it about a thousand times more effective because it unlocks the acetylcholine receptors with unparalleled efficiency. Nothing else works as well as this. And then you need the neurochemists, the neuro architects, and you're going to use something called rasetams. There's three of them. Yes, you need all three. If you go, can I just use one? Why? That's like saying, can I bake cookies, but I don't want to put any chocolate chips in them, but they're chocolate chip cookies. Those are non- chocolate chip chocolate chip cookies. What in the [\h__\h] is wrong with you people that do things like that? That's like like why would you buy decoholized beer? Beer tastes like crap. Whether it has booze in it or not, doesn't matter. It's tastes like [\h__\h] Why are you drinking it? Nobody's like, "I love the taste of beer." [\h__\h] I'll take this Coca-Cola over I don't drink, so I'll take this Coca-Cola over booze any day. And if you go, "Well, it's the beer's actually better for you." Ha. You want to go toe-to-toe on alcohol with me? Let's dance, [\h__\h] Let's dance. You know, I used to come out here and I used to not cuss that much because I tried to really restrain that part of this beast that wants to come out. But it gets I get so agitated at the ignorance and the hypnosis of social conditioning and the toddlers going out and fighting and arguing and comments as if they have any validity to what they're saying and then they spend their entire day on Reddit looking up whatever they can or they go on chat GPT and ask questions and and try and sound intelligent. But if you stuck them on a stage next to me, I would bury you because I stay in my lane. There's plenty of things that people know far better than I ever will. They would make me look like an idiot, like a like I'm the guy in preschool that's just like playing with blocks. No idea. But not in this. So the neuroarchchitects for this anorasetam oxarasetam and fennel paracetam hydraide. Anorasetam is this. It's like a creativity and fluence booster. It modulates something called ammpa receptors for this incredibly effortless thought connection and verbal wit. That's my secret. Actually, I haven't taken anorarasetam, but that's not because I'm not before you're like, "Oh, I'm not going to take it." No, I just didn't get it. And it's coming in a huge box today to the warehouse. It just goes to the warehouse today. I have a ton of it. Huge amount. So, it's going to run out. It's not a sales pitch. I just know it's going to run out every time I make some kind of explanation about the facts. You guys make a run on stuff because you go, "Shit, I" And that's smart cuz at some point, they're going to probably make sure that you can't get all the things that make you as strong and powerful as possible. That's why I tell people you might want to stock up on nicotine by 2030. They're trying to ban by 2030 commercially available nicotine. It's weird because now we just realized it doesn't do anything for it doesn't cause cancer. It actually does the opposite. So anorasetam connection verbal wit oxyraetam this is the it's like the logic enhancer, right? Enhances acetylcholine uptake. So we already have nicotine that unlocks the acetylcholine receptors and makes it about a it makes alpha GPC about a thousand times more efficient, more effective. Now you have oxyracetam which enhances the acetylcholine which acetylcholine right uses the alpha GPC as fuel. You see how this stitches together. So this is why you have to understand neurochemistry, neurology, physiology. You have to understand all these so you can put this all together. enhances the acetylcholine uptake for this brutal analytical precision and recall to a level that is just you're not going to find this in some can of I have this awesome neotropic. You get a better neutropic from this [\h__\h] caffeine fennel paracetam hydroide. Yes, it matters because the hydroxide makes it the point of the chemical is that it makes it insanely more potent and last a lot longer. So you don't need to take a ton of it because it is mixed with DMSO and a mouthful of DMSO tastes like a mouthful of rotten cabbage mixed with garlic. It's terrible. So you got to brush your teeth for like 20 minutes afterwards and then it just leaks out of your pores anyway. But it's effective. It's the only thing that it'll dissolve in other than PEG, but it crystallizes in PEG PEG 400. So you don't want to use that. Anyway, this is like the armored cavalry, man. Thoracetam hydroide is killer. It enhances dopamine sensitivity and neuro resilience is the easiest way to explain it for it just gives you this unstoppable mental endurance. So you know when you you're thinking and you just eventually just kind of like spaz out like you just you just don't have any energy for thought. Remember your brain is greedy. 2% of your body weight uses 20% of the power supply of your entire body. That's a big deal. Now when you crank up thought it uses even more. So just keep that in mind when you start to run low. This is what's going on. So let me explain the synergy so you understand the science behind this. So the NMN provides the cellular ATP energy. So you have the the fuel. The alpha GPC provides the choline pre precursor for the acetylcholine. The nic nicotine violently without any better explanation violently amplifies theergic system output and efficiency. So all a sudden it's like going from like you become Skynet, not just one of the terminators. Anorasetam cranks up the receptor communication for a very fluid smooth flowing intellect. Oxyraetam optimizes it for the hard logic so you can actually make sense of what you're saying. And fennel paracetam hydroide fortifies the entire system against fatigue. So the energy coming in, you don't burn the system out going, I have the energy, but I just have nothing left. Like the system's tired, it's beat up. It doesn't work. They don't add together. They exponentially multiply. You're not taking supplements, you guys. You're not This isn't supplements. You are orchestrating a biochemical symphony in your brain. You are in state of hypercognition and monumental neuroproction. You're essentially building a brain that's resistant to toxins of modernity and the ravages of time as we age. Listen, the over the over the I got to say this cuz it's driving me nuts. I was going to just keep it under my hat, but I can't. The over-the-counter neotropic industry is pure garbage because it treats the brain like a simple machine. Are you high? A simple machine? Take this drink. Drink this thing. rub this cream, stick this in your anus, whatever it is you guys are doing, they try to add they try to add one thing here, block one thing there. It's childish. It's childish, you guys. It is so juvenile. The brain is a complex, incredibly adaptive electrochemical network. You need a systemic and very synergistic approach because it doesn't run on one thing and it doesn't do just one thing. It does everything. The way this is laid out is that approach. This is the difference between trying to power a city with a freaking hamster wheel and connecting it to every nuclear reactor in the entire country at the same time. The addiction myth is gone, man. It's dead. It doesn't exist. The cancer cancer myth is dead. The the era of mediocrity, cognitive mediocrity is dead. You guys need to start looking at what's available to you instead of going, I wish I had this better. It's like saying, I can't make money, but I've built a business that should have taken four years to create, five years to create. That's fantastically massive and growing by the day to help people in under 3 months. It's time to start looking at the things that are available, the tools that are available instead of being an idiot staring at them on the table and going, "They're too heavy to pick up." This is the most powerful cognitive set of tools we've ever discovered. There's this prohibition right now and it's on the truth. How about you just get smarter? You guys go, "Oh, Limitless would be great, man. Bradley Cooper, I wish that was real." It is real. Nicotine, you're welcome. If you just did that, it'll change. If you go, "Well, nicotine made me nauseated. I can't take it. So, cut the thing in half. Start smaller. This isn't comp. You can't figure that out. You need to watch a romper room a little more and get go back to Sesame Street and figure out what the colors are before you start making real decisions cuz clearly you're not responsible enough neurologically to do it. Listen, I here's the thing, okay? I I'm And even you guys, you probably got this. I see the last bastion of cognition in half of you guys that are thinking right now. I can just feel it through this podcast. Okay, smart guy. The brain, great. But what about everything else that it damages? What about the heart? What about the lungs? You're telling me the thing that they blame for the heart attacks and lung cancer fixes them? That's what you guys are saying. You're like, is is that what you're trying to tell me, doc? Yeah, that's exactly what I'm telling you. The data is so counterintuitive. It feels like a joke. Like I like you're being punked, but you're not. Physiology doesn't care about your feelings. I say this all the time. It only cares about mechanisms and function. And the mechanism of pure nicotine is one of the most profound anti-inflammatory pro-tabolic regulators ever seen. Ever. So here I I'll go down the list and I'll dissect all the miracles because apparently this is something that as I'm saying it is I'm going to just get riddled with stupid questions. Yes, there are stupid questions. So if you answer if you ask me I told you you can get in my comments on YouTube. I read this many of them. None. I have never read a YouTube comment. So if you're giving me comments, I don't care if you're hating on me or loving on me. I just don't care. And if I see anybody that is that is trying to hate or throw anything that is anything other than thank you, I appreciate the time you put into all this because you genuinely give a [\h__\h] about us as as mankind and human beings. I'm going to find a way to make you do burpees until you [\h__\h] die. Because you're arguing about nothing just so you can sound intelligent or be right. Let's go down here. I'll dissect every miracle I can cuz I'm hungry. I want to go inside and eat lunch. It's I got I'm about 35 minutes into this thing. The heart. Look at the heart. Just look at the heart first. The lie. Nicotine causes cardiovascular disease. You ask any cardiologist, they will say the number one thing that you shouldn't do to protect your heart is smoke. Agreed. Agreed. But that has nothing to do with the nicotine. That is what they nick. That's what they anchor it to. Not true. It's cardioprotective. It's it's 100% cardioprotective. The mechanism, just so we're clear, nicotine's activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors triggers the most powerful anti-inflammatory response possible throughout the entire endothelial lining of your entire vascular system. So atherosclerosis, the hardening of your arteries, right, when we already know is more a insulin resistance problem and a systemic inflammation problem, not a sure as [\h__\h] not a cholesterol problem. Like I'm not going to go down that road with you guys anymore. I've talked about that enough. It is fundamentally an inflammatory disease. A atherosclerosis nicotine via a couple of specific one specific receptor to be honest suppresses the production of pro-inflammatory cytoines. What do you think? TNF alpha and IL6. So it calms the inflammatory fighter that leads to the plaque formation. More it promotes angioenesis just like BPC57. So it promotes the growth of healthy new powerful elastic blood vessels. improve circulation and oxygen delivery to tissues. And studies on patients, just so you know, studies on patients with coronary artery disease using nicotine therapy show vastly improved vascular function and reduced eskeemic events. It doesn't stress the heart. It unclogs the damn pipes. You're welcome. I could just stop right here because I got [\h__\h] to do, but I'm not going to because you guys are hungry for answers. So, I'm trying to give you the things. So, I said heart, lungs, immune system. Let's go through it all. Lungs. So the lie is that nicotine causes lung cancer and COPD chron chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder. Lie. Lie man. That is a lie. It is a potent anti-inflammatory bronco dilator. By the way, remember smoking smoking causes lung cancer. Nicotine does not. You guys have to separate these because the correlative studies does not that that doesn't mean they're accurate. It means they just happen at the same time. Just so we're clear, nicotine is being studied as a therapeutic for inflammatory lung conditions like asthma and COPD. And here's why. Again, go back to the nicotenic acetyloline receptors in the lung tissue. Suppresses airway inflammation and inhibits the activation of neutrfils and macroofagages that cause tissue destruction. It literally tells the immune system in the lungs to shut to to shut down, just stand down, calm the hell down. That's all it does. It also acts as a bronco dilator, I just said. So, it opens up the airways. And for a patient struggling with COPD, just so you know, struggling for every breath, nicotine could be the molecule that reduces the inflammatory load that is slowly suffocating and killing them. The irony is so thick you could cut it with a [\h__\h] chainsaw. But that's not what they tell you, is it? Look at the immune system. They always talk about this, right? Well, suppresses the immune system. Immune function gets destroyed. It's like the master immune modulator. Are you crazy? Let me explain this. This is how well it works. The chonergic anti-inflammatory path is it. Listen, the chonergic anti-inflammatory pathway is a very, very well doumented neural mechanism by which the brain itself tells the immune system to chill the hell out. Nicotine is a very powerful agonist of this pathway, which means it flips the switch on. It's like turning the switch on that tells your overzealous autoimmun, hey, chill out and stop attacking your attacking your own body, which is why it works so well with rheumatoid arthritis. This is what like you look at man and this is why it it's incredibly effective with ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, sepsis, rheumatoid arthritis. It doesn't weaken the immune system. It makes it smarter. So the surveillance it's running actually knows the difference. Makes it more precise. It makes it less likely to rage out and completely destroy healthy tissue. In fact, let me let me go down the arthritis rabbit hole because people go nuts about this. The lie is that it has no effect. Okay, let's do this. It's probably the most potent antiarthritic agent you can put on your body. Rheumatoid arthritis is another autoimmune condition condition that is characterized by brutal, brutal joint inflammation. I have nothing but sympathy for people with rheumatoid arthritis unless they're doing methtate and cortisone thinking that's solving their problem. And then you need to go down and do a little more research because you need help and you need guidance and whoever's telling you that is lying. Methresate is a chemotherapeutic drug. Keep that [\h__\h] out of your system. Nicotine again through a nicotenic acetyloline nicotenic acetylcholine receptor dramatically reduces the production of inflammatory cytoines in the joint sinovium right in the joints. Multiple epidemi multiple epidemiological studies have found such a strong inverse correlation between nicotine use and the prevalence of rheumatoid arthritis. Now I realize you could just say that's cause cause and effect. That's not true. You could say it's correlative. That's not true. Smokers have a lower incidence of RA. And now we know it wasn't the smoke. Go figure, right? It's the nicotine. It's been nicotine all along. Quietly soothing the inflammatory fire in the joints. And if you say, "Well, where's the proof?" The proof is everything I just told you already. It's not a pain mask. It's attacking the root cause, and it's been doing it all along. Look at your gut. What do they talk about, right? Smoking in the gut. They say that nicotine causes ulcers. What? It protects the damn gut. Nicotine's anti-inflammatory effects extend into the gut lining. It's actually shown so many studies, and I'm not going to give you these because I've done this. I've done all the work for you. You could do a little work. It improves symptoms and promotes the healing of ulcerative colitis. It reduces intestinal permeability, leaky gut, calms the immune system, mediated inflammation. It characterize characterizes all these these situations or these conditions. This is God there are so many. I can go into dementia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and multiple sclerosis. It's just line after line after line. The unifying principle is the conergic anti-inflammatory pathway. This is the master key. Your vagus nerve, right, cranial nerve 10, acts like a direct line from your brain to your major organs. Without it, you have nothing but big ass problems. When it releases acetylcholine, it binds to these nicotenic acetylcholine receptors on immune cells, and it shuts down the production of the inflammatory cytoines. It's your body's built-in inflammation kill switch. Nicotine is the universal key. Please listen to me, you guys. It is the universal key that fits into the same lock everywhere in your body. In the brain, it sharpens cognition. In the heart, it reduces vascular inflammation. In the lungs, opens up airways and calms that immune response. In the joints, it shuts down the autoimmune attack. This is stuff that you you should be taking notes on this stuff and going, "Where do I get it?" We have been taught to fear. It's the same thing I talked about with testosterone. Man, we have been taught to fear a molecule that in its pure form is one of the most versatile and powerful regulatory tools in human physiology. a molecule that enhances the very fabric of cognition while simultaneously dousing the inflammatory fires that lead to nearly every single major chronic disease of aging. The scale of the error is historic and the cost on humanity and mankind and human health is incalculable. But now you know. So you have a choice, man. You can sit there and keep arguing and go, I got to do a little more re research. You can. When is it going to be enough? When is it going to be enough research that you've done to go, I need to do this because I my life is finite. I don't know if you guys have figured it out and realized it yet, but you're going to die. Why not max out your system so it runs the best it possibly can until God calls you home? So you can actually go do the things that you're supposed to do. So you can actually enjoy the life that you want to enjoy instead of sitting around rubbing your joints, taking the next prescription, listening to a doctor in a white coat with a god complex who tells you how stupid you are and that you should listen to them. And if you don't, they call your house and pester you until you do. Nicotine is not a vice. It's like a It's like a vitamin for your vagus nerve. It's like a supplement for your brain. It's the most misunderstood miracle of modern medicine. And most people ignore it because they go it causes cancer. But it doesn't. And I just proved it. So I guess the question you should probably ask is not is it bad for you anymore? Because if you can keep doing that, that's great. But you're going to spend a lot of time in rabbit holes that produce absolutely nothing but rabbit turd. The question you should ask is can any part of my life afford not to be doing this? I don't know. Hope that helps. I got to go. Never miss.