All right. Sometimes when uh when I get writing and uh I don't even a piece of paper here right now. Normally I have a little piece of paper, five, six, sometimes 10 points that I want to talk about in my podcast. But sometimes I get writing. I just sat here. I wrote for about 45 minutes. Nothing to do with this podcast. Just when God connects, and by that I mean when you actually just open up and let him connect. Oh man, you can't believe what flows through you when you None of these podcasts 202 episodes have ever been well thought. And maybe some of you guys are going, "Oh yeah, we could tell. Where's your podcast, bro? And if you look at the very first podcast episode I did on January 1st of this year, and today, July 21st, radically different. And honestly, I used to think I had to talk about specific subjects. I I really did. I thought, well, I I should only talk about this. Well, I should only talk about that. Sometimes I just come out here and I just start talking and just discuss things that are on my mind, whether you like them or not, because, well, I'm the leader of this band. This is my show. And if you don't like it, great. But every time I come out here, it is with one sole purpose to give you everything I've everything that is coming out of my heart and my soul connected from God to you. With every ounce of energy and love, I've got to help you better life. The only person that's getting in the way is you. If you hear me say something and go, "Well, that's really offensive. That hurts my feelings. That bothers me." there's a good chance that it's because it's true and you need to fix it, change it, or repair it like this. I'm sure this one's going to piss a bunch of people off, but I want you to ask yourself something. If you get in the comments on anybody's podcast, mine, someone else's, you want to do it, you want to get in the comments of somebody's Instagram or Tik Tok or anything like that, and you drop anything other than you're kicking ass. Nice work. Let me help lift you up. Loved it. If you're dropping negativity and venom, save it. Save it. Nobody cares. You're doing it in an effort to appease yourself and your tiny little confidence and your massive insecurity. You don't like it because it calls you out on something. But if you like if you get in here and you're like, I'm going to give you one star or whatever rating it is on the podcast on Spotify or on on YouTube. Why? If you don't like it, don't listen. The beauty of technology is you can just swipe right, turn it off, go, I can't stand this. But some of you guys listen and just get more angry while you're listening, which should be your incredibly obvious signal to be honest to go look in the mirror and go, I got work to do. I need to change it. But a lot of you guys don't. Instead, you look for you look for the next thing that supports where you are so you can go back to staying in a life that you can't stand that you wish were different while defending the life you're in. You guys walk around, you blame everybody for the life you're in. Like, nobody's ever forced you to do to do a damn thing. You know that? Nothing. I don't care if it's so bad and people like the outliers always argue, "Well, what if they had a gun to you? You can eat the bullet." And you know what a lot of people will say? Well, you do it, bro. Let's see how tough you are. I stood up to the entire medical profession, the entire medical world, and currently the FDA, going, "Y'all are a bunch of liars hurting people for profit, for subscriptions into illness and medication." And I come out here and I explain ways to to solve, you know, what every health problem. you. I do. I show up here probably at least three out of my weekly uh three out of the seven podcasts I run every week are to help you solve a health problem in a way that we're not just managing it. It's gone. I mean, I I legally can't use the word cure, which is wild because a lot of drug ads can. It's wild, right? Like, [\h__\h] you very much. But when the symptoms are gone and the problems are gone and your life is normal and powerful, what exactly did you It's gone. But I come out here and I give you the answer to do it. And I give you the steps, the very steps to do it with a company, Elite Biogenics, where you can solve every problem you've got if you just follow the hypothetical educational research that just happens to show up in some guy's Instagram that knows exactly what he's talking. And yet a lot of you guys go, you know what? I'm going to It's not approved. Follow the science. Are you high? Because you're afraid. Here's why. You're You're actually committed to your label, your diagnosis. Because if that's eradicated in whatever it is, whether it's depression, anxiety, diabetes, it doesn't matter what it is. You have inside you all of the tools to get rid of everything as long as the signals are running right which is this doctor right here helps you get your operating system working well. That's why I have the cure program. C is an acronym. Not even going to the cure program. Like I said it's $100,000 and it's 100 days. You walk in with whatever health problem you've got. 100 days later I want to hear a thing seeing you about the problems you have because they'll be gone. But I go into this isn't wire the money and let's get to work. Let's go. Let's have a conversation and see if you qualify. Which means are you going to listen to everything I tell you to? And when people go, well, how what what qualifies you? Number one, I'm a doctor. But honestly, don't take that for anything because most of the doctors out there, most of you guys, if you're doctors, you guys are embarrassing. You guys are drug pushers and pharmaceutical reps and lazy chat GPT people that look up things to find out an answer to give somebody a pill or a lotion or a potion or a surgery or a drug to eventually send them down a cascade of 6 7 8 9 10 different drugs to keep them profitable. And you're taught I actually don't blame you because you are conditioned. You are the doctrine that you have is is disgusting. Above all, do no harm. That is not just the hypocratic oath. It is a philosophy for a lifetime. I live that every day. Which is why I come out here. You don't think I'm tired. A lot of times you don't think like the other day I was up till midnight making sure this went out. It's because number one, I do what I say. And number two, I actually give a crap. So when someone goes, I don't know, man. You want the truth? You guys should be lining up. And it's, you know, some of you guys, most are probably going, "Oh, it's about the money." Dude, I would spend eight figures to make sure that I never go through hell that I went through four years ago when they took out my lung. And even more to see the hell that my wife and kids went through. I would spend every dime I've got to make sure they never have to go through that again because it was harder for them than You have no idea how helpless it feels when you see somebody that you love and care about. There's nothing you can do. Forget it. You find me the price on that. You find me the group for that, the discount code. That's how you guys think. No, I mean these peptides and stuff. I mean, I heard they're How do I know? Oh, is it going to work? Don't buy them then. What you want is to stay where you are. Because if you take something that 100% will absolve you of all the issues, not the responsibility, it will eliminate all the issues and just get your body doing what it's supposed to be doing, which is running like a juggernaut. But if there's something out there that's going to do that, and there is, I've come up with so many protocols that work. Do you know why a lot of celebrities and athletes and CEOs and moms and dads next door call me? Because I care. Because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] about people and their health and their life and their faith and their psychology and everything they have. And I go all in on how to make them better. But you go ahead and keep writing checks to your insurance companies and your just all the prescriptions and subscriptions and BS that you have going, I don't know. I'm going to try. Is there something easier? That tells me already that you want permission to stay where you are and you're afraid. When there's something that's going to work, you go, "Oh, now it's exposing truth. I really want you to work. I'm not willing to state my case and claim my space. Struggle ends when commitment begins. Just see it. Most people are just afraid to commit. So, they don't like I had a webinar on uh Sunday and I said it. I don't know how many there were in this webinar. Nine 10 people. And I said, I'll bet most of you guys don't sign up. Not because of the money. Dude, my webinar to get into my mastermind, my mentorship is so inexpensive. And when you come in through my webinar, it's so inexpensive. You're going to spend Oh, I said I'm I'm upping it now. It's 5 grand. It used to be 1,500 bucks. All you guys waiting till you had the money or whatever it was, blew it. Five grand. Five grand you get in for an entire year. There's no pitch in what I'm saying. and you get access to a a guy who actually cares, who knows what he's talking about and has proven it for over a decade, who's actually had to go through what qualifies me to give the advice. Look at my story. I don't have some rags to riches, you know, I had to sleep in my living room on a pile of mattresses BS. I was in ICU and then on life-saving machines while my wife was locked outside of the hospital while her husband me was dying to the point where she got a text message from me saying, "I'm not going to make it. I'm sorry, Brandy. I'm sorry. I wanted to do all this life with you and I'm sorry I'm not going to make it until the morning. I love you so much." And then I gave her a list of all kinds of things that she needed to manage while I was when I was gone. And her message back was, "I need you. I can't do this life without you, Trevor. I love you. You can't die." Four years later, here I am. I don't take that lightly, but if you've seen me and go back and look, I hear people go, "Oh, I'm sure we'll never see this." I've never missed a day since August of 2021 showing you exactly the hell I had to climb out of 150 pounds in a wheelchair, missing a lung, struggling, angry, bitter, furious, rage, crying, laughing. It didn't matter. But I showed it all. You want to know my qualifications outside of being a doctor and actually creating successful businesses? So, I can teach you how to make money. I can teach you how to be healthy. I can solve most every health problem. Give it to me. I don't care. I'll solve it. And if somebody goes, "Well, that's egotistical." It's a resume because I do it. That's how good I am. That's not arrogance. Arrogance are all the Insta gurus, all you Insta coaches and Insta docks on social media. Like I said, I'll set your skulls on fire. Go live with me anytime, day or night. I don't give a crap who you are. If you're going against what I'm saying, I'll go live with you and I will burn the eyes right out of their sockets cuz I actually care about people. So, you can sit here and listen to this. I don't know how many minutes I'm in. 10, 12. And you can accept it, get triggered by it, and go, "Yeah, I got to change that person in the mirror." Or you can sit there and keep looking for the next thing. But I called them out on my webinar. Oh, you guys, most of you guys aren't going to do it. And if you go, well, yeah, you're speaking it into existence. No, I know the nature of people. They want easier. They want cheaper. Or they don't want to be exposed that if they have the blueprint, it eradicates all their excuses. instantly. You want to you want to join a mentorship? You put five grand on a credit card, I'll change your entire [\h__\h] life. You know, I I I really do work on me a lot of swearing. Not for the reasons you think, but sometimes you guys piss me off cuz I don't think you realize just how much I care. I don't come out here for me. I get views, sometimes 300 views on a video. I'm not chasing views or likes or follows. I'm out here doing everything I can to lead mankind to be better. And not better, be the best version of yourself. By golly, I mean be better. Solve your health problem. Stop. Stop walking around with type 2 diabetes or heart disease or kidney disease or all the psychological problems that you've been labeled with that don't exist, the mental illnesses that you've been told you have, the businesses that you've been struggling with and going from cheap coach to cheap coach or useless coach to useless coach instead of going to somebody that's going to go, I'm going to hold your feet to the fire and I'm going to demand that you do everything I tell you to do. And most people go, I five grand, that's too much. I I I just don't have that kind of money, man. Then success is not for you. Because if a life was on the line, you wouldn't. An instrument has yet to be invented that measures how you will find that $5,000. And that's one year. Told my wife today, I said, "I'm disappointed and kind because people are always looking for a way out, but they're only looking for one that's easy, that does all the work for them. So, what they're really doing is looking for permission to stay. Like, you are where you are. Nobody's forced you to be there. Nobody's forced you to do a damn thing in your life, man. It It's not like nobody. No, no government or media or peer pressure or fear or the government or your boss or the bureaucracy or the policies, not even your bank account. A a tweaker can outgun you to find money. Cool. You keep telling yourself that you can't do it, though. The problem is you doubt your follow through on anything. Like you might feel that all those things made the decisions for you. But feelings aren't facts. Your perception, you know what it doesn't do? It doesn't rewrite your activities. You do. See, the moment that you say they made me, you know what you're saying? I gave them permission to own me. And what you've just shown, what you've just revealed, you're buyable. You just showed your price. Like, let me get this. Let me get this straight. Just so we know, this is going to bug so many of you guys. I don't care. You were not forced to take the jab. All of you people going out there going, "You don't understand. I was forced." You were not. You chose to. You were scared. You sold. You took a knee. You took a knee. The only person you take a knee to is just so you know. And then you bend. But you bowed to fear and put a price tag on your dignity and value. And the worst, you're walking around calling it responsible. You know what it really is? Self- betrayal. And it's wrapped up in this costume of justification. Like some days I just I just sit here and I just want to dissect the crap out of this because you need to own yourself. And for some reason, social media I'm pointing at my phone over there for everybody watching. Social media says, "No, you don't. You shouldn't have to own yourself. Your life and everything is somebody else's responsibility. Let that hit for a second because that means you are turning over control of your life to somebody else but complaining that you don't control your life. Make it make sense. We are living in the most illusionary time in human history. And the illusion is that you're not in control. Like people are defending slavery, their own by the way, as if it's some kind of virtuous thing. I had to Spartan. Well, they would have fired me if I didn't do it, Spartan. There were no other options, Spartan. [\h__\h] You need to And that the evidence against what you did is over. Well, what you just said is this. My paycheck my paycheck meant more than my values, my code of ethics for myself. My comfort meant more than my ideologies, my personal life. My self-worth, my fear, my fear was greater than God. The faith I have. Yeah. Congrats. You know what you just did? You sold your soul for $53,000 a year and maybe some dental. You have a price. You have a price if you And you know, people say everybody has a price. I don't. You will never buy me. I'll eat the bullet. I left the hospital when they were telling me I was going to die because my wife went, "I don't think they're helping." When they stuck me on Remesae and a football grew inside my chest and I believed my wife instantly. Everybody else was against me, including a whole bunch of you guys dropping hate in my comments, which is hilarious to me because some of you I I think some of the people that did that aren't here anymore. I told you there was that lady. Enjoy your short wind sucking life. Who says that? this. It's a wild world. But here's the problem. Your price. You didn't just do it for you. Here's the problem. You taught your kids for you taught your spouse how to cave in. You You made cowardice a blueprint. Like you modeled cowardice as if it were required. You're complicit. You didn't lose your freedom. You traded it for the whole little comfortable world that you live in. And worse, you're calling that trade wisdom. You walk around going, I am I'm so wise because I did that. Yet deep inside your skull, your skull, you're pissed because now you're worried. Here, let me ask you something. If you knew that you were in Listen, this is so mindblowing to me because I understand Jonas Sulk when he came up with a polio vaccine which they figured out later was due to DDT when right polio DDT just put it together. Jonas Sulk when he came up with the vaccine went I fear I've created a monster and he was polio was already on the decline. How many of you guys had a polio vaccine? You got vaccinated against nothing just so you know. If you knew that they were injecting you with something that could end your life prematurely, but it would keep your job, would you still do it? If you knew, too busy lying to yourself, huh? If your answer is yes, you're already dead. Cuz you don't you don't need a coffin when your integrity is already buried. And here's the best part. If you answered no, but you still did it, what does that say about you? You didn't get forced. You chose to betray yourself and now you are hiding behind this logic that you had to invent after the fact so you didn't hate yourself. That is not logic. That is that's a ghillie suit for your emotion. That's like camouflage. Emotional camouflage. What kind of internal system produces this kind of self- betrayal? Oh, this is going to be uncomfortable because I I really have nothing here in front of me. I'm just going, but I'm lit. This it's it's what psychologists and psychiatrists call an external locus of control. That's what this all is. It means your life is I'm looking for the word dictate by what happens to you, not by what you choose to do. That's a belief system built around being a victim. You wait for conditions to change so you can feel powerful. That's you wait around for somebody to save you going, "Why aren't they coming? Why aren't they coming? Why aren't they coming?" You wait for the economy or your boss or your ex or the weather or something to show up. And when none of that shows up, you get crippled because your power has never been yours to begin with. It was rented. Listen, here's a here's a blunt metaphor. I love metaphors, right? You're driving a car, but you you put the GPS in someone else's hands. You duct tape your own eyes, and now you're bad. You're mad, pissed off about where you ended up. This is psychology of the modern adult. You're not free. You're least. You can't make this up. You didn't end up in this situation because you were dumb. You ended up here because you chose easy over just being honest. You're a sellout. Why? And it's not me like listen and I'm trying not to be too I don't want to attack anybody but you guys have to look at your life easy gives you room to hide and the the difference is being honest having integrity with yourself it forces movement you have to move it makes you move because if you had said fine fire me fire me then I'm not doing that you'd have to learn new skills You'd have to build something from scratch. You'd have to face all kinds of rejection and risk and fear and possibly being ostracized, even hated or cancelled. You'd have to reinvent your whole life. You'd have to do something that you didn't want to do. Earn it. But you didn't want to do the work. So instead, you told yourself this story. I had to. You don't understand, bro. I had no other choice. I was going to lose my job. So now you defend that lie like your life depends on it. But let me tell you what really depended on it. your character, your your soul, and you just bartered that away for job security. There's no such thing as job security. You are the job security. Because if you suck at your job and you are still there because you know for sure that the EDDD is going to defend you for being unjustly fired. You work for me and you suck at your job. You're gone. I'm not giving you any time. you suck at your job. If you've been told, "Hey, you need to do this better and here's how." By the way, when you hire somebody just on a a quick pivot, don't sit there and kill yourself giving them instructions on how to do it. Look them in the eye and go, "You have a 100 days. What are you going to do for me? This is your position. You have access to everything in my entire company. What are you going to do? Show me." If you hire somebody and then have to spend a 100 days chasing them around to make sure they're doing their job and handholding them, you gave yourself more work, not less. What is the point of delegating something in your in your company? To do less, give it to somebody else. Like, you want to know the fastest way to identify a coward? Listen for defensiveness. Hey, you know him, right? Anyone who gets triggered by what I just said is the exact person that this applies to. The louder the objection and the protest, the deeper the cut of that truth. Huh? I had to pay bills, bro. I had to keep my job. I have responsibilities. Well, I had to feed my kids. Clearly, you don't have to worry about that. Here, I'll be blunt as hell. You chose money and fear and you chose to teach your kids how to be afraid. You chose all of that over your own integrity. Don't give me that nonsense about no opportunities either. By the way, I started my company, my first company four years ago with a cell phone and a used laptop in a house that was filled with the devil. No, I'm not kidding. Built by a guy that ripped us off for almost 2 million bucks, pulled my wife's dreamhouse out from under her and then turned around and tried to attack us when we told the truth. Put me in a box. The house was filled with black mold. brand new 6200 ft beautiful home on the outside. You put lipstick on a pig, it's still a pig. Was a gold covered turd. Let me explain something. I had to start over. I burned through my savings. You've heard the story. I was in a wheelchair. You've seen You've seen the videos. That stupid oxygen machine. I heated that thing. But I wasn't about to let my family, my wife, my kids down, everybody that believed in me because I believe in me too much. Sure, I could have rolled over. I could have sat on the couch and taken what it was almost a dozen medications and it would be shaped like a bean bag or dead. I sure as hell wouldn't be doing this and I have no credibility. And if anybody goes, "Well, you have no credibility now. Look at my life. All I have is credibility. Oh, there's nobody like me because I step up and I show up every day and I shut my mouth when I don't know. But when I know, I'll go toe-to-toe with you all day. You can be my Tyson. I'll get in the ring with you because I know I just don't I don't debate things I don't know. I learn about things. Like if I walked out my front door right now, I could make money by the end of the day a lot. Mow lawns, clean windows, flip on Facebook Marketplace. Like there's something to do. I'd bet every single dollar we have on it right now because I'm willing to do the work. Most people aren't. Most of you guys wanted to preserve what you knew because the known is familiar and even if it's miserable, it's safe. You have safety and misery. But that's why you didn't leave your job. That's why you didn't say, "You know what? You can go right to hell when you want to stick me with that needle." That's why you said yes when everything inside you said, "Are you out of your ever loving mind? You weren't loyal to your job. You were loyal to your laziness." You want proof? I'll give you proof. Watch this. This I've said this so many times and it's true. I'm going to Let me drink some coffee. almost 6:00. I'll give you the proof. You remember the lockdowns? Look out. Remember all those people that said, "If I just had the time, I'd lose the weight, get jacked, build my fitness. Oh, I'd be a machine if I had as much time." Then they'd look at people that were fit and go, "If I had as much time as you, I could look just like you." Then the world shut down. Time was all that you had. But instead of deadlifts and working out and managing what you did and learning because the internet is free, all you did Uber Eats, Door Dash, sit around, watch TV, Netflix subscriptions, Amazon Video, HBO. Instead of push-ups, all you did was make excuses. And instead of growing and learning and upgrading your skill set, you made Instagram videos about how bad your life is and how you wish things were different. You were never missing time. You were missing discipline. And the lockdown didn't expose the government, it exposed you. It drives me nuts because I see when you're put in a position for most people that gives you the opportunity to do the change you keep complaining about not having or the give you the opportunity you keep complaining about not having, you find a way to pivot to go, well that's not the exact opportunity I need. That's not the truth. You have a behavioral problem. I will tell you something incredibly uncomfortable. You are the sum of every decision that you have made or failed to make. Your environment, your boss, your spouse, your systems, the news, nothing. You, your decisions, habits, patterns, thoughts, reactions, everything. You are a walking, breathing reflection of all of your own behaviors over a certain amount of time. You don't need a revolution. You need a damn mirror. That is the most violent, transformative, liberating weapon in existence. A mirror. It It doesn't love. Doesn't care about your story, your trauma, your childhood, your poor little mental illness that you've manufactured that you chase with pills all day. Here's the truth. Your life is not a reflection of your circumstances, man. It's not a it's a it's a reflection of your standard. And most people have such incredibly low standards that they can't stand to look at themselves in the mirror. It's fit in. It's don't offend. Go along to get along. I've said that so many times. You stand for nothing. So, you fall for everything. And here's what haunts you the most. Most of you guys listening to this. I'm sure some of you guys triggered just so pissed off. And I'm triggers you because I'm right. Get as mad as you want. Go look in the mirror. get mad at that person cuz you know you could have you could have done differently could have stood up. There was another way even if you didn't know it in the moment there was there's always a best move and you didn't take it because it demanded too much and now you you rage at the people that actually did it. Four years ago I was broke sick missing parts with six 4-in incisions on me and wondering what the hell I was going to do to even help my family put food in a refrigerator that I was about to lose. I come out here because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] But a lot of you guys rage on the people that have done the work like I have. That's why you hate winners cuz you know you could have just done you could have taken a different path. That's why you call men with conviction toxic. You attack truth with these ridiculous emotional buzzwords all over social media because every time somebody shows you what's possible, you don't look at it as a blueprint and start taking notes. It reflects what you refuse to do. So, you get mad. So, go ahead and get back. Go ahead, get pissed off. Type your comments. Call it privileged or oversimplified or it's not that easy, bro. Or some of us, whatever it is, call it insensitive. Say, have a little empathy. I have none of that. Not because none of you had it for me. but because it didn't help anyway. Empathy and enabling. Yeah, they both start with the same letter. And if you go, well, you should be empathetic. You should stop enabling. None of it changes the truth. Get all get as mad as you want. Get as mad as you want. Get in the comments. Get pissed off. Throw hate. Throw Just literally do whatever you can. Do me a favor. Bring up every screw-up I've ever had in the past. I don't live there. You do because you don't like that I don't live there anymore. You were not forced. You have never been forced to do anything in your life. Even if there was a gun, eat the bullet. You chose to sell out. And you can stop pretending now. How about that? You just stop pretending right now. Hey, prove it. Listen. Jesus. The son of God was nailed to a cross. He had the power to stop it. Come down. vaporize everybody here. Walk away unscathed. But he chose to stay. He didn't do it because he was forced. He did it because he had a higher purpose. He took the hit for you. So now look me in the eyes and say you had no choice about your job. Don't you dare cheapen sacrifice by comparing it to cowardice. Don't you dare put your comfort on the same level as Jesus and God's conviction. So many people running around saying, "I deserve better." Then be better. You had a choice. Nobody forced you. So stop saying it like you think it makes you righteous. What it does is make you a coward and a victim and leaning on your excuses. How many times have you heard me blame cancer? Blame missing a lung? blame anything. Blame being broke, blame being losing everything, lawsuit, like you name it. Crying wife, crying kids. You guys have never heard me blame it. So, when you have your little $39,000 a year job and you go, "Oh, what are you criticizing people that don't make as much money as you? I didn't make as much money as me four years ago. You made more than I did. I knew nothing about what I was doing. Nothing. I started off as a fitness trainer. Then I realized most of you guys don't listen anyway. You think you need some magic diet and fancy workout plan when you just really need to stop eating like an [\h__\h] and pick up some heavy things. You had a choice. But here's the part. A guy like me comes out and stands on your trachea and kicks your ass a little bit because he loves you and you get pissed off. Tell me again how you're so devoted to changing your life. If you're getting mad at the person that goes, "This is how this is what you're doing. This is what you need to stop. Go this direction. In fact, I hold out my hand and I come on. I'll help you." And you get angry at that. That exposes exactly what I said. You want to stay where you are because if you accept my hand and a blueprint that dissolves every excuse you've and now you've got nothing left to fall back on because I'm an example of the fact works. Here's the here's the price for reclaiming life. You have to look in the mirror. You have to look in the mirror and admit I did this to me. I did. Nobody else. I did this to me. And most of you won't. You're going to rage and deflect and get pissed off and blame and go back to scrolling. Find something that eases that discomfort because scrolling is easier than going, "You know what? The hell with this. I'm done. I'm changing everything." It's not too late. You're not out of time. You can do this whenever you want. I'm 52. But for a couple of you, listen, I'll say this. For a couple of you, and I mean rare, this is the rare. This is why the 1% is the 1%. And people get mad at that, too. Not everybody wants to be rich. No. But everybody wants the freedom that comes along with the money. Not everybody wants to be fit and jacked. No. But everybody wants the ability to take a physical hit so they don't get crippled by something dumb like tripping in their lawn. Not everybody wants to be married and in a great relationship. [\h__\h] I'll leave it at that. You can go back to networking to whatever the hell is you watch, but everybody wants to be in an amazing marriage. Not everybody has faith. You're right. But God does has faith in you, man. And if you don't have faith in God, you have faith in something. You just have your faith misdirected. So here for the rare few the the 1% of the the uncommon among uncommon to take something from God. Feel that lump inside you that knot where you're pissed off but you're not sure if you're going to yell or cry. That just that pit in your stomach where you're just all torn up. The little whisper in your head. That voice going, "Son of a [\h__\h] is right. Stop silencing it. lean in because listen, the minute I've done this, I have been in this position, the minute that you say, "I wasn't forced. I folded. Damn it, I did." That's the moment that you actually stand up and go do something about wherever it is you are. Because on the other side of that decision, it's all the freedom that you want. The money, the relationship, the fitness, the life, all of it, even the psychology. But that's where you start. You do not need my workout routine or my business or a copy of how I run my marriage. You need my psychology. You want to know what people pay me for that. The results because of my psychology. You want the freedom. And not the kind of freedom like the freedom that comes with that. Not the kind of freedom that they give you. The kind that you take back because it's yours. Cuz you go, "Wait a minute. I did choose and I still am choosing and I'm choosing the wrong [\h__\h] So, make a new decision. I got to go. Never miss.