Yeah, it's like one of those days where it's nothing but fires to put out. I made a joke in my my Spartan live call that I do every Saturday today. People ask me what I do for a living. Firemen. So, I spend my entire day pissing on fires. That's all I do. And it's the truth. And you know, I think everybody is like that. Just most people aren't willing to to put out the fire. You just turn your back on it and wonder why it consumes you. This this podcast I'm going to polarize all of you guys on this one. Guaranteed I make deeper friends, stronger followers, get new ones, and piss off a bunch of people who leave and can't stand me after this because I'm going to tell you the truth. Like I I really You guys need to understand something right from the start. I'm not here to make friends. I'm not here to be liked or make buddies with you or become some kind of a pal where you just feel like that Spartan, he's a great guy. I don't care if you think I'm a great guy or not. I'm here to tell you the truth. Which is what I do with medical advice, with fitness advice, with psychological advice. I I help you in any way I can. And if you go, "Well, that's not very helpful. It's because you didn't apply it." And here's the truth. Listen, like I said, this is all about obesity and this most screwed up mindset right now. Like I said, I am a 52year-old man. And when I was a kid, the number of people that were fat, fat, that's the word. I'm tired of the largebodied, bigbodied, [\h__\h] you're fat. Get over yourself. We are living in, listen to me, it aggravates me. We are living in the middle of a mass psychological delusion that is so profound and so financially lucrative, you guys, and so biologically catastrophic, I might add, that future generations, I I guarantee they're going to look back and were these guys clinically insane before this next gener like were you guys all batshit crazy? That's what they're going to do. They're going to look back at this and go they were all nuts. It didn't make any sense. the celebration of obesity. Get Just listen to what I just said. Like even that, what do people do when they have parties? They get cake. If you're fat, you don't need any more cake, man. You've had enough. Push the plate away. So what? The idea, listen to me. The idea that big is beautiful isn't just wrong. It is weaponized. It is weaponized and profit driven. And it's a lie designed to keep you sick and keep you weak and keep you paying for the privilege of your own demise. Do you guys understand this? It is the single greatest marketing campaign ever launched against human health. And you you are the product. You are the product. Listen, no feelings, just some basic psychology. Listen to me. Your body is a biological machine. It operates on a set of incredibly non-negotiable, timeless principles. You can't do anything about it. That's how you're genetically made. I'm not talking about the genetics that you guys are about ready to fall back on. Well, it's my genetics. My daddy was fat. My mommy was fat. You chose to be fat. It's not your genetics. Any geneticist will tell you that worth their salt. a storebought one or a fat one will say otherwise. You have a skeleton and you have a skeleton designed to carry a very specific load. Yes, the load has broad parameters, but over time on a constant basis, it is You have a heart designed to pump blood through a specific volume of tissue. You have lungs designed to oxygenate a specific mass. You have a pancreas designed to manage a specific glycemic load. And when you force a machine to operate at 150, 200, 300, 500% of its design capacity, it doesn't get beautiful. It breaks and it fails and it screams in protest day in and day out through a litany of diseases that we have all become numb to. Listen, I I cannot get this through. I have been a doctor for a long time and I'm tired of people going, "Well, yeah, but my doctor says this, my doctor says that because you are a profit machine. Type 2 diabetes is not bad luck. It is your pancreas waving a white flag after a decade long artillery bombardment of sugar and refined carbohydrates. It's metabolic surrender. That's what your body is doing with type 2 diabetes. It is not accidental. Hypertension. First of all, most of the time you guys are misdiagnosed. There's no such thing. My blood pressure is skyrocketed right now. I do not have hypertension. My blood pressure is just high right now because I'm worked up. But if you have chronic hypertension, that's not an act of God. That is your heart muscle screaming, forcing blood through thousands and thousands of miles of clogged, inflamed, pissed off, aggravated plumbing, a system that's choked with biological debris of your poor choices. I'm not wrong. Look at Listen, I had somebody say, "Well, what do I do about sleep apnnea?" They were easily 120 lbs overweight. I'm not talking about the BMI, by the way. If you think of the BMI is ideal, that is the flip side. Cuz watch, follow me on this. The BMI is designed by an insurance company, not healthcare. And even then, current healthcare a [\h__\h] joke. The BMI is designed by an insurance company because according to the BMI, I should be about 155 lbs. You guys, if you have followed me for any length of time four years ago, saw what I look like at 150. Bonnie, knobbyby, knead, giant elbows and knees, beak, can barely squat. I'm going to like I'm borderline 5'11 on a good day. I'm not meant to be 150 lb. I'm just south of 200 lb right now. I don't look giant. I don't look like a big no- neck bodybuilder. Nothing against it. I think that's a ton of I think that's a ton of discipline and a ton of work. I don't think it's a ton of help. I'm not obese. I look athletic because I am by design. Because the way I train makes me look like this. The way I eat makes me look like this. But when somebody goes, I have sleep apnea, but this was the best. What peptide? What sarm can I take? You can lose reatride. Redat true tide MK-677 because the reatride mitigates the insulin issue that MK-677 the small one that it can cause and it handles the appetite increase that MK-677 makes because I will be very transparent. The first time I took it I took a full 25 milligrams. This is totally unrelated to this podcast and I woke up at 1:00 in the morning and I wanted to eat everything in my [\h__\h] fridge and then I spent the rest of the entire day eating everything in sight because I was so hypoglycemic. But that's because I went from zero. So I am hyper insulin sensitive on either side of that spectrum. I would always remember you can't untake something. Start at five. Work your way up to 12.5 and hang out there if you feel great. I have people in my group 25 and they don't even notice. It's one of the most effective ghrelin nomatics that you could ever take and it is insane for results. Like I know people that love it. My buddy Brad Jensen, the sober bodybuilder, you should give him a follow. By the way, if you do not follow the sober bodybuilder, you're missing out. This dude is a stud, man. He is a stud. Him and his fiance. I [\h__\h] love these two. And I've never even met her. I just like him, which means I'm already gonna like her. But his name is Brad Jensen, the sober bodybuilder. Look him up on social media and give him a follow and say, "Hey man, the Spartan said follow you because you're dope." He is. He's legit. Love the guy to death. So, the reason I'm saying number one, he's smart. He knows what he's talking about. Number two is he's funny as hell. But we were talking about psalms and serms and everything and he's one of the few people that just like dude I I love MK-677. I know people that just swear by it and I know people that swear at it. But MK-677 and read a true tide. You're welcome. That's what you need to do. You don't need a new program or somebody to accept you or give you a hug. They won't be able to get their arms around your big ass body anyway. And stop getting mad about it. It is just the truth. If you get upset by somebody calling you out for the truth, that's the problem of the world we're in right now is that the truth is labeled as offensive. Listen, whether you like it or not, it is still the truth. If you say to me, "Listen, you got a big booger hanging out of your nose and I get mad." It doesn't change the fact that if there's one there, it's there. That's weird. If you take all your personal investment into ignoring the truth and throw it in the trash, you would be a lot less stressed out. Like, sleep apnea is where I was going with this, by the way, before I went off on my rant. This isn't some quirky problem that people I have sleep apnea. Your brain is being suffocated night after night after night because the soft tissue in your throat in your throat. The pipe that allows you to breathe has been swollen and saturated with fat. It's collapsing your airway and you are literally choking yourself to death while you sleep. Is that always the cause? Before somebody goes, "Well, that's not always the cause because I have sleep apnea and I'm actually really really light." But most of the time it is. By the way, back to the BMI. Like I said, I'm supposed to be at about a buck 50. The BMI is invented to charge you more for your insurance. The big is beautiful and everybody should tolerate me for being fat is on the other side of the spectrum, which is now we can treat you for all the diseases that you're causing yourself with your poor decisions and your idiocy. Every single one of these conditions, listen, I am not wrong. Every single one of these conditions has some kind of mitigation that comes from big pharma. There's a CPAT machine, monthly co-ay, it has a quarterly specialist visit that you have to go to. This isn't a health care system. It's a sick care subscription service. And you are the recurring revenue. You are the constant profit machine. So they want to keep you alive as long as possible, just not strong enough to make a good decision. And so they create a group of people called the world. And they indoctrinate them to go, "It's big. Your big is beautiful. You should be fat. It's beautiful. Every a real man likes a big woman. Listen, you have any doubts that I'm a real man. Come to my house." No, we don't. You have been indoctrinated and beaten up with this ideology that that's how you're supposed to be and that's you actually believe it because it's easier. It's easier to go just accept me for who I am and what I am. This is my comfortable weight. No, it's not. That's your careless weight. You guys, you don't understand. You're the butt end of the joke. In the circles that are making money off of you, you're the butt end of the joke. You're not the butt end of the joke to me. I'm out here because I give a [\h__\h] If you're fat, you need to do something about it cuz I care. Because you might have kids or a spouse or people that count on you or a life that you want to go do things with and you will not be able to because you're going to fall flat dead. Listen, they don't want you cured. A cured customer is a lost customer. They want you managed. Managed health care is what I see all the time. They want you just healthy enough to keep showing up for work to pay your premiums and your taxes, but just sick enough to need their products forever. You know what people do? They cons they're they join my consulting program or my cure program. My cure program is only 25 days or 100 days. You know why? Because if I can't help you in that short period of time, you're not listening to what I told you. If you go, "Well, I had this problem. It took six months." Then your doctor sucks. Then your doctor's terrible at their [\h__\h] job. I will go toe-to-toe with anyone that goes, "Well, yeah, but it took it takes normally nine months." According to who? Because some book said it just so we can be very transparent. Your body is resilient as hell. It is a lifegiving machine when you do things that make it stronger. You guys, that's just how I'm built. It's unbelievable. Like, that's what you guys say when you're overweight. The most brilliant part of their strategy is that they sold you an ideology that your prison is a palace. It is. Oh, it's a palace. I'm so proud they convinced you that the very thing that's killing you is your identity. That your sickness is all of your strength and power. Like I said, that's just how I'm built. You're not built. You're not built. You were assembled one poor shitty decision at a time after another. How about talk about genetics because that's my favorite one. I love hearing when people go, "It's just my genetics." The greatest scapegoat in human history, by the way. You see a fat father and you see a fat son and people will nod sagely about genetics. You see a muscular father and a muscular son, same thing. Good genetics. Just so you know, neither is true. Neither one. You can get my comments and start bitching and whining about misomorphine, ectomorphan, endomorphine, all the stuff that you want to talk about that you pretend to know about because you read it on Reddit, but absolutely incorrect. What you are seeing is not genetics. You are not seeing genetics. It is epigenetics. It is habit transfer. It is the behavioral download from one generation to the next. The fat family downloads the habits of overconumption and lethargy and victimhood. The fit family downloads the habits of discipline, movement, and some serious [\h__\h] ownership. Nobody who's fit says, "Man, I'm lucky my genetics made me wake up at 5:00 a.m. to lift heavy things and eat healthy food." But everyone who's fat says, "My genetics made me eat this entire pizza and chase it with a pint of ice cream and neglect going for a walk and then follow up with maybe three, four beers because I need to unwind." Make it make sense. Do you have any idea how much work it takes to become morbidly obese, to develop type 2 diabetes? You think that just happens? No. This is a daily concerted effort to ignore the body's signals and consume calories far in excess of any need you have and then actively avoid all the things that you were designed to do, all the movement you were designed to do, all the things you could do to mitigate the problem. Just actively seek them out or actively seek to avoid them. It is a monumental achievement of consistent disciplined reckless self-destruction. Like, I can't even get this out without just wanting to choke on my tongue. The most gling, insulting part of this entire charade is the demand for accommodation. The demand that the world bends to fit the consequences of your choices. Your choices. Nobody made you fat. Nobody made you broke either. It doesn't matter. Nobody made you alone. Nobody made you anything. You did. Bigger seats, wider aisles, stronger toilets, stronger rides when they reinforce the it's a small world because Americans have gotten too fat. Yes, true story. The entire architecture of society is being forged, reforged actually to accommodate the fallout of personal failure. And we're supposed to call this progress. We're supposed to call it compassion. Have a little compassion, bro. It's easy for you. I lost a lung. I got I have very little compassion for stupidity. I have plenty for people that definitely need the help and they're struggling to get out of it. It's why I come out here every day. If you're fat, I give you a solution. If you don't like needles, that's your problem. But then there's tessensine. You can use that, too. I'm not even plugging my company. I haven't even mentioned it once. I'm just saying there are ways around this. If you just don't have god tier willpower like some other people. So what? There are still ways. If you cut your take your calories, take your body weight in pounds, times it by 12, that is how many calories you should be consuming every day to lose weight. Period. Don't change it. Don't look for another. Don't go. I do that. No, you don't. No, you don't. Because if you do, then you would be losing weight. If not, it's because you got nothing but 10 pounds of blue cheese dressing on your salad. No, you're not doing it. So, if you need help, then take the help. But a lap band isn't going to do it. Lipos suction is never going to do it. And if you think that ozan peak and mjaro or yeah mjaro right whatever it's called tzepide you think that you think semiglutide and tzepide are going to do it for you per first of all those are both without getting fancy just appetite suppressants with incredibly great marketing reatite is the only one and it's not because my company sells it you can get it at a lot of places I'm saying that because it works because it actually works it works just physiologically but I was saying redat true tide actually does what it's supposed to do and reprograms your entire operating system. So unless you go back to making incredibly stupid decisions, you will never go back there again. The results are permanent. Tepatitide and semiglutide, you can never say that because you have been in famine the entire time and your body is itching to hit the gas to put those fat stores back on. You cannot fight it no matter what you say unless you run starvation your entire life. With reatride, it just reprograms you so your operating system runs different. What I struggle with are people that go, "No, I've been on semiglutide for two years and I lost the weight." So for two years, you injected yourself and it took you that long to lose the weight. You could have done that just by cutting your calories and going for a walk every day. Times your body weight by 12 in pounds. Go for a walk every single night at a 16 to 17 minute onem pace. Walk one mile every day. I promise you that'll help you lose weight. You add a true tide to that. You add MK-677 to that combined, you will lose weight and keep all the muscle. In fact, you will come out the other side of that equation looking like a shadow of yourself and you will look [\h__\h] fantastic and you'll feel better and you'll be healthy and you'll be strong and then you can tell everybody who's telling you that big is beautiful to go pound sand because you realize the difference. Compassion. This is not compassion. It's not compassion tolerating people's idiotic decisions. Compassion is telling somebody the truth before they need a se seat belt extender on an airplane. Compassion is intervening before their knees are destroyed by the constant load of 150 extra pounds. Compassion is having the guts to say, "I loved you too much to watch you kill yourself and lie to you about it." That's what compassion is. This isn't a personal attack. This is a rescue mission. That's why I'm out here. Like, I'm throwing you guys life preservers to help you out. And yet, people still go, "I'm going to be at you." Why? Because I pointed out the facts. Your biology doesn't care about your feelings. It doesn't care about mine either. Your biology is a set of mathematical equations. Calories in, calories out, stress on joints, straight on organs. It is merciless, apolitical, and utterly unbiased. It doesn't know about woke culture. It doesn't care. It only knows survival. And you are actively systematically violating its most basic operating parameters. And you're doing it by choice. You want to know what's majestic? What's really genuinely beautiful? This is something that always impresses me and I love it. And I had a plumber come to my house and he goes, "Hey, I see that like are you a fitness guy?" I was like, "No, I just I work out a lot." He says, "Oh, I lost it was almost 300 lb. The guy looked [\h__\h] phenomenal." And he showed me a picture and he goes, "Everybody bet against me, told me I was hurting myself, said it wasn't good. They all argued against me. I lost so many friends because they kept getting mad at me for losing weight, saying I was being unhealthy." I looked at the picture of this guy. He looked like the Goodyear blimp. And when he came to my house, he looked like a lean, fit dude. And he did it by fasting 186. That's it. And he said, "I've never felt so good in my life." And he goes, "I had so many people hating on me for it." That disgusts me. If you're one of those people, [\h__\h] you. How dare you get on somebody's back for doing something to make themselves better? How dare you? How dare you tell somebody to stop so you feel better about your poor decisions and your [\h__\h] [\h__\h] life? How dare you do that? Somebody wants to become a billionaire and you chastise them for it. You're just about money now. Somebody wants to lose the weight and become fit. Oh, you're just about being fit now. You're too good to eat chicken wings every day. Somebody stops drinking and you get on their back. Are you out of your mind? Uh, I told that guy, I was like, "Dude, if there's anything I can do for you, I'll even let you in my program for free. It's a $100,000 program." And I said, "Watching a human being decide they've had enough is that's epic. I know because I've been that human, and I have always been that human. Watching a person who is tired, tired of being tired, just get angry, livid, furious. Watching them take that first agonizing step up a hill for a walk, on a treadmill, whatever it is, watching them say no to that second or third portion. watching them fight for every single pound that they are stripping off of their oversized body. Not because society told them to, but because they looked in a mirror and finally negotiated with the only person that could change everything themselves. That's beautiful. That's beyond beautiful. That that transformation that from self delusion to self ownership, man, that is the most powerful attractive. That is the most heroic [\h__\h] thing a human being could do in any circumstance. And listen, this isn't about aesthetics before you go so everybody has to be jacked and ripped and have abs. I don't care what you do with that. That's between you and God. The byproduct of making good health decisions is you look healthy and strong. Just so you know, if you're chasing away, if you're chasing looking healthy and strong, you're putting value in something that can be taken away. I look like this because of the work I do. I don't do the work to look like this. They're not the same. It's not about aesthetics. It's about capability and energy. It's about waking up in the morning and feeling like a predator. Like an apex predator. Not the prey. Not the one that's being hunted by people going, "How do we get every dime out of you?" It's about playing with your kids, without getting winded. It's about climbing a [\h__\h] flight of stairs without your heart going, "I need to escape this guy's chest right now." That's power. Do you understand that? Like, that's power. And that power is you have that. It's not from a pill or some miracle surgery. It's through the relentless daily application of simple, boring fundamentals that everybody knows. And I come out here and I tell you for free. By the way, you're not a victim of your genes. You're not a victim of the food industry. You sure as hell aren't a victim of your job or your neighborhood or what kind of car you drive or how tired you are at the end of the day. You are the architect. You are the author. So quit making some like you're the one holding the [\h__\h] fork. Quit making excuses. You're the one choosing to sit instead of walk because your knees hurt. Do you think they're going to get better by sitting there longer? Own it. Own all of it. Every single ounce of it. Just own it all. Cuz that's the only way this goes away. I I don't know if you really understand that cuz people go, "Dude, I get it. I get it. I've had cancer. I've lost a lung. I've been broke. I've been betrayed. And you know what the truth is? The single most important moment in my life was when I stopped looking for who to [\h__\h] blame and I started looking at what I can change. The moment I realized that my life was a sum of to it was the sum total of my responses to my circumstances. Your body is your number one asset. It allows you to do everything else. It is the vessel for every single experience that you will ever have. It is the tool that you use to build your life, to provide for your family, for yourself, to leave your mark on the world. Please understand that to abuse it and neglect it and celebrate its decaying. That's not selflove at all. That's what you guys label it as. Self-love. It's self- sabotage of the highest order. So, you have a choice. Listen, you have a choice. You can continue to believe the pretty little lies that they sell you and you can continue to pay monthly subscription fees for your own managed decline. You can. Don't listen to me. Tell me to go [\h__\h] off. I don't care where you can get mad. Get mad at me. Use me. Use me right now. Use me. I hope this pisses you off. I hope you just look at this guy. I [\h__\h] hate this guy. I'm going to prove him wrong. Good. Use me. Use the fuel that you feel inside right now where you're so pissed off. You're looking, I [\h__\h] hate that Spartan, that Dr. Bakmar, I can't stand him cuz he's telling me the things that I already know that I can change and I'm not willing to do it, but now just to prove him wrong, I'm going to [\h__\h] do it. You can get disciplined. You can decide right now that today is the day that you stop negotiating with the world. You can do that. But it's not simple. You can eat real food. You can move your if you go, I don't have time. Make time. You have time for all the other stupid things you do. Make time. I don't like the taste of water. Find a way to like it. I just can't sleep. That's cuz you're fat. Your lungs are being collapsed. My knees hurt. That's because you're fat. I played football when I was a kid, though. My knees are shot now. Find another way. I can think of about a hundred different ways for you to do something to lose weight. Get in the pool. Swim around. It's incredibly hard. In fact, if you're fat, it's easier for you because you're buoyant. Guys like me sink like a rock. Move your body. Lift heavy things. Stop sitting there going, "I have to spend two hours on a treadmill." No, you don't. lift heavy things. If you want a trainer, find one. Find one that you resonate with. Call Brad, sober bodybuilder. Call Jud. Both of those really good friends of mine. Both of them. They know more. They've forgotten more about personal training. But get some sleep. Get real sleep. Take whatever tool is at your disposal. Take Red at True Tide. Take MK-677. Just do the things required to change your health for the better. And then just run that on repeat forever. You don't need a guru and you don't need a program. You don't need me. You don't. You need to take ownership of your own [\h__\h] You need to own your life. You You guys need to stop stop demanding that the world change to accommodate your poor decisions and your weakness. Demand more from yourself. Demand more from yourself. Build a body that's capable and dangerous and weaponized. A body that's resilient and can take a hit. A body that is worth the light that you damn well know you want to live because nobody's coming to save you. The doctor isn't coming. I'm not coming. Your spouse isn't coming. The politician isn't coming. The activist isn't coming. The only person who can fix this is the one who created the damn problem. So, what's it going to be? What's it going to be? You going to be a consumer of excuses? Are you going to be this weaponized creator of results? Just to be honest, the market's open, [\h__\h] So, place your bets. I got to go. Never miss.