Hey, good morning guys. New Year's. Happy New Year. January 1st, 2016. So, we're going to start off with some shoulder mobility. What do you think? Sounds pretty good, huh? I've had people ask me about um overhead squat position. So, being able to get into that overhead squat position, but they have an imbalance. So, we've got a slant. So, uh, we're going to actually Jordan's the one that asked me about it. So, Jordan, this one's for you. Um, we're going to take care of that slant. We're going to straighten out that overhead position. A lot of times what happens is that first rib starts to jam up and it keeps that clavicle from rolling the way it's supposed to. That clavicle has a little bit of a bend in it when you bring your hand overhead. And uh, and the other thing is is that you start to bang into everything on the way up when that first rib is all elevated. So first rib has um the uh the scalines come into it, the intercostals, a little bit of the pec comes up underneath there and then it has an artery of vein and a nerve that run over it and underneath that clavicle. So now you get a nerve impinchment too. It's called a neurovvascular bundle and we close that off. Now we lose the the uh ability to generate horsepower because you're losing the signal from the brain to the body. So we want to clear that out too. But if we can't get our hands overhead and then externally rotate into that overhead position, what winds up happening is you start to get lopsided. But now your overhead squats like this, you're catching a snatches like this. Even your cleans when you're in a much narrower grip, your jerks, all that stuff is is going to be really really impinged. It's going to grab on your shoulder. It's going to tear that labum to shreds. There's someone in the background right now with the with a labram tear cuz he lifts monster weights. So we want to make sure that doesn't happen to you guys. The other thing is now we have that first rib we're going to clear out and get that overhead position back. The other one is that subscapularis. So the subscapularis does internal rotation. We need to be able to take that and externally rotate it. And there's a really cool way against the rig that I'm going to show you that's going to pull that arm into u external rotation and uh and open that up so we don't have that sub scap all of a sudden cranking down on everything. We're going to open it up and peel it apart. Uh don't worry, we're not using a lacrosse ball jamming down it. I know. We're going to stay out of the pain cave, right? Ow ow ow ow ow. It's January 1st. We'll do that tomorrow. That's a second. So, first thing is we're going to take this uh PVC pipe. Super uncomfortable. I'm not even going to use a towel. I'm not going to. Uh-uh. You guys are going to see this. It's going to be awful. I might make the pain face. It's okay. So, you get in here. I know. Mad camera skills. George Lucas, Steven Spielberg, they love me. We're going to take a piece of uh band like this. Make sure it's a thin band. Put a little load on it. This is going to sit right in the notch. So, I got to show you guys where this is. So, if we look at the top here, there's going to be a notch right in here. So, that's where that PVC is going to go. It's going to sit in that notch. It's going to push down on that rib. Yeah, it's going to hurt. It's going to hurt a lot. And then you're going to take your arm through a little bit of a range of motion, except now we're going to do it with an axial load, um, distraction, rather, an axial distraction. So, we're going to actually be pulling that arm up into that overhead position. When you're doing this, I want you to wind that hand up into external rotation since that's how you're going to be when you're in your overhead squat. Unless uh unless you're Bulgarian and then you're doing it internally. So, we're gonna go external rotation. The band is going to come through the hand. This is going to sit right in that notch. Oh, yeah. It's gonna be gnarly. And then we're going to come all the way up and down. We're not going to go through full range of motion. You're only going to be going to about here. All right. So, check this out. This is so fun. We're going to take this. Hey, it's January 1st. Not the greatest with the camera skills yet. All right. Grab your band. It's already loaded on the bottom of the rig. We're going to take this, put the hand through. So, you're going to grab like this. Get ready for it. It's going to hurt. Oh, yeah. And this is, by the way, anchored on a 45. And I'll take the camera and I'll show you what I'm talking about so it doesn't check out on you. There's uh there's no wall back there. 45. So, you can get up nice and close to the rig. And then you're going to take this and you're just going to Oh. God, that's awful. And you're just going to let it hang out. It's going to pull you straight up into that PVC. Take this hand and just anchor that PVC pipe right against that first rib. And then try and do this without throwing up. Stay in external rotation. And you're just going to take it through full range of motion. Tap down on the floor about 15 times. Really unglue that first rib. I can't do that anymore because it hurts that bad. You might get a little tingling in the hands. Totally normal. It'll go away when you take the PVC away. Trust me. So, that's number one. We're going to take that same PVC. Yeah. This is where the fun stuff starts. We're going to hit that sub scap. So, if you can see see the band right up there. Yeah. I just realized I look kind of crosseyed on the video there. We're going to go like that. There. All right. So, normally for a subscap stretch, take this, do a little Bruce Lee ninja move. Take it like this. This is going to externally rotate. And then what you want to do is you want to be able to pull that scapula out and around over the rib cage so you can really stretch it out, but it's a lot of work and it's an active stretch. I'm going to show you how to do it passive with this. And all we're going to do is we're going to drop this down. You can even do this on your knee. I was going to do it standing up, but hey, we'll just do it on our knee. You're going to loop your hand through here so it's in the elbow. Take the same thing. Flip it up like this. Get up like this. Bring it down just a little bit so it's about the same height as your shoulder. Elbows through here. Give it a pull. You can rest it against the knee. So you don't even need to hold it. And then let it pull your If you see what's going on. I'm resisting it right now. Let it pull that scapula all the way around the outside of the rib cage. And then just hang out there. The more you twist this and the more you allow it to pull on that scapula, the more you're going to get a gnarly stretch on that subscap and that serrus anterior. Both of them are getting moved a lot in this one. And you're just going to hang out here for how long? 2 minutes. Yeah, 2 minutes. You got it. All right. Camp out like that. Oh, that's number two. Holy jeez, that is horrendous. Number three is you grab a peanut or lacrosse ball. This is going to help your overhead position even more cuz we're going to unglue whole bunch of stuff. All right, so down I go. Back down on the floor. It's like my favorite place. I'm going to do this up cuz it's like 35° outside here in California, which just sucks. So, you're going to take this. This is going to go on the inside of the scapula between the scapula and the uh and the spine. This is going to clear up that romboid, both of them. Uh, it's going to clear out that um the traps. It's going to hit the serrus uh posterior superior, even that levator scap up at the top of the scapula. So, I want you to take this ball and hunt around for all those hot spots. But here's where it gets funky. Same thing. You're going to grab your trusty rusty band. We're going to take this and then Oh, you can see where it is. Oh my god, it is awful. So, you see the band? I would I would rather have this band really loaded up. So, I see that it's really loose here, but that's only because I'm not moving anymore. It would uh it would normally be distracting me pretty hard over the rig. Lock out that arm. And then all you're going to do is you're going to actively engage this. So, I'm on that lacrosse ball. You can see it's on a hot spot right now. And then all you're going to do is you're going to pull forward there. And then back to neutral there and back to neutral. When you get up to the top, hunt around a little bit. Do some circles and then come back down. All the way up and then back down. Oh god. Okay, that's a lot for New Year's Day. So, that's going to clear out a lot of that stuff that's keeping you from getting your arms overhead in that overhead squat. I'll tell you this is this is gold stuff because now when you take your overhead your PVC and you're in your overhead position I'm on my knees right now but you're not like this you're not like this you can get into that active shoulder position you can wind those armpits straight out so you're externally rotating you're activating the lats and you're pushing that bar away from you and you're just going to hang out head nice and straight, head nice and tall. Push that bar straight out and then boom, drop into your overhead squat. That's all you got to do. Free up all those sticky bits. Hey, I'm Trev. Smash works. Happy New Year. January 1st. All right, Jordan, do your homework. I'll talk to you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.