All right. Hey, I'm Trevor from Smashworks over at Diablo. Killer wad going on in the background. We got John on the camera again. He's helping me out. Um, I've been getting a lot of people talking to me about the overhead squat. So, if you look at the overhead squat, it's a great way to uh absolutely expose every weakness that you have and uh and every uh every mobility issue you have because it's going to involve the ankles, the hips. It's going to involve thoracic spine extension. It's going to involve getting those uh shoulders open and getting them overhead. And what we see with a lot of people when they overhead squat is that they're fighting to feed slack into the system any way they possibly can. So, I know a lot of you guys overhead squat like this bad because what's going to happen is when you drop into that squat, your knees are going to cave in. You're going to fight to find a way to put yourself in that position anyway you can. Except this kind of stuff with your hand overhead. Does this even look remotely stable? No. No, not at all. So, we're not going to do stuff like that. Instead, we're going to find out where the problem is in that hierarchy of movement and then we're going to solve it. So, first thing we're going to do is we're going to check ankle mobility because while we're using our ankles. Now, the difference between an overhead squat and a regular squat is when you're in a regular squat, you're in your squat stance, you're going to sink with your butt all the way down to the bottom of the squat. Except if you look where the line of drive with my with my glutes is, where my butt is, is going to be behind the heels. With an overnight squat, same as when you're in the receiving position of a squat snatch, your butt is going to be as close to the ankles as possible. So, I want you to think about taking your butt and bringing it as close to the ankles as possible. The way you test it is put your feet about a handwidth apart and then just sink down into the bottom. If you can do this that you have ankle mobility to do an overhead squat. If you get to here and all of a sudden you start to wobble around or you fall backwards, then we already figured out the problem with the ankles. We'll come back to mobilizing the ankles in about 5 minutes. Next thing we're going to do is we're going to check the hips. So, the easiest way to check the hips, there's two things that happen. We either get a hip impingement. So our hips get to about here. Then we hit a shelf. We hit that acetabulum and then our soaz tries to recover some of that motion and hyperextend our lumbar spine. So we've seen people where they overhead squat and their arms are way up high, but they're way way way hyper extend and they're cranking their neck up and they're really breaking that whole chain. So what we do, get on the edge of a box. Make sure you can get your feet on the bottom. And all you're going to do is you're going to bend forward. When you bend forward, if you feel two things. One, your backside's coming up, your butt's coming up off that box, we have a hip issue because it's pulling you forward. And number two is if you're coming forward and you start to translate like this to recapture some of that motion. What you should be able to do is you should be able to come all the way forward without your butt coming up off the off the box. and you should be able to have about 120 to 130° up in here. So, if you don't have that, we'll address that, too. Next thing we have is that um thoracic extension. So, what happens is your thoracic spine has to arch up just a little bit and open up. Now, the problem with the thoracic spine is it's designed to be really stable, protect all the organs, but the vertebrae are also wedge shaped. So, it's going to fight you to open up as much as humanly possible. Then, we have the rib cage that's holding that thoracic spine in place as well. So, we're going to work on opening up that thoracic spine the way it's supposed to uh with as much as we can. And depending on on how mobile you are, some people can get really really far back. Like, if you look at my daughter, she's a gymnast. She can fold herself in half both frontwards and backwards. There's no way I can do that yet. All right, but we'll make it we'll make it happen. All right, so we're going to work on thoracic extension. The next thing is those shoulders. So, when you're overhead squatting and your shoulders are here and you're doing this and you're doing this as much as you can to try and get into that position, well, the problem is if you look at my shoulder, I'm rolling it forward to get slack into the system, right? Because I'm going to feed slack into this motor any way I possibly can to get into the position in the bottom of that squat. Well, look what I'm doing, though. As I unwind that joint capsule, incredibly unstable, I'm turning my elbows towards you instead of towards the floor. And I'm rolling those wrists forward. So, it's very hard for me to break apart that bar when I'm dropping into the receiving position of a of a squat snatch or that overhead squat. And the overhead squat is the precursor to being able to do a really, really efficient squat snatch, which we'll address on another video. But, so what you want to be able to do is punch out really high. You're going to keep that chest really high. You're going to expose the armpit to your audience. You're going to keep those elbows pointed down and you're going to be breaking that bar. Okay? So, what you're going to be doing is you're going to be dropping like this versus rolling your arms over like this to try and do it. So, I'm going to show you how to recover some of that shoulder mobility. But, we want to do some tests first. So, we saw the hip test, we saw the ankle test. Let's test the shoulders and see if we can do that. So, we're going to grab the PVC pipe. We're going to get up against a wall 90°, right? We're going to take the PVC at about our width for an overhead squat. And all we're going to do is bring it back like this. If I have no space under my lumbar spine, I'm going to take a hand away just so you can see, but I have no space here. So, that's what you want. If I'm doing this and I'm trying to arch it so you can see, I'll pull my shirt up. So, you can arch. If you have to arch to do this, then you don't have the shoulder mobility yet to get into that overhead squat position. If I'm nice and flat like this and I'm all the way up and I can break apart the BBC pipe. Guess what? Shoulder mobility works for doing that overhead squat. So now here's the fix for all of this. We'll start with the ankle. And I know we're flying through this video, but I want to make sure you guys get all this information. So I got a 45 here. You're going to get into a position. So you can get either either way or just the knee. But I want the the ankle that you're working on mobilizing to have the weight on it. So, get the weight over the knee and then just But you can see my heel is driving into the floor, but I'm letting the weight do the work. So, I'm letting gravity do all the work right now, and it's pushing my foot uh down into the floor, and it's driving my knee up over the foot to keep that ankle nice and stable, but it's putting a excuse me, a lot of mobility into that ankle. We're going to hold this for two minutes. Do both sides. That's number one. Moving up the chain, we're going to go hit the hips. So, the way you're going to do it is you're going to take a really, really wide stance. Okay? So, I'm like as wide as I can possibly be. We're hitting hip flexors on this side when we're upright. So, we can hold this right off the bat for easily 2 minutes if this is really um easy for you. You can squeeze your butt, turn towards this leg. Next thing you know, you're capturing that soaz in here even more. Okay? If that's for this hip, now we're going to go on the outside. a leg that's bent. We're going to grab the foot. Okay, you're going to see I'm making a nice perpendicular line to the ground here. We're going to grab the foot and we're just going to sink in. Okay, you're going to let that foot roll over. And all we're going to do is just crunch around. You're going to feel it up inside the thigh. You're going to feel it up in the high hip. Now, what you're going to do after this, bring your hand in here and try and bring your chest or your belly button to the floor. So, you're just going to come all the way down. And oh man, that is freaking tight. So you're going to do that. That's 2 minutes each one. So that'S4 minutes of stretching just for there. It's going to get in here. It's going to hit the high heavy. Now we're looking at thoracic basics. That's why I have a med ball here. Try and use a heavier medball. Not because we're throwing it at the wall, but because what you need is you want it nice and dense so you're not sinking into it. A 14 is like laying on a marshmallow. So you're going to get over this. I know a lot of guys do this with a bar overhead. That's fine. But we're going to hit the shoulders differently. So, we're just working on thoracic spine right now. You're going to find the middle between. So, if this is your scapula, that's your area. That's your target area. And you're just going to get on that. If your legs are bent or if they're not, that's okay. But I want you to relax and really punch out your shoulders like this. But relax your thoracic spine and pull your head through because nobody overhead squats like this. So, mobilize in the position you want to be in, right? So, we're going to sit here and let gravity just take over. We're just going to breathe. You know, you can contract, relax couple of times. Do that for about 2 minutes. Let that rib cage open up. Let that thoracic spine really open up. That's going to stretch what's called the anterior longitudinal ligament. So, you have a lot of movement in that thoracic spine. Now, the shoulders is a sticky one. So, we're going to grab the green band first. First thing we're going to do is we're going to capture some of that chest. We're going to bias this tissue right here so we can actually open up those shoulders because what happens is the chest is going to pull you forward. So you can't even get up into that position because it's starting to grab. So all we do is we take a band. Now normally I'd have this at about shoulder height. I want this higher for this stretch. You're going to get your hand inside here. Wind it up. Externally rotate like we always do. And then all you're going to do is you're going to pull away. Now, what's really cool is you really want to make this stretch effective. Turn your head. Turn your head. Open up that arm. So, now I'm stretching all the way across here. Like when I do this, I am biasing all this tissue across here. And I'm just stretching it out, stripping it out, making a move. That's number one. Hold for 2 minutes. You know the routine already. I don't even think I should have to say 2 minutes anymore. That's number one. the shoulders. There's more going on than just one simple fix because there's a lot of mechanics involved in the shoulder. The second one is you're going to come up to the top of the rig. And I promise there's only three for the shoulder. You're going to come up to the top of the rig. We'll use this one cuz it's closer to the camera. We're going to get in here. Now, we've seen this where we extra we wind up that joint capsule and we do this. So, that's going to capture a lot of the lat, the tries. But you know what I want you to do now is I want you to really I want you to turn the hand out a little bit just so you have a brace. And I'm going to have you externally rotate so you can see how it's really starting to externally rotate that shoulder. We're going to hold this. Good. We're going to do both sides. And then the last one. It seems freaking awesome having music in the background of these videos. You're going to take your band. Now you guys have seen me do this one before. There's two ways of doing this. We're going to do the basic and the aggressive. So, you probably call it basic and beefy. So, basic is palms forward. You just want to go as wide as you can. You can suicide grip if you want. You can lift whatever you want. It doesn't matter. You're not going to be doing much. But you're going to punch your head through and you're just going to let gravity take you. Okay. Super easy stretch. I know we're unwinding the joint capsule here, but this is easy if someone can't wind up that joint capsule. We're just going to let gravity do this. Now, when you come out, let yourself just relax. Careful on that dismount. Gets a little tricky. Next one is we're going to do this. We're going to externally rotate those shoulders. And we're going to do the same thing. Let gravity take us. And we're going to camp out here. Now, you see the difference here. I'm winding up that joint capsule. You're going to let gravity take you. And you're just going to hang there for as long as possible. You try for 2 minutes. Most people last about 20 or 30 seconds. It gets a little tight. That's going to give you a lot of overhead stability. It's going to open up all the tissues in here in some really, really quick stretches instead of having to go through all these different drills. So, check the ankles, check the hips, check the thoracic spine, check the shoulders, then go through all the mobility drills at this great yoga. I'm Trevor from Smashworks. I'll talk to you guys tomorrow.