Hey, good morning Tra Smash Works. Going over some uh mobility again. Big surprise. Sunday. Freezing cold. Got the beanie. I figured I'd wear the Maui shirt uh to uh represent a little bit warmer weather. It's freaking cold here. California. It's not supposed to be 31°. We're going to be going over some uh some pec issues. So think about it. Pec strains, pec tears, uh pec major, pec minor, the long head of that bicep, the whole shoulder um capsule and the whole mechanics of the shoulder are based on a lot of the structure of that pec. If you doubt me, do uh do over or do handstand push-ups and uh don't do any bench press and see how strong your handstand push-ups get. Not going to work out very well for you. So when we press overhead, we recruit a lot of that chest. The problem is now we're going to get on the rings. I know I'm always doing this. We're going to get on the rings. We're going to get our muscle ups. Rings are right here. Look at that. We're going to get on muscle-ups. We have to press out. Tries and chest. We have to do uh we have to get our hands in that front rack position. Chest tries lat subscap. All that stuff is going to get really locked up. So, when we have a strain in this area, think about doing a pull-up. We're doing our butterfly or our uh our chest to bars. We're doing this rotation. You watch someone like uh Camille, right? Leblanc, her uh her butterfly pull-ups are freaking stellar. And you see what's happening is she's closing and opening that entire thoracic area, that chest cavity or that uh the pecs. She's basically pinching a quarter behind her back, bringing those scapula. She's protracting and retracting the scapula a ton. So what's going to happen is that pec is going to open and close, open and close, open and close. Now do that hundreds of thousands of times and see how it goes. You get any kind of a pull in this area if you have a little bit of that anterior shoulder carriage, which is common with some of you guys. Listen, I see your videos. I know you guys sent me this stuff, but when those shoulders sit forward, and I just went over this with Margot, when the shoulders sit forward, you can't open that chest up the way it's supposed to. So now, when we're getting into things like a muscle up or a butterfly chest of bars or even just regular chest of bars or butterfly pull-ups for that matter, we can't open up to get into that position. So, if we can't get into this position because the chest is tight, why do we loosen it up? Now, if you have a pec strain, this is awesome for a pec strain. So, I got a uh whole bunch of Instagrams from you guys about a peck strain. One specifically, this one's for you. We got a peck strain. This is how we're going to handle it. We're going to peel it away. We're going to strip those fibers away. We're going to get underneath and get that pec minor, which does remember what I said, that reach beyond reach. So, that didn't like 3D, right? So, it went like this. That reached beyond reach. So, when you guys are bench pressing, by the way, Jesse Bert will tell you this right away. When you get up to the top of your bench press, that's locked out. This is not locked out. This last little bit of motion is recruiting a muscle that's not designed to press that kind of weight. It's a tiny little muscle comes off the ribs, hits that corocoid process. Same spot as that long head of the bicep. So, what you want to do is see I got to rearrange the beanie. Freaking freezing. So, what you want to do is get underneath there and get that moving the way it's supposed to. So, you can see I got a bar back here. You know what? Let gravity do the work. Gravity is your friend. I got a 20 over here, 20 lb dumbbell, right? So, what we're going to do is we're going to hang it off the edge and hopefully you'll be able to see me and we're just going to grind this away. So, we're going to get on the bar. Make sure you stabilize the bar a lot. So, you can see what I'm doing is I'm just hanging over the bar. So, you can do this with no weight first. So, we're going to get right in this area here, right where that tiein is, where that part of the pec comes into that shoulder. So, it's attaching to that humorus. And then we're going to get underneath. Remember that pec minor is up underneath that big piece of steak under here called that pec major. So, we're going to come like this. Hang on to that bar. And all we're going to do is we're going to open up. And it's the one, it's the back swing. You want to pronate that hand. So, we're going to supernate. Keep forward. Pronate all the way back. When you get back here, this is uncomfortable. Way to get so much better. You're going to do that about 10 or 15 times. Now, you see, I got the dumbbell. It's a 20. Don't be using like A-50 or an 80. Come on, you guys. You know better than that. So, this just grinds away. So, you're going to find that hot spot. Trust me, you'll like right there, you're going to find it. Two things. Just do some circles, grind away on that pec, let gravity be your friend. The other thing is you're going to come up just a little, and then come back. As soon as you come back, because there's weight involved, it engages that chest. So, it just smashes the holy smack out of that muscle. So, up and back, up and back. And hunt around. Lean a little bit in, lean a little bit out. Okay. Oh god, that is horrible. So that's number one to get that pec. Number two is see I got a band right here. We want to work on that stable position. So check this out. So easy. Take a light band. You like that little ninja turn there? Come on. That was awesome. We're going to take this. Going to bring this down just like this. So I can do it on my knees. You're just going to take your hand. You're just going to do a punch out. That's all you do. I want that fist straight like this. Hand on the chest. Up nice and tall. Jelly start. Right. Gut check. And you're just going to push forward and relax. Push forward. And you're going to let it come all the way back. Let the humorus approximate into the very four uh posterior portion of that socket of that glenoumeral joint. Okay. All the way up. All the way back. All the way up. All the way back. That's going to bring that uh pec minor into play. It's going to start working on that attachment with that corocoid. It's going to stabilize that whole shoulder complex. So trust me, your overhead work is going to get awesome. Now, check this out. Here's the last one. We're going to peel away the long head and that pec, minor and major, all at the same time. So, you're going to grab onto the back of the bar. Get as close as you possibly can. Let me duck under here so you guys can see me. Lock out the arms as much as you can. And then just take a knee. Now, if you see, I'm leaning forward. Don't do that. Go a little wider. Bring your chest up. Really? God, that is freaking diabolical. You're just going to hang out like this. 2 minutes. I am not going to make you sit here and watch me for 2 minutes. And I'm not going to do this for two minutes because it hurts. So you hang out like this. Chest up nice and high. Take nice deep breaths. Let that rib cage open and close. Remember those ribs move like a bucket handle. So we want to get all those inner fossils to move right too. That's going to pull away all that tissue across to the front. Peel it away off the ribs. Get those shoulders open so when you're doing your butterflies that you can come up and open. We can all look like Camille, right? All right. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works. Opening up the chest. I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.