I've been getting inundated with questions about peptides because a lot of people don't know anything about them. And that's okay. And most of the answers that you get are from these bro science, trust me, Instagram, YouTube guru, I have a huge following, everybody should listen to me. I'm just I'm not going to sit by and and tolerate that when I can tell you the truth. Whether you like the truth or not is irrelevant. It's as immutable as gravity. I have no I have no vested interest in lying to somebody out here because I I've had to have deal with some massive health issues. And if you don't know my story, you should look because four years ago, I rolled out of a hospital in a wheelchair missing a lung. So, I don't know what to say. And it was a lot of it had to do with some adverse conditions between housing conditions and and chemical conditions that were given to me. I I could go into the story. It doesn't matter. There's a whole podcast on it. The point is, you know, I maybe I should just get right into it because and no apologies for what I say. If you don't like my podcast, don't listen. If you I had some lady send me a message this morning. This ass clown trying to tell me that what I am putting out doesn't align with hard work, thinking that peptides are cheating, and then tried to lecture me on it. Listen, go back to Sacramento, woman, because I got nothing for you. If that's what you think, that's why you're broke, you're obese, and you're in a miserable marriage that you keep lying about because you keep looking for things to complain about. Anyway, this this is this is directed at a ton of people that think this way. You're insane because if that same with with that same logic, then so is an Alka-Seltzer and aspirin. So is ashwagandha. So is white willow bark. So is where is your line, right? So you can't look at it that way. And I'm going to explain the difference between peptides and drugs. So you can actually have a hard line that is carved in granite, not washed away in the sand by people that don't want you to know the truth. Peptides are the future and there's no room for debate. None. And by the way, let me get into this really quick before somebody goes nuts. This is purely entertainment. This is not for anything other than research and fun. And it's not here to diagnose or prevent or prescribe or treat or advise or guide or anything else that somebody wants to some three-letter agency wants to think I'm doing. I am doing none of that. This is a podcast that's like watching the Muppet Show. You just hang out and watch it and see what Gonzo and the two old guys up in the balcony are going to say and that's it. But if you know, you know. I've never led anybody astray with my information ever. I'm not about to start now. And I've been doing this for a long time. Peptides are the future. There sure as hell isn't drugs. And it sure as hell aren't all the supplements. I don't care who your supplement supplier is. I don't. And and I could rattle off a bunch of names that claim they are the best. Great. I still don't care. Most of them are garbage sprinkled with pixie dust. It's not your green smoothies or your powdered mushrooms or your influencer endorsed detox teas. You guys, peptides. And if you're sitting here thinking, listen, what the hell is a peptide? Good. That's the right question. That means you haven't been brainwashed by pharmaceutical marketing yet. Sit down one day and just if you watch TV or you watch anything, stream. It doesn't matter. Put on Amazon and just stream in the background. Just leave it go in the background. Put on Duck Dynasty in the background. It's an awesome show. And look how many drug ads come across your screen and you don't even know it. That stuff is going into your brain whether you think so or not. If you don't think we are in the middle of a battle for control over your psychology, you are missing everything. But let let me come back to the pharmaceutical marketing right now. Because if you truly understood what peptides were, how they work, how safe they are, and how powerful they really are, you would be furious. You'd be so furious that nobody told you earlier. So furious that you've been told that drugs are the only option. Listen, we have been forcefed a model of health that rewards sickness and punishes biology. Make it make sense. Make it make sense. Listen, this podcast is going to be the punch in the face that most of you guys probably need. And I'm here to help. You might not like it because some most people they're like, "No, I haven't been lied to. This is the truth." You guys are still waiting for somebody to come save you. So, what the hell is a peptide, right? And why should you even care? It's a short chain of amino acids. That's it. There you go. You just had your definition. You just There's your chemistry and your endocrinology and your physics and your biology and a biochemistry all into one. Your body is made up of these short chains of amino acids. Your brain functions because of them and your immune system runs on them. Your cells listen to them like they're gospel. That's even better. You understand that the signal, the messenger system between everything in your brain is based on the amino acid sequences running around. Peptides are the messengers. They don't force your body to do anything. It's not coercion. They simply I the best way is they whisper to your system do what you're already designed to do but do it better. I guess technical terms a peptide is is a signaling molecule. It binds to a receptor like like a key fits into a lock, right? And then tells your body produce more of this, repair that or regulate this process better. And listen, here's the critical point in everything I'm trying to explain to you. Peptides enhance function. Drugs override it. That's the great divide right there. That's the great divide. Because if you look at drugs versus peptides, I guarantee there's a battle here that you've never even been told. You don't even know about it because everybody is trying to tell you what they think they know because they read three lines of a book and now they're an expert because they count on everybody not being an expert. I am the expert. So, I will give it to you for free. I will tell you everything. And if you want anything, you want to know where to get more help, elitebiogenics.com. So, let me get into the contrast so you understand this. Because if you don't understand the distinction between a peptide and a drug, you're never going to escape the trap. Drugs are synthetic compounds. They're designed to produce a specific chemical effect. What they do is they override your own biology, right? They hijack a pathway and then just slam it into gear and hammer the gas forward. No nuance, no regulation, no built-in shut off valve, no safety, nothing. Think of a drug like putting your car in drive by smashing a brick on the accelerator. Well, sure, it moves, but you're not steering anymore. So, wherever it goes is where it goes. Peptides, on the other hand, they're bioididentical for using a for to use a trendy word, which means your body already recognizes what these are. There's no shock. There's no systemwide panic. It's It's like replacing a like a broken screw with a factory like an OEM part, original equipment part. That's it. They trigger native responses, not these artificial weird things that happen because of a drug. And they instruct your cells to behave better. They don't force them into wherever they shouldn't be going. They definitely don't force them to mutate or to shut down entirely, which is what drugs do. And here's the kicker. Here's the big kick in the teeth. I told you this is going to be a punch in the face. Because peptides are natural to your own biology, they come with virtually zero side effects when used correctly. Not the read the paper thin 0.005 font sheet of warnings type of side effects that you get with drugs. And just to be very clear, there are no such thing as side effects. There aren't. That is a word invented to cover up something to make it sound better. There are only effects. Side effects to call something side effects means it is sometimes happens. But that's not the truth. Even you guys are so indoctrinated saying, "Well, they have to put that in the package because just in case it happens." No, they put that in the package because it does happen. Like even this, I talked about censorship and freedom in America right now. This is probably going to get throttled simply because I'm telling the damn truth. So here, let's let's run the scoreboard between these two. Let's do this. Drugs and peptides, right? Drugs, side effects, high, massive. Peptides, minimal to none. Are drugs patentable? Yes. Are peptides? No. Oh, there's a profit margin right there. Are drugs natural to your body? Not a chance. Are peptides? Absolutely. Are drugs adaptive? Hell no. What about peptides? Yes, they are, 100%. What about the risk with drugs? Massive. You can OD and die very very quickly. Just to give you an idea, narcotics, respiratory uh distress, not even distress, shutdown. See, what happens is the primary respiration centers in the brain stem, you can use narcotics because I've seen it happen. That's why they blast you with Narcan and narcotic antagonist. They it just gets in the way and scrapes your receptors. You go into instant withdrawal when you're given Narcan, by the way. amazing experience to watch. But a drug, the risks are so massive and the damage is so costic. If you take an NSAID too much, you you uncouple something called the electron transport chain and then you wind up, this is just biochemistry, and then you wind up dying because you overheat because you can't dissipate the heat. If you take too many narcotics, you go into respiratory arrest. You can't breathe. At least respiratory distress, which is what I said before, because it's going to give you a problem. It's going to feel like somebody's standing on your chest and then you die because the drug tells you not to breathe essentially. It gets in the way of your breathing. If I got into the endocrinology and the the neurology behind this, but there's no point. You don't care. The risk is massive with drugs. The risk with peptides is almost zero. And the function of a drug is to override. The function of a peptide is simply to enhance. So that can't there's no cheating or shortcuts with a peptide. What it's doing is making you that's like saying you're cheating by putting a nicer set of rims on your car. There's no contest. It's not even a fair fight between peptides and drugs. Drugs are bombs and peptides are blueprints. I get if you look at it from just a purely superficial level and I'm not saying drugs are the evil to save a life. Absolutely. to keep you healthy and prevent you from getting anything bad. Not a chance. Drugs suppress symptoms. They're still there. Peptides activate symptoms. So, if you look at a drug, that's what's coming in and forcing things to happen. And peptides just come in and go, how do we make this work? How do we how do we facilitate this system and mitigate the issue and facilitate the positive on this thing? That's it. And yet, people still reach for pills instead of solutions. You know why? because they're told they're told to do that. If you don't think for a second that you're being told to do all this stuff that's going to harm you, you are nuts. Because look at this poison pill that you've swallowed for decades. Drugs are safe if prescribed properly. That's a lie. That's not a mistake. It's not a misunderstanding. That's a lie. It's a lie told knowingly, repeatedly, endlessly, and reinforced by prophet. And like I said, if because somebody's going to get in the comments and start whining like a little girl, drugs have a place in emergency medicine, trauma care, uh acute bacterial infections, immediate critical crisis response. Absolutely. Absolutely. But that's not what they're being used for. That's where it ends, right there. The second you try and use drugs for a chronic issue, you now enter a game of chemical roulette because you have no idea what's going to happen because it doesn't do anything but hide problems. So ask yourself, ask yourself this. Why does every drug commercial come with 45 seconds at least of side effect disclaimers said with somebody with a sultry smooth voice while a happy family is playing in the background? Why do we have millions of people addicted to opioids that were approved and safe, but yet if you go to Thailand, you can buy narcotics over the counter? They don't have a narcotic problem. Start thinking, why do anti-depressants show no benefit over placebo in mild to moderate cases, yet they're handed out like boxes of Tic Tacs? It's because drugs treat the system and the profit model relies on your continued sickness. I'll say it again. Pharmaceuticals are reactive. Peptides are proactive. The drug model is looks like this. You're broken. Let's shut down and silence all the alarms. Drug model, right? Peptide model says you're powerful. Let's upgrade the code. Big difference. One is going to leave you destroyed. The other is going to build you into a juggernaut. And people ask, "Well, if it's so great, why don't we hear about it? Why don't we see it all over the news?" You might want to say that question out loud to yourself in front of a mirror and then realize exactly what you're asking because this part makes people really uncomfortable. But I don't know. I don't care. It's my show. I'm not here to make you comfortable. I'm here to confront reality. Peptides can't be patented. How about that? That's as binary as it gets. And that's the entire problem. They're naturally occurring sequences of amino acids. you can't slap a patent on something your body already produces. If that doesn't show a massive red flag to you, I don't know, maybe there's no help for you then. Maybe you shouldn't listen to this podcast because if you can't patent it, you can't monopolize it. And if you can't monopolize it, you can't market it up 3,000% and fund a billion dollar ad campaign. And if you can't fund the campaign, well, you can't buy the narrative. So, what do we do, right? What do we do? They bury it. Keep it out of the curriculum. They call it unregulated or experimental. Like I have to say all the time, this is purely hypothetical, purely for entertainment. Twist the language so it sounds dangerous. Meanwhile, just to be clear, peptides are already used in so many elite clinics around the world. They're used in regenerative medicine, sports recovery, age reversal, fat loss, muscle growth, brain enhancement, immune regulation. I could do this all day. Name it. They are used to get better results. There is a peptide for it. Whatever you have, your problem. And you know what? I get questions every day about this stuff because I'm very, very good at this. But you're never going to see them on daytime TV sandwiched between statin ads and sugar cereal commercials or whatever you're supposed to label your child with because they can't be owned. And unownable health solutions are a threat to a trillion dollar system. Yeah. I mean, I said I was going to explain peptides, but there's more to it. It's like looking at the supplement industry, right? The supplement industry is a joke. I can't stand it. All you guys push pushing supplements from some fantastic lab that nobody else has heard of, but your supplements are 99% pure. Go to hell. You think that's a step in the right direction because you can get people to buy your crap? You're right up there with the people that go, "Oral peptides are just as effective. Show me the blood work. I want to see the blood work." Get on my show right now live, take blood, test the blood. I want to see it. Not a chance. The efficacy is zero. And if you're looking at things like BPC-157 and go, "Well, that's borly bioavailable." Why don't you just buy the leophalized powder and reconstitute it and just squirt it in your mouth? What is wrong with you guys? This stuff pisses me off. Don't get me wrong, not all supplements are garbage, but let's stop pretending like most of them are total trash. You want the truth? And even even my wife brought this up because they did a big study on supplements you can buy on Amazon. Stop buying your supplements on Amazon or from some know-it-all chiropractor that thinks they just, oh, they got the best supplement on earth and they invented some weird [\h__\h] line. I can't with these people anymore. Or because some guy or some girl is now an Insta guru and famous based on garbage models that don't work because they're convenient to people. Pardon me, my phone is buzzing right now. It was incredibly annoying. Could you guys hear that? Here's the truth. Most supplements are underdosed. They have poor bioavailability and they're marketed on pixie dusting and sugar coating, tiny amounts of ingredients just to say it's in there. That these things are made in bulk white label labs and slapped with a fancy branding image on it just to justify a 10 to 20x markup. Listen, I don't care how much money you make. I really don't. If you want to mark something up a thousand times, people go, "That's price gouging." If you save someone's life and it's someone that needed it, and you are only catering to people that have incredibly large amounts of money, of which there are plenty, go ahead. But then somebody else maybe put together something that doesn't do that. You know what's funny is with Elite Elite Biogenics, people could spend, I don't know, $1,000 a month, 12 grand a year, hypothetically, and be a marriage between Wolverine and a juggernaut with Spider-Man flexibility and beautiful skin all hypothetically for 12 grand a year. And I'm I'm literally plucking that number out of the sky because I just know what things cost. And yet people will go, I'm going to go buy some weird face cream at Ulta. I'm going to get all kinds of weird injections in my face. I'm going to take the craziest supplements. probably shove a probe up my ass and at least 20 ft of garden hose to make sure there's nothing up there that shouldn't be up there. I'm going to take all these drugs when symptoms show up and when my feelings suck, I'm going to find a pill. You guys have got to start paying attention to your health. You are loaded with signals telling you what's wrong and you are looking to to hide them and bury them rather than going, "What's this telling me?" You're drinking overpriced grass clippings and wondering why your testosterone sucks because tribulus doesn't work. If you're a product of the 80s, Smileax never worked either. Or Cybergenics, the big $300 box of purple pills that did nothing but give you dry lips and a sore [\h__\h] Like, you guys have been a product of this stuff. And if you haven't, then maybe you should look it up because it's very like I have two children, a 16-year-old and an 18-year-old, a son and a daughter. My son is the younger one. I love my children so much. I adore my wife so much. My wife is my best friend. And the last thing I would ever want is to see them getting poisoned or falling for all the garbage that people are falling for right now. Because I want them to be so powerful, so physically and mentally and emotionally powerful, to have emotional maturity, financial maturity, psychological maturity all the time, and just keep going and going until God says, "You're done. You did your work. Well done, good and faithful servant." That's what I want to see. You can't do that if some jackass with a profit margin is trying to gouge your life out of you, but make you hang on so you can pay taxes until you're 90. Oh, I'm sure this entire podcast is going to get me just banned. But I don't care if you're not willing to step up for the truth and you don't believe what you're saying. You're doing it because it's trendy. Like, listen, I don't give a [\h__\h] what any of you guys say to me. I don't I don't care what you say to me. I don't care what you think about me. I don't care if you argue with me. I'm right. Do you know why? Because I don't open my mouth unless I'm right. And when I open my mouth and I say I'm right, I will go toe-to-toe with you and I will throw hands with you all day to defend my position. because I know damn well what I'm saying because what I'm good at I'm exceptional at what I suck at I don't open my mouth until I am exceptional at it. That's why the this phone is loaded with these I told you these insta coaches, insta gurus, everybody telling you how to get rich, how to get healthy, how to get laid, how to do all these things, but they have no capacity to do it. You know what their business is? Extracting money from you instead of helping you. Do you know how I made a lot of money? by showing people I can help them by actually helping them and then they go, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy actually knows what he's talking about." If you have any self-worth, look at the person giving the message. And listen, if it's some no- bodybuilder that can't pronounce two syllable words, but you buy things from them because they have muscles, you have a confidence problem. I don't care how many muscles you have, but I also don't care how many degrees you have. Do you have the results? Are you actually a healthy person? You guys are making the mistakes by buying from influencers thinking that an influencer because they are popular and they have a blue check mark. They know what they're talking about. No, you guys are wondering why you still have migraines, headaches, vertigo, testosterone problems, cramps, your injuries never heal. You're still type two diabetic and all this stuff. It's cuz you're taking crap and you're falling for it over and over and over again. And then some guy like me comes out and says, "Let me tell you how to be healthy." And they go, "Oh, I don't know. That's blasphemy." Like, listen, compare all the drugs to peptides, which don't rely on digestive absorption. Look, compare supplements to peptides. They don't rely on digestive absorption. This is like hydrochloric like a battery acid factory. It's hydrochloric acid. They bypass the stomach. And just so you know what hydrochloric acid's primary purpose is, to break up protein. What is an amino acid? Yeah, I'll leave that one. Just maybe you guys can figure that out. So, when you guys go orally bioavailable, shut up. I I'm done being nice. Peptides go direct. They bind to receptors, trigger specific and target cellular responses without they're not subject to first pass degradation by the liver. So, they don't have any issues. This is not a general boost your wellness placebo. That's why these things are so effective. They This is what it is. It's hey increase growth hormone. Hey, regenerate the gut lining. Hey, heal this torn tissue. Hey, improve insulin sensitivity. Hey, restore brain function and on. We're talking about real mechanistic change, not glorified vitamin water with a high price tag. Peptides are the future of human health. As long as they don't get buried and you guys actually start doing it. Like this is the part where we we zoom out a little bit because this isn't just about recovery or fat loss or weight lo or injury or changing neurology or neutropic. This is even hormone balance. It's not this is about what's next for human biology. Let me explain your body is built to repair. It knows what to do. Your system when is the last time that you thought about thrombin prothroin vitamin K all the things when you cut yourself I'll help you. Zero. Never. Nobody went okay I got to mitigate all this. I got to mitigate the cut and I have to go to work and tell them my neurology to make all these cells start working. You have never had to say that. Why? Because your body knows what to do. It is built to repair, grow, and adapt. But modern life is a war zone of environmental toxins and stress overload and nutrient depletion, sleep disruption, movement starvation. You're not dying from a lack of pharmaceuticals. You're dying from a lack of biological support. This is where peptides come in. Peptides are precise. They're individual. They're spec. They only do what that person needs. They're programmable. Listen, you can target, follow me. This is all hypothetical for anyone listening from some dumb agency. Again, I'll say it purely for research and entertainment. You can target like GH secretion with CJC1 1295 and a peel. That's one. tissue repair, BPC57, TB-500, GHK-Cu. That's two. Fat oxidation with MOT C and five amino 1MQ, which I talked about the other day. That's three. Inflammation thymus and beta 4. Cognitive repair with uh Cax or Dhexa. Uh what else? Immune modulation with thymolin. Skin regeneration with GHK-Cu. It's copper. Testosterone stimulation with Kiss Peptin 10. I like I could do this all day. mitigate fat loss with retatride three agonist like three receptor agonist GIP GLP-1 right and glucagon you you it forces your body to burn fat without any muscle wasting and you become unrecognizable without having god tier discipline that's required and it reprograms the operating system so you run the way you're supposed to. There is not a system in the human body that a peptide cannot touch, tune or upgrade. It's not theory. This isn't theory or hype. This is happening right now in real time in the world. Like look around because the future belongs to the people that are prepared. What? People are soft, slow, sick, weak, undisiplined, cowardly, sedated. They're overmedicated, undernourished. Their minds are foggy, broken, and their bodies are inflamed disasters. They've been sold a bill of goods that said you'll be okay if you follow the rules. Guess what? The rules were rigged. The rules were rigged. You followed the food pyramid, you got fat. You trusted the drug ads. You got side effects. You tried the supplements. Nothing changed. And now you're here questioning everything. Good. Good. You should be. Because the winners of the next decade won't be the ones who memorize protocols. They're going to be the ones who take control of their own damn biology, understanding that this meat suit that you pilot around in this gravity controlled environment that we ambulate through is under your direct control. You decide what goes in. You decide how that works. Yeah. The people that are taking control of their biology, these are going to be the men and women who reclaim their hormonal power. They're going to restore their metabolic edge and they're going to sharpen their physical and like physical, cognitive, psychological performance without selling their soul to a pharmaceutical company. We're talking with precision interventions that are safer, stronger, faster, and much much smarter. They're going to do it with peptides. So, you can go, "Oh, what about this? What about that?" Have you ever gone down the rabbit hole on any single pharmaceutical you've ever put in your bar hole? You have not. You think you have. Go down the rabbit hole and then come back and talk to me. You look at peptides versus the status quo. And I'll make this plain, right? Peptides versus drugs. So if you look at a peptide versus a drug, mechanism of a peptide is a signal. Mechanism of a drug is force. Mech the safety of a peptide is irrefutable. The safety of a drug, not a chance. You can die by taking too many benadryil. Are there patents on peptides? Nope. What about drugs? Yep. Makes them profitable. What about peptides? Are they natural to your body? Yep. What about drugs? Nope. I could do this all day. I have so many examples bouncing around inside my head. Systemwide effect. Do drugs have a systemwide effect? Yes. Do peptides? No. Sightsp specific. Whether you inject them in your belly, your toe, or your forehead, they are only going to trigger the receptors they are designed to trigger. If you take an Advil because you have a sprained thumb, it goes to your entire body and it's not harmless. Are drugs adaptable? Not a chance. Not a chance. They force one thing and they force it very well. Peptides? Absolutely. What is the purpose of a drug? What is the purpose of a drug? It's to suppress a symptom, make you feel something. Why do you think they're pushing feelings so so often? What is the purpose of a peptide? To restore function. I mean, where are you going to start putting this stuff together? You can either optimize your bi biology or you can sedate it. You can upgrade the performance of the machine you are given by God. Or you can manage your decline as you slowly fade into irrelevance and pain and suffering. But what you can't do is pretend that peptides and drugs are even on the same playing field. You are living in the most advanced biological era in human history. The tools to repair, to rebuild, to create, to redefine your health are already here. The problem is they're not going to be handed to you. You got to go out and look for them. They're not going to be in the evening news. is they're not going to come across your feed and they won't come with a pharmacy label ever. They're going to come in small vials stored in your refrigerator, researched by real scientists with best intentions in your best interest in mind, used by warriors and athletes and leaders and doctors who are tired of playing by broken [\h__\h] rules. It's not a fad. It's not some fringe weird outlier. This is the future. They don't like it. And the people that wake up now who take ownership of their biology, whose body is this, stop handing it over to somebody. The people who take ownership of their biology are going to create a life that the rest of the world simply goes, "That's unfair." So here's your choice. You can stay inside the lie, live in the matrix, call it normal, whether it's making money or your health or your relationship. Or you can actually step into the truth. In this case, it would be inject it, activate it, and live it. The future doesn't belong to the medicated, no matter how often you want to lie about that. It belongs to the people that are running at 100% by choice. My opinion, peptides are how you get there. Your move. I got to go. Never miss.