I'm going to get heat on this one today. Good. Bring all the smoke. It's not going to be from some three-letter agency either. It's going to be from a lot of you guys defending your indoctrination. So, let me get this straight because I'm going to get right into this. It's Friday. It's date night. I want to go do things. And you know what? I am lit on all the coffee that I've shoved into my system. And you know, of course, according to some of you guys, the coffee is the devil, right? It's terrible. Bad. We live in a world, Listen, just let me get this straight cuz it's driving me crazy cuz I see people sending Listen, some of you guys sending me messages going, "Well, what about cancer? It's got to be causing cancer. Peptides cause cancer. Sararmms cause cancer. Secret dogs cause cancer." No, they don't. And just for the record, let me say this. This is purely entertainment, all hypothetical, not to prescribe, treat, advise, cure, nothing. This is all just pure entertainment and education. Now that I've got that out of the way, let's get to work. We live in this world. Just so we're clear is this is insane. We live in a world where your hairline falling back like just destroyed. I mean, yeah, I'm bald, but I mean, your hairline is getting crippled. Your testosterone is dropping to that of I don't know, some like a castrated sloth. Like, it's just a disaster. And your libido is dying. And all of that is just called aging. You want to unpack that for a second? Trashed hairline. testosterone levels of a 95year-old woman as a 25-year-old man right now and your libido that is so low they can't even find it last time you got wood you can't remember and that's just aging and when it happens here's the problem your doctor says take this pill oh by the way forever and then that pill gives you 19 side effects so take another one and then another one you know what let's work up to five more and then you get cancer but nobody I mean nobody has ever thought that maybe the first pill started that whole damn Avalanche. Nope. It's got to be the peptides. Dangerous. You know, the thing that your body already makes, peptides. I'm going to walk you Listen, I I sat there inside talked to Brandy about this stuff. We just had a laugh about it. And then I said, you know what I'm going to do is I'm going to pitch this like in my podcast like you're a VC venture capitalist and I'm pitching you the most obvious scam exposed startup in history. Except instead of pitching you a business, I'm going to show you the whole system that's been stealing your health while telling you it's protecting it. Oh, it's on, man. Bring the smoke. If you open the insert on any of the pharmaceuticals in your cabinet right now, or go to the grocery store or the pharmacy, wherever they are, that little folded paper that you never read ever in your life written in 0005 font, you're going to see the same three words somewhere on it. Trust me, just go look a cause cancer. And the crazy part is nobody cares. Nobody questions it. We're so conditioned to believe that the side effects are worth it that we completely ignore the biggest one of all, the one that kills, and this is a conservative number, 10 million people a year globally. By the way, just so we're clear, there's no such thing as side effects. There are only effects. Let that stick for a second. So, just zoom out for a second. Pharmaceuticals are built on a single premise, one platform. Inhibit the system. That's pharmaceuticals nature. It's just how they are. But it's never fixed the problem. Just shut off the noise and don't worry about it. Keep redlinining the engine. You know what? I can hear that it's going to blow. Just turn up the radio. Don't worry about it. Smash the pedal. High blood pressure. You know, take an ACE inhibitor, right? This just, you know what it does? It blocks your angotensin converting enzyme. Yeah, that sounds harmless, right? Just look it up. That's what it does for the most part. Except angiotensin has systemic roles in regulating cell growth, oxidative stress, inflammation. So when you shut off this important chemical in your system long term, you don't just lower blood pressure, you disrupt the homeostasis of the entire vascular system. Never mind the fact that you're weakening endothelial resistance, the cells that line the walls of every single vascular structure in your body. And you create an environment where inflammation runs rampant. You know what inflammation is? Yeah. That's cancer's favorite drink, man. It wants to sip on that all day. I could do this all day. You want to sleep? Ezipines. That's one of the most prominent things that they give you. Xanax, Valium. First of all, if you get hooked on these things, they are a nightmare to get off of. They're easily as bad, if not worse, than predinazone. Predinazone, if you don't understand, is one of the most brutal things to get off of. And they don't tell you that though. Take these 20 of them. Don't worry, take 20 a day. We're going to wean you off. 20, 19, 18, 17. It'll solve all your problems. Never has predinazone solved a problem. It has caused problems other than I mean, never mind the fact that you get a moon face. I can't make this up. So, here's a benzo. Can't sleep. Here's a bzzoazbine. Absolutely. Sienna suppressant. They'll shut you down like crazy. Except now you've downregulated something called your gabaurgic tone. That's what it's called. It's it's distort I can't even make this up. Even just saying it is so insane. You've downregulated gabaurgic tone. You've distorted your melatonin cycle. So your sleepwake cycle is trash. And you have brought on long-term cortisol dysregulation, which is another driver, just so you know. Oh, I'm going somewhere with this. Of cellular mutation. Go to the label that they've given everybody that's having a sad day now. Depression. You know, I found out that that's a key word, by the way, or a word that triggers sensors. Tell me that's not weird. It post throttles and mutes what you post if you say the word depression among 19 others. Anxiety is another one. You know what's not one? Pedophile. Let that sink in just a little bit. Anyway, back to the podcast. So, you have depression. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors on oxidase inhibitors, but SSRIs primarily. So they numb the serotonin re-uptake. Great. So they keep it in the gap junction where it's not supposed to stay. It's supposed to go across and get taken up by the other side like this. Nope. Let's let it camp out there. That can't cause any problems. You're messing with brain chemistry. What could go wrong? Except now your dopamine is flatlined. This is how they work. They work together. So your dopamine flat lines. Don't worry, you've got a cell phone so you can fire up that dopamine every 3 to 5 seconds. Your sex drive is gone. And the metabolic stress from your mitochondrial dysfunction is through the brew. If you're wondering why I'm telling you that, that's cancer's fuel. You're talking to a guy that's been through cancer more than once. Personally, they pulled a football out of my chest. Listen, this bothers me a lot because most of you guys, I come out here with so much love and you guys either complain or [\h__\h] or whine or get in the comments and just trash talk stuff you don't even know anything about. I've forgotten more than most you people know. And you get mad at that. I don't know anything about a ton of engineering. They've forgotten more than I'm ever going to know. So bunch of headline readers coming in going, I read in this one study on social media that told me nothing written by an Insta guru who seems to know everything. I mean, they're pretty jacked and they got nice hair, so they probably know everything. You guys got to stop listening to influencers, Insta gurus with affiliate links selling peptides and garbage just because they were a bodybuilder on some magazine. Most of these people know precisely Jack and [\h__\h] and Jack left town. Put them live with me. Bring it. Like, here's the truth. Nobody's talking about this. The body symptoms aren't malfunctions. These are signals, messages. They're going, "Hey, pay attention. There's something wrong." How many of you guys, you drive cars, listen, you drive a car, what is the golden rule about this, the CEO, the check engine light? What is the golden rule? Anybody that knows anything about cars other than just how to drive them, but I mean, knows how to repair cars, they know. The second you see that light, what is it? Yeah, it's too freaking late. Almost always. I learned that from before I was 16 years old. I'm 52. that the second you silence the message without fixing the source, you just it's like you mute the smoke detector while the house is full of smoke and up in flames, you just let it burn to the ground. This is the basics that most people have forgotten. Pharmaceuticals, no matter how you chop them up and slice them and try and digest them, are foreign molecules. Peptides are not. Your body has two filters. That's it. Your liver and your immune system. I'll explain the liver in a second, but you remember the immune system, right? Self other. That's it. Both are designed to detect and defend against foreign invaders. That's what they're there for, right? Remember first pass degradation of the liver. It goes through the portal vein. I'll explain this in a second. Ask yourself, what happens when you take pharmaceuticals every single day for years? What do you think happens? Foreign invaders, right? You create two problems. Immune dysregulation. I know I keep using that word. It's a fun pair of words to say, but it's true. Immune dysregulation, hippatic overload, overload on the liver, right? This isn't some kind of a conspiracy. This is basic biochemistry, right? You can't screw with this thing ever. My dad died of endstage liver disease at 67 because he listened to a doctor. He didn't listen to his son, the doctor. Yeah, it sucks, man. Because I told my dad what to do. I flew to see my dad. My mom, you know, and my mom's awesome. I She's 82 and she's still an ass kicker. Like, she's great. She's a feisty old lady. Why would I want my mom to be anything else? Just a daughtering old person that doesn't can't get through the day. Forget it. But the point is, I mean, that was my mom's best friend. Regardless of my childhood or anything, you know what? I never saw my parents do anything apart. I mean, other than they had to do things apart because my dad had to go somewhere, my mom had to go somewhere, but other than that, no. It was my mom's best friend. My mom was my dad's best friend and because of some jackass doctor who said, "Just take as many Tylenol as you want." Yeah, I really There's other things, too. I mean, he also drank alcohol and that trashed it, too. But if you go, "Oh, well, that's the problem." Okay, I want you to take handfuls of Tylenol every day and drink three to five beer every day and let me know which one kills you faster. the COX enzyme inhibition or the liver issue from the alcohol. Oh, wait. They both affect the liver. They both affect the immune system. Before people start judging other people, and I'm not here to judge you if you guys are sitting here, you're judging me. Stop being so bloody sensitive. If you have a chance to save the system, why the hell aren't you? Like, let me break this down. There's so you have liver detox pathways, right? So, your liver has multiple phases of detox, two primary ones. Phase one, okay? And I mean, I guess I could get into it. Cytochrome P450 is what it's called. It oxidizes the foreign comp. Whatever comes in, it oxidizes it. Right? And then phase two conjugates it so you can get rid of it. You can excrete it. That's the easiest way to explain it. We can get fancy, but you don't need to. Okay? Right? Phase one oxidize. Phase two conjugate so you can get it out. Pharmaceuticals overwhelm them both. If you remember what I said, and I use peeds. So if you look at something like old school debol, right? Danal, a lot of bodybuilders and 50s, that's a whole other game. Well, you guys are playing a different game if you're taking that stuff. But they all have to be what's called alpha alkalated 17 molecules. They have to be able to resist first pass degradation by the liver, which means the liver is going to see that as a foreign compound and go, not on your life is that going in my system. Because your body is smarter than your brain and it goes, this doesn't belong here. What are you doing? This doesn't belong here at all. What do you think's happening with all the other things you take? Same thing. They have to engineer. You don't have to engineer a peptide. You make them, but you have to engineer pharmaceuticals to withstand the onslaught of the body going, "Get the [\h__\h] out of my body." That's why I'm saying pharmaceuticals overwhelm both. They demand enzyatic conversion. So, what happens is they form these toxic intermediates. They're called metabolites. If you ever wonder why people looking for things in blood work, etc., they're called metabolites. These metabolites aren't just inert waste. They're mutagenic. They literally change DNA. That's step one to cancer. DNA mutation plus inflammation plus impaired repair mechanisms, the big C. Do that daily for 5, 10, 15 years. What do you think's happening to your system? You know what's wild is a lot of people don't come out onto this platform and talk about the way things should be because they all go, I want to get a lot of views and I want YouTube to pay me. I don't give a [\h__\h] if YouTube pays me. I don't care if I get a lot of views. I'm coming out here because I actually give a crap about people. Because when somebody calls me and says, "I have a problem." Like, I get messages. It took me a while to get used to this cuz I'm 52. This didn't exist before. Well, I get messages from celebrities all the time. Hey, can you help me with this problem? Nobody can seem to figure this out. Absolutely. I had a conversation with a guy at the bank today. This guy Joe, real tall guy, guy's like 6'8. And I said, you know what? I think the point of being a human and having knowledge is to share the knowledge. It doesn't matter if it's for a fee or not. That's fine. But keeping it a secret because you think somebody's going to steal your knowledge and upstage you. What? So, I gave him some advice on Bitcoin and how to do it and, you know, get to 120 grand in Bitcoin as fast as possible, hold it for five years, and just borrow against the Bitcoin. Then you don't get taxed on loans. So, there's your money. And if somebody goes, "Well, but you have to pay it back." Yeah. If you're making 40% and you're paying eight, you're still making money. I mean, that's an entire I should do a podcast on that. If you guys want a podcast on that, tell you exactly how to do that. 5 years, you get to 120 grand in Bitcoin. This has nothing to do with this podcast, by the way. You get to 12 grand in Bitcoin. Like you get there as fast as you possibly can, like right now. Like it would be to the point I'm not giving financial advice, but if I had 120 grand in equity in my home, that's what I would do. My opinion, you got to do what you got to do. I'm not telling you to believe what you want to believe. You can sit there and say it's a Ponzi scheme and all that stuff. Yeah, I'll just leave audio. It just literally flicked out and just spazzed out. So, let me back up. So, I was where was I? I was talking about liver detox, right? So, phase one, phase two, right? Oxidize conjugate, right? oxidize foreign compound and then conjugate so you can get rid of it usually via the kidney. So pharmaceuticals trash that they overwhelm that. So it it makes it so you can't do that. So when a pharmaceutical comes in and demands this it's enzyatic conversion, right? It demands things do things that it's like I swear to God it's uh some weird tech or big pharma that's like there's some conspiracy theory [\h__\h] right there that's keeping me from telling you guys the information. But that's where I was. I want you guys to win. I want you guys to be healthy. I want you guys to get rich. I want you guys to have lots of money, really healthy, have incredible marriages, have the craziest sex of your life, have the best friend that you marry and spend your life with, have great kids if you want. I don't care. But you guys need to sit there and go, "Does the guy actually give a [\h__\h] about me? Do you do I trust this guy?" That's on you, man. I come out here and I prove myself every day, but I don't prove it for you. I prove it for me that I actually do what I said. So, listen, it like I was saying, it demands pharmaceuticals demand enzyatic conversion, but it makes these toxic intermediates, these metabolites, right? But they're not waste. And they're being told that they're waste, but they're not. They're mutagenic. They damage DNA. That's literally what they do. If they had a function, those metabolites, their function would be damaged DNA. That's step one to cancer. Damage, right? DNA mutation, inflammation, impaired repair mechanisms. So, you can't do anything about it. And like I said, do that daily for 5, 10, 15, 20 years. Now, here's the issue that most people don't talk about. Your immune system doesn't just fight viruses. It polices your cells. It's like your body's gestapo. If a cell goes rogue, remember what I said? You turn over about a billion cells every day. 1% of all those cells are mutated cells. That's normal except your body recognizes self and other and it goes hey these cells either we fix it or you got to get lost and then they just destroy them. Right? So if a cell goes rope replicates too fast expresses abnormal proteins your immune system flags that and then it kills it. It's immune surveillance is what it's called and it's the number one reason why cancer doesn't explode in your body daily. Why would you want to slow that down? Why would you want to reduce your immune function? And if you go, well, what about things like rheumatoid arthritis, SLE, seroriatic arthrit, all these immune problems, Hashimoto's, right? All of that stuff, you need to find the problem, not attack the result of the problem because everything that you take for those doesn't attack like even systemic lupus arithmettosis, if you just would have recognized the rosacea at the beginning, gotten B vitamins and B2, right? Because of the mites in the skin, right? I don't know if you guys know this, the mites in the skin, you change your you take um a pancreatin, change your digestive system. I guarantee you you have a a splenic parasite, some kind of splenic invader. Well, the spleen is the largest lymphatic organ of the body, and it's connected to everything. So, that's why your joints hurt when you're sick. It's why when you get the flu, your elbows and your wrists and your scalp hurts and everything hurts because it's connected to everything. Well, if your spleen, which is adjacent to your pancreas, by the way, pancreas secretes enzymes. I realize I'm going off scripture, but I want you guys to understand this. you're if you have a um parasite, whatever invasion, some kind of it could be a systemic infection, parasite, fungus, virus, bacteria, there's a whole bunch of things that could be going. You should be getting this checked first. Hammer that first because the once you get SLE, full-blown lupus, methtrixate, cortisone, methtrixate is a chemotherapeutic drug that they use off label for lupus and rheumatoid arthritis flare-ups. Holy [\h__\h] Chemotherapy, just so you know, in and of itself is mutagenic. Do the math, right? So, I mean, these are things that you can prevent, right? Like, imagine if you just prevented this. So, that's why I'm going back to this. Pharmaceuticals, especially anti-inflammatories, corticosteroids, biologics, mood stabilizers, right? They trash immune surveillance. So, your immune system runs around, has no idea what it's doing because it can't recognize things because it's been mitigated. You're silencing the body's internal security team while rogue cells are going nuts in your own body. How about you contrast that with what actually works? Okay, so let me get this straight just so you understand. Peptides are fragments of proteins, which is why oral prep peptides do not work. I want to tell you, here's how you spot an Insta Guru that is full of crap. Absolutely full of crap. Put them in front of me. Put them live, him, her, it, in front of me. I don't care. I don't care who it is. If you are selling peptides that are oral, you're a liar. You are a bald-faced liar and you know precisely nothing about what peptides really are and you're just an affiliate link junkie making money and you might make lots of money. I talked to one of you. Oh, I'm doing pretty good, bro. Dude, you don't know anything about peptides though. I know because I watch your stuff and I'm going, "Dude, you have no idea." And the second I saw orals, I went, "You have no credibility." Either that or you're greedy. And if you know and you do it anyway, that's that's like giving somebody surgery that doesn't need surgery. You're a dick. So, just understand this. Here's why. Peptides do not work orally. They are fragments of protein. The hydrochloric acid in your gut is specifically designed to disintegrate protein. Make it make sense. But peptides, your body already makes them. What? Whatever it is, whatever is being injected, you already make it. That's why I keep saying they're signals. They're not drugs. Think about it. Growth hormone peptide. insulin peptide. Thymosin beta 4 peptide, right? TB-500 is the synthetic version. The dip. And I'll get to this. I think I talked about it yesterday, but I can explain it again today. Peptide GLP-1, you're a walking peptide producing machine. So, when someone says, which was the whole premise of this entire podcast, when someone goes, "Dude, did you see the I got somebody send me, "Did you see the study?" Just causes cancer. Dude, I want to punch you in the face for your own ignorance. What about all the other crap that you put in your body? Your loaf of bread that has 47 ingredients. My wife makes bread every day. It has four. You know what they found out? You go to to another country that doesn't have all the crap in their food. Magically, a lot of these autoimmune issues go away. Just file that away for knowledge. So, when somebody says peptides cause cancer, that's like saying oxygen causes drowning. Listen, can they be misused? Sure, anything can. Listen, I have a cup of coffee right here. If I have a hundred of these, I'm not going to do too well. I'll just tell you that. But in clinical research and realworld evidence, not anecdotal stuff, there's one statistic that keeps on coming up. It's like a revolution just keeps coming back. There are virtually zero cases of peptide induced cancer in humans. Compare that to chemotherapy, which is in and of itself, not just mutagen. It's carcinogenic. There is chemotherapeutic induced cancer. We're treating cancer with something that causes cancer. But banning peptides that have never caused it. If that's not proof of mass psychosis, I don't know what is. That's insane. Look, I'll get into SARS, right? Cuz I heard something. Well, what about SARMs? Secret dogs. What about that? Selective androgen receptor modulators. That's what Assarm stands for. They get a bad rap. SARMMs cause cancer. The hypnosis of social conditioning is mind-boggling to me. Here's the reality. Most SARMMs were actually developed to treat muscle wasting diseases and osteoporosis. Why? I'll go down this rabbit hole for you. Because they selectively target androgen receptors in muscle and bone tissue where the problems are. Not the prostate, not the liver, not the heart. But that's what you're being told. In peer-reviewed animal and phase one and two trials, SARMMS ostine specifically and liganrol shown nocogenic activity. None. I just want to sit here and let you guys soak in that for a second. How about you compare that to something a little less radical like finasteride if you guys know it's fair. For everybody that's afraid to be bald, bald is gangster. If I would have known this in high school, I would have shaved my head back then and never gone back. Finasteride is an FDA approved hair loss drug which comes with a blackbox warning for sexual dysfunction, depression, and high-grade prostate cancer. How do I sign up to take it? But SARMs are the bad guy. The reason you're told SARMs are dangerous is simple. They're effective and unregulated. And that second part, unregulated. People go, "Okay, cool. Let me explain something. I went to go I don't know, I'll use banking for an example just to see how how much you love being regulated." Go to the bank. Let's say you got 100 grand in the bank. Take out 50 grand. Tell them you want it in cash. They're going to ask you what the money's for. What? What? What's Dr. Bakam? What What are you taking the money out for? Well, I'm I'm getting a dong enhancement. I want it to just dangle in the toilet water. I want it so big. When I get up, it actually thumps off the toilet seat. Tell them that. Do it if you're a woman. Tell them that. They'll never ask you again. If you get a wire come in and you haven't had one, like I had a wire come in. It was 100 grand. And I looked at it. I knew it had gone through like, "Hey." I started thinking about it and my bank called me and said hey couple of questions and just developing rapport and then hey so uh what do you do I'm a consultant which is true by the way for you guys are all like sure you are what do you think I'm doing right now this is a free consultation for you guys and they went oh that's what I thought the person that called was she's on my team she's great all of a sudden you know what she said we had a wire come in this morning it's for $100,000 and our risk assessment team was wondering what you did before they released it to your account. How many times have you used a credit card? And they go, "Well, we have to get you to verify this transaction." And you guys are ignorant enough to go, "Well, they're keeping you safe. They're controlling what you do." Whose money is it that's in the bank? Yours. Tell them you want it in cash, and they're going to argue with you to give you a certified check. I'm telling you guys, the hypnosis of social conditioning is is so insane to me. I love social psychology. I live for this stuff. The reason SARMMs, peptides, secrets, all this stuff, even certain supplements, you're told that they're dangerous, is because they're effective. They can't have that because that means you're going to get better results than a pharma drug without any prescriptions, no control. And that threatens a multi- trillionoll system built on your subscription, your dependency. And if you say that's how we regulate people that have addictions and I was in Bangkok, I told you Thailand, I was doing a big seminar there. It was awesome. There's thousands and thousands of people. It's wild. And I remember going downstairs and going to this pharmacy next door and there's like a phone book sitting on the desk and you just open it up and Oxycontton, testosterone, you name it, it's just all there. They don't really have a huge addiction problem. Let that stick for a while too. Anyway, I I could do this all day. I did peptides, I did SARMs, secrets. This is like a reset switch for your body. That's what a secret is. It's things like Pamarillan CJC-1295 with or without DAC, it doesn't matter. MK-677. These don't even replace hormones. They stimulate your body to just make their own. This is like upgrading the factory instead of importing a bunch of fake crap. That's what it is. That is the easiest explanation I can give anybody. Secretogs increase growth hormone pulses, cellular repair, fat oxidation big time, lolysis, asleep quality, immune function, and guess what? By the way, growth hormone doesn't cause cancer. Like that's a binary statement. Zero. It doesn't cause cancer. It accelerates existing cancer if you already have it. The same way that dumping a whole jerry can of gasoline is going to accelerate a fire. Doesn't start the fire, though. You can pour gasoline all over your lawn, that's not what's going to start the fire. The reason I'm telling you this, this is the nuance that's lost to 99% of mainstream medicine. And everybody apparently is an expert, but nobody really is. And yet, here we are in a world where people have a unrealistic fear of growth hormone, secrets, they more than they fear anti-depressants and the suicide warnings or the statins that destroy mitochondrial health or your liver. You know what it is? It's idiocracy. But the pharmaceutical edition, I mean, there's all kinds. There's a financial edition, there's a health edition, there's definitely a politics edition. Now, go a little deeper. Get into the mind body connection. Yes, it's real. What causes cancer? DNA damage, toxins, yes, inflammation, for sure. But what about the thing that most people don't even take into account? Chronic stress, dopamine depletion from some of the chemistry you take, right? Sleep deprivation, low testosterone. What did I say about testosterone? people now 25 years old have testosterone that's lower than my 82-year-old mother. Okay. All of these things, right? Dopamine depletion, sleep deprivation, all of these things that I just said, these impact neuroendocrine signaling, right? The messaging system. That's the real operating system of your body, which is why peptides are such a big deal. So, let me explain a couple of things. When cortisol is chronically elevated, I'll use that because everybody talks about cortisol. When cortisol is chronically high, and some people go, I just can't get my cortisol down. Your immune function gets demolished. I'm not telling you how to fix it yet, but I'm saying your immune system just crashes. Dopamine flat lines. Your entire circadian rhythm, your sleepwake cycle gone. And when testosterone isn't working right, when you don't have any or very little, your cellular regeneration is almost non-existent. But you know what gets stronger? Three things. Cellular mutation, oxidative stress, free radicals floating around your system, tumor micro environments. You know what peptides and SRMs do? They balance out that system. homeostasis, improve sleep, restore hormones, protect mitochondria big time, regenerate tissue. If pharmaceuticals are duct tape on a leaky pipe, peptides are going in and replacing all the plumbing with brand new stuff that's never going to break. So, here's the question. Bear with me on this. And if you don't want to listen to it, I don't know. Swipe right. Go back to taking all your drugs and your garbage. And if you go, well, what about things like dudes on testosterone? First of all, testosterone is natural. And second of all, if your testosterone is about 140 and you're a 28-year-old dude, you have a problem. So just save all your explanations, your validations. Here's the question I get all the time. Why do people still defend the drugs that are killing them? It's a valid question, right? Because people don't believe what's true. They believe what they've been told most often. Neuroplasticity. It's easier to repeat the lie that you heard on TV than face the truth that your doctor might be a freaking idiot. good chance that the FDA might be compromised, you know, and that the medicine that you're taking might be the thing that's making you sick. Like, we're so addicted to being good little patients that we forgot to be independent thinkers. And worse, people ridicule those who try and question the system. Make it make sense. Like, I mean, I've seen this in my messages. Some of you dill holes like peptides, maybe you should tell them the real the real truth about this, the horrific side effects. You're being irresponsible. People believe you. You better believe me because I'm out here cuz I give a [\h__\h] Call me reckless. Are you kidding me? Talk about SARMs. Drugs. Those just tell your body to do things. And then when you challenged big pharma though, now you're a conspiracy theorist. Oh, come on. They care about you. Here's what I've learned. And I will say this till I die. When you are being attacked for telling the truth, you already know what I'm going to say. You're standing right on the [\h__\h] target. So bring the smoke. Get in the comments. Get all pissed off. Nothing I said out here is wrong at all. It is 100% fact. And number two, it's because I actually care. I don't have to be out here. You know, quarter to six, I got to knock out gorgeous woman inside. We're going to have date night and then it's just going to get rowdy. I got two great kids. I've got a amazing wife. I work hard to be healthy and strong. Like, I'm not doing this for me. And if you hear if you go, well, why are you telling people to go to Elite Biogenics? Because I want you to have access to things that are going to make you healthy. It's difficult. All I hear is here's your sign. Like you can't fix stupid. Stop acting stupid and defending the places you hate because you just don't want to be wrong. You want to know the irony? The real cheat code to health is never locked away. It's not a billion dollar patent and it's sure as hell not a pill from Fizer or an injection from Fizer. It's the very signals that your body uses to heal itself amplified and timed and just optimized in the right direction when it's required. That's not science fiction. That is just cellular innate intelligence is the best way to describe it, right? Innate intelligence. Your body knows what to do. Like I use getting cut all the time. Okay, you get cut. You think about fibbrronogen and thrombin and proth thrombin and vitamin K and you think about all that stuff. No, you don't. No, you don't. Your body just knows. But you don't think you know how to take care of yourself. That's exactly what people that make money off your illness want you to think. It's the same reason why I talk about my mentorship and I go, I'll get you to a million dollars in 12 months. But I can't do the heavy lifting if you won't do the heavy lifting. Don't bother. I'll fix your psychology in 12 months in my mentorship. I'll solve 99% of your problems. In one year, I will change the life of you, your wife, your husband, your kids, everything in your world to the point where you don't know what to do with all the money you have, the health you've got, and the bulletproof unbreakable [\h__\h] psychology that you've got. But you got to give me a year and you have to do what I tell you to do. And that's right where people draw the line. Well, I don't know. I got burned by this guy and I took this. Okay. Keep listening to the insta gurus trying to sell you a, you know, unicorn dust and magically bioavailable oral peptides just cuz they used to be a pro bodybuilder. These guys drive me nuts. You just go toe-to-toe with me. I don't care who you are. Bring it. Bring it. I will set your skull on fire cuz I have nothing to hide. I'm not going to lie. I'm just going to tell the truth. Listen, peptides, sarms, secrets, they're not hacks. I'm tired. Like the this is biohacking. Get out of here. I can't stand that term because you're not biohacking anything. What you're doing is restoring your body to way it's supposed to be. That's what this is. This is precision surgical biology. And meanwhile, here's the issue. Pharmaceuticals are just shooting into the dark, crossing their fingers that the side effects don't outweigh the symptomatic relief that they're giving people, hiding the real problem. We've created a world where the thing that causes cancer is accepted and the thing that reverses dysfunction is demonized. That's not medicine. That's marketing. Listen, ask yourself the next time somebody hands you a pill with a side effect longer than a CVS receipt. If you know, you know. Ask yourself, is this medicine or am I just muting the alarm while the entire building just burns to the ground? Because your life isn't a subscription. Stop renewing treatments that are making you sick. Like, when's the last time you thought about that? Is what I'm taking helping me or is it just making me sick? stop renewing these treatments and looking for a the next thing to take and going how about I fix the machine. So this I am a walking example. I'm 52. I was at a boxing gym yesterday and this guy the owner 53 and he goes you're 52. Holy moly freaking amazing. And if you go what else is he going to say? You look like crap. No, he just wouldn't have said anything. But this might come out for some of you guys who are listening to this arrogant [\h__\h] I know I look good but it's not why I train. I train because I want to be able to be good. Because training hurts. It sucks. It's hard. But I love the byproduct of all the training because I can run, jump, climb, do all kinds of things that I could do when I'm 25. I can still do them at 52. Why would you not want to do that? You have been conditioned to think that that's not normal, that I'm the abnormal one. But you can keep listening to people like that, that go, you are abnormal, and I have this magic dust that all you have to do is sprinkle it in your mushroom coffee or tea. And don't worry, orals are actually bioavailable and they're, you know, show me the blood work, right? That's what I always say. Um, because there are these magic orals from this special lab or this special compounding pharmacy. I'll say it again. Show me the blood work. Just like any of you listening going, you know, semi glutide and trazepatide, they're just as good as reatride. No, they're not. You can't get reatride. That's why you're pissed off. Show me the dexa scan. I will prove that 25 to 30% of the loss is fat. Everything else is tissue, water. No muscle. They just Redat True Tide's the only one that is muscle sparing. I could do this all day with just about everything because I don't talk about things I don't know. But your life is not a subscription. It is not a membership to the pain clinic and the drug machine. Stop renewing all these stupid treatments thinking you're eventually going to get better somewhere down the line. You're never going to give your body the one thing that it's been begging for all along. A chance to just fix its damn self. That's all you have to do. Anyway, I'm going to go inside. Hope you got something out of this with a little mishap in the middle of tech. I'll stitch this together while my team will and uh hopefully it doesn't sound too ridiculous. Have a great Friday, man. Never miss.