Here's what I've learned. There are plenty of people in this world, plenty, that are significantly better at things than I am. My job isn't to beat them. It's to ask them for help and then listen to what they tell me to do. Which is exactly what I come out here and do. I know I'm exceptional at being a doc. I know I'm exceptional with science and helping human human beings and fixing bodies and diseases and mitigating problems and making people really rich and fixing their psychology and getting your head in the right place so you can actually do the things required to get to where you want to go. exceptional at that. Everything else I suck at. So, I don't try and explain it, but I come out here every day to give you guys the answers so you guys can go do something with it and you you're armed with the knowledge so you can ignore all the the two camps, right? When it comes to like this is all about peptides versus drugs and what a peptide even is like what a cuz I get a lot of questions. Okay, so I ordered my medication. They're not medication. And if you go, well, whatever. You know what I mean? No, I don't. Cuz details matter. That's like saying 1 plus 1 is potato. And I go, "Yeah, it's actually too, man." And you're like, "Whatever. Same thing. It's not the same thing." And that's the idiocy that's controlling the world right now and running rampant everywhere where everybody needs to be hit in the face with a dodgeball about a dozen times till they [\h__\h] get it. Most of what I talk about and how gritty I am and edgy I am would have been normal 40 years ago. Everybody now is hyper sensitive. That's really ignorant. Why would you say it like that? Words can hurt. Words can't do anything. I had some guy say that. I go, "Words can't hurt you. Nobody can make you feel anything without your permission. And the guy sends me this scathing message at the end was like, it's really ignorant what you said. Don't be such a soft jackass then. I don't know what to tell you. Nobody can make you feel anything without your permission. I'm not talking about teenagers and kids being bullied. I'm talking about grown ass adults. Their words. Oh no, I don't like your words. So don't listen. Change the channel, [\h__\h] It's insane the level of weakness that has overtaken the world and the lack of personal accountability. Anyway, I guess that's a whole other podcast, but this is peptides drugs. It's like this classic, it's like a biological bait and switch what I see with the drug world. Unbelievable sometimes. I mean, imagine this. Listen, this is why I'm saying it. You're standing somewhere anywhere in a grocery store. Let's go there. And you're in front of all these supplements, which by the way, if you can buy them at a grocery store, I'm going to help you right now. This is going to piss off a lot of people. If you can buy it at a grocery store, then you can just take it. No one questions you. They're garbage. And all of you guys just went nuts. You mean omega-3s are garbage and vitamin C is garbage and kill CoQ10 and queretin and all the things in my milk thistle? The benefit it gives you is so slim compared to the benefit of SARMs and secrets and serums and peptides. And here's I'll prove it because they don't really have any regulatory issues ever. I can come on here right now and tell you to take I can just go full Linus Pauling on you and go you know what you should take 100 grams of vitamin C every day. Will it kill you? No. It'll probably give you bladder issues. You'll have a real pain right around here. You'll probably get diarrhea. You'll feel like crap. Will it mitigate a lot of disease? Man, anatomy of an illness. You should probably read it. Some massive, massive changes in health. I read a lot because I like to know. And you know what my job is? The more knowledge I acquire, the more it is my obligation to share it with you. The more obligation I have to give you everything I've got, the more it is my duty to go, I learned it. I am morally obligated to share it with you. Cuz I think if you don't, you're just a selfish [\h__\h] bag that wants it for you. You just have no des why are you learning it? Help other people. God, if if people would just go out and help one person with one problem they've solved, just one. That's all in your whole lifetime. just one from cover to cover, from start to finish. I have helped so many people for free. I'm talking like change their I have messages a mile long and some of you guys thank you so much for sending me the messages that I've actually made a difference in your life because that matters to me. And if you don't like how gritty I am or how edgy I am or how I just tell you the damn truth, then you know what? I got a very simple phrase for you. [\h__\h] off. I'm not for you. because I don't have time to beat around the bush and sugarcoat things and go, "Well, let's have an intervention and take 6 months to solve something that I could fix in a week." Do you know why people hire me to be their consultant, to be their doc, to be their their coach? Because I don't jerk around. Because when I when you come to me with a health problem or a psychology problem or a life problem, I poke holes in your life and find out where all the problems are and then we get to work fixing it. That's my job. And I I mean, I just had another guy just the other day, $100,000. That's how much it costs to coach with me. Okay. And if you want the cure program, 25,000, 100,000, which is 25,000 for 25 days, 100,000 for 100 days. I don't care what health problem you have. We're going to go to war and weaponize your biology against everything trying to [\h__\h] hurt you. I'm a walking billboard for everything I do that works. You guys have missing along, man. You've seen it. And if you haven't, you need to go back and look. Go back four years and look at how shitty my life was. I've filmed every second of it. I've never missed a day. I hated it. I still hate it. I said it yesterday. I hate having missing a love. I feel like crap. It's hard to talk right now. I'm always out of breath. And I train to not be out of breath. Like, I'm not going toe-to-toe with any Navy Seal underwater. I'm going to drown. I'll give all I've got. Believe me, they'll remember me, but I won't beat them. And somebody goes, "That's a terrible attitude. I got one balloon, man. It's just that simple." But this one balloon, oh, it's efficient as a [\h__\h] I'll tell you that. Because I made it so. But I come out here because I care. And I've said it many, many times. I'll keep saying it. And people go, "That's really expensive. What's it cost for a consult with you? 25,000 or 100,000? And if you say it's arrogant, you don't understand English because it's not even close. I come out here and I do all this for free and I give you more answers than anybody else will. And I'll give you the truth. You just might not like it. So when you challenge me, it makes me want to slap you in the mouth because I come out here to give you things, not to go, I'm so great and you suck. I just go, this is the answer. You need it. I'm telling you the truth. And people get so worked up because they go it disagrees with my ideology that I've been indoctrinated with about pharmaceuticals and doctors and healthcare and what really matters and climate change and whatever nonsense you guys are aliens and [\h__\h] earth, flat earth, whatever the hell it is you guys all argue about. If somebody can give you something to make your life better and there is a fee for whatever that is, you damn well better be willing to pay that fee because if you're not, you don't really want your life to be better. You want someone to do it for you. That's why I said if you help one person with one problem you've solved effectively just one in your whole lifetime and every single human being on earth did that there'd be no wars. I believe it and everybody would be rich and everybody would be successful and everybody would be doing so much better than they are right now because everybody would be looking to help versus harm. It's a disgusting time in the world right because even this some dickhead's going to come into my comments and make some stupid comment that is totally uncalled for. Listen, if you don't like what I say, again, [\h__\h] off. Go somewhere else. That is the freedom. And if you go, "It's my freedom to get in your comments." Yeah, but you're choosing to be here, which makes you ignorant. And like I said, 25,000, 100,000, or 100,000 depending on what it is. I have no problem asking for that because when I was laying in that hospital texting my wife, telling her I was not going to make morning, and I'm crying, and I really I I was it was over. I was done. If you listen to my podcast with Brad Brad Lee, I said there was a a nurse who kept rubbing my back and I was crying and I said, "I'm gonna miss my wife so much." That [\h__\h] if you guys knew why I really come out here, man. Like, this is because I give a [\h__\h] because I've I've been I've been on the other side of this equation where I wish I just had answers where I wish somebody helped me just a little bit instead of just gave me some cookie cutter thing that I that just isn't going to work. There's nothing more powerful than understanding your circumstances. If you understand your biology at a level that at least allows you to look at something and raise an eyebrow and go, I don't think that's right. I think that's going to hurt me. Now, you've got power because and then you just have to have the chops, the balls to stand up and go, you're not putting that in me. You're not making me take that. I'm not doing that. I had a conversation with a friend of mine at the bank today and they want to take out his gallbladder. He doesn't have stones. He's got some sludge. You can mitigate that 100%. You know what happens when you take out your gallbladder? This is unrelated to this podcast. Here's what happens. They remove your gallbladder, which is designed to create and concentrate bile and squeeze it out at the most precise time to help chew up fat is the easiest way before I get in deep into physiology cuz I'll go full nerd if I do. You take the gallbladder out. Sure, you can live without it. I mean, live the same way an iron lung keeps you alive. You can live. And if you go, "Well, that's pretty dramatic." Then get off my podcast. But now you just drip bile right through the common bile duct into the intestine. but it's diluted, so it doesn't have the surge or the punch that is that's necessary to do its job. Anyone that understands the gastrointestinal system, the microbiome, how it all works, they'll tell you never to take out your gallbladder, man. Even gallstones for the most part, never mind, I would try lithotripsy. And if they go, it's not possible, find another doctor until one's willing to try it. And if that doesn't work, shatter the stones, right? If that doesn't work, same with kidney stones, lithotripsy. But if that doesn't work, then try dissolving them with whatever you can. Oxile, TUDCA, there's a million things you can do, man. Sylamemer, there's so many things that you can do to mitigate health problems that you're not being taught because people aren't coming out here who either know it or people just aren't willing to learn it to share with you. You know, I I pride myself in being a very very good teacher. I might suck at conveying information. I have no idea. But I pride myself in being a very good teacher with w within one realm and that is that I'm always willing to learn more on behalf of giving you more or I'm always willing to learn more in order to so in order that you learn more. I learn that I learn because it's fun. I really do. I love taxing the [\h__\h] out of my brain. Like I love making my brain sweat. Like there have been times where I've done if you understood just what's going on in here. It's like hurting cats. I've said it before. It's non-stop. I go to sleep with a book in my ear. I wake up with a book in my ear. Yes. Really? I my Audible library is thousands and thousands and thousands of books because I want to put as much as I can in because there's where's the capacity to your knowledge? You don't have one. But it's my duty to explain as much as I can to help you guys understand as much as you can. Not in an effort to become incredibly wealthy. I'm already wealthy. I want more wealth for my family, for my kids, for generations, but I want to do it on the backbone of helping as many people. I've said this before, as humanly possible, and degrees don't do that. Certifications don't do that. The willingness to learn in order to benefit someone else does that. So you can take me or leave me. I don't really [\h__\h] care. But I come out here because I care about the people that want to have a better life. You want to have a better psychology, listen to me. You want to have a better marriage, listen to me. You want to have healthier body or understand how to mitigate 99% of the health problems or get in the way of the problems before they ever occur? Listen to me. You want to understand legal or taxation, engineering, or architecture, don't listen to me. I don't know. I don't know how to [\h__\h] ballet dance. I don't know how to do so many things. You know, you want to become an exceptional soccer player? Listen to my wife, not me. She was the pro athlete. I can kick a ball around, but not the way she does. But I'm telling you, my lane, nobody's got the faster car because I care. Cuz I'm willing to just keep learning more. So, listen before I go off, cuz I'm already I don't know how many minutes. I'm pretty much talked about nothing. It's which is funny to me. So, you guys might be going, "Jesus, are you going to get to the you going to get to the point there, bro?" You call me bro. I ain't your bro. But if you come here with anything, any shred of negativity, any any slight misery or venom or bitterness, again, two words, [\h__\h] I got nothing for you, and I will block you. I will delete you, and I will never remember your name. Like, listen, you're standing there in a supplement store and you're you're scrolling through your phone, which is what everybody's doing, and you hear this conversation beside you. This is like peptides versus drugs, right? And why peptides work and why drugs will save your life. They do nothing for health. So, you understand the difference. And you hear somebody say the word peptide, right? And you're like, you know, the little radar going off, right? And half the half the people in the building that overheard that word freak out. She just literally suggested handing somebody bags of coke or weapons grade uranium or something, right? But that same group that hates on peptides, you guys, man, if it's you, I'm not for you. Or maybe I'll sway your decision to something better and more educated. They down ant acids and beta blockers and OTC painkillers with without a second thought, man. like NSAIDs by the by the bottle. Here's the irony. Those compounds, the ones that your body actually writes its own blueprint for, right? The peptides, they're treated like a threat. While the lab built sledgehammers and jackhammers we call drugs, are treated with rewards and bullets or Nobel prizes and like they're vitamin water. You should just take them all the time. The average American is on nine different drugs. I actually might be wrong. It might be more now. Nine. Nine. You know how many you should be on? Zero. Why? Because your body is making its own. And here's the best. You have the best pharmacy on earth. Right drug, right quality, no fillers, no toxic anything, right quantity, right target organ, right length of time at the right dosage, and it's open 24/7. And what peptides do is they tell your body to do something better. They don't give you something. They tell your body to do what it already knows how to do. And it gets rid of all the static and fuzz that's in the way. That's why treating drugs like they're this holy grail. It's backwards, man. I just I want you to understand cell by cell why peptides work with your biology and drugs, most of them, bulldo [\h__\h] right through it. I want you guys to look at a prescription label in never the same way again. And before somebody says, "Well, drugs, you need them sometimes." Yeah, if they're going to save your life, absolutely. And they will. They will absolutely keep you alive. The invention of modern medicine and the advancements have saved so many lives, but they've killed so many more. Like, a peptide isn't anything exotic. It's this short chain of amino acids, just two to usually about 50 lengths of the same molecular beads that make up every single protein in your meat suit that you walk around in. Like if full protein is is like a thousandpage novel, right? It's like a big fat Harry Potter novel, War in Peace. You look at something at Toltoy or anything like that. A peptide is just this sharply written message. 150 180 characters. Same thing I tell people to come up with when they describe their business. It's really short but capable of exceptional things. Starting a revolution. Interesting word, huh? For the day. Put that in your head a little bit right now. Subliminal. I'm programming you. Your DNA encodes peptides the way a software developer will write code. My buddy Dan, Dan Martell, he was a a coder before he Let's He actually go, this guy makes so much money. He's is smart. If you don't follow Dan Martell, you should. You really should. This guy is he's a very intelligent man and he knows how to build businesses and he knows how to get things done and he knows about he knows how to buy back your time. Should get his book but he writes code the same way that a DNA encodes peptides. And let me explain see if I can get this in the most short version possible because I'm already 20 minutes in and again I've probably talked about very little ribosomes. They're on the rough the rough ER endopplasmic reticulum. They translate something called messenger RNA mna. We know about this from some weird thing that happened about four years ago. they translate it into these long precursor proteins and then the end these enzymes come and they they clip these precursors into active short sequences of proteins, right? That's the actual peptide. Then they get packaged in something called a vesicle. Vesicle is like a little pouch by something called the Golgi apparatus. When the right signal ar so it's just sitting there, right? So when the right signal arrives, usually what happens is there's this surge of intracellular calcium. It's triggered by an electrical impulse, membrane potential, things like that. Those vesicles fuse with the cell membrane, right? The thing keeping the cell together and basically pass through and squirt out their cargo. Does that make sense? Exocytosis is what it is. Exocytosis. The peptide is now here's what happens. It's going to float around, travel through interstial fluid, the bloodstream, until it finds its little target receptor, whatever it's meant to hit. It'll bounce off everything except the right lock. And here's the beauty. The receptor is built for that exact the lock is built for that exact peptide. That key fits that lock. That's it. Nothing else. It'll keep bouncing off every lock until it gets to the right one no matter what. When you bind to that lock, the receptor's three-dimensional shape, it causes it to shift. I think I've gone over this before. So, the confirmational change is what sets off the cascade inside the cell. Make sense? And depending on the peptide and the receptor, you can see all kinds of cool stuff like G-proin coupled receptor signaling. That's a that is a thing. So it activates something called adenolate cycles. It's a gives you a spike in AM cyclic AMP specifically C and it gives you this ripple of protein kynise A activity that turns hundreds of genes on or off. So that's one thing it can do. Uh receptor tyrrosine kynise pathways autophosphorilation of the insulin receptor recruitment of AKT I believe transllocation of glute 4 which in the membrane. So the muscle cell this is what I talked about before glute 4 right. So transllocation of glute 4 to the membrane so that muscle cells can suck up vacuum up the glucose. This is what happens when insulin kicks in. Right? Ion channel linked receptors. It's direct changes in membrane potential that fire neurons or contract smooth muscle. This is all caused by peptides. This isn't peptides. This isn't brute force. This is precision detailed laserpointed signaling. The peptide arrives delivers a clear instruction. one clear, perfectly articulated instruction. Release this hormone. Repair that tissue. Damp that inflammation. And then it is broken back into amino acids for recycling. Message sent. Mission complete. No collateral damage. It's easiest way to explain how this works. And you have examples that you rely on every day. insulin, which keeps blood sugar from spiking like a toddler that's just eating a bag of Skittles when nobody's looking. Endorphins which close presinaptic calcium channels to blunt pain. Oxytocin which raises intracellular calcium which I just talked about in the uterus to drive labor and in the brain to create forge trust and bonding and usually procreation and you know expansion of the species. Sex if I spell it out you guys have sex right? You're crude. You guys are [\h__\h] sometimes. I don't know whatever you want to say. But all of these are peptides. They're your own molecular text messages and they're very very effective. There's no way to they don't get blunt or dull or lose the message. And that's why this stuff's really important. Now, now contrast that elegance with the average pharmaceutical drug. So, a typical drug is a synthetic foreign molecule designed to overpower a pathway. That's the easiest explanation of a drug. It wasn't written into the body's language. It was built to override it. It's like, I'm coming in with a megaphone. I don't care what language you speak. I'm blasting over you and I'm going to make damn sure everybody hears it. Doesn't even matter if you understand it. I'm going to make you do what I want because I'm just going to yell until you go the direction I want. So take take NSAIDs, uh, non-steridal anti-inflammatory drugs. They block cycllo cylo oxygenase enzymes to stop prostaglandon synthesis. That's how they work from a a biochemical standpoint. So pain and inflammation drop, but so does the protective lining of the stomach. So now you risk ulcers and bleeding and all that stuff, but it's worth it. You haven't even solved the problem. That's the issue. How about uh reinadine proton pump inhibitors? Those silence the proton pumps in your stomach that create more hydrochloric acid. Well, your heartburn vanishes. Absolutely. But now your microbiome tanks. So your nutrient absorption plummet. You're supposed to have hydrochloric acid. One and a half to about 2 and 1/2 three is where your pH should be. That's going to take your finger off. And gastric cancer risk skyrockets when you shut down. That's why I talk about taking hydrochloric acid pills until you feel warm. There's a whole protocol before you ask me about that. Beta blockers, they sit on adinuric receptors, so they keep adrenaline from even doing its job. And if you go, well, that's a pretty good thing. I don't want to feel all anxious. Anxious comes from your psychology. Unless there is a genuine endocrinological or neurological problem. It's going to be psychological. You're speeding yourself up. But when you sit on those adinuric receptors, your blood pressure falls. Great. Which is the whole point about this, right? Beta blockers, they cause your blood pressure to shrink and your heart to slow down. That's why you they don't use them when they do that I don't remember what it is the Olympic event where they ski and then shoot the target. Cross country ski and then shoot and they have to time the shots between the beats of the yeah beta blockers will make you much more effective because they keep your heart rate in check. But when your the blood pressure falls, here's the problem. So does your ability to mount a healthy fight, flight, or freeze response, which is required. You are designed like this by God. [\h__\h] around with that stuff changes your physiology in in a very bad way. This is the bulldozer approach. You find a pathway, slam it shut, kick it open, and hope the rest of the system survives the collateral damage. It's like cutting the main power line in my entire house because one switch is flickering or one bulb went out. Okay. Yeah. The fl the light stop's flickering or the switch is dead, but so the refrigerator doesn't work. The heater and every circuit that was running just fine now stops. You understand this? Your body isn't this random collection of parts. It is a self-correcting, highly evolved network. Hormone pulses rise and fall. Negative feedback keeps the system in range where it's supposed to be. And so when thyroid climbs, the hypothalamus reduces something called TR. When cortisol spikes, the pituitary cuts act. Peptides respect these loops because they were born from them. Which means it's always going to work with homeostasis. The body's ability of itself or its constant search to it's the surveillance that it has to keep itself in balance with itself. not balance with. You're like, "This is why I cut off my phone and I put it in a box at 6:00." Dude, stop being gay. Stop it. You're a grown man that has to put your phone in a box. You have a problem. You're a toddler, dude. Finish your job. So, put your phone in a bog. We have AI heard something. It's totally has nothing to do with this podcast, but when I saw that at 6:00, I take it and I put it in this box and then I don't use it anymore. What are you five? You can't You don't have the self-control to put your phone down. You have bigger problems in your life then. It's funny. I just spoke inside this. This is how crazy my brain works. It's like when I speak like this, I don't know. Can you guys tell? Sounds like I'm talking inside a barrel. This is you. You guys are like, I think he's cracked. I think he's read too many books. Maybe he ate some. I don't know. Go back to the 80s when it's like, you know what? You have to keep lead out of your paint because people eat paint chips. I don't know about you, but I was born in 1973. The number of paint chips that I have consciously eaten is precisely [\h__\h] zero. So, that is a lie. I can get into the whole lead paint thing, but it ain't because of of toxicity. It's because of keeping crap out of your house that you don't want in there. I'll just leave it at that. You figured out. No, I'm not wearing a tin foil hat, but maybe I'll put one on later just for you guys. Now, I just want to speak through my cup. A growth hormone releasing peptide, for example, think about this. Triggers it triggers a growth hormone, a GH pulse, and then the resulting here. Here, the resulting IGF-1 feeds back to slow further release. So, that's what I mean. It causes a pulse, but then it causes the event, but the event says, "Okay, we've got enough. We've got enough. The message travels, the loop closes, homeostasis holds. That's why this is important to understand because if you take too much of a narcotic, you're going to die. Respiratory arrest is the first thing that's going to happen. You stop breathing. Well, that's why then they have to give you something called Narcan, which is it blocks the actions of a narcotic is the easiest way. It's like you instantly go into withdrawal. It's the fastest way. And you will, believe me, if you're an addict, you're [\h__\h] It's going to hit you hard. No, you're not going to die, but you're going to be miserable, but it'll also save your life. But that's what people die from with narcotics usually is respiratory arrest. They stop breathing. They're high and dead. So it's not the same because you can force that system to work. There's no loop. Do you understand that? Now that's that's why it's dangerous. Drugs ignore drugs ignore all of these safeguards that you have in your body. They they don't abide by the same laws. That's like saying I have ten commandments which by the way are the simplest rules to have and they apply to every single damn situation on the planet. So having a rook a book of rules this big is totally useless. Those are people trying to control. If they fit within the confines of Ten Commandments, you're good. You're good. But if you shut here, so look at this. Look at drugs. You shut down. I know I'm all over the place, but pay attention. You shut down acid production long enough and the stomach compensates by ramping up gastrin, which primes you for rebound acid hyper secretion. So the system goes the other direction. Swings the pendulum swings the other way. You block dopamine receptors with antiscychotics usually, and the brain responds by making more receptors. It goes, "No, no, no, no, no. I'm supposed to be doing this." which leads to tolerance and a bunch of movement disorders or weird jerky movement disorders. Peptides fit into the the thermostat and drugs come and take an axe and hack it off the wall. So you have to understand the difference. You need to see why a peptide outperforms the pharmaceutical bulldozers. Watch them work across different systems. It's the easiest way to have an example. Look at metabolism and energy. insulin and glucagon, right? Both peptides. They orchestrate blood sugar control with this minute-to-minute precision. It's it's faster than that, but it's the easiest way to explain it. So, one lowers glucose by escorting it into muscle and fat cells, and the other releases glucose from the liver when energy starts to drop. They're perfectly timed. This duet always works together. One tap of the conductor's baton up at the front down into the pit, and the entire metabolic orchestra responds. It doesn't just have one do it. It all rises and falls. There's a crescendo that is designed to occur. Look at growth and repair. Growth hormone releasing peptides prompt the pituitary to to release GH, growth hormone, and it comes in pulses. This is that's why circadian rhythm is a big deal because you're supposed to have these pulses. That GH triggers the liver to create IGF-1, which then cues tissue repair and collagen synthesis and even works with the sleep wake cycle. Because the signal is pulsatile, the natural off switch of negative feedback keeps the system from running wild. This applies to all mood and pain. It works with which are intimately linked, by the way. Endorphins and and keylins, they dock to opioid receptors. It's funny, I was just talking about this stuff, right? To modulate pain and trigger that post-workout runner's high is the best example of this because you're in pain, but you also get this high, right? So they reduce pain without the respiratory suppression or the chemical hangover that you get from synthetic opioids, which is why I was talking about respiratory arrest. Even oxytocin, you look at the bonding and behavior and and reproduction and sex. Oxytocin floods the brain during childirth and and actually in social bonding gives you that it, like I said, it forges trust is the easiest way to explain it. It's not really that simple, but it's the easiest way to lay it out. And it gives you the causes attachment between people. Like I have a ton of oxytocin when I see my wife cuz I trust her and I'm attached to her. Cuz I love my wife. Cuz she's my best friend. It's a native neuropeptide that changes human behavior without a single prescription written. Not one. Each of these signals rises, completes its task, and then is enzyatically clipped back into simple little amino acids. So there's no long-term residue or collateral damage. There's no downstream chaos, which is what makes them so effective. It's not It's well orchestra An orchestra is the best way to explain it because there's so many moving parts to an orchestra. That's why it's this molecular symphony going on. It's improvisational, but it's perfectly in tune with your body's own rhythm. So, you can't screw it up, right? Like, you can't take a peptide and screw it up. So, when drugs bulldo physiology, the damage isn't always loud and immediate. I think you need to understand that sometimes it hides behind numbers on a lab report or this slow drift in how your body works. It slowly changes which is why they have a bell curve. Your body is very precise. It is not a damn bell curve. Like think think about this. There's there's a couple of silent saboturs that are just very good examples. Statins and the energy crisis in your system, right? They lower LDL the low LDL cholesterol as and that's what they are promised to do, right? Which is a whole other conversation because low cholesterol is not good for you. There is yet to be a study. The Framingham study has yet to prove they've been running the study for 354 years trying to prove that cholesterol and heart attack and stroke are married and all they've managed to do is that prove that cholesterol at the levels that they say are high prevents Alzheimer's dementia. Absolutely. So they lower cholesterol, the statins, but they also throttle a couple of pathways. They shut them down. the same chemical pathway that produces for example CoQ10 which is an essential co-actor for mitochondrial energy. No CoQ10, no mitochondrial energy. Doesn't matter how much methylene blue you take. So your cholesterol drops. Great, but so does the energy output of every damn cell you've got in your body. So now you've got muscle fatigue, memory lapses, and this creeping insulin resistance that follows you around like a bad credit score. Like it's so bad for you. Look at the gluccocorticoids, right? The high dose of you get these highdose steroids that crush inflammation. So I'm talking like prednazone, right? Big moonface stuff that where like day one and day two you feel great and after that you're like get me off this stuff. So high doses of these they destroy inflammation in days like I mean it is gone. It there is nothing more effective and nothing more shitty for you. But because they they rob calcium from bone they slow osteoblast activity which is even building bone and they accelerate osteoclast breakdown. So you end up with osteoporosis and stress fractures and they show up long after the prescription is gone. That's what I was talking about. They drift slowly into how your body works and they start shutting things down over time. And you think this is not intentional? Come on, man. Look at broadspectrum antibiotics. These drugs don't just kill the bug that's making you sick. They carpet bomb the entire gut ecosystem that regulates immunity and produces neurotransmitters like serotonin and it trains your immune system to distinguish between self and other a friend and foe, which is what your immune system is always running surveillance on. So weeks after the infection is gone, you've got chronic gut inflammation. You got mood swings and allergies that you never had before. I bet you some of you guys are listening this going, "Son of a [\h__\h] I never had allergies until I did this." Yeah, did this antibiotics. I'm not saying antibiotics are bad, but you sure as hell don't need them for every single thing. You have a sniffles. You don't have a sinus infection. And they're like, "Well, it might be viral. What the [\h__\h] do you need antibiotics for? If anything, ivormectin, fenendazol, nicotine." Problem solved. Like none of these drugs have set out to be villains. Just so you know. They don't. They're effective in emergencies. I'm very open about that. But they shortcircuit networks that evolution spent a lot of time and God spent a lot of time building and wiring up to run properly. And because the effects accumulate very very quietly, energy decline, bone loss, immune confusion, and lack of function, hyperimmunity. You don't notice the damage until it's permanent. And then you guys call me and you go, "What do I do?" And I'm like, "That took 30 years to make. You think I'm going to give you one little peptide recommendation or talk about how it's going to fix you? It's going to be gone. You need to hang out with me for a long time. We figure out what the hell's going on. And then when just so you understand back, by the way, to come back to the programs, like I said, 25,000, 100,000, or 100,000. Take your pick. But I decide in the cure program which one you do. If you like, I only want to get the $25,000. But if you have a problem that takes 80 days to solve, you're not going to get it. Why? Cuz I have ethics and morals. Cuz I'm not going to short change you. I just will say that's not going to work. And if you have one that's only going to take 12 days and you're like, "Well, I want to get the 100 day." I'm going to go, "No, you don't need it cuz I have ethics and morals." But that's the important part about this is if you you spent all this time destroying the system, you want something to fix it like this. And that doesn't exist. But drugs promise that because they go, "Don't worry, you just take this drug. It'll all be gone." Yeah, but you never fixed the problem. You just made a bunch of noise somewhere else. It's like, "My brakes are squeaking. Turn up the turn up the radio." Brakes are still [\h__\h] Eventually, you won't be able to stop. you're just going to canoe right into the car in front of you. This is what bulldozing physiology really means. It's not just side effects and a warning and that's a whole other conversation that there's no such thing as side effects. There are only effects. You give them a cute little name like side effects and everybody goes, "Yeah, that just doesn't happen to a lot of people though. It happens to everybody." It's the level that it happens that you're not sure of and you don't know who you're going to be. When they when you guys go, "Well, they just have to say that." No, they say it because it's happened. That's why you're dismantling your body's own system of checks and balances, you guys. And I'm not saying that you shouldn't have medication. I'm saying to run to it is not the answer for the most part. Like you you have built this entire system engineered on negative feedback. Like the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, cortisol rises, act drops, thyroid axis, T3 to T4 rises, TR, TSH stop. This is this is non-stop systems. It's like agonist antagonist, right? You flex your bicep, the tricep turns off. If you flex your tricep, the bicep turns off. But you guys aren't putting that together. It's because otherwise you're going to fight yourself. You're never going to move. You're just going to be rigored, right? Reproductive axis. Testosterone or estrogen rise. G&R pulses slow down. All of this stuff is married together. These loops are automatic and they're self-correcting. The system does it all on its own. You don't even need to think about it. When's the last time you had to think about that stuff? See that? This is why it's so effective. When peptides enter these loops, they're trusted because it's the language that your body already speaks. They send a signal, release this hormone, heal the tissue, and then the feedback system itself dials it down. No matter how many peptides you have in your system, it won't allow you. It won't allow you to do something that's not going to help you. That's what's so badass about this. There's not a drug on the planet that'll do that. They will force it no matter what. They bypass the governor completely, which is why tolerance and rebound and dependency are so common because the system is left scrambling to compensate for for a chemical that refuses to respect the circuit board and the governor that's in place for your safety. I'm not talking some weird sensor that says you can't say certain words because they're offensive. Listen, people fear peptides, molecules that your body already produces, while guzzling over-the-counter products with documented links to cancer, liver damage, reproductive damage, microbiome collapse. You guys just take them all day long. It is selective paranoia. We trust the package pill because it's familiar, even as it just runs over your physiology and mistrust the native code that is speaking the language of your biology because it sounds like a science fiction movie. How does that even make sense? It's like chaining your front door shut and locking it up with everything you can and putting a bunch of machine guns up front that are automated but leaving your back door wide open. It doesn't make it make sense. I believe this. This is me. The next era of health is not about bigger hammers. It's about better signaling. But you have to be willing to do that instead of going, I'll just find the next drug. Watch TV and see how many drug ads there are non-stop. I don't think they should be allowed. Peptide science is a guide for biology instead of a hijacker. It targets immune modulation, right, without wiping the immune system out. Metabolic resets that like reatrite cokes the body to burn fat and preserve muscle without starving it. No sarcopenia. neuropeptides that fine-tune mood and cognition without chemical sedation like I was talking about the fennel paracetam hydroxide yesterday right and the alpha GPC combination right this is all fact this is just the system your body is built on it's not fantasy this is all over the place this is how your world your how your body is designed to work I'm not saying there isn't a place for drugs but 95% of the [\h__\h] that's going on in your body is not a drug problem it is a signaling problem and a poor decision problem. Your body is a walking, talking, breathing supercomput. Peptides are the native code. These little short strings of amino acids that keep the operating system doing what it's supposed to do. Drugs are clever pitches at best. And in fact, I I think they're more like malicious software at worst. They don't do anything for the most part that's going to benefit you. Like one group is going to whisper in perfect syntax, right? uh order and lets the built-in safeguards do their job. Do this. Nope. Don't do that. Do this. Nope. Don't do that. And the other one just comes kicking through the door with a bullhorn, flipping switches, turning things on and off, and it hopes that the collateral damage isn't too bad, so you actually survive. The qu this the question isn't about whether peptides are risky or not. Like even this, I I have to be careful what I say because of the free speech that I so apparently have, but yet I [\h__\h] don't. But yet you can talk about all kinds of other things and post horrific videos of something and it doesn't matter. Don't get me started. This is another podcast. I'll lead right into it. So I better not. But understand that the real question isn't whether or not peptides are risky because they're not. They're not. They're not. And now you understand exactly how they work right down to systemically what they do in the cell. It's not whether peptides are risky, you guys. It's not. It just makes me makes me crazy. It's why we've spent decades normalizing chemical bulldozers and carpet bombs and indoctrinating this dogma that the very molecules our own biology use to stay alive are the risky ones. I'll tell you right now, you should be more afraid of that wartthog coming in with the chain gun on the front called drugs than you should be of the blueprint called peptides. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. Never miss.