What's up, gang? It is Smash Works time. Plantar fasciitis. How about that for an intro, right? Super super bad, super painful. Turns into a heel spur. You get a big giant chunk of bone growing off the calccanous because that tendon calcifies. All bad, super bad, super painful. going to show you how to prevent it. And then uh the problem is everybody just smashes the bottom of the foot and goes, "All right, we're all good." Mm- There's so much more. Mechanics of the entire lower extremity are uh are in complete disarray. So I'm going to show you how to fix all that super fast. Right now I have a uh voodoo band on my foot. And uh so this is going to be a really fast portion of the video cuz I need to get this thing off cuz it freaking hurts when you leave it on. And it's wrapped. If you watch, I'm I'm walking like I have like I'm, you know, Blackbeard the pirate. I got a little bit of a peg leg. So anyway, plantar fasciitis. The bottom of the of the foot has all this fascia underneath. It's got two arches, one longitudinally and one transverse. When those arches start to collapse and you have all these problems, that fascia gets glued down, starts to yank on that calccanous and um cause the 26 bones of the foot mechanically to be super super super bad and uh and not very sound. and they start to uh it starts to restrict the movement of that plantar fascia. It starts to glue down, gets inflamed, causes calcification, all this stuff. But the problem is not just the plantar fascia, it's also the uh the tissue upstream. So we need to hit that calf. So basically gastro solius planter and we need to hit the anterior portion of that foot as well or that leg as well. So I'm going to show you um by tibialis anterior and then the high hip is the part that's missing. Everybody's missing that external rotation. So we want to recapture that high hip and we want to take that talis which is the uh you look at the tib and the fib and they sit like this and inside the center is this bone called the talis that allows the foot to dorsiflex and uh planter flex and um what happens is when you lose that taller tuck you uh lose the ability of the foot to do that properly mechanics my shoulder's getting really tired so I'm going to put this down the mechanics of the foot go right to hell so Oh yeah hey I just did a workout I'm a little bit whooped so you See? Got the voodoo band. So number one, super super simple. Yep, you're right. We want to smash the bottom of this foot. So with plantar fasciitis, obviously plantar fascia. Remember what I said? It's going to be around the back side. Going to be around the front two tibialis anterior, the triple in the back, the gastroxololis plantaras. And then we're going to hit that high hip, regain a lot of that external rotation so you're not collapsing in on that foot, giving yourself a nvicular fault and flattening out that arch. and then jacking up the mechanics of the foot. And then we're going to take that talis and shove it back as well. Huh? Sound cool? We're going to do this all in like the next 3 minutes and 27 seconds. So, you're going to take the lacrosse ball, voodoo band on here for sure. 50% overlap, 50% tension, right? All right. You're going to get your foot on it. Oh, this is just grizzly. Give your foot a big hug or give your knee a big hug. So, I got the lacrosse ball underneath, hugging the knee, and I'm just going to grind away on this. Oh, this is And I'm going to go all the way into the heel. So, hug the knee, grind all the way into the heel and all the way down to the ball of the foot. Do that till you feel a change happen. Probably about 2 minutes. All right, that's number one. Number two is we don't need this anymore. I'm going to wind up having that thing show up about a minute and a half into the video. Number two is you see I've got the I've got a barbell here. 45s. Doesn't matter what the weight is on the back, but the reason I'm using a barbell is it's much more aggressive than a kettle bell. So, you're going to take your foot and you're going to lay over the barbell like this. You're going to take the other foot. You're going to cross it over. And then you're just going to do C. Oh god, that's horrible. Now, I want you to start really close to the heel. Get right on that heel cord and unglue that from the uh the back of the tibia and work your way all the way up. Turn your foot out, roll your foot in. So, you're going to basically do 10 circles, 20 circles, just grinding that tissue away. All right, that's number two. That's going to unload all the stuff in the back. Now, we're going to hit that talis. We're going to suck that talis back into the way it's supposed to be so you can get that plantar and dorsif flexion working the way it's supposed to. Ah. All right. So, yep. Got to move the camera. Some sick camera skills today, huh? Just mad camera skills. Yeah. We're going to have to go on this side. All right. You can see I got the band right over there. So, we're going to take this. We're going to load up the talis. So, just like that. Load up that talis. Help yourself. Give it a good yank. And then all you're going to do, I want that heel crazy glued to the bottom of the floor. Okay. So, this foot never ever I want anything like this. Your whole goal is to take your knee and bring it as close to the ground as possible. Sorry if I got dirty knees from falling and doing burpees for like an hour. So, you're going to take this. You're going to shove it down. This is loaded up. You're going to hug the knee. Again, we love our knees. They're awesome, right? And we're just going to hang out here. So, hug the knee. Let this load it up. Probably about 60 70 lbs. Let it drag that talis into the back. And then, while you're in this position, I want you to scour around, hunt around, freeing up all those sticky bits for guess what? Yeah. Two minutes, baby. Oh, now I want to take this voodoo band off. So, I'm going to do this mid film. You know why? It sucks having this thing on. Oh god, it's like relief. All right, last one is high hip. So, we're going to use the same band. You basically get into a modified pigeon. So, you're going to get this high up in the groin. Like I always say, watch the twig and giggleberries, people. And you're going to have that trailing leg out. So back leg is out, front leg is this way. And you're just going to sit here. So you can see how the band is going to pull the head of the uh the femur into the back of the socket. Super good. That's where it's most stable. Right. Unload the front of that joint capsule. Stop beating the shizz out of the joint capsule. I got the foot. So you can see here I've got the foot planted down. Leg externally rotated. Band dragging the head of the femur into the back. And then all I'm going to do is I'm going to hang out as far as I can. How long do we hang out? Two minutes, baby. I know you guys are like, I hate your two-minute rule. It just sucks. It's such a long time. 2 minutes is what it takes. You do what it takes because that's what it takes. Hey, that's how you get rid of plantar fasciitis. That's how you prevent plantar fasciitis. That's how you get the mechanics of the leg working properly. Try it. Do it. Free up. Have super mobility supplitude. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works. I catch you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.