All right. So, I sat here and probably 20 minutes before I even started this, probably more like 45. And um I was thinking about what to go over in this podcast. A lot of times I write down some ideas, three, four lines, piece of paper, and I just leave it here in front of me just so it keeps me on track. But today was different. I had this whole podcast taken care of. Excuse me. H and u it was all about the concept that people have about why other people are successful and they're not. We were in Florida one time uh a couple of years back, myself, Brandy, and our kids in Clear Water. It was a hell of a time. It's actually when I wrote my first real book, right? I locked myself in my hotel room while my kids went down on the nicest day of the week. Hung out in the water, beach, white sand, shallow, warm, beautiful. It was awesome. It was in Clear Water. Yeah, if you know Clear Water, you know it's just gorgeous there. And I was upstairs 7 hours. I wasn't leaving. Well, I did the same thing today. I wrote AI don't know what to call it. If you guys remember the anabolic reference guide, right, back in the day, 30 years ago, how good it was, pretty dated now, but I wrote something similar today about peptides. And uh and I'm going to cut you guys in on it. Don't worry. And this this isn't a pitch on it. You guys should all have it. This should be information that everybody is sharing about things that work. The problem is most people don't know what they're talking. They're still thinking that orals work and creams work and lozenes and all the other dumb [\h__\h] they do. But anyway, that's not why I'm talking about this. I could do this all day. It was about an experience we had with a server at this tiny little, it looked like a house, just a a slightly bigger house, a beach house. It was on the beach, but it was a restaurant. It was burgers, fries, you know, fish baskets, things like that. And it was just down the street from our hotel. And they were supposed to have like the best the best burgers, the best fries, just one of those down home and it was all homemade. It was great. And we had a wild experience. I didn't really explain it. But I think most people listen, the world's not going to change with you guys staring at it and bitching at it and complaining about it and going, "Well, they're cheating and they have more advantages and they're lucky and there's nepotism over here and there's racism over there and you know, there's victimhood there and they hate me and they love me and they have it. They're lucky and their parents are rich and they're genetic." Like all you guys do is point at all the things wrong. You never do anything to change the world. Who the [\h__\h] is going to be the example cuz it ain't you if that's you? You're waiting for somebody else to be the example. But when somebody else is the example, you complain that they have it easier than you. So you don't use them as an example. You use them as a reason for you to be to complain and go validate why they're winning and you're not. You just can't [\h__\h] win with you guys. So most people think the world changes through some grand revolution like your marches and your protests and massive hashtags and politicians on podiums screaming like toddlers in suits. The truth is the world changes at single tables like at this restaurant like one act one interaction just one person who refuses to let the world set the standard for how they live. You have a choice. Either you are the standard or you are becoming somebody else's standard. And if it's not up, it's down. That's the only other direction. The kind of like you need to think about the standard you need to become is the kind of man who walks into a restaurant, sees pain and says, "Not today, but not just for you." Who are you? when when nobody else deserves your kindness. When people are rude, right? When someone's short and agitated and sometimes terrible. When you're tired, when you're hungry, when you're pissed off, and you just get nothing but attitude, who are you? Because how you respond when everything wants you to match the world's low, weak, impotent bar, that's the difference between being a follower and being the standard. I made a post one day where I said, "I don't look to become the standard. I am the standard." And somebody said, "Oh, listen to this guy. God's the standard." And I'm like, "My standard is God's standard. I don't know about you." And I think that's the problem is yet another person looking for a reason to validate why they aren't by trying to take somebody else down. It was just this little restaurant in Florida. This tiny little thing like it was a little house. You guys have probably been to something like this. It's got weathered wood siding and screen doors that slam and you could smell the ocean cuz you could see it. Fries that you can smell from the street, the parking lot. Just simple, real. It was awesome. Like the food was fantastic. My kids couldn't wait to go. And we walk in and my wife Brandy, our kids, me, the place is packed. Like, it's slammed. And it's this kind of place that you get fries because they're made in 1987 grease. And somehow they probably they taste better because of it. That's how you got to look at that. It's one of these. Greasy spoon is the easiest way to call it, but most people don't even know what that is anymore. But here's where it gets really interesting. The server walks up and she's got that look, you know, that I'm 3 seconds away from just snapping and losing my [\h__\h] and burying a fork in someone's throat kind of look. Like that kind of look. She looked like she was ready to kill somebody. She's angry. I mean, not mildly annoyed. She is pissed. Not having a rough moment. No, this you could feel her radiating just pure unfiltered fury and rage. Like she was mad. And honestly, I think she was probably carrying it all day long and tonight's the night somebody's going to die. That's how I looked when we sat down. I'm like, she's in my head, I'm thinking, she's going to [\h__\h] kill somebody. And I thought that she's going to for sure have the cook spitting our food. And I thought as I sat there with Brandy and the kids, I thought, [\h__\h] the someone that's going to take the brunt of all this rage is us. And she slams waters down like they're just her [\h__\h] and they owe her money. She talks to us like we just robbed her house, beat up her grandma. She's walking around like the whole world just betrayed her entire life. You could feel her energy. Remember Ralph Waldo Emerson, right? Who you are screams so loudly in my ears, I can't hear a word you're saying. That's real. And honestly, this is where things get a little different. Most people, be honest, most of you guys would just get mad back. You guys would go in and this would happen and it would be where's the manager? I need to talk to the manager. You guys would play that dance. You guys would give her attitude right back because that's what average infinite mediocre people do. But I don't live by their rules. But I don't live by people's rules like that anymore. I don't. Like I said, I'm the standard. So listen, my my son, he was 13 at the time. My son is very, very honest. Not to a fault. He's insanely honest and abruptly inquisitive and challenges everything. And I love that because he's extremely intelligent. He's got this whole package put together where he has a personality and he's had it since he was born. He's going to be 16 and oh [\h__\h] next week. Holy crap. But he leans over, 13 years old, right? And he says, he just whispers, right? She's really grumpy. He's honest. He would have said it to her. He would have looked her right in the eye and said, "You're really grumpy." And you know what? He's such a cute kid. Probably could have gotten away with it. I don't know about 16, but 13, he still could have gotten away with it. But most parents, here's what you guys would do. Most of you guys would hit their kid with a shh, hey, don't say that. Or worse, agree and start whispering judgments like cowards in a church. I looked at it as a gift, right? I I looked at it as this opportunity to demonstrate in real time what leadership looks like, not in some speech or some long grandiose lesson, but in conduct. So I looked up Pierce and I said, "All right, buddy." It was loud enough so everybody at the table could hear. Said, "All right, buddy. Watch this." I said, "I'm going to change her entire life. My only goal for this entire meal, buddy, is to make her feel important, like she matters, like she's having just the best night of her life, and you're going to watch it happen in real time." He smiles and lights up like he just got handed front row seats to some kind of superpower demonstration, right? Like Captain America is going to come rolling through the place. That's a lesson right there, though. Lead through example, not instruction. He saw me do it. You can't think about your kids. You can't anybody around you. It's not just your kids. You're the example to anybody that's looking at you and they will either validate their behavior or raise it or leave. Because if you're grumpy and ignorant and rude and miserable and they're the same way, they're just going to validate and go, "Yeah, see, I can be that way, too. That guy's an [\h__\h] That girl's an asshole." If you're a higher standard and you maintain that, they're either going to leave or go, "I need to game up." But you can't raise warriors and leaders and change the world and make a better place. You realize you're leaving this for the next generation. Whether you accept it or not, it's irrelevant. It's just a fact. You can't do it by teaching fear. You can't raise lions with this sheep behavior, which is what you guys are [\h__\h] doing. You can't teach your kids leadership by reacting like the very people you warn them not to become. And a lot of you guys are doing this. So, when she comes back, I thought to myself, "All right, it's go time. Now, I got to put my money where my mouth is." No sarcasm, no manipulation, no nice guy tactics or strategy with all these strings attached just to manipulate. Like, that's not how I was thinking. I asked her real questions. I didn't bug her. I wasn't a pain in the ass. I've been a server. I don't have time to have small talk conversations forever at a camp or at a in a you know some fortop that camps out in my section. I forget it. I got [\h__\h] to do. And if you're grumpy, that's the last thing you want to do. But I asked her questions about her real quick. Hey, you from here? This place is awesome. Right. What are you working here? Like what what brought you here? Is how's your night really going? Because right now I want to change it. And I was very I was literally upfront. How's your night really going? Not weird, creepy, not sarcastic, not salesy. I really did. And I'm very transparent. So, I mean, things like we stacked plates before she came back to clear them. I made her job as easy as possible, not harder. I looked her in the eye and I called her by name. Every time she passed by, I made sure that I kind of whispered, "Hey, you're a badass." And I was just goofing around but having fun. She walked by, "Hey, badass." you know, and not creepy for some of you guys are like, "Dude, I was a server. That would be creepy if there was some old bearded dude saying that to me." I was with my wife right next to me. And it was innocent. Wanted to make sure damn well she knew what kind of a great job she was doing cuz she was doing a great job. I called her over just to say thank you when I knew she wasn't busy. Pick your moments, right? She's walking by with a stack of plates and drinks and you're like, "Hey, can you come over for a second?" Don't do that. She wasn't rushing by. She just walked by. Hey, you're kicking ass. And then I ignored her. I literally kicking ass. Go back to doing what I was doing intentional because I was trying to go out of my way to make sure she felt like what she was doing [\h__\h] mattered. And listen, really, this wasn't some tactic. And that's where people are probably going to go, "Oh, manipulating salesy." I'm not Grant [\h__\h] Cardone. This wasn't done because of how she was acting. It was done despite how she was acting. There is a difference. I wasn't reacting. I was the standard. I was leading. I was that thermostat in that entire place. I wasn't a thermometer. I was setting the temperature. You can take it any way you want, but I promise you how this turns out is different than most other people would ever have. Turn it. The world doesn't set my emotional temperature. I do. And right there in that little honestly hot, humid, noisy, grumpy restaurant at the table, my kids didn't just hear it, they saw it. My wife has seen me do this hundreds of times. Leadership is not talking louder than everybody else. It's being louder in action than most people are with their words. And social media rewards the loud ones that don't deserve a reward. And then everybody looks at that and goes, "That low, limp wristed, limp [\h__\h] standard is the standard." But it's not. So I'm just going to keep coming here and making noise. I want you to win. It's why I tell you to do things better. Halfway through the meal, it was about halfway, things started to change. She smiles. She's got edgy. I like like my wife is like she's got this edgy sense of humor where she'll stab you but she's witty and abrupt that I I just love stuff like that. I can't stand soft phony funny. It just bugs me. That's why I like like Bill Burr. [\h__\h] funny, right? But she's smiling. She's cracking jokes. She's taking shots. You can almost see like this storm cloud, right? Just pulling off her head. And then she comes back with the bill and she brings this box, this big clamshell box and she sets it down like she's sneaking us AI don't know like a fabier egg and she says, "Hey, listen. There was only one left. I would have gotten one for all of you guys, but I told that other table she points like over her shoulder that we were all out. So if anyone asks, uh, you ordered this first." And I open it up and it's this huge slice of key lime cheesecake. By the way, it was badass. You know what my son says? Gets a big smile on his face and he goes, "I knew you'd do it, Dad." Do you know how badass that made me feel? Because my son knew it. He expected it because he's seen me act like this without me trying to tell without me telling him, "Hey, watch this." You know, I'm not like, "Hey, hold my beer." Your kids are going to see what you're doing no matter what you say, good or bad. My son told me a story today in the car where my wife is laughing and she's like, "He called you out." And I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] you saw that?" Like, it wasn't a good thing. It was funny, but not the greatest. And so, really, they're always watching and he's 16. He's like, "Dad always does like, "Oh [\h__\h] stop. Stop. You're throwing me under the bus." But listen, I'm not done. When you decide to raise the bar, you raise it all the way. So, I put money in that little folder, right, that they have that your bill comes in, and I leave. We walk out maybe 10 yards like the hotel was just down the street, right? Came out and busted a right and the hotel was I don't remember what it was called, beach water or something. It was nice. I liked it. It wasn't any fivestar, but the beach was killer. And they had this giant inflatable slide that was like 30 feet tall. We walk out and I'm maybe 10 yards down the sidewalk, breeze, warm, my family with me, and then I hear it yelling, "Wait, thank you. Thank you so much." And I look behind and she is running down the street. And as she gets closer, she's [\h__\h] balling. She hugs Brandy first and then she hugs me, which I thought was kind of cool because it was basically, "Hey, is it okay? It's innocent." And she's bawling and she says, "I was having," and she's like, "I'm sorry I'm crying. I was having the worst night of my life." And she tells us, she just found out she was [\h__\h] pregnant. And her boyfriend left that day before she came home to an empty apartment, cleaned them out, left her with nothing. And she didn't know how the [\h__\h] she was going to get through the week. She didn't have a clue. I didn't ask how much money she had, but it seemed like she was really struggling. And she was even struggling just to get through her shift. She goes, "I wanted to go home, but I have to work." And then she realiz, she's like, "I don't even have anywhere to go." And then here she is. She's balling her eyes out on this sidewalk because someone showed her that her story doesn't define her [\h__\h] value. I left her a $500 tip. But I want you to you guys understand she changed before. cuz somebody's going to hear go, "Well, of course you give her 500 bucks." It's easy to try and buy somebody's emotions, but that wears off when the excitement of that purchase is gone. I wanted to change her standards. Halfway through that meal, her standards were way better because I wanted to make sure she knew how important she was just to her, not to us, just to her. And I left her 500 bucks, not to flex. has nothing to do with being rich. It's because I refuse to leave people worse than I find them, especially when I have the opportunity to change their entire direction. You guys go on social media and all you do is [\h__\h] on everybody. Honestly, it bugs me. You guys are [\h__\h] cowards. Because here's here's what most people miss. That woman, she wasn't just rude. She was breaking. She was in her late 20s. She wasn't a 19-year-old kid. And most of you, you you wouldn't have made it out of that restaurant without adding to her misery. So selfish and self-centered that it's all about you when somebody else is pissed off, somebody else is hurting, and you are too ignorant to see it. It's because your fragile little ego thinks that the way somebody treats you is permission to stoop down to their level and lower your standards. When someone else behaves improperly, listen to me. It's a test. It's the opportunity to either respond with virtue or regress into some mirrored vice. You're either going to be them or better them. Not better than them. Listen, you're never in control of how people act. You're not, but you're 100% in control of how you respond. You've heard it. Most of you guys don't apply it. And the way you respond, that's your character. So, if you respond negatively all the time, that's who you are. Not, "Well, I'm having a bad day." Nope. That's you. So, as we walk back to the hotel, our daughter, Hope, right, her name's Hope, she's 18. She's awesome. I love my daughter. She's a pistol. She goes, "Dad, how'd you do that?" And I stopped. The hotel was just right across the street. Right there on that sidewalk, I looked my kids in the eyes. I always take a knee when I talk to my kids so I don't feel like I'm talking down to them. And I said, "Hope, because I'm the standard, not because I'm better or that we're rich or because I'm smarter, but because I made a decision four years ago." Because before that, I didn't do stuff like this. I'm very transparent about that. But when I rolled out of that hospital, actually when I opened my eyes after surgery, everything was different. And I made a decision to be the person who raises the bar in other people, not lowers it. But that doesn't mean I'm going to be nice. It means that if you come at me with a low standard and you keep coming at me at the low standard, I will gut you if you aren't going to raise the bar because you're doing nothing but trying to lower mine. I refuse because I refuse to let somebody else's behavior define mine. You don't get to have that over me. The woman The woman didn't change because I'm magic. She changed because somebody finally treated her like she [\h__\h] mattered. Like she mattered. You know why most people don't why they come at you all the time on social media? I get hate all the time from people because they don't feel like they matter and they feel like it's a personal attack when somebody else shows that they do. Not the person watching the somebody that looks at themselves and go, I matter. They don't like it because they go, why don't I matter then? You matter more than me. No, you're choosing to matter less. People are dying for meaning. I think a lot of you guys are just starving to feel seen. And most of you guys are walking around emotional beggars. You give kindness to people and you hold this a high standard only when it's being given to you first. That's not leadership. That's cowardice. and you're wrapping it up in something that you label as being polite or nice. Look, follow me. I'll get all kinds of spiritual for a second. And if that offends you, good. Maybe you've been coddled too long. This is what I said to my kids. I'm the standard because my standards come from God. Listen, God gave me this life. He gave me the wife who walks beside me, the kids who call me their hero, the lung that keeps working for me, the heart that keeps beating in my chest, and the mission to leave people better than I found them and change the world. The standard doesn't come from Instagram, doesn't come from culture, doesn't come from comfort or permission or acceptance or approval. It comes from purpose from yourself. And when you live by that, when you decide, really, when you decide to be the one who brings light into the room, you know what happens? The devil can't work in the light. He can't. So drag his worthless, [\h__\h] up ass into the light and let him shrivel and go back into the ground where he came from. Because if you are the light, even if that room is filled with darkness, you walk in as the light, that's how you become unstoppable. You think God wants you to cower? Five smooth stones. Only one was needed. So in that moment, I looked at Brandy. We were I mean, like I said, it was maybe a quarter mile. I could see the building from the hotel. It was 5-minute walk at best, two-minute walk. I said to Brandy, I said, "You know, I think we need to help her." Brandy smiles and she goes, "Me too, babe. I really do." I said, "Do you want to come with me?" She's like, "No, no." She goes, "I'll stay here with the kids." "Are you want to wait here? You just want to go to the room?" She goes, "No, I wait for you, babe." Okay. So, I run back to drostanolone and she's still there. She's bustling around and you can see it looks like she was crying. You could see it. And I said, "Hey, come here quick." She's like, "Yeah." And she was just a big like just sparkle. You could feel her energy shift. It was so massive. I gave her everything that was in my wallet. It was 21,100 bucks. She just stares and she goes, "I can't." And I said, "Let me explain something. If you say that often enough, you're going to believe it and then you won't. If you tell people that you shouldn't have, they won't. So, don't. I said, instead, take it. Do something great with it. Get out of whatever situation you're in. I go, "Have a kick-ass night." She gives me another hug and she says, "This is the best night of my entire life." And she goes, "It started off as the worst." Now, listen. If all you guys heard was the money, you missed it. You missed it. 21,00 bucks wasn't a lesson. It could have been two bucks in my wallet. That has nothing to do with this. Never leave some place worse than when you found it. And I think the lessons are being taught all over social media that that's how you should be. You should riot, protest, break things, break your own [\h__\h] attack people, knock people down in order to build the biggest building in town, knock down everybody else's. Everybody's a coward and yet they're courageous as [\h__\h] on a screen. But you're not. Cuz if you were courageous and you actually had the high standards you attempt to tell everybody, nothing would sway them. You guys let other people's storms dictate your own weather and it screws up your whole life because then you blame them. You chose it. You guys, this is what I learned and I want my kids to understand this and maybe you'll take away from this. Maybe you'll be like, "This is a stupid episode. I I really don't care." But never let the opportunity to lift somebody up go to waste, especially when they don't deserve it because that's when it matters the most. So if anything, here's what you do. Stop waiting for the world to treat you like royalty before you act like a damn king. If you act like a king, you will be treated like a king. If you wait to be treated like a king, you will never be treated like a king. Stop waiting for people to earn your kindness or earn your respect, you know, or earn your strength or your love or your presence or your purpose or all the things that you guys run to your therapist for. Maybe just start being the damn standard. Be the standard for your wife, for your kids, for your co-workers, for that angry, pissed-off woman at the diner who's holding on by a thread and praying somebody shows her that the world hasn't gone completely to [\h__\h] hell. Maybe that. How about that? You just take that and you use that as a mission. That's your test because how you show up changes everything. You don't do it for praise. I didn't care if she said thanks. None of that mattered you guys. It has nothing to do with praise and approval and attention. You do it because the next damn generation is watching. And because you're the man that you are or are becoming depends on what you choose when nobody is watching and you get no accolades, no applause. You do it because God gave you breath this morning and he expected a return on his investment. You cuz right now some of you guys the ROI that on the investment God has in you is [\h__\h] garbage because you do it because the standard isn't what you tolerate. The standard is who you are when nobody else deserves it. Nobody. I am the standard. How about you? Be the damn standard and go prove it. I got to go. Never miss.