Oh, this is going to piss off all the vegans. Even the pseudo vegans, all you guys know food with a face and your protein. I just saw a study. I can't even believe I read it. This is the nonsense that's happening in our world right now that says protein, too much protein is going to actually lower your testosterone. Are you out of your mind? You can't make this up. It's that dumb. And I'm sure every wannabe soy pea protein just you guys your heads are exploding right now because I'm pushing every hot button you've got. Uh it doesn't change the fact that I'm right. You need protein and you need meat. Enough with your bamboo shoot kale smoothie. I can get all the nutrients I need out of everything I eat because I'm a vegan self-righteous virtue signaling wannabe embarrassment shrinking away into nothing who can hide behind a flashlight holding it vertically because you've lost so much [\h__\h] weight. It's not possible physiologically. It is missing nutrients. Which is why you guys freak out and take a bunch of supplemental vitamins because you can't get them from the food that you because you're not eating it. Like the people that are screaming the loudest, that's what this is about, by the way. It's just me. I came out here, I told I told my wife, Brandy, I said, I'm just gonna make every vegan's head explode. And everybody who actually eats me, if you get in my comments, by the way, and start arguing about anything, I I'm just going to block you and delete you. I'll say this every time because I have decided, one of my one of my friends is an attorney. He's a great dude, really good friend of mine, and he said, you know, I've I've decided to limit my exposure to incredibly ignorant, stupid people. And so he doesn't go online a lot of the time because of that. He's incredibly intelligent guy. And you know, he's right. Like all of you guys, limit your exposure. And if you try and throw that back at me and go, "Well, then I guess I should limit my exposure to you because you're poking fun at people who don't know how to eat properly, vegans, I've forgotten more than you'll ever know or ever learn. Human biology, I'll say it every time, is on my side. Like you guys screaming the loudest about being a vegan are the ones that look like you'd lose an arm wrestling match to a [\h__\h] Roomba. You're pale and you're tired and you're lecturing on how this is the best one on how gorillas are jacked and they don't eat meat. So that just so I have this right. Your best argument for human nutrition is to copy the jungle ape. You should just stop talking. You're taking up oxygen. You've already lost. Because unless you've got a colon the size of a suitcase and the ability to eat somewhere north of 40 pounds of bamboo leaves every day without crapping yourself into dehydration, you're not a gorilla. You're a human. Different machine, different fuel. But let's unpack this. And this isn't a whole rant about gorillas and humans. This is about what protein is to your body and why you really need a truckload of it. You get it from meat, nothing else. But yet this nonsense keeps getting repeated like it's some gospel on Instagram. People clutching their kale smoothies like it's the Eucharist and just preaching that steak is murder and soy shakes are this beautiful creation. Yet their hormones are tanking and their muscles are eva- there. You look cexic. Your muscles are evaporating. You're wondering why life feels like you're constantly walking through wet cement. Come on. I'll go toe-to-toe with any vegan all day long. This isn't polite. I'm not trying to be polite or politically correct. This is a demo job against you because you guys aren't making sense. You're using emotion to battle human biology. So, I'm just going to torch your skull because this and this isn't a class. I know I I did some kind of a class yesterday on peptides. So, if you're like, "Oh, I can't listen to this guy today," then don't cuz I'm not for you today. I'm lit. It's date night. I want to go inside. I want to hang out with my sexy wife and have my date night with her and you know what then go to bed want do the wildest craziest things that the neighbors eight blocks down here because we're having so much fun together. So I'm I'm just going to knock this out and we'll call it a day because you guys some of you guys want me to teach you like this is a eighth grade health class. So I'll make it quick. I'm going to drop human biology bombs and probably make some of your heads explode. But here's why. You know, I want you to actually, and I say this every time, I come out here because I genuinely give a crap about you guys. And I want you to be able to take real information, not to follow the science BS that's been penetrating everybody's brain for the last 5 years and the propaganda lies. I'm here to give you all the information. This isn't about peptides or anything else. This is just about you having real information, not bros science, Instaex expert, I think my opinion is the same as fact. I base everything off of feelings kind of [\h__\h] that's circulating on Instagram. It's not a meme. This is pure science and human biology. These guys that argue with me. And if you're one of them, here's your sign. You can't fix stupid. Like, I want you by the end of this after you've listened to this entire rant that I'm I mean, I'm already 5 minutes in, you're either going to be yelling at Spotify or YouTube or iTunes or wherever you're listening to this or watching it to go, you need to pay him more. Or you are googling, listen, you're a vegan and all of a sudden you're going, how much how much steak can I order? uh from Safeway Home delivery or Uber Eats or whatever before all my neighbors start judging me. Like that's where I want your head by the end of this because otherwise I didn't do my job or I didn't piss you off enough. One of the two. But I heard somebody said this just the other day. They into my comments of all people. Do you have any idea how much meat and protein I eat? But gorillas are jacked, bro. And they only eat plants. I don't even know if I want to take this, but I'm going to. Okay, so listen. That's really that's a really neat story because whales are big as hell, man. You ever see a whale? They only eat krill. Krill. Sharks are just nothing but killing machines. Condroicies, right? So just cartilagynous muscular eating machines that eat seals. And birds eat seeds and bugs and worms. And you know what you aren't? You're not a whale or a shark or krill or a seal. And unless you sprout [\h__\h] feathers and start divebombing cars and crapping on windshields, you're not a bird. Humans aren't gorillas. It's a ridiculous argument. It doesn't even make sense. The logic is so convoluted. You actually believe your own delusion. But just be it's because people love their little memes. So let's unpack it. Let's run with this. Gorillas don't build muscle from eating bamboo and spinach. Guys, there's no jungle smoothie bar where they're standing in front of a bunch of mirrors, 24-hour fitness or UFC gym flexing with their smoothie in one hand. Look at this. Here's my smoothie. Check it out. Look at my smoothie, guys. Check it. Like, what is wrong with you guys? This is what they do. They eat 40, 50, 60 pounds of raw vegetation daily and that slams into their colon like a freight train and then it does something that you can't do. It fermentss. See, in inside, you guys need to understand physiology in all respects, not just cuz you can't even figure out human physiology, never mind anything else. Inside their colon is this little microbial army. There's billions and billions of bacteria fermenting all that plant matter into shortchain fatty acids, specifically butyrate, acetate, propionate. These are absorbed and used as energy by the gorilla. You know what that means? Gorillas aren't eating protein. They're outsourcing all of their digestion to the bacteria and then the bacteria eat the plants and the gorilla eats the bacteria's byproducts. You could call it waste if you want. I don't really think that's what it is, but you want to say that gorillas eat bacterial turd, knock yourself out. Makes you feel better. We don't have a gorilla colon. Last time I checked, it's not the size of a glad bag. You don't have the volume or the fermentation tank that sits inside here. You don't have the physiology to turn 60 lb of leaves into 500 lb of muscle. And if you tried, you would die of bowel obstruction before you ever got a chance to hit your daily protein quota. It's not possible, you guys. It's not comparing a human athlete to a gorilla is like saying, you know what, cars run on gasoline. It's the correlative studies, right? This is what happens. Cars run on gasoline, so I should drink gasoline, but I'll make sure it's unled. That's not science. That is some meme-based insta theology, which is why I keep coming out here. Protein isn't isn't just for athletes and bodybuilders. That is some Instagram oversimplification. Protein is it's literally the the raw material of life. Neurotransmitters, just follow me on this. Neurotransmitters like dopamine and serotonin, GABA, acetylcholine, they're all dependent on amino acids, right? So, tryptophan, tyroine, glutamate, if you are short on protein, your brain chemistry tanks, which is why low protein vegans, look at the studies, look at the statistics, none of this is made up. Low protein vegans, man, they're always depressed and anxious and snapping at their dog for licking his balls too loud. Never mind the fact that growth hormone, IGF-1, insulin, all influenced by protein intake. So testosterone, it doesn't crash unless you're slamming these absurd amounts like that study in nutrition that said they were talking it reduces it bad. It's actually going against everything you're trying to do. You need to reduce your protein intake. Get the hell out of town. You compound sand. Don't you dare think that's accurate. So the absurd amount I'll use kilograms because everybody in the world uses kilograms except for here in the US and it's just easier because it's just multiples of 10. And the study was actually done in kilog above 3.4 g per kilogram. That's when problems start to manifest which for the average is like like eating so much chicken breast. Just so you know what it would be like. It would be like so much chicken breast that your refrigerator looks like like Tyson Farms. just nothing but bird. That's it. You couldn't possibly consume that amount. It is such a massive amount. Look at look at your immune system antibodies. They're protein immunoglobulins. The entire human immune system's backbone. All protein. So low protein, weak immunity. Good luck fighting off everything that comes to slap you in the face when the your kids at school and they come home and put their hands on everything that's been on everything at school and then they lick your face. Are you nuts? You can't fight that off when your body's living off of garbanzo beans. It doesn't work. And your liver is a nitrogen processing factory. So amino acid turnover keeps it alive, right? We know this. Shut down. Even just restrict protein long enough. And if you ask me for how long, not that long. You're not extending lifespan, you guys. You're you're sending famine signals to your system, which means you're going to age faster. You're going to recover slower, if at all, and your body is going to start cannibalizing its own tissue. you start eating your own muscle tissue to keep critical systems online. It's not about abs, you guys. That's not what muscle that's not what protein is. This is life and death at a cellular level. So, I I spent tons and tons and tons of time on a dairy farm when I was a kid. Cows everywhere. Cows, they're muscular and significantly more agile than you think. Just so you know, I've seen them hop fences so many times and people go, "It's just a big old dumb cow. That big old dumb cow is more athletic than you." But to say that this cuz I heard this too. Well, cows are massive. Bulls are massive. They only they only eat grass. Cows also have a four-chambered stomach. Rumin filled with billions and billions of microbes. They regulate their system by regurgitating food and then they chew that. So you go ahead, throw that up, chew it, and swallow it again. Then they redigest and recycle nitrogen like a perfectly designed industrial plant. Cows don't get protein from grass, you guys. They get protein just like the gorilla from the microbes living in their rin. Those bacteria, they multiply, they die, and the cow digests the microbial protein. Grass is just, it's just raw material for the microbes. It has nothing to do with you. Humans, just so we're clear, let me go over some basic anatomy for you. Humans, one stomach. There you go. If you can say one stomach, you pass. Weak if any fermentation, a tiny tiny little colon. Try living on grass. Just try it. Go out and cut your lawn. I'm going to put a caveat in here. I'm not recommending you do it because for some reason this weird world we live in, people get sue happy and go, "That doctor told me to do it. That's why I'm sick." You know, if you do that, you're going to end up bloated, nutrient deficient. Your friends are going to stop inviting you to dinner because you're going to smell like a compost bin. You're going to stink so [\h__\h] bad. So, no, you're not a cow either. You're not That's gorilla cow. What else you got? It doesn't work like that. Never mind the fact that these I get all my Somebody's going to get my comments about their pea protein. Bags and bags of pea protein. I see these everywhere. rice protein. All sold, just so we're clear, by influencers in crop tops and yoga pants who've probably never touched a squat rack or lifted real weights or ever been punched in the mouth if they're a dude. Here's the reality. The amino acid profile, most plant proteins are incomplete. So, if you look at them, read the package, they're fortified. Wonder why that is. because they're missing leucine, lysine, methionine, which just to give you a basic biochemistry lesson, that's the holy trinity of muscle synthesis, muscle protein synthesis. No leucine, you can't activate mTor. No mtor, no muscle growth ever. It's impossible. Animal protein is absorbed significantly more efficiently. So, the bioavailability trumps all plant protein whatsoever. Plants are loaded with anti-nutrients. lectins, phitates, oxalates is another one. All those things block absorption. You eat 30 g of pea protein, just to be very transparent, you might absorb 15. Argue, show me the work. Show me the blood work. It's always the same. Show me the lab. You can't. You can't. And soy, soy, you guys in your soy, that's phytoestrogens that you're just soaking your shake with. You might not nuke your testosterone, and that's kind of a a myth, but it's not anabolic either. It's not rocket fuel you're putting in your system. So yeah, could you survive on plant protein before somebody's like, "Well, I totally am fine." Find anybody that's living on plant, it's like the rock. You look at him all jacked and all said now he looks like a totally different person. That's a whole other conversation. I have no idea what happened there. Somebody's going to come in and give me advice. I'm not asking for the answer. I also don't care. I'm just saying that's the transition. So yeah, you could survive on all your plant protein, but you can technically survive on eating cardboard dusted with a bunch of Flintstone vitamins. But survival is not living and thriving. Thriving is everything maxed out to max you out. Animal protein is the gold standard. That's why we're designed to eat meat. The only, you know, what prompted this was the comments in my DMs sometimes where people try and take a poke at me for what they think is knowledge and then set their skull on fire. I know my craft and I know where I'm at and I I know my lane. You come at me with all kinds of questions about some of the electronics here and how to fix it or engineering, legal procedures. I don't know any of that. But every single aspect about being a human. Yeah, I know. And uh throw in cars, by the way. Throw in money, throw in marriage. And God, I'll go toe-to-toe with you all day long. Here here's what I saw in this study, right? High protein lowers testosterone. Cuz I think I I mean I just I need to talk about it cuz it's bugging me. It's grading me. Cuz here's what's here's what actually happened in the study and look it up. I'm not going to put the link in here. You could it's all over Instagram right now. Testosterone suppression only appeared consistently at intakes above, what did I say? 3.4 4 g per kilogram. That's I somewhere in the neighborhood of 1 and a half grams per pound. And that's even that I eat 1 and 12 to 2 g. Do I look like I'm low on testosterone? No. I'm not laced with anabolics either. The average dude eats 1.3 g per kilogram. Even the elite high performance athletes that are really really just choking down as much protein as they can, they rarely go above three. The danger zone is irrelevant to 99.9% of human beings on the planet. This is a study that's like it's like warning people about oxygen toxicity because scuba divers at whatever it is 150 200 feet I think something like that can experience oxygen toxicity. It's true but irrelevant to daily life. That's the stuff that is being pedled all over the internet as irrefutable. It's as immutable as gravity and yet it is as as has no value, no substance. This is the propaganda that is being disguised as science, sold to you guys where you come in either to my comments or to your friends or to your own life and demolish yourself and look incredibly stupid doing it because you think you have facts when really what you just have is a bunch of noise by somebody else who is so emotionally fragile they can't face the facts and the truth for real. It's used to scare average people away from eating enough protein and doing what needs to be done in order to be healthy and strong and fit. You need protein. I told you when I come out of the when I woke up rather not when I came out when I woke up after surgery still faded still partially anesthetized and the doctor started talking to me. He said one of the thing I'll never forget it you if you wouldn't have come in here at the level of fitness body mass the muscle all of the stuff that you had when you came in you wouldn't have survived. And if somebody goes oh no doctor would ever say that. It's exactly what I would say to somebody. And he was telling the truth. And my my surgeon was awesome, man. He was egotistical, cocky with his ostrich shoes one day and gator skin the other day. And he knew his stuff and he was so good. God guided that guy's hands to save my life because I still have a mission. So, I'm doing it right now, which is to giving you guys the information. And so if you're offended by information and factual information and actual information based on human biology and neuro and endo and all the stuff that I know really well, then don't listen to me. Go back to your pea smoothie and your kale chips and all the weird stuff you guys eat. I'll be over here eating steak. American Rancher beef. I'll just give him a big giant plug. You know why? Cuz he's got the best beef out there. American Rancher beef. I just sounded like I'm on the prices right. It's right this like all this stuff. It drives me. could do this all day cuz I have so many of these things going through my head like kidneys get demolished by high protein. What? Show me. Never. Never. Show me one clinical trial where healthy people ate high protein and developed kidney damage. Show me one. You will not find it. Because here's why. The myth began I know exactly why they say it. The myth began with kidney patients and doctors lower their protein in intake to avoid or reduce the renal workload. Then the game of telephone turned into protein causes kidney disease. That's like saying since people with broken legs shouldn't run, running must break legs. The truth is protein stabilizes blood sugar. It lowers fat, lowers fat gain, right? It prevents metabolic syndrome. All of which do kill kidneys. So, let me get this straight. So, in reality, protein stabilizes blood sugar, lowers fat gain, prevents metabolic syndrome, all of which do kill the kidneys. Protein protects kidneys. It doesn't destroy them. Biochemistry, it's physiology, it's human biology. That's why this is irrefutable. You know, somebody I'm a recovering [\h__\h] I'll tell you that right now. I just tell you the truth. And if you call me an [\h__\h] for it, I'm probably the [\h__\h] you need to listen to because I'm also the [\h__\h] that cares. So, here's the deal. Government no interest in keeping you healthy. Government recommendation.36 0.36 g per pound. That is Avitz prison camp. That's the ration you're getting. If that it's enough not to die, it's not enough to live well at all. Average humans are 08 to one, which is about where baseline health stabilizes. And athletes, lifters, people wanting to put on muscle, be healthy, have look like a superhero and move like Captain America, one and a half to two grams per pound, which is where you grow and you recover and you stabilize and keep your hormones operating at max capacity. Like me, I said me, I'm 195 to 200 lb, give or take, given depending on the day. I eat 300 plus, sometimes 400 grams of protein a day. That's one and a half to two grams per pound. Am I sitting in a dialysis chair? I'm strong. I'm lean. I'm covered in muscle. I'm hormonally functional in a in the perfect way. My labs would look great if you looked at them, but I don't take a lot of I don't put a lot of faith in labs because it's a snapshot at that fraction of time. So, stop it, by the way. And I'm outperforming most people half my age. realworld results obliterate your ve your vegan fear-mongering. It's not possible, you guys. I mean, I I've had this is the where I mean, this is where we're at. Vegans screaming and and even the people that just want to jump on the bandwagon on social media. Why? Why is there a mob mentality for some of you guys to go, well, they're saying it's I should join in. And it's kind of a rhetorical question because I know why. because you want to feel like you belong somewhere and you have a purpose and that makes you feel like you have value because somebody says join our group even though you don't really agree with the group but the group makes you feel important. That's a basic human need, the need to feel important. So you jump on, you go crucify some poor bastard online, me, anybody else as if you have any value to offer anyone because everybody else is doing it. But yet your life is a dumpster fire shitow and you're in somebody's comments arguing about how they should not be eating animals because it's mean and unhealthy. That's how you know you don't know the a damn thing about nutrition or diet or biochemistry or physiology. Because if half the stuff you eat comes wrapped in a in a package that has you can't pronounce half 3/4 of the words on the label, never mind know what any of them mean. But it's got a picture of somebody healthy on the front that was promoted by your local influencer. So, absolutely. It has got to be healthy. It's like all you idiots out there trying to sell peptides and talk about them like I I can't get over these two idiots that are in Huntington Beach. I just want to smack them both in the mouth cuz neither one of them has any business selling anything. And he opened up a store. You're just going to hurt a bunch of people. And that's why I come out here is just to crucify those people because they deserve it cuz you're hurting people. You're taking people's health and you're twisting it into profit. It's just like this nonsense. I I think if you actually understood basic human biology, you would appreciate what you do and what you shouldn't do much more. Like protein, this is the cry. This is the war cry from some of you guys. Protein wrecks kidneys and meat causes cancer and testosterone tanks if you eat too much chicken and gorillas prove you don't eat meat and cows are jacked on grass. That's not science. That is like quinoa astrology. It's the weird religious dogma wrapped in some kind of kale tortilla. And then the same people go out and buy fortified oat milk because they're missing nutrients only found in what? Meat. That's not health. That is self- sabotage with incredibly good marketing. Here's the truth. And most influencers are never going to tell you this, and most people, whatever you want to call them, it's a weird word to me anyway. Humans thrive on protein. Not kale or soy lattes. Not pea protein or rice protein powder sold by guys in [\h__\h] yoga pants. Protein. Real protein. Animal protein. It comes from meat. Gorillas aren't proof that you don't need meat. They're proof evolution built gorillas and humans and you're not the same. It also proves that whales are not humans and that grizzly bears are not humans. You could do this all day with anything. You're also not a paragrin falcon. Cows aren't vegan mascots. They're microbial factories that you cannot replicate. Plant proteins are dollar store knockoff garbage. High protein does not lower testosterone unless you're eating at freak levels, which nobody's going to do. High protein sure as hell doesn't destroy your kidneys. If anything, it saves them. So, the truth is brutally simple. Muscle, brain, hormones, immune recovery, every system leans heavily on protein and the human machine that you are piloting around, ambulating in this gravity controlled environment, I've said many times, thrives on it. So the next next time somebody throws this gorilla argument or cow argument or whatever other herbivore argument in your face, just smile. Give them a big giant toothy grin and then go order a [\h__\h] ribeye because biology doesn't care about hashtags or influencers or what makes somebody feel better. It cares about what fuels the damn machine. And that fuel is protein. The protein is meat. Welcome to science and human biology. Listen, I hope you got something out of that. I got to go. Never miss.