 I wasn't going to do this one because this one's personal to me a lot, actually. This is all about PTSD. This is a PTSD masterclass. This is solving PTSD. And really, I got nothing to gain. I got nothing to sell you. I've got nothing for you to buy. If you, like I said, you want to join the black card, you know what, $997, you wire it to, you know, my executive assistant, Mia, she'll take care of you. You send an email to apply at unlockthecard.com and you get to hang with me every Monday at my live Q&A that I do where you can throw every question you've got at me. You get access to the protocol library. You get access to me, VIP, in the app. And it's actually me and I answer all your questions right down to labs or anything else like that you need help with. And I provide real solutions and I solve problems all day. And my turnaround time is 24 hours to 72 hours. It's really fast. People that have been involved with doctors for 10, 15, 20 years and gotten no results have changed their entire life in two days. But I don't care if you buy that or not. That's not what I'm here for. And it's, it should be $25,000. I just, you guys need help. And if I hear anybody whining about it going, it used to be $6,000, you know what, don't join, then your health isn't really that important. And it's going to go up. I just haven't really decided when I just, I really want to help people. And at the same time, I think the problem is a lot of people don't want to help. They want to help. They want a free solution, which they're never going to do anything. They're never going to do anything with. And if you want to buy from my company, Elite Biogenics, then buy from me. Great. It's the same stuff that I give my wife and my children and my mom. And I would say my dad, my dad passed away 14 years ago. That's why I don't say my dad. I want people to be juggernauts with their health and current medical, the current medical model is managed decline and all the medical doctors coming out of medical school right now, they're just tradespeople, pharmaceutical reps, and you might get offended if you're an MD or you're a wannabe MD or you're about to become an MD and you're Sally medical doctor, I really don't care. Do better just because you know how to parlay the Krebs cycle to people and you understand what covalent bonds are or whatever it is you're talking about. Nobody cares. Nobody, to be honest, nobody gives a crap that I understand biochemistry or chemistry or physiology or biology. Nobody cares. They care that I can solve their problem. And when people come to me, CEOs of massive companies because they're personal physician that they spend a million dollars a year on can't solve their problem and they come to me and I solve it in a day or two, there's a reason and it's because I look for their actual problem, the cause and I try and paint over it. Hopefully that something shows up and like it just covers it. It's like a gold-plated turd. It's still a turd. I just don't do it and it's tough love and I demand high standards. And if you don't do things the way I want them done, I'm not going to help you because it can't help you if you're not going to listen. But I do this because I genuinely give a crap about mankind and I want to save humanity and that's why I'm here. So PTSD is a big deal to me because I have friends that are going through it and I have friends that have gone through it and there are millions of people out there that feel like there's they get SSRIs and benzodiazepines and antipsychotics thrown at them. Like those are going to cause anything other than a catastrophe. I'll prove it. I'll prove it. Those things are a waste of time. They don't even solve the problem. They just cover it up with a thick coat of paint and the person still has to deal with this personal hell and it's not a psychiatric problem. It's not a psychological problem. This is a biological problem. Like it's real. PTSD is real. So here's a PTSD masterclass designed to solve PTSD for you. If you watch it, I don't need the view time or anything but if you watch it however long I'm going to be on here, 45 minutes an hour, two hours, however long it takes, whatever, maybe you should just pay attention and take notes. But if you pay attention to this old doctor here with the Spartan hat and the gritty old beard and the gray in his face and the wrinkles in his eyes, you know what, he's going to give you the answer because I want you to understand what's going on so you can maybe, if it's not even you can help other people. But PTSD has a damn solution and it's not what they're currently doing, you guys. What you've been told about PTSD is so incomplete. It's not wrong. It's not because some of it's accurate but it's incomplete. It's like trying to understand cancer by only looking at a tumor when you miss the Warburg effect or I guess the reverse pasture effect. There's a million ways you can look at this or understanding heart disease by only measuring inflammatory markers and that's it. You're missing 90% of the actual story. And here's the thing. Once you understand real biology and you have someone like me that just wants to help you, you won't just understand in this case PTSD differently or whatever it is you're listening to. You'll understand why most medical treatments, when I say most unless they're saving your life and even then who knows what they're pumping you full of anymore. This is why they fail catastrophically and you'll understand with PTSD why some people recover and others don't because they're treating the wrong thing. And it's not a, like I said, it's PTSD is not a psychiatric problem with biological consequences. It's a biological problem that creates psychiatric symptoms. And the distinction is the entire game. Listen, let me paint a picture at the fundamental cellular level because the brain isn't magic. It's physics and chemistry. You experience some traumatic event. I use this in my Instagram so it's easy. It's like you're in a car wreck, right? Car rolls over and hits a tree or something happens. I God forbid it's some catastrophic drunk drive or something like that. And within just a fraction of an instant like lightning flash, it's so fast, your amygdala, that little almond shaped structure in your limbic system, detects this as a threat. It's designed to do this, but it doesn't wait for your conscious mind to process it. It hijacks you and here's what happens. Your locus caroulius floods your system with what else, what else do you think? Norepinephrine. This is the brain's panic button. It's just tapping it like it's going out of style. Your pupils dilate, heart rate spikes, blood pressure skyrockets, your digestive system goes completely offline and all your blood gets redirected to your muscles. Fight, flight, freeze, right? You could say fight, flight or fucked. It depends on whatever you want to say, but it's the 3S. But here's the problem and this is crucial. Your hippocampus, which is supposed to be contextualizing all of your memories, gives them a timestamp. It gets offline during any kind of extreme hyper trauma. It's like the event recorder at an accident scene just stops working. So your amygdala now encodes this memory with absolutely no context, no temporal markers, no logical narrative, nothing. This creates what neuroscientists like James Pittman, he discovered this in 1989. It's a memory that is completely locked in time. It's not the way it's supposed to be. It's over consolidated. The proteins, the synaptic strength, the dendritic connections, the entire consolidation is abnormally amplified. This is very bad because now you fast forward a month, a week, a year, years later even and something, you're in a car and it swerves, it jerks to the side of the road. You smell somebody torching off their tires and it's burnt rubber. It doesn't matter, whatever it is, you hear brakes squealing, but your amygdala, something that trips that memory. Your amygdala doesn't think memory though. It thinks there's a threat happening right now and your entire nervous system reactivates as if the accident and whatever it is, whatever trauma is happening right at that specific moment in time. That is not a psychiatric symptom. That's persistent. That's an encoding problem. False, present moment reality is what I call it. PTSD is a biological systemic filing problem where your brain loses the ability to distinguish between what happened and what's currently happening and your nervous system gets trapped in this never ending circuit of trauma, trauma, trauma, trauma. And here's where it gets wild. This is where conventional psychiatry completely, psychiatrists are idiots. I have no respect for psychiatrists. If you're a psychiatrist, you are in a pseudo profession. You are in an absolute pseudo profession. Sorry, not sorry. I don't have any respect for you. This is where they completely miss the boat and they treat everything incorrectly. Watch, PTSD and ADHD aren't comorbidities. They're mechanistic consequences of the same underlying damage and they treat them different. Let me explain the biology. This will blow your mind. Your prefrontal cortex, right? The executive function center is like the CEO of your entire brain runs on dopamine and it needs consistent, regulated dopamine signaling to maintain focus, impulse control, working memory. This is your attentional system. When you experience any kind of severe trauma, several things happen at the same time. So the VTA, Ventral Tegmental Area, which is your dopamine factory, gets completely dysregulated. The trauma causes sustained hyperactivation followed by massive depletion. It's like revving an engine until you red lines and the engine just ceases. So now the next thing is your amygdala hyperactivity directly suppresses prefrontal dopamine activity through GABA-ergic inhibition. Follow me to stay with me. So the threat detection center is essentially sending out a constant, a quiet ass hole, we're under attack signal to your CEO. Your stress hormone, cortisol, at chronically elevated levels actually kills, kills, like not kills metaphorically, kills dopamine neurons through oxidative stress and NDMA or NMDA over stimulation. And the result, you can't sustain attention. You can't inhibit impulses. You can't even hold a working memory. That is ADHD. But it gets better. At the same time, you have hypervigilance. Your amygdala is just constantly firing. Threat detection is on max sensitivity, just scanning all the time. And you get emotional dysregulations because you haven't paired amygdala prefrontal coupling problems, right? So that switched to the other side of this equation, PTSD. It's the same equation though. So Rachel Yahuda in 2015 used PET imaging to show 50% positron emission, right? To show 50%, that's a big number, you guys, 50% of PTSD patients exhibited dopaminergic dysfunction identical to ADHD. Why? Because the mechanisms are the same, you guys. The trauma didn't create two separate conditions. It created one biological cascade that expresses as both PTSD symptoms and ADHD symptoms. That's why they're married to almost all the time. Oh, this gets even better. But this is, here's why I said sometimes people get better, sometimes don't. This is why stimulants sometimes work for trauma survivors and sometimes they completely blow up. If your dopamine depletion is extreme, stimulants just create more dysregulation. But if you're dealing with pure prefrontal suppression, then they can be a little bit of a help. It still doesn't solve the problem, but it'll help. The real solution is just restore the damn biology underneath both conditions, not treat them separately, which is what the medical world keeps doing. Listen, how about we just go on a nice little fun tour about what trauma actually does to you, your physical body? It trashes you. Look at the neurological system. So when you're in a chronic threat state, your autonomic nervous system lives in sympathetic high speed, just cranked right to the max. The pedal is floored. It's your vagus nerve right here, right, which is pretty much the longest nerve in your body, by the way, running from your brain to your gut loses all of its parasympathetic tone. And normally your vagus nerve is like the brake pedal. It tells your body we're safe, we can relax, you can digest, you can heal, you can do all the calm things, trauma breaks this break. So Stephen Porchus called this the polyvagal theory in 2011. It's, honestly, it's revolutionary because it's fact your vagal tone measured by heart rate variability HRV actually predicts PD PTSD recovery 100%. Low vagal tone, the tone, poor outcomes. This is here's the here's what you got to understand. This is measurable, physical, measurable. Look, okay, look at brain BDNF brain derived neurotrophic factor, which is like, I always call it miracle growth for your neurons drops by 30 to 40% PTSD patients. This means your brain literally loses its ability to heal itself. You're not just damaged. You're locked in a state where damage just keeps accumulating and accumulating. It's like the brakes that never get repaired. And they're squealing, and then they're gouging holes in the rotors. And now you just can't stop at all because it's just raw metal on raw metal and nothing's ever happening except your car catches on fire. Look at your myelin, the insulation that surrounds the axons that allows very fast neural communication degrades. So research from NIH 2018 showed that PTSD patients have reduced white matter integrity, particularly in the anterior cingulate cortex. And what does that mean? It means that your neural pathways are deteriorating like this and messages are getting incredibly slow and incredibly filled with static. Listen, I'm going to shatter the conventional model. Listen to me, most people think PTSD is just being stressed out about a past event. Are you frigging kidding me? That is ignorance at its highest capacity. It's dead wrong. It's dead wrong. Stress is temporarily elevation, a temporary elevated cortisol and adrenaline. That's it. That's stress. The end. It's not in you. It's not in the environment. It's your perception to physical or psychological threat. The end. That's stress. But your body handles it. Your HPA axis, hypophilamic pituitary adrenal axis activates and then down regulates. The PTSD is permanent remodeling of that stress response circuitry. That's not even in the same room. Here's the difference in biology. Normal stress, your amygdala goes sky high. Your hippocampus, what did I say? It does contextualize. The prefrontal cortex says, okay, listen, we're good. Nothing's bad. It's happening. So you can turn this all off and everything down regulates. In PTSD, your amygdala is permanently sensitized. It's not some elevated new baseline that you've got. It's the state of persistent readiness. Bessel van der Kolk 2014 showed that PTSD patients have three. This is such a big number, 300% higher amygdala reactivity to threat stimuli compared to non-PTSD controls. That's not stress sensitivity, you guys. That is a fundamental rewiring of threat detection. Here's the real problem with that, though. Your system doesn't just stay alert. It becomes utterly incapable of the normal stress recovery cycle because here's what happens. Normally, acute cortisol elevation triggers this negative feedback. It shuts itself off. This is homeostatic regulation. It's how your body is designed. PTSD, this feedback loop, broken. Your pituitary stops responding properly to cortisol signals. Your adrenal glands now show altered diurnal cortisol patterns. Listen, even this, PTSD patients have, most of them have completely inverted cortical curves high at night when they're supposed to be low, creating this horrible experience, perpetual wakefulness where you can't get any sleep. This isn't stress. This is an endocrinological pathology and it cascades into everything. Your autonomic nervous system becomes stuck in this sympathetic overdrive. Your immune system enters the state of chronic activation, your metabolism shifts. Your genes start expressing differently. This is systemic. It's biological. This is far beyond what these psychiatrist keep saying is stress management. We can fix it and we'll just add some drugs to you. That's not going to work. It's not going to work. Let me map out exactly what's happening in your brain. The amygdala. Look at the amygdala. It's the threat detector. PTSD, your amygdala, undergoes real structural changes. Mori, 2012, using MRI showed PTSD patients have a 61% smaller amygdala compared to controls. Smaller? So the point is that you'd think that would be less reactive. No, this is the paradox. The amygdala shrinks, but the connectivity intensifies. It's like a small amplifier, excuse me, with a volume, like back to the future, right? Mori has a giant speaker just crank to max, except it's hyper connected to your threat processing networks and hypo disconnected from your calming networks, right? You get this. So hyper connected to threat processing, hypo disconnected from calming networks. The pathways from your amygdala to your prefrontal cortex, the safety override, for lack of a better explanation, are weak. The pathways from your amygdala to your threat memory storage are reinforced, like we're talking adamantium, vibranium. So the wiring that says I'm smaller and more focused on one job, that's what it's saying. This wiring says I'm smaller, I'm more laser focused on one job, detect every single threat at all costs. It's when you have when you're out near in the dark and everything sounds, you hear everything, you smell everything, you see everything, that's literally what you're running on. I can't imagine the horrific experience that must be. Like I will speak for myself and I was so full transparency, I didn't want to leave the house after I yeah, I don't even talk about this. So when after I came out of the hospital and imagine being perfect permanently suffocating all the time, that's what it felt like for months and months, like I was always I couldn't breathe. And it's not the I'm gasping for breath. It's that I couldn't take a breath no matter how hard I wanted to. It's like I was trying to fill a beach ball this big, but I only was allowed to use this much of the beach ball just like a golf ball size and I couldn't was terrifying. Because I always kept thinking I'm gonna friggin die. And when I was in the hospital, it was catastrophic. I told my wife I wasn't going to make it and it wasn't some cool story for Instagram. It was that I thought I was it was in the early morning, two in the morning, one 32 in the morning and I sent her a text saying I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm not going to I'm not going to be able to spend my life with you anymore. I'm not going to make it. And it was the most horrible thing I've ever had to send my wife in our 21 years of marriage. And my wife, if you don't get it is my best friend. I adore Brandy with every cell of my being and I can't stand the thought of spending a day without that woman and letting her down, which is what I felt like I felt like I broke every promise. And she sends a message back says I can't do this life without you. I need you. I love you. And you know, the whole story, the whole point is it ended up costing me along and it traumatized me. And I was so paranoid for probably a month. I didn't want to leave the house. I didn't want to ever get sick. I got a fever or the sniffles. I'd freak out. I went out to go to Starbucks and I didn't want to get out of the car. It took me probably 15 minutes to get out of the car. And then when I went to the door, I didn't want to touch the door. I started washing my hands all the time. I got real weird and I didn't want to be around people anytime there were people I would always dodge them out because I was so paranoid that I was going to get sick again. And that's just minor compared to somebody that's been overseas or in Iraq or gone through hell or watched their family get killed in a fire or worse. I couldn't imagine that. So when people insult this, honestly, if you're one of those people that discounts this and discredits PTSD, you go right to hell because this is a very real biological issue. And for all the psychiatrists dumping medicine on these people thinking it's something beautiful is going to grow, screw you, man. You aren't helping a single person, but your own wallet and you damn well know it. And if you don't, you better learn because it's disgusting what you guys do. So listen, you spend your life in hypervigilance. I couldn't imagine that. And I'm sorry if anybody's listening to this and how devastating that's got to be, which is why I'm out here. I'll solve it for you. Look at the anterior cingulate. It's like a conflict chaperone. So your anterior cingulate cortex. And I know we're getting to some neurology, but this stuff nerds me out and I love it. It's supposed to detect when something doesn't match your expectations. It's kind of like social media right now. It says, wait, that that in this case shouldn't be dangerous. PTSD, this region is suffering from reduced activation. You can't override your fear response with logic. So the siren goes off and your body reacts before your conscious mind can process that you're safe. Your anterior cingulate isn't doing its job. The prefrontal cortex is remember what I said, it's like the CEO, right, of your brain. This is the crudegraze because your prefrontal cortex is supposed to inhibit amygdala firing through GABA-mediated suppression. But in PTSD, this top down control, which is the way you're designed, right above down inside out, this top down control is completely compromised. So you look at neuroimaging studies, Roush, 1990 showed consistently hypometabolism in Broca's area and the prefrontal regions of PTSD members. So if you understand, an neurology is Broca and we're in Niki's area, it's like motor speech and comprehension, all this. So anyway, the prefrontal regions of PTSD patients, the translation is this before we get into neurology, the language centers that let you talk about your experience go offline, which is why PTSD patients can't verbally process their trauma. You can become Broca's aphasia. The neural highways for that area are actually damaged, right? There's Wernicke's aphasia, Broca's aphasia. So this is Broca's. You look at the locus crudelius, which is the panic button. It's a tiny little nucleus about the size of a grain of rice produces somewhere in the neighborhood of 70% of the norepinephrine in your entire freaking brain. Oh, it's your panic button, all right. PTSD, it's on fire. We're talking a massive conflagration. Craig Barrage, 2008, showed that chronic stress causes permanent changes in the locus, firing patterns. And here's the problem, the baseline firing rate increases. So it's not just pulsing or whatever it's going to do. It's just nonstop so much that the threshold for activation drops. Here's what that means. You need less and less stimulation to trigger a maximum freak out panic, loud noise, smell, shadow, anything, song, you name it. Your system's been reprogrammed for a hair trigger. You know where that's good? A freaking comic book. That's not good for real life. You want to watch The Avengers, that's fine, but that's not real life. Listen, here's something that's going to blow your mind, by the way. There's more neurons in your gut than in your spinal cord. Your enteric nervous system. That's why they call it the second brain, right? 500 million neurons. And yet we treat our gut like we're alley cats and indestructible, right? We just stuff all kinds of things into our barcoles and wonder why we feel like crap. And we go through anxiety and depression because you're smashing neurons. But I bet nobody's ever told you that. It's producing 90% of your serotonin. It's producing GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine. It's not just digesting your food. This thing is thinking. And some of you guys, it's only thinking about fat, stupid shit. In PTSD patients, the system is demolished. Mayer in 2009 showed the brain, gut, access, dysfunction and trauma survivors. Listen to this shit show. The vagus nerve is hypotonic. It's not sending the calming parasympathetic signal. So your gut never gets the safe to digest signal. Your digestion shuts off. Your stomach acid production tanks. Your intestinal motility becomes erratic at best. And at the same time, your systemic inflammation goes through the roof. I'll get to that in a second, which damages your intestinal epithelium. Your gut barrier becomes permeable, which gives you this thing called, I've gone over this before, leaky gut, bacterial LPS lipopolysaccharides cross into your bloodstream. And this triggers your immune system, which amplifies systemic inflammation, which signals your amygdala that you're under biological threat, which increases sympathetic activation, which further damages your gut barrier. It is a vicious cycle. Nobody talks about that though. Here's some SSRIs. PTSD patients have dramatically altered microbiome composition, lower counts of lactobacillus and bifidobacterium, the anti-inflammatory species you need proteobacteria full of it. You're loaded with proteobacteria, which is the pro-inflammatory species. Why? Because your dysregulated immune system is essentially killing the good bacteria and selecting for the inflammatory bacteria. Okay. How about this? Your microbiome? Well, you're going to love this. Produces 90% of your serotonin, but it also produces short-chain fatty acids, butyrate, propionate, acetate through fermentation of fiber. These fatty acids are your brain's preferred fuel source, especially prefrontal cortex and your hippocampus. The two regions that are just coincidentally, no such thing by the way, I'm just saying it, most damaged in PTSD. So watch, here's what you've got. You've got a damaged gut barrier, dysbiotic microbiome, reduced SCFA, short-chain fatty acid production, reduced serotonin production, impaired energy production for brain regions that regulate fear. The gut isn't a symptom of PTSD. It's a driver of PTSD progression. But how many times have your, has your psychiatrist talked to you about your gut? Never. Look at the endocrine system. Let me explain why your hormones have gone tits up in PTSD. The HPA axis, hypophonic pituitary adrenal axis, is your main stress response system. Okay. Hypothalamus releases CRH, corticotropin-releasing hormone, which signals your pituitary to release ACTH, adrenal corticotropic hormone, which signals your adrenals to release cortisol. Remember what I talked about, right? The inverted cortical rhythm. The system is designed for acute threats. Cortisol rises, you fight, flight, or freeze. FFF. Threat ends, negative feedback suppresses, the cortisol, right? Remember, it runs on a negative feedback loop and you recover. In PTSD, this is going a little deeper than what I explained. This feedback loop is gone. It's gone. They show that PTSD patients have paradoxically lower baseline cortisol, but excessive response to stress. It's like your system is in constant red alert. So the baseline resting state is already suppressed and any new threat causes this catastrophic overreaction. Why? Because your adrenal glands are tired. They're fatigued. They've been running at full throttle like NASCAR, right to the pedal, 1200 horsepower, whatever it is. Their altered sensitivity to ACTH, that's what they show, the ACTH stimulation. Your pituitary has reduced CRH receptor density. Fewer receptors mean worse communication, right? So it's you're missing all the speakers and they're further away. Additionally, this gets even better. This is the stuff that nobody is talking about. Your glucocorticoid receptors, which are the receptors that cortisol bind to, become hypersensitive, which means less cortisol causes more effect. Your body is trying to compensate for dysregulation by increasing sensitivity, but this creates massive instability. How about the thyroid? When's the last time somebody talked about that? Your thyroid controls the one main thing that you need, metabolic rate, and also core temperature and energy production and PTSD. Thyroid dysfunction is common, but almost never diagnosed. Weird, because anybody that comes to see me with PTSD, that's the first thing I check. Strange, and my results are better than most people's. When I say most, everybody else's. Chronic, watch. It's not to be arrogant or cocky. It's because I actually know what I'm doing because I actually spend time to care. It tries me nuts. Chronic stress suppresses the conversion of T4, which is the inactive thyroid hormone to T3, which the active thyroid hormone through increased reverse T3 production. Okay. Open Hymer. Yes, same name, different guy. 2016 documented this in trauma survivors. The result, hypothyroid symptoms, cold, fatigue, weight gain, brain fog, even with, you ready for this part, normal TSH levels. Tell me that doesn't screen problem. Look at sex hormone dysregulation. Your sex hormones regulate neuro inflammation. Nobody talks about that. Also regulates synaptic density and emotional processing PTSD. These are beyond dysregulated. They're demolished, crushed. Women with PTSD, just see now show altered estrogen signaling and reduced progesterone, which is neuro protective. That's why we talked about menopause. And I said that men with PTSD, reduced testosterone, which impairs neuro genesis in, wait, what were the areas? Yeah, one of them was the hippocampus right there. PTSD severely inversely correlates with testosterone levels in male trauma survivors. Look at the thyroid immune interaction. This is where it gets really sinister. Low T3 availability activates your innate immune system. Follow me. This is real simple. So your dysregulated thyroid is actually amplifying your immune dysregulation, causing all kinds of problems, because this is where the real destruction happens. Your immune system has two modes. I talked about this with my decent masterclass, TH1, cellular immunity, antiviral, antibacterial, and TH2, humoral immunity, antibody production. And in PTSD, you get a paradoxical immune shift, chronically elevated TH2 with insufficient TH1 regulation. Here's what happens. Here's what it's so brutal, because every time somebody comes to me with PTSD and we start going through everything, none of these things have been addressed. They get 15 minutes with their with at the VA. You doctors doing that are embarrassing human beings. Here's what you're doing simultaneously, not the doctors, the immune system. Listen to me, you're producing excessive inflammatory cytokines, IL6, TNF-alpha, IL1-beta. You're showing reduced cell-mediated immunity and you're developing autoimmune reactivity, except God and His infinite wisdom didn't design you to attack yourself. The problem is that the system is broken. So here's what happens. It's because your constant sympathetic activation suppresses your vagal afferent signaling, the sensory information that your brain gets from your body, efferent afferent, right? So your brain doesn't know it's safe. So it keeps your immune system on full attack mode. Your dendritic cells, the immune system's sentries, easy, become overly activated and they present autoantigens. So now your regulatory T cells, the immune system's peacekeepers, become depleted. And the result of this chronic systemic horrible thing, inflammatory response. And here's the devastating part of this entire thing. This inflammation crosses the blood-brain barrier. So now your microglia, which are your brain's immune cells, become chronically activated. They start releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines inside your brain. AFFI in 2018 documented that elevated IL6 and TNF-alpha predict cognitive decline in trauma survivors. Your immune system is literally setting your brain on fire. The neuroinflammation accelerates neurodegeneration. It impairs BD and F-brain derived neurotrophic factor production. It damages your myelin, the wiring, the cover on the wiring, and it causes oxidative stress, the free radicals that punch holes in every cell that you've got damaging your neurons from the inside out. Okay, sign me up. And this isn't a real biological problem, all right. It's purely psychological. It's just psychiatric. Listen, here's a terrifying truth about all this. It's a precursor to dementia, PTSD. Watch, Yaffe 2018 followed 1,300 PTSD diagnosed adults found 50% increased risk of dementia diagnosis over 20 years. Here's why. Look at the neuroinflammation. The chronic neuroinflammation that I just talked about causes the microglia to overproduce amyloid beta and tau proteins. Yeah, I've talked about this before. These are the hallmark proteins of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's and dementia are basically the same thing. PTSD, I don't care what someone says. You can argue with me, all you want, you're still wrong. I'm still right. PTSD.  PTSD, patients show elevated cerebrospinal fluid, amyloid beta, at rates comparable to Alzheimer's patients. Look at hippocampal atrophy. Your hippocampus is your memory center. In PTSD, it shrinks 10%. This isn't just memory loss. This isn't just memory loss. This is structural brain loss. And once neurons die, they don't regenerate unless you intervene with BDNF-promoting strategies, which I'll get to in a minute. Hold on. I want to drink this Coke. Or keep going. Look at telomeres shortening. Remember telomeres? Right with the pittle on? So your telomeres are the caps, the aglut on the end of your chromosomes. They shorten with age. In PTSD, this process accelerates dramatically. PTSD patients have telomeres equivalent to someone 10 to 15 years older than their chronological age. And what that means is that your cells are aging faster. Your DNA is degrading faster. You're literally experiencing accelerated aging, and they've normalized this. Look at the mitochondrial dysfunction. I could do this all freaking day. Your mitochondria are cellular power plants. In PTSD, mitochondrial genes show altered expression. Energy production, tanks. This actually happens in the most part in your brain's most metabolically active regions. Prefrontal cortex, hippocampus. So you have accelerated neuroinflammation, hippocampal shrinkage, accelerated cellular aging, and energy depletion. The result is cognitive cascade, memory problems, naming difficulties, visiospatial decline. Full dementia. Half. 100 people, 50 will get dementia. This is why untreated PTSD doesn't just ruin your emotional life. It destroys your cognitive future. Please listen to me. Okay, so let me connect all these dots. Three biological failures every time. Where is my Nobel Prize? Where? Yeah, I damn well want it because I want people to get this everywhere. I want to be in every book. Dr. Trevor Bachmeier discovered the three biological failures that are the precursor to every single damn disease on Earth. You know, my wife and I were talking about the other day. I said, you ever wonder why animals never get sick, but humans always do. But we're so conditioned and indoctrinated to think that's friggin normal. Just ruminate on that a little bit. And don't give me some stupid explanation in the comments. The explanation is very obvious. Yeah, you're not supposed to be sick. Look at every chronic disease, cancer, cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative disease, kidney disease, autoimmune disease, liver disease. It doesn't matter. The PTSD shares these three underlying mechanisms. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and ATP shortage, which is the mitochondrial dysfunction. PTSD is not an exception to all of this. Watch. Systemic inflammation in PTSD. I'll show you. Elevated. We already know IL-6, TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, chronic immune activation, neuroinflammation. This is documented in hundreds of thousands of studies, but here's what most people miss. The inflammatory state isn't just a consequence of PTSD. It's a driver of PTSD progression. It drives the entire frigging disease because inflammation begets more inflammation. Your immune activation causes endothelial dysfunction. Your blood vessels leak. More immune cells enter tissues. More inflammatory signals propagate. Your amygdala detects the biochemical signals of threat and amplifies your fear response, which cracks up your immune system, which causes more inflammation. Okay, but it's not important. Look at insulin resistance in PTSD specifically. Okay, equally devastating, a little less obvious. Your chronic sympathetic activation suppresses insulin secretion and increases insulin resistance through a couple of different ways. You need to follow me on this. Just stick with me. Believe me, it's worth it. Elevated catecholamines increase hepatic glucose output while at the same time impairing glucose uptake in all your peripheral tissues. Chronically elevated cortisol causes insulin receptor desensitization and systemic inflammation, which is the heavy hitter, impairs insulin signaling. All of this stuff is combined. You look at Katelyn in 2010, found that PTSD patients have 150% increase of developing type 2 diabetes. But here's the brain's connection. Your brain is phenomenally sensitive to insulin signaling. insulin is required for BDNF signaling. insulin is required for synaptic plasticity. It is the brain specific. insulin resistance is in the brain. It specifically impairs memory consolidation and emotional regulation, which is causing all these problems, which is why PTSD patients show progressive, cognitive decline. The brain's become insulin retarded. They don't hear it anymore. insulin resistant. Don't get all offended. It's just a word. I'm a product of the 80s. I say gay and retard all the time. No, my herty words bother you. You're not going to like me at all as a doctor. Look at the mitochondria dysfunction issue. This is a problem. Your mitochondria produce adenosine triphosphate, right? ATP, ADP, screws on an ATP. Through oxidative phosphorylation and PTSD, this process is compromised all over the place. Mitochondrial DNA show increased oxidative damage because of free radical production from chronic stress activation, which is going on because of everything happening because there's actual physical remodeling of your system. Your mitochondrial membrane potential is destabilized by calcium overload caused by excessive NMDA receptor activation during trauma and subsequent dysregulation. So there's a second problem. Your complex four, cytochrome C oxidase has reduced expression. So it impairs the ETC, electron transport chain efficiency, which means you're not cranking out ATP the way you're supposed to. Your brain becomes energy starved. You sound familiar? Prefrontal cortex, the most metabolically expensive region of your brain starts failing. Neurons can't maintain membrane potential and your synapses can't fire. Oh, this makes me crazy. Turk 2013 measured metabolic stress markers and PTSD and found evidence of systemic mitochondrial dysfunction with reduced capacity for ATP production. What that means is he showed that your brain ain't making ATP the way it's supposed to the neurons. PTSD isn't a psychiatric psychological condition that happens to have biological consequences. I am so sick and tired of people saying that PTSD is a bio energetic crisis. Inflammation plus insulin resistance plus mitochondrial dysfunction manifests as psychiatric symptoms. You ever see somebody with liver failure? They are complete spazes. It ain't a problem with our psychology. It's the toxins running through their bloodstream. Listen, here's why this is kind of the medicine is so catastrophically wrong here. I'll explain the approaches they use and why they're flawed. SSRIs, I've been talking about these selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The logic is PTSD patients have low serotonin. So we just crank up the serotonin. How does that make any sense? This is neurotransmitter theology and it ignores this one big giant word, physiology, because here's what actually happens. SSRIs work by blocking. They block selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. They block serotonin reuptake. Serotonin accumulates in the synapse. But in PTSD brains with altered serotonin receptor expression and impaired neuroplasticity, this doesn't create the desired effect. Just so you know, here's what happens. You get blunted emotional processing. So the SSRI dampens all emotional responses, not just negative ones. You can't selectively choose your emotions like that. Patients become emotionally numb, prevents them from processing trauma whatsoever. They're just suppressing it. Your sexual dysfunction goes through the roof. SSRIs impair erectile function and orgasm, 60% of users. Because serotonin mediated sexual response gets completely disrupted. You're not treating PTSD. You're treating one dysfunction for another one that's going to cause catastrophic problems in a relationship. Emotional blunting long term chronic SSRI use actually reduces BDNF production brain derived neurotrophic factor. The miracle grow for your brain over time. Duman 2004 proved this. Your brain's capacity to heal itself decreases while on SSRIs. And then the massive withdrawal symptom. This is fun. When patients try and I've seen this, even people coming to me, try to discontinue. SSRIs, they experience serotonin withdrawal, brain zaps, dizziness, severe anxiety. Isn't this part of the problem? This creates this iatrogenic trauma, trauma caused by the medicine. Patients relapse into PTSD because they're being pharmacologically traumatized by their own down with trial. How is this solving the problem? The side effect profile is devastating. Weight gain, apathy, anodonia, which is the inability to experience pleasure. Worsening suicidality in young people. The efficacy just so you know, 30% response rate at best. 50% have zero improvement. And for those who do improve, the improvement is minimal, often not functional recovery, just symptom reduction. But you, if you're a psychiatrist, you're going to get in my comments, you're going to argue and you're saying, Oh, it works for all my patients because you're some magic frigging signal of Freud. Got it. Okay. How about the benzodiazepines? These are a nightmare, by the way, because if you stop these cold turkey, they will kill you. Just let me hear. Listen to me. I'm not screwing around here. Don't. Don't take what I'm saying lightly. Do not, if you're on these, do not stop these cold turkey. Don't. Seizures, all kinds of things happen. You don't do it. So the logic is here. The anxiety is elevated. Benzodiazepines reduce anxiety. So benzodiazepines then subsequently, of course, treat PTSD. Pardon. This is arguably worse than SSR. Here's how benzodiazepine works. It enhances GABA signaling. GABA is inhibitory. So benzodiazepines make your entire nervous system less responsive. Here's the problem with this. Your nervous system needs to be able to differentiate threat from safety. It's how you're wired by God. So if you chemically suppress all neuronal firing, you're preventing your brain from doing the cognitive work of processing your trauma. How is that going to help you? Never mind the tolerance development. Your brain down regulates GABA receptors in response to chronic benzodiazepines. Look at Mick Jagger. He's taken handfuls of these things like Skittles. You need higher and higher doses to achieve the same effect. This is called dependence, not addiction. Physical dependence. Not the same. Just so you know, there's a memory impairment component to this. Benazepines impair explicit memory formation by suppressing hippocampal, LTP, long term potentiation. Here's what it does. It prevents trauma processing and learning new safety information, which means your brain isn't building and growing the way it's designed. Your neuroplasticity goes to the dogs. There's paradoxical disinhibition. Okay. So benzodiazepines actually increase aggression in some people, but 40% with people with PTSD, impulsivity, risk taking, Bust-O 2002 show this, prove this. You're supposed to be calming someone and instead they become more volatile and dangerous. Got it. And the withdrawal, I may as well touch on this. Benzodiazepine withdrawal is actually dangerous. You need to listen. Don't screw out of this. Don't listen to what I'm saying. Please use your ears. Just pay attention. Seizures, psychosis. It's among the worst withdrawal symptoms of any psychiatric medication on earth. And here's the cruel part. The guidelines, nice, right? The VA, DOD, they all recommend against benzodiazepines for PTSD. They make PTSD worse, but they're still prescribed constantly because they provide short term symptom relief. Above all harm. You doctors need to stop fucking that up. Oh, I've been a doctor for a long time. I don't care what you want to insult me with. I see real patients. I've seen over a million patients and I'm still helping people to this day and I will do it until God calls me home because I actually care about the person. Above all, do no harm. Look at the antipsychotics. This is the one that gets me use of antipsychotic off label for PTSD. Okay. Respared own is usually the one they use the logic. Watch PTSD involves hyperactivity and threat processing regions. Dopamine antagonism should probably solve all the problems except here's the catastrophic engine behind this thing. You're suppressing dopamine in a brain that's already you ready for this dopamine deficient. How is that going to work? How does that even make sense? This is why I tell people that more people are driving around cars than know how to change a tire on their own damn driving something you don't know how to do anything with you don't change it. I'll do anything like that. You're doing the same thing with your body. You better know your biology. I think that's important because here's what happens with antipsychotics. Okay. Antipsychotic dysfunction antipsychotics cause 100% time weight gain metabolic syndrome worsening insulin resistance in about half the people that use it. You're treating a condition that involves mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance by causing metabolic dysfunction. That is back ass words. There's movement disorders. Antipsychotics block dopamine in your motor cortex. So extra pyramidal side effects in voluntary writhing movements. 30% of the people that use it some are permanent. It's called tardive dyskinesia by the way. There's worsening cognitive function. Dopamine antagonism just so you know impairs prefrontal cortex function. So now you're treating cognitive decline by suppressing dopamine dependent cognition. Make it make sense. Emotional blending similar to SSRIs right? Even the anodonia. Dopamine is required for motivated behavior and emotional engagement. Block dopamine and you get apathy and anodonia. No thanks. We got enough of that with social media going around just screwing people up psychologically by changing those given the dopamine hits all the time like that stupid pigeon pecking away at that food pellet lever. Right. If you know the experiment, antipsychotics add no additional benefit to SSRIs and PTSD. Stein should prove that in 2016. But here's what he also proved. They more than double the side effects. Listen, it's date night tonight. So I want to not I want to put a bow on this, but you need to understand. Here's where you need to go with what I'm giving you. The brain is plastic. The most fundamental neuroscience discovery of the past 30 years is that your brain can rewire neurons can regenerate. Your neural networks can be completely rebuilt, but this rewiring requires very specific conditions. So I will give you the exact conditions so you can do this. And I normally don't do this here because of for some reason, when I help somebody right down to the end of the line, I get censored. Make it make sense. So condition one, you have to meet these conditions without question. You have to have sufficient BDNF brain derived neurotrophic factor. BDNF is essentially the hardware upgrade for your brain. It's required for neurogenesis, synaptic strengthening. It's required for all of the things that make your brain more robust. The key insight BDNF production. You love you're going to love this is actually activity dependent. Your brain produces BDNF in response to certain things. Cardiovascular exercise specifically actually hit training, cognitive novelty, discovering new things and figuring them out, get a bunch of puzzles. Really, I'm not kidding. Not puzzles with pieces, brain benders, things like that. Social connection, which is the opposite of what most people with PTSD do. Sleep, proper nutrition, particularly, I'll leave you with their antioxidants, minerals and omega threes. When you restore these conditions, BDNF goes up. Your brain's capacity to heal increases. Condition two, that must be met. Reduced neuro inflammation. This is huge. Your microglia need to shift from M1, the pro-inflammatory, to M2, the anti-inflammatory tissue repair phenotype. I've talked about this many times. They exist for a reason, but being stuck in M1 is going to cause all the problems. Here's what's required in order to do this. Omega three fatty acids, particularly DHA and EPA, somewhere in the neighborhood of three to 4,000 milligrams a day. Polyphenols, a cerumen, resveratrol. You need to reduce all your systemic inflammatory triggers, which means part of it is stop eating like an asshole. Stop drinking. Stop doing those kinds of things. Stop going without sleep. Proper vagal tone restoration. That's condition two, condition three. This is the big one, metabolic restoration. So you're, and this is an all in conjunction with my three biological failures, by the way, all of this is, or you have to solve these three. Otherwise this is not going to work. Your mitochondria need to be restored to full capacity. And this requires proper glucose control, which means you can't have insulin resistance. You have to have sufficient micronutrients. So magnesium, zinc, CoQ 10, carnitine, you need to have reduced oxidative stress. You need to have proper thyroid function, which is what I said, the T4, T3 issue, the TSH normal, yet there's still all kinds of problems. Right. But when these conditions are met, your brain repairs itself. This isn't theory. This is documented neuroscience. Norman Toidge 2015, hundreds and hundreds of neuroplasticity studies showing that even catastrophically damaged brains can functionally reorganize and recover to 100%. The reason conventional treatments fail is they don't create the conditions required, these ones specifically, to repair. In fact, they oftentimes prevent them. But when you address the underlying biology, you solve systemic inflammation, you solve insulin resistance, you solve the mitochondrial dysfunction, the ATP shortage, you restore BDNF and you restore mitochondrial function across the board, even in your neurons, recovery becomes possible. Let me explain this really quick. And then I'm going to go inside for date night with my wife. I want to hang out with her. I'll put the exact protocol line by line, exactly how to do all this. It'll be in a link somewhere under here. It doesn't cost you a damn thing. If you go, well, there's a Google form I have to fill out. Yeah, aim, email and that you agree. That's it. I'm not going to market to anybody that's downloaded my research knows I don't market the hell out of you. So it doesn't really matter. Anyway, the point is I'm going to give you this real quick. So here's the breakdown of what needs to happen outside of what I just said with those three fundamental things you need to solve. CMAX, okay. BDNF up for up regulation. It restores dopamine. BPC-157 is going to restore the gut barrier, the brain barrier. It's going to have dopamine effects, TB-500. It's going to provide axonal regeneration. It's going to modulate your immune system, cerebrolysin, gold, neurogenesis, neuro protection, DCIP. It's going to help with your sleep restoration and your stress reduction. GHK-Cu, copper gene expression on the right side, wound healing, thymocent alpha one. It's going to solve the immune problem that's going on that you don't even think you have alpha seven, nicotinic acetylcholine. Receptor agonism in the form of a patch, modifies microglia, shuts down neuro inflammation, but you guys, there you go. That's it. You're welcome. The rest of it is going to be in some, because I'm going to be on here for three more hours if I do this, but this is peer reviewed research from legitimate institutions that talk about all this stuff. I could do this all day. You need, here's what you need to understand. For decades, we have treated PTSD as if it's this broken brain that needs chemical compensation. So we give SSRIs, benzodiazepines, and I'd say psychotics, we suppress symptoms. While the underlying biology continues to crumble, patients don't recover. They just become medicated versions of traumatized people. But what if I told you that the brain doesn't need compensation, it needs restoration? Like I said, your brain is plastic. It can regenerate and heal and rebuild itself. It's designed this way. You understand this, right? Your biology is you have been conditioned to think by modern medicine that your body is suffering because it's lacking something. You were built to need nothing. I'm not saying you don't need it to solve a problem, but I'm saying, what's the problem? So you don't need it anymore. You need the right biological conditions, sufficient growth factors, BDNF, NGNF, reduced inflammation, the microglial regulation. You need to restore the energy production. So the mitochondrial function, I'm giving you the answer. Proper sleep enhances the lymphatic function. So it works the pressure washer for your brain, proper barriers, gut, blood brain, cellular, restored stress resilience. So the HPA access, proper immune function, the TH1, TH2 ratio, the balance needs to be there. When you provide these conditions, you know what happened? Something remarkable. Your brain just go ahead, fixes itself, doesn't suppress, doesn't medicate, fixes, traumatic memory integrates. The hypervigilance resolves and the emotional dysregulation normalizes and the cognitive decline goes the other direction. It reverses this. This is pure biology and physiology. None of this stuff is magic. This is what happens when you stop treating the problem and you start treating the system. And the beautiful part about all of this is this is reversible. PTSD is not a life sentence. It is a solvable biological problem with a very well understood mechanism and very validated solutions. Trauma treatment isn't more selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. It's biological restoration. To be honest, it's peptide mediated neuro-regeneration, systemic healing. Like, I don't know what you expect with PTSD, but anything that they've told you, you should ignore. That you need to understand, you're listening to this podcast thinking you're going to hear about PTSD, but I want you to leave with an understanding of how to actually fix human neurobiology. It's the difference between medicine and science because they try and marry them together, but they're not. It's drug pushers and modern cartel and science. It's a difference between treatment and healing. So I think honestly, I could probably lay out the entire protocol in here. It's just I'll be on here for so long. Read what I put under here on the link and solve your life or someone's life. Man, I'm not here to sell you a damn thing. I'm giving you the answer. So just go freaking do something about it. Anyway, I got to go. Hope you got something out of this. Never miss.