Hey guys, welcome back to another day in the Smashworks universe. We're going to be talking about um hamstring pulls. So, hamstring pulls right off the bat happen to more people than you think, and they happen for a different reason than you think. It's not from hamstring flexibility or uh or lack thereof. So, how about I do this? Let's put this down. Yep. We're in the uh we're in the Smash Works little garage gym, so it's a little easier right now. Um just because uh well, I work down in here and this is what we're going to talk about. It is 3:57 and uh I have a 1 hour and 3 minutes before actually 2 hours and 3 minutes before I drop this video. So, we're going to be talking about hamstring pulls. The big thing about a hamstring pull is there's three types. We we all and most of you guys know this stuff. And if you don't, we're going to go over it. So, three types is there's grade 1, two, and three. Grade one is minor minor tiny little tears very very small usually deep in the belly of the muscle. Usually the semi semi uh teninosis, semimebrosis right around there. Right. hot dog BUN if you don't remember how that works. Semimerosis is around the outside, semiendinosis runs down the inside and then that biceps morris runs around the uh the other side. So that's grade one. Grade two is you start to get some pretty major tearing. It's usually lower in the belly of the muscle. And then grade three is full thickness tear. It's usually up high close to that isial tuberosity right by that sitbone. So a lot of times what you're going to see is people when they start to do hamstring uh excuse me oh man still some smoke from all those fires here. when they start to do hamstring pull drills and exercises and rehab, the problem is they start stretching. And you know what? You you don't want to do that. So, this is the one time I'm going to tell you, don't don't start stretching and hammering away on that hamstring. You got to give it a chance to heal. You got to give it a chance to settle down. So, the first 24 to 48 hours, I'm like an Italian. I talk with my hands. I sit there and I do all kinds of weird stuff. So, what I'm telling you, you got to give it a chance to heal. If you don't give it a chance to heal, you're just going to make it take longer. You're going to make that injury come back over and over and over again. and then it just becomes redundant and everything you want to do you can't do because you keep blowing out your hamstring. So, the first thing we're going to do is I'm going to tell you we want to warm up before we do these. There's two phases but with uh with doing the um the hamstring rehab. This is a basic rehab protocol for all of you guys that blow out hamstrings constantly. Check your hip flexors because they've shown time and time again, it's not a hip flex or a um hamstring flexibility issue. It's not a hamstring strength issue. 99 times out of 100, it is a hip flexor issue. and a neurological component. So basically what that means is that means that that brain body that mind body connection where you're controlling your motor pattern is so funky and so funked up that you're not working well. See if my uh my editors actually catch that when I said funked up. We'll see if they put in a swear or not. There's some stuff going on in the background that you don't know. But uh some pretty funny stuff. So I guarantee you somebody's going to see that. Let's see if you catch it or you put in a swear when you're putting in my subtitles. I guess we'll find out. So anyway, the bottom line is it's going to be a lot of motor pattern issues where you're not working properly and you're not engaging the right sequence of events. So I'm going to retrain you right now. It's just that easy. First thing we're going to do is we're going to warm up. So the way we warm up and I noticed a little this is deviating a little bit from from what I do. But you know what? Hamstring pulls are a really big deal and they happen a lot. So let's just fix them right now. So now let's speed up the video. So first thing we're doing is the warmup is really easy. So, you're just going to go toes forward and all you're going to do is you're going to just do lateral walks. So, lateral walks, I want you to go 50 feet either side in about a quarter squat. Okay, that's number one. Number two is you're going to do a a forward walk, but when you're doing a forward walk, you're going to come forward and then spin out. Forward and spin out. So, this is if you get it again. So, you can see you're going to go 50 ft back, 50 ft forward. So, forward, spin out, forward, spin out, forward, spin out. And then you're going to do the same thing back all the way. Now, I don't have a lot of space in this garage. So, that's those are your two warm-up drills. The last one is you're going to do a front light step. So, you're going to take forward diagonal step. So, it's like a diagonal lunge and then back, diagonal lunge, and then back. That's all you're going to do. You're going to do ideally three sets of 10. That's your warm up. All right. Now, we start putting together the system on how to rehab that uh that um pulled hamstring and get you back on your feet. So, first thing we're going to do is a bridge. When we do a bridge, a lot of times people have seen this. Let's go like this here. Let's Let's fix my camera. I'm always going to make reference to Jessica because she's always giving me a hard time about my camera. Underground Strength, by the way, if you guys don't know these guys. Freaking legit Target shorts. By the way, when you forget your shorts and you go to the clinic, you're seeing patients and then you leave and you go, "Shit, I forgot my shorts." I sw my Target to get a set of shorts. It's like 13 bucks. Love them. They're super comfy. So, what you're going to do is you're going to come at this is how your position is going to be. You're going to throw your arms straight out and you're going to push your spine into the ground. So, I'm already hollowed out and I'm digging my heels into the ground. Okay? So, here, heels into the ground, hollowed out. You're going to come up, hold for 5 seconds, and then you're going to come back down, hollow out, hold for 5 seconds, come back down, hollow out, hold. So, you're going to do that three sets of 10. That's number one. Number two is what's called a leg bounce. So, let's see if I can do this. Oh, yeah. We got all kinds of fun stuff. It's like I have Oh, you can see my uh my workout paraphernalia here. So, we'll do that. This is a single leg balance. This is going to retrain you. Let's get in the rake here. So, I'm standing right. This is pretty badass. So, all you're going to do, and you saw me do this yesterday for ankle rehab. It's also good for hamstrings because it forces proper receptive input. Okay. So, just going to bring the foot up. Okay. You're going to drop down into a light squat and you're just going to hang out in this position for how long? Two minutes. That's actually four. Two minutes, right? We're like, pick number three, right? So, two minutes. Hang out. That's it. That's number two. Okay. Number three. This is a little bit more complicated. We're going to start hitting those hip flexors. And this is the important part. So, hip flexors. See if we can do this. We'll do it right here. You see, I got a big old got a big ass mirror. have this. Anyone knows they want a mirror, they can have it. So this is your position. So you start like this. So I'm doing 9090. So 90 at the hip, 90 at the knee, 90 at the trailing leg, knee open at the trailing leg hip. I want you to use the wall as a brace. And you're just going to lift the knee. That's it. That's your That's your drill. So 1 10,000 back down. 1 1000 back down. 1 1,000 back down. That's going to work on those hip flexors more than you think. Now, here comes the last one, and it's the one everybody misses. It's going to be what's called externally rotated couch stretch. And this is where everybody gets goofy. So, you get into a modified couch stretch. So, I am in the couch stretch, except what I'm going to do is I'm going to take my back leg so I can recover some of that internal joint rotation and crank it out and then come back to that neutral position and really just push those hip flexors open. Hang out. Two minutes. That is phase one. Phase two is the fun part. So, we're going to do what's called an RDL single leg balance. So, RDL is Romanian deadlift, right? We know that. Except we're going to do single leg balance. So, when we do this, we are not going to lock out this leg and come all the way forward like a flamingo. Okay? We're going to bend the leg slightly, engage, and then we're just going to put our arms out. I got the wall in my way here. So, we're going to use this as balance. And we're going to come all the way over. Stick this leg out if you can. Put this hand out. And I want you to hang out in this position. You got it for two minutes. Do the same thing on each side. That one is a little bit aggressive. And then the second one is we want to start working on explosive movements for the hamstring, which is where everybody's missing, too. So, check this out. Good. Sorry, I got the snipples, but there's a lot of freaking smoke in the air. I'm trying to speed this video up for you guys. So, we take a band. Okay, the band. Let's do it this way. God, I love this for the garage. Another garage that's about three times the size of this, but go figure. Darn this thing. Got to put cars in it, but it sure would be better for a gym. See if I can run that one by the home, folks, and see what happens. So, we load up the band. So, this isn't a heavy band. So I basically take one band, loop it into the other band. These are both quarter inch bands. So they're really or half inch bands. They're really light. And we're just going to lean forward like we're running and we're going to actually run while this is under load. This forces recruitment of all the sling systems of the pelvis so we start moving properly. So we're just going to run and I want you to use your hands. I want you to pick up as fast as you can. So if you can do this, that's fine. That's where you want to go. That's remember this is phase two. This is after things have healed up a little bit. Last one. All right. Get out of this freaking band. Actually, not the last one. We got one more. We got two more. I'm trying to keep it short. Trust me. We want to step into the band. So, the band is underneath my feet. Cross it. X-Man walks. drop into basically a 2/3 or a 1/3 squat. Laterally walk. We're retraining the engagement recruitment of the glutes. 50 ft either direction. Now we're on the There we go. All right. This one's cool. This one's really cool. I like this one. This one's more effective than you think. misses another one. Everybody misses. All right. So, we get into a side plank. So, I'm in a side plank right now. And we're going to take this. I'm going to load up on this band a little tighter just because I don't have a lot of room here. So, I'm in a side plank except I'm going to use this leg lock out and I'm going to hook the other leg behind it. So, I'm using the high side leg and then I'm just going to pull. So, all I'm doing is a row while in a side plank. Three sets of 10. That's all you got to do. Hey, listen. I'm Trev Smash Works clearing out a hamstring pull today. All right. I'll check you guys out tomorrow. Peace.