I was inside and Brandy and I were talking. We talk all the time, right? She's my best friend and we have all kinds of fun conversations and she's incredibly intelligent. So, the conversations are fantastic. But this is probably going to make a lot of you guys uncomfortable because everybody talks about how they're their own person. I make up my own mind. No, you don't. Most of the time you don't. And instead of getting angry, just hear me out. Give me 20 minutes. I promise I'll give you everything I've got for the next 20, 30 minutes. And then at the end, you can send me messages and ask me questions and I will do my best to answer every single question you send me. But you have to send me the question. Don't send it on YouTube. Just don't. Send it to me on Instagram and say, "Hey, I listened to a podcast episode June 13th, you know, all about whatever we're going to talk about today." and I will do my best to give you an answer that actually is makes sense and helps you out. But if you're going to sit there and just drop hate, I'm not going to respond though. That's just for me to you. You're not thinking. Most of you guys aren't think. You're obeying. Listen, this is I read it. It's called Gen 5 Warfare. And it's a nickname and I didn't come up with it. But you guys think you're waiting for this World War III to show up and everybody's sitting on the edge of their seats just like the whole Cuba Cold War, Reagan, all this stuff that's been going on nonstop for as long as you can remember and remember one thing very clearly and that is history is written by the winners doesn't mean it's the fact. The people with the biggest pockets and or the deepest pockets and who orchestrated the whole thing for the most part. And no, I'm not going to put on a tin foil hat and start telling you all kinds of things. Although I might probably should, but most of you guys aren't listening and you're not thinking. You're obeying. And that gets people so mad because they know I'm right. You're not informed. You're not. You guys say, "I'm learning and I'm informed and I'm watching this and I'm learning that." No, you're not. You're being indoctrinated. You're not awake. You're playing dead in a coffin somebody else nailed shut around your entire life. And worst of all, you're defending it. Hear me out. Give me 20 minutes right now. Just give me 20 minutes. I promise if you listen at the end of this and go, "You're nuts, man. I don't agree with any of this." Okay. But at least you know because right now you're a slave. You're marching through this these digital fields like it's the metaverse version of roots and you're screaming, "I'm free. I'm free. I can do this. It's all me, my mind." because you can pick pronouns while paying 20% more for milk and your $200,000 in debt for a degree that made you nothing but obedient and broke. Listen again, I'll say it again and again. I keep coming out here to help you and you guys defend you guys defend the fact that you can pick your pronouns. You defend the fact that you're in debt and none of it has made your life better. You're arguing on social media about news you didn't even investigate. You're taking medications you didn't research. This is one of my favorite things. So, I made that post about Redat True Tide, right? Which is not an effort to diagnose, treat anything. It is purely for research, not for humans consumption, not for animal consumption. This is just hypothetical conversation. If you know, you know. But I had more people in I want you to think about what I'm about to say. more people inquiring about whether or not it's safe. The most common two questions I got, is it safe and what's the dosage? I can answer those two questions right now. Number one, safe. Absolutely. I'll give you a great example. Tylenol, Advil, Neproxen, Benadryil, Nyquil, name it. You guys go and grab those at your local pharmacy. Pop them in your mouth. I know people that take at least two to three Advil a day. I have a really good friend of mine. He's a great friend of mine and in becoming even more of a friend. He's just a good dude. And he takes a naperson every day. There's a lot of poison in that, man. If I didn't give a [\h__\h] about this guy, I wouldn't say anything, but I do. So, I don't want him to take it. So, the whole point is to get him out of pain so he doesn't feel like he has to take. Right. But then there's that whole rebound effect between the chemical cascade, the hierarchy of events that occurs when you have something that you perceive as pain. And when you try and mitigate that, but you didn't solve the problem. When when that barrier is gone, the NSAID, the narcotic, whatever. Remember the whole thing about narcotics, by the way, narcotics make you forget that it hurts, right? Naides stop the pain. They're not the same. That's why they put them together in things like Percoet, right? You take a 5 milligram percoet and it's mixed with what? Acetaminophen. And they said because it's a potentiator, it's so much more than that. They work synergistically together to reduce the pain. But the problem is they cause a lot of issues with your liver, your kidneys. [\h__\h] I I could do this all day about this stuff. But anyway, back to the Reddit True Tide. And listen, when this engine starts in my head, it just goes full throttle. And there is so much going on in here. And with Redat True Tide, number one, is it safe? You guys will go out and you'll take supplements and drugs all day long in a pharmacy filled with bottles and potions and lotions and things you want to stick in your eye and up your butt and in your mouth and rub on you. And you guys do that willingly without even thinking. But the number of people that have died taking NSAIDes is appalling. the number of people that have died dealing with hypothetical situations involving peptides, almost none. But yet, that same logic doesn't kick in. It's the same logic you guys come up with when you go, "Oh, I don't know about that whole crypto or Bitcoin thing, man. I got to give him my ID and I got to tell them like my social." [\h__\h] you had to do that for your credit card. You had to do that for your bank account. You guys use that all the time. Every time you go in and you get cash from your bank or you swipe your card or you pay your credit card bill or any of that stuff, your ID is just run through the system one more time. Bang. If you guys are worried, but then you go, "Bitcoin, I don't know about that." It's anonymous. You don't even exist and that's what you're worried about. That's why I said you are taught beliefs. You aren't learning. You are believing and they're making you believe things. So that's number one. Red or true tide. Is it safe? Absolutely. For research use only. If you know, you know. Number two, dosages. Well, if I was going to have any kind of a mouse or a, you know, a sample size of 8 to 10 mice doing it and I had to look at what kind of a dosage would be hypothetically good for them, I put together a document that explains the research hypothetical, not for human use, not for animal use. Only researchers can use a document. that you can hit me up for and I'll give it to you if you know you. I got you. I want you to [\h__\h] win, but you guys have to this. You have to take the first step. I can't shove it down your throat. But you guys listen, you guys argue on social media about all this news that you did not you you didn't look at the narrator before you bought into the narration. You take meds that you don't research. You just go, "Well, they're FDA approved." Do you really think the FDA has your best interest in mind? Are you nuts? You blame genetics for problems that you created. We can go right down the rabbit hole of epigenetics and how your body changes according to the stresses put on it. You can go as simple as Wolf's law and the pisoelectric effect or you can go as deep as genetics in how your body responds to the environment. It doesn't matter. All of it still matters. You change according to what's going on. You quote science that you guys don't understand. Just follow me. All because you've never once stopped to ask who benefits if I believe this. I don't benefit anything if you believe anything I tell you. I don't know if you guys have put that together. I'm 163 episodes in. I don't get any benefit. And yet some of you guys go toe-to-toe with me and you're wrong. You couldn't be more wrong. And you still argue because you're more concerned about being wrong and not being wrong versus just going, "Fuck, I was wrong. It's easier to fool people than to convince people that they've been fooled. Who benefits if you believe this? You need to ask that question all the time because this is like a wakeup call. It It hit me when Randy and I were inside talking. It's not the kind of wakeup call that has some fun music and a little fire and you guys sit around spitting theories back and forth. I I want to every time I get on here, I just want to kick the door and drag you out of bed by your throat and shove you in front of the mirror because while you're holding your breath, afraid to breathe because you might set something off, some cascade of negative comments on social media or you might disagree with your mom or you might have some problem because you don't want to rock the boat. It already has happened, man. And it's happening inside your head. So, let's just pick this apart really quick so you actually understand what I'm saying. The media doesn't exist to inform you. And I love this. Like even this freedom of speech, not at all. Because this will get I get people asking me all the time, "Dude, are you getting throttled so bad?" Because I tell you the truth. I want to make this podcast so big nobody can throttle me. You guys are just reposting the [\h__\h] out of clips of this all day long. That's what I expect from you. The media doesn't exist to inform you. That's the great lie of the 21st century. This has been going on long before that. But like CNN, Fox, MSNBC, Ruters, it doesn't matter what it is. They don't give a damn if you understand the world. They don't. They care that you believe the version that they feed you. Here, I'll ask you this. And be honest with yourself. This is just between you and your reflection. It has nothing to do with me. I'm simply giving you actual information, not trying to make you believe something. I want you to learn something, not the same. Why would the people who control the world want you to know what's actually going on? Why? You're not important to them. You're not part of the mission. You're not even a player in the damn game. You're a pawn they use to move pieces that they're never going to let you even touch. You get on social media like you're some kind of critical thinker because you read a headline or watched a 7minute video breakdown of something that you don't even understand. But here's the reality. You're not educated. You're programmed. Shut up if you're getting mad because I'm right. You read the study. I get people, oh, I read the study. Which part? The abstract? Did you analyze the funding sources, the sample size, the framing bias? Did you look at any of that stuff? No. You probably read a tweet from someone who paraphrased the person who misqued the study and now you're in the comments and you're fighting to the death like you just walked off the research team at Stanford. You guys are fighting the wrong battles and you don't even know it. Like you don't know. You've been told what to believe and you believed it because it was convenient. They said, "Oh, I love this stuff." Like this gets me riled up. They said, "Trust the experts. Follow the science. Take the jab. Stay home. Stay safe. Silence is violence. Speak your truth. And you didn't ask a single [\h__\h] question. Why? Because you're taught that asking questions is dangerous. It might expose you. And exposing you might wake you up. And waking up might mean that you actually would have to change. But you never think about that. You never expand past that surface level. And you call everybody else superficial because they have a nice car. You can't even think critically and you get mad at yourself because you've been taught to be indoctrinated, educated. They told you what to think and they made you believe that it was your own thoughts. That's not intelligence. Psychological slavery. Just put it together. Don't take my word for any of this. Challenge everything. I went to Cancun with Brandy when we got engaged, actually. So, it's we're talking 20 years ago. And I'll never forget this kid. He wiped out stone ass drunk right in front of me and his buddy called him name. He was 18. He was there. There's like 20 of them and all their parents and they took him there to do some big booze strip. I really don't know the parameters behind it. But the next day I said, "Hey, you feeling any better?" And I said, "His name, I don't remember his name." And he goes, "Yeah, you little freaked out that I know your name." He goes, "A little bit." Anyway, we got to be friends. And I remember saying to him, "Challenge everything." And when Brandy and I left, he happened to be walking by and he goes, "I'm never going to forget that. Challenge everything." He goes, "You changed my life." And it was genuine. This is just a kid, right? I mean, I had him at 20 years. Do you challenge everything or do you challenge anything that points to you possibly being incorrect and indoctrinated and you know it? Talk about your precious education just for a second. You're so precious degrees and your PhDs and your masters and your do [\h__\h] cares. I have all kinds of degrees. None of them mean anything. They're worthless. You were told to get a degree, right? Go to college. That's what they said. Do the right thing. Follow the path. Chase the paper. So now you're 200,000 plus in debt, working in a job you hate, drinking iced coffee, scrolling Instagram and Tik Tok on your lunch break, and you're wondering why your life feels like a bad episode of Black Mirror. They didn't educate you. You know what they did? Is they prepared you to comply. They gave you just enough information to sound smart, but you're not. You know, and just enough fear to never question it. That's why you're frustrated. You're taught to think sadness is a disease, obesity is genetic. You think addiction is a chemical imbalance. You think that your failure is somebody else's fault and that your suffering is noble and righteous. Why? Why? Because somebody with a title said so? because it was on some commercial you saw on television that scrolled across your Facebook because a guy with a blue check mark said it that you can buy now because your therapist gave it a name. Gave it a label. Gave you a label and then gave you a prescription. You don't believe things because you understand. You believe because you were told not to question. They're not the same. That's not learning. That's indoctrination. And you have to grasp that concept. You were taught that your emotions are more real than the reality you live in. And that your gender is how you feel. Follow me. Track with me on this. Your emotions are more important. Your gender is a feeling. Masculinity is toxic. Violence is wrong. Unless it's against somebody who disagrees with the narrative. You're either out here defending a uterus in a man, hormone blockers in children. That's what you guys are doing. You guys are out here defending all this nonsense. Really? You You guys are putting a womb in a man. You're putting a uterus in a man. You're condoning all these hormone blockers for children. And you get on a chair and scream at everybody that there should be participation trophies for people who finish dead [\h__\h] last while wondering why the entire world around you is falling apart. It's because it is. The whole world is coming down and you're the one holding the jackhammer taking it apart. And maybe this will get a little dark, but buckle up. Feelings matter more than facts. That's what they told you. And now we've criminalized discomfort. How is that possible? Discomfort is how growth occurs. No discomfort, no growth. But they've made it criminal. Truth is hate speech and shaming and disagreement is absolute violence. Needs to be punished. That's what they told you. They told you that your struggle isn't your fault. So now you fight to stay broken. You get in the ring and you go toe-to-toe with the truth against it to defend your position because it's not your fault according to you. You wear trauma like it's a Gucci belt and compare wounds like they're all these trophies to everybody and then they told you just believe, man. Just believe. That's all you got to do. You just got to believe. My son said that. If you believe it strong enough, then it'll happen. Wrong. I said wrong. Absolutely. And I wanted to say I went on to say you can believe it all you want. If you're not taking any action towards it or you're defending something that's incorrect, it doesn't matter how much you believe. You believe the wrong thing. Learn about it. Question everything. Look at the narrator before you listen to the narration. Look at the storyteller before you buy into the story. So now what you guys do is you scream about your rights that you didn't earn. Values you can't even define for the most part and a future that you even you refuse to build. You're not doing anything about it. You want solutions. Again, you want permissions. Listen, please understand. I'm trying to help you, but you can go toe-to-toe with me all day. I'm still right. You want permission to be average, to stay weak, to stay fat, to stay confused, stay addicted. Blame your parents. Blame capitalism. Blame God. And now look at you. You're arguing to protect the life that you wish were different. But it's not different cuz it's not your fault. So now you get to defend the life that you wish were different. That's like [\h__\h] your pants, changing your shirt, getting mad that you still smell like a failure. Put this together and make it make sense. Please. You guys fight anybody that tells you the truth and cancel the people who challenge you. Yet they're challenging you because they're trying to actually get you to learn and challenge the beliefs that you were told to believe. You guys make fun of the people who refuse to bow because deep down you know they're free and you're not. And freedom, listen, freedom, when you're enslaved to delusion, it feels like a personal attack. And there in lies the problem, right? So how do you fix it? Because that's what people say. I get this question from all kinds of people. Well, how do you fix it then? Come on, bro. You're so smart. It's not what I said. I said I'm free and my beliefs are my own and I learn before I believe. So, I guess how you fix it is with a single act of rebellion from you. Question the storyteller. That's it. Before you react, just pause and ask, "Who benefits if I believe this? Where did this actually come from? What do I actually know?" Because here's the truth behind this. You don't need to believe less. You need to learn more. You've got to go from a passive receiver to an active investigator of your own life. But heads up, man. This is going to cost you. Some of you guys aren't you're not ready to pay the price because you're going to lose friends. You're going to get mocked and labeled, insulted, ostracized, hated, and you're going to be cast out of the herd because you're different. Because you're actually taking charge of your own life. But what do you get from this? Because people go, "Fuck that. I just want to get along with everybody." It goes back to what I said before. You're taught in order to get along, you have to go along. That couldn't be more wrong because now you're a good little sheep. So, here's what you get when you challenge the storyteller. You get your own psychology. You build actual confidence for yourself. You get your dignity, your sovereignty, you get your [\h__\h] freedom because it's your mind. Go back to Victor Frankle. They tried to break him. He was in a Nazi concentration camp and he went read Man's Search for Meaning. It's a great book. I've read it twice. Here's what happens. You begin to think your own thoughts. You see with your own eyes. You decide the path that you want for yourself. And you live your own [\h__\h] life. And the most important part about that is you stop fighting against the very freedom that you want. Ask yourself, why are you fighting things right now? Why are you fighting against things right now? And are they keeping you where you are? Because the second you start looking at that, you might spin around and go, "Holy [\h__\h] I'm fighting against everything that I want." Once you realize that every single narrative handed to you was designed to keep you small and scared and silent and weak or sold out. I hope you feel fury. I did. I hope you feel rage. Good. You should, but then use it. Don't sit there and cry about it. Because that rage, that's your soul trying to claw its way back out of the prison that you unfortunately built by believing people that you never questioned. You're waiting for a war, man. You're waiting for this collapse. You're waiting. You watch just tied in knots for this this revolution. And the moment everything just goes down, let me be very clear, it already has. The war's here, man. The battlefield is your psychology. You've been trained to believe that thinking is dangerous, that questioning is a conspiracy. Throw the tinfoil hat on. That obedience is virtue. Really, weakness is love, softness is love, losing is the new winning, and silence is peace. You've been fed poison and told it was progress for as long as you've been alive. And now when somebody holds up the mirror, you want to break the mirror instead of fixing the [\h__\h] mat. Make that make sense. Listen, nobody's coming to save you. And you will wait your way into the grave until somebody does. And you'll realize right at the end, you should have just done it your damn self. Nobody's coming to save you. The algorithm doesn't give a [\h__\h] about you. The government doesn't care. Your therapist doesn't care because you're paying them a thousand bucks an hour to sit on a couch. The media sure as hell doesn't care about you. Only you can choose to think. So what's it going to be? It's your move. What's it going to be? Another dopamine scroll through delusion and lies. Another debate literally going to war to defend the cage that you can't stand being in. I hate being broke. I hate being fat. I hate being sick. I have all these labels, all these problems, but I have to follow the science and listen to other people that don't give a [\h__\h] about me instead of looking in the mirror and going, I need to give a [\h__\h] about me. This is my life. You going to live another day in the excuses comfortable in the chains that you keep adding links to? Are you going to do the one thing they never prepared you for? Wake the [\h__\h] up, stand up, fight, and take your damn mind back. Because once you do, I promise once you do, you cannot be enslaved again ever. But it comes back to you making the decision to do it. Because nobody's coming to save you but you. But I'm trying to give you the tools to do it. I got to go. Never miss.