查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 So you blame the peptide and not the biology and I'll tell you how to solve the problem too and explain really the dominoes that this peptide knocks over in Disease and how it weight loss is it has nothing to it's an accessory to this peptide Like you guys are being lied to you guys are being lied to with this thing this social media machine That's my wife look at her. She's so beautiful. I just stare at my wife all the time because I adore I know it has nothing to do with this podcast. I don't care. She's my best friend. I adore my wife You guys are being lied to and I'm trying to give you the answers So you can just make an informed decision. I talked to one of my really good friends today his name is Heath. He's an attorney of mine and love the guy to death, he's just a great dude and Even he says that to me when I'm asking him advice He says I'm gonna give you the information and then I'm gonna take off my attorney hat I'm gonna give you my friend advice and I'm gonna put the hat back on him and give you my attorney advice I want you to be able to make an informed decision. That's what I'm doing with you guys I come out here and I give you the information and I put on my doctor's hat believe I went to med school and chiropractic college Okay, I'm not somebody said I was a physical therapist. Listen, I think physical therapists are badass If you're a physical therapist, you are just as qualified. Do you understand that I know guys That are like like my buddy Travis Ortmayer or Donnie Thompson, they're intelligent They don't have MD or DC or PhD after their name, but they know more than I'll say 98 99% of the doctors out there Do you guys really think that the letters after somebody's name denotes expertise? That's the problem I'd somebody say isn't this guy just a PT. He's not even remotely qualified to give advice I've forgotten more than most people will ever learn and it's not to brag It's because I genuinely give a crap about you None of you guys are gonna do what I had to do Which was when I was a kid I had to get something called a bus ticket or drop change into a clear tube with a Driver would watch go down then and he'd rip off something called a bus pass or a transfer rather Where I could go to take more than one bus I had a time on it and it was ripped off diagonally to match the time to a library to spend all day at a library You guys don't have any of that to worry about I had to look at actual books. My library in my house is gigantic There are so many books and I read all the time because I want to give you guys the information I want to keep my brain working. Those are the mental reps I have to do you guys have this thing this cell phone that allows you to get information and most of you guys lose it to Or use it to be a victim or to tear other people apart. I realize this isn't a psychology podcast It's just a health podcast health is nothing happens in the mind without it happening in the body You guys need to do better like I'm gonna explain everything from a to z on red a true tide I'm still gonna get hate my comments. I don't understand you guys need to grow up You guys listen to bodybuilders with trap veins and no neck and they can't get their wallet out of their back pocket or Somebody that claims to be an expert that has no business being an expert because they've really never seen a patient I've seen over a million patients in real life. You can look up all my clinics. They're real clinics I've seen real patients and I still see real patients real clients real people because I care I'm gonna do this and I thought I was out of the healthcare game. I really did because I didn't like it I didn't like having somebody's thumb on my head telling you what I can and can't do and then I realized You know what the hell with you? I'm gonna tell everybody what they need to know so they can have the best biology ever in the best life ever So they can live their best life. I don't care if there's a license involved. I don't care what degrees I have I care that you're getting the information so you can make an informed decision You guys have to learn to understand that the information has to come from a credible source If you don't think I'm a credible source by now, you're never gonna believe anything I say which is insane because I know a lot Like nobody knows biology as well as I do nobody knows physiology or biochemistry as well as I do and it's not an arrogant statement It's the fact that I actually make myself useful to you I think the strongest predictor of a strong healthy powerful successful life is a purpose. This is my purpose It's to give you guys everything doctor doesn't mean arrogant jackass in a white coat with a God complex I say it all the time It means a guy that goes out and teaches and in order to teach you have to learn my best teacher one of my best Neurology teachers dr. Murphy dr. Dan Murphy skype is so smart He would spit out lines from books tell you what page everything he was so intelligent and I remember the way he explained the spinal cord and like lateral spinal thalamic tract the brain the compartments of the brain the way the Areas of the like Broca's Warnik's all these areas of the brain all these things he made it so easy to understand And what I learned from that man was that when you know it so well that you can explain it to a third grader You know your stuff and that always stuck with me. So I try and give you the information. Yeah, I use big fancy words I don't use kinder yarn language because I want you to understand the terms because when somebody else says it You don't know what it is you're screwed you're screwed So I give you the real information and the real facts and the real research You decide what you do with it, but I'm out here to help you like I said join the black card awesome You guys have I told you that you have the extension to still get in at $9,997 for the year if you don't understand how ridiculously Inexpensive it is to get direct access to the Q&A that I run every Monday evening today where I just solve problems I don't care what health issue you have I'll solve it. In fact, I don't care what business issue you have I'll solve it and if not, I have access to people that'll help me solve it so I can come and solve it for you I can ask my friends even if I have to pay them Pedro's Dan Martel or Adley These are all people that are really good friends of mine that if I don't know I will gladly pay them to find out the answer and then pass it on to you Why because I trust them they've never let me down and if you trust me then that means I can't ever let you down So I'm not going to but the health I'm gonna give you all I got these people all trust me with their health You realize they could choose anybody right, but they choose me. There's a reason for that There's a reason why Dwayne Johnson Messages me not for any other reason he could choose anybody but he asks me this is because I actually give value I'm trying to do the same thing for you So if you guys get in my comments and drop hate, I don't know what to tell you you're stupid You're broken psychologically. You're too busy defending your position instead of going wow This actually makes sense this guy cares like you're being lied to your doctor's lying to the pharmaceutical companies are lying to And worst of all, I think a lot of you guys are lying to yourselves I'll give you all I got about reddit true tide yet again I could probably run a mini series for a month on reddit true tide and it still wouldn't be enough I'm gonna do another reddit true tide post at some point this week about why low carbs and reddit true tide terrible marriage I'm not gonna get into that now. Maybe I'll talk about we'll see but you guys want a magic bullet for obesity and disease You want to pop a peptide and wake up healthy? Okay, fine Here's the truth about reddit true tide It will either be the most powerful tool that you will ever use or the most expensive lesson lesson you ever learned It was the only two options the difference between those two outcomes has nothing to do with the peptide and everything to do with the Nine inches between your ears the gray matter the thing that's soaking up all your ETP right now trying to figure out what I'm trying to say This isn't some gentle chat. It's a guy that's out here going. I'll be your dad and your doctor all at the same time This is like a biological reckoning for you guys I'll tell you exactly why reddit true tide fails and how every single one of those failures points directly back at your own actions or in actions This is not some fancy little podcast. It's a here's the information now Let's get to it's like an intervention right second except that was a dumb show, isn't it look at the first failure the non-responder The term non-responder is a garbage term invented by lazy condition clinician who tried to explain away their therapeutic failures The patient isn't a non-responder the patient is a walking talking monument to Metabolic dysfunction so profound that it creates this biological force field against the intervention reddit true tide is a key Your body is a lock and if the lock is welded shut I hate to tell you There's no key in the world that's going to turn it ever then that's how you have to look at this There are three four Probably five at the most failures saboteurs that will guarantee reddit true tides failure mitochondrial Apocalypse is the first reddit true tide. I said this in my podcast or in my Instagram post It's the crown jewel is glucagon Agonism right glucagon receptor agonism glucagon's metabolic command is very simple It's crank up energy expenditure burn all the fat get to work do all the stuff you're designed to do But this command is issued to your mitochondria, which are the tiny little power plants inside your cells So what if those power plants are disastrous tired broken down rusty full of holes? Machinery that's belching out blue smoke on the freeway barely running on two cylinders out of all eight That's how you have to look at it right so a 2018 cell metabolism the study was unequivocal mitochondrial dysfunction directly impairs the cellular response to glucagon like signaling listen to what I just said the signaling pathway is Intact okay, the peptide does its job the peptide binds to the receptor the message is sent But the cellular machinery is far too damaged to execute the order. It's like having a perfect internet connection to a computer That's like a Commodore 64 and you're on fiber if you know what a Commodore 64 is you know what I'm talking about How about just a computer the fried mutter mother the signal arrives, but nothing happens It's like those old computers when I was in elementary school. We had tape drives. I kid you not before floppy This isn't a peptide failure you guys it's not this is a consequence of decades of processed food and chronic stress sedentary living and stupid decisions you have systematically destroyed your Cellular infrastructure the 24% weight loss reported in 2003 New England Journal of Medicine the triumph trial right that's for people with functional mitochondria Eli Lilly isn't going to tell you that They're going to say give me $1,200 for a vial and then they're going to promise you the world And you're going to have all kinds of infomercials with people that are incredibly obese who have gotten slightly less obese and say it worked Really well for them. They lost six pounds in a month You can do the old-school HCG diet where you eat 500 calories a day and say take HCG drops all bunk And you'll lose more than that you'll just look like a melted candle or a bag of water What I'm trying to tell you is those aren't magic and they're going to fill those things with all kinds of garbage I wouldn't trust them as far as I could throw them But the 24% fat loss you need functional mitochondria for for you a lot of you guys with your metabolic junkyard You're going to be lucky to see two three four percent the problem isn't the peptide you guys the problem is the corpse that you're trying to put It into you're trying to inject it into something that will not accept the signal because it doesn't work The second one is the corticoscary the corticosteroid problem It's like a category 5 hurricane that you guys are running in your biology Prednisone dexamethasone cortisone all the zones right these are Legalized metabolic wrecking balls. They are prescribed to bludgeon inflammation to death But their collateral damage is a systemic metabolic meltdown 2020 review in the journal of metabolism laid out the mechanics with Unbelievable clarity cortico listen to me corticosteroids induced severe rapid onset insulin resistance and dramatically increase hepatic gluconeogenesis what that translates into is they make your entire body every cell death to insulin while forcing your liver to pump out sugar like a factory with the Lever smashed and jammed into the on full throttle position so now you inject red a true tide and Refresh my memory again everybody What is the primary goal of red a true tide according to every lab out there to improve? insulin sensitivity and lower blood glucose so now you've just created I use this example in my Instagram post yesterday You've just created the ultimate pharmacological stalemate. You're asking red a true tide like Sisyphus, right? To push a giant metabolic boulder up an ink like up Everest you're going up K2 I realize the difference while a corticosteroid Bulldozer from the biggest mine you've ever seen is shoving the rock back down twice as fast This is a battle that red a true tide cannot Metabolically win endocrinologically it can't win 2014 JAMA internal medicine study linked insulin therapy to worse outcomes You know that one I've talked about it before same principle applies here You're adding fuel to a fire and wondering why the fire department doesn't show up if you're on chronic Corticosteroids of any kind red a true tide is a financial donation to in this case probably Eli Lilly It's not a therapeutic intervention It's not gonna help and what they're going to do follow me if I was a shady crooked son of a bitch I would tell you it doesn't work and then I'd give you other things to solve all your other metabolic problems to get This to work you just became a customer for life and guess what else you're headed towards managed decline You're welcome. You know what I don't try and do like I said you want to buy from elite biogenics do it I will take as best care of you as I can they don't come out of my house I've got labs and warehouses at like I have a giant company. It's because I care, but I'm not gonna make you a Managed decline customer. I don't want to do that. I know what it's like to be on that side of the equation I hated it I love you too much to do anything but tell you the truth and take it or leave it however you want This is because I care join the black card apply at unlock the card comm send Jen or Amber a message And they'll send you the wire transfer information You send them 9,997 bucks if you make it before the end of the day and away you go you get access to my live private Q&A call You get the VIP community you get my protocol library get access to me The only step up from that is one-on-one with me personally where you get my cell phone number and that is $250,000 and it is still too cheap and I have a slight waiting list the way you get on the waiting list by the ways you pay In case you're wondering put me on the waiting list You have to pay the full amount to get on the waiting list because I'm not putting anybody on a waiting list with a trust me Bro, I'm not I take 20 people a year 20 people in 12 months I take as one-on-one clients I won't take anymore because I actually want to be able to take care of you. It's not about the money I don't need the money anymore and people go you always. Yeah, I do. I want more money, of course I also want better health and a better marriage and I have a fantastic marriage and I have great health You should always be looking up aim up, but I digress Just understand why I'm out here. So you decide what you wanted. I don't care I'm still gonna come out here. I'm two years in now. It's my second year and I'm still doing it I didn't just test out the theory dip my toe in the water the next one after the corticosteroids This one really bothers me is the dietary Treason the thermodynamic coup that you guys are playing on yourselves. This is the most ridiculous spastic Stupid self-inflicted failure model that could possibly exist reddit true tide watch reduces appetite It doesn't suspend the fundamental laws of physics the first law of thermodynamics energy cannot be created or destroyed It's not a suggestion you guys it is the law of the universe It doesn't change just because you want it to so reddit true tide might give you 15 percent tops Metabolic advantage by increasing energy expenditure, right? but if you interpret its appetite suppression as this Hall pass to have a 5000 calorie cheat meal of a couple of whoppers heavy all extra mayo all the fries You can stuff into your bar cold make it poutine with gravy and cheese on it Add some ice cream in and a whole bunch of soda Because you've had a rough day and you deserve it from all the work you're putting in you've you're committing an act of nutritional Treason you just vaporize the drugs entire benefit in one single act of imbecilic stupidity and just in one sitting look at the participants in the 2023 triumph trial they achieved that 24% fat loss fat loss by the way 70% of the weight They lost was fat no other semi-glute I'd choose appetite not even close like their single digits because they cause Muscle catabolism they demolish you and stop arguing to defend them and going won't work better for me If you are staring at the number of the on the scale and you're thinking that's the number that matters over your metabolic Biological health you've been conditioned to think stupid things It's not the number I am 200 pounds and I know people that are 200 pounds that look nothing like me I know people that are 200 pounds that make me look like I've never trained a day in my life They're so jacked and I know people that are 200 pounds that are shaped like a circle that number means nothing your composition means everything and I'm Five ten and a half maybe five eleven on a good day Maybe and that's with some good shoes Tom Cruise shoes. I don't care how tall I am doesn't matter can't change it God built me this way for a reason. I'm supposed to be this height but they achieved that 24% under controlled monitored conditions and with Functional mitochondria in the wild with dietary anarchy that's out there Those results are a fantasy because nobody's gonna abide by that because you're gonna go back to your nutritional idiocy Reddit true tight is a very precise metabolic tool. It's not some magic force field against the thermodynamic reality of a cheeseburger You can't outsource discipline to something that comes in a syringe and so I'm trying to give you this information so you understand it Listen, here's one of the biggest things that I see that are it's a problem It's look at the staggering weight loss because you guys are missing the boat on red a true time and this is this up for me Personally, I think this is the secret reason why they're fighting so hard to get all the compounding pharmacies to wipe it out You're not allowed to sell it you guys can all go to hell for that What I think is the real reason is because it actually solves disease processes And they want to make sure it's impossible to get because it wrecks their model the staggering weight loss is a side effect you guys It's a glorious profitable side effect, but it's just a side effect nonetheless And I realize I've said there's no such thing as side effects that are only effects It's just an ancillary to the whole thing red a true tide. It's not a weight loss drug It is a multi-system metabolic conductor of your biology. It restores harmony to a very dismunk dysfunctional hormonal orchestra That's been playing nothing but static and shitty tunes for the last however long you've been alive here Let me give you the unvarnished biochemistry of its mechanism. So you actually understand you have GLP I have to explain this and you guys might know you I know this already you still need to understand a GLP one agonism This is the appetite kill switch. This is it targets The brain stem and hypothalamus its message is primitive and very direct stop eating That's it gives a very gentle glucose dependent nudge to the pancreas to secrete insulin This is the part that everybody understands. That's so I have this uncle and I had Renny and Jenny I kid you not you can't make that up my uncle Renny was first chair violinist in the orchestra Winfakes, Symphony and that was this is the first chair violinist. That's what this would be right the GLP one GIP agonism is the mic in the amplifier glucose dependent insulin atropic polypeptide it amplifies the signal from GL it makes the satiety signal louder and Independently improves slightly how the body handles fat and insulin not massively This is the second chair next to my uncle Renny making this section sound full and then they both have microphones and everybody can hear in the back of the Auditory right glucagon. This is like you let this off the chain and this is what changes physiology. This is what changes disease This is what makes dementia go hostile of bye-bye Glucogon agonism. This is such a game changer. Please hear me out This is the entire orchestra behind these two violins for 50 years endocrinology vilified glucagon because it raises blood sugar. This is a very catastrophic Misreading glucagon's primary metabolic function is to force the liver to oxidize fatty acids We know this and if you don't now you do transforms your liver from a passive fat storage warehouse excuse me into an active just fat Torching furnace this action alone by the way Dramatically increases basal metabolic rate the number of calories you burn at rest is what that means before somebody says I don't really know what that means Yes, you do and your trainers trying to make it really complicated. You don't need a complicated You just need a solution the weight loss is the inevitable result of fixing the broken system Reddichrute I doesn't pull a tarp over the metabolic dumpster fire hoping it doesn't burn its way through It shows up with a fleet of fire trucks and puts the fire out at its source So you don't have the problem anymore. This is why pairing reddichrute I'd with a strict low carb or ketogenic diet is a crazy. It doesn't make sense strategic error It is a strategic error ketosis is a metabolic state characterized by low insulin and high reliance on fat oxidation, right? We know this reddichrute I'd glucagon action follow me. Just follow me stay with me on this one It works optimally within a more complex hormonal miliu namely higher carbs and 17 and diabetes demonstrated proved that the metabolic benefits of glucagon are maxed out in the presence of a Mixed nutrient load with carbohydrates so by severely restricting carbs for Taking that entire orchestra I was talking about with Renny and you're reducing it to one note that they just play nonstop Just this monotone for the whole time. You're effectively muting the complex conversation between insulin Glucagon and all the other hormones that reddichrute I is designed to conduct It's built like this by the biochemical engineers. You might lose some weight, but you're leaving 60 70% of the peptides power the systemic health restoring potential on the table You're you guys got to stop listening to these reddit guys man, please for you not for me I don't care post me on reddit and complain about me. I don't care. I see all kinds of people I hate this guy doesn't know what he's talking about. He's backwards. No, I'm not you just don't like it because it goes against what you Were taught by some knucklehead with abs. I'm a doctor with abs now what you can argue with me all you want You can't argue with biology and I come out here to give you the straight biology and if you go something Not everybody's the same biology is always the same physiology biology always the same just as the way it is Gravity isn't variable neither is your biology when you correct listening. This is I Think you guys need to understand just how wild this peptide really is it's reddit. Rutide it cures. It doesn't manage I'm talking real diseases you guys when you correct the core metabolic insanity the dominoes of chronic diseases They just fall red or true tie doesn't manage any of the conditions and I'll talk about it systematically dismantles their foundational causes Look at kidney disease. This is a big one the fibrosis kidney disease all that stuff right going on dialysis and thinking there's dial There's a dialysis business Let me explain that before you go my grandpa's on dialysis It's not a business if grandpa would have been better taken care of and got better advice from a real doctor who actually cared about him It didn't shove medication down his piehole or into his veins. He wouldn't need dialysis He wouldn't need that business save it. I care more about grandpa than you if you are justifying the dialysis It's that simple because I don't make any money off of it I have no no vested interest in anything for grandpa other than grandpa's health Maybe just maybe in 2026 you guys will ship that paradigm and realize that this guy here has no interest in anything other than your friggin health your life your future a hundred years for you to smash Goals and live the most kick-ass life on this one. I'm not pushing my peptides or my black card You join if you want don't join look at the Alexa trial not Alexa Alexa 2015 New England Journal of Medicine the trial on red a was it was a variation of red a is So wake up call showed massive Reduction in composite kidney outcomes the leader trial 2016 same thing New England Journal of Medicine It's a great source of information by the way confirmed it the mechanics red a true tide attacks kidney disease three friends I'll go over me. Let's just see how them reduces glucose toxicity. It's the chronic high blood sugar is poisoned to the Delicate filters of the kidney the glomeruli right the glomeruli is a little tough the vessels inside it it by normalizing blood glucose red a true tide Stops the sugar poisoning lowers interglomerular pressure So it reduces the pressure inside those same little filters because they're delicate which is the primary driver of fibrosis Quells the systemic inflammation the inflammatory cytokines that damage blood vessels throughout the body Destroy kidney tissue. It shuts it down red a true tide triple action does this more effective than any Single or dual agent therapy on earth by orders of magnitude It's not slowing the decline of your kidneys It's creating an environment where they can actually recover and go back to functioning the way they are Your body is designed to heal stop thinking it doesn't stop thinking you are sick or dying or hurting because you have Deficiency in a drug you don't you have a deficiency in knowledge because you're being fed information from people that don't give a crap about you And they want to put you on anything they possibly can it's not the same I'm not trying to put you on anything if you're damaged I want to put you on a bunch of peptides so they're saw so you solve the problem then get off They're not forever things. There's a certain number of them that are but they're not designed forever They're signals. They're not drugs and that's just the kidneys look at insulin sensitivity and pancreatic health One the phase two trials 2023 the lancet. This is the friggin masterpiece. This is one of my favorite research papers The headline focused on A1c reduction, but the real story was buried in the home of 2 IR data That's the measure of insulin resistance the real measure of insulin resistance. The trial showed beyond dramatic improvements This is critically. Please listen to me listen what I'm saying reddit Rue tide doesn't just whip an exhausted pancreas the beta cells to produce more insulin Which is catastrophic it makes the liver the muscles the fat cells sensitive to insulin again Let me I'll you explain how it does this by clearing out the intracellular garbage that jams up the insulin signal specifically lipid metabolites like diacel glisser alls daggs ceramides things like that 2018 paper cell metabolism showed that these lipids activate enzymes that directly block the insulin receptor watch reddit Rue Tides Glucogon Semiglute the semi semi-glutide intersepati. Do not have this which is why they fail stop defending them Reddit Rue Tides Glucogon driven fat burning metabolism cleans out all of this garbage out of the cellular lock Loops it up and gets it working again. Look at the brain Alzheimer's dementia type 3 Diabetes the concept of Alzheimer's as type 3 diabetes by the way is not controversial anymore It is an established science and you can find thousands of studies proving it the brain becomes insulin resistant neurons starve for fuel and then they die the amyloid plaques the tau tangles tombstones They're not the cause that's the scar tissue that's left over the funeral wreaths left After the neurons have starved to death from the insulin resistance 2018 meta-analysis in frontiers and neuroscience proved reddit Rue Tide powerfully neuro protective I could just turn off the podcast right now reduces neuro inflammation fuel by angry Michael Glee microglial cells microglia are the immune Death dealers in your brain. They're the immune cells that attack everything in your brain except they're attacking you right now They promote synaptic plasticity not microglia reddit Rue Tide Which is the brain's ability to rewire itself and they improve Cerebral glucose metabolism. That's how all the triple agonist works Tapping all three of those receptors changes your brain reddit Rue Tide is so nuclear It launches this full-scale attack on systemic insulin resistance and inflammation listen I got to get this out it douses the fire that's burning down your brain Think of your brain's blood brain barrier as this subordinal crossing how fitting subordinal crossing reddit Rue Tide comes in Calms the inflammatory riot on the systemic side. So now all the border guards can get back to doing their job instead of being Overwhelmed this isn't slowing cognitive decline. You getting that this is active targeted neural restoration It's bringing a dead metabolic landscape back to life. And yet people go I'd rather take L. Dopa Parkinson's all the nonsense Whatever else they're giving you stop look at PCOS Polycystic ovarian syndrome, it's one of the greatest misnomers in medicine. I fully believe that it's not an ovarian disease It's a metabolic disorder that uses the ovaries as a boxing ring 19 endocrine connections Established the chain of causation and proved it it proved about what what I just said it without any shadow of a doubt insulin resistance one before anything else. So it's not an ovarian problem right out of the gate You got this right insulin resistance is a byproduct of systemic and flight inflammation, huh? Systemic inflammation causes what mitochondrial? Discret like dysfunction so ATP shortage systemic inflammation insulin resistance You see how this is all coming together So hyper insulinemia is the second thing that happens after insulin resistance insulin resistance and people think hypo no hyper Insulinemia now that this is what happens it overstimulates the ovaries to produce excess and regions like testosterone Which leads to cysts and ovulation? Infertility and the standard of care. I don't know if you guys have paid attention, but they give you something called metformin It's a drug that gently coaxes the liver red or true tide doesn't coax baby It obliterates so by annihilating the root cause the insulin resistance It removes the signal that's telling the ovaries to malfunction in the first place the cysts the hair growth the infertility These are symptoms you guys that's not the disease That's the giant flag that they're waving going hey, there's something wrong. Help me red or true tide extinguishes the metabolic fire That creates the smoke and yet people are still treating the symptom not the cause I could do this with anything cancer You name it look at menopause. This is I'll go deeper into this one This is like a metabolic cliff menopause isn't just hot flashes It is a metabolic cliff dive the protective effect of estrogen on insulin sensitivity banishes The mitochondrial function that estrogen supported goes off that cliff red or true tide is the rope that you 查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查ti查 C, parachutes in and directly repairs the mitochondrial decay. It's like the double tap. Edutrutide is the general directing the war from HQ headquarters. MOTC is the Delta Force, Chuck Norris on the ground, fixing the broken power plants. And together, they don't just help you survive menopause. They allow you to thrive through it and have your system get back online. There's a whole bunch of things you could do for menopause. This is one of the best ways to handle it. And let me explain. This is how you personally guarantee redutrutide failure. I have to tell you because you guys are like, I'm going to go try this. Hold on, land the plane, just sit with me for a bit. It's a masterpiece of biochemical engineering. It's you. The variable isn't the peptide. It's you. The wildcard, the reason it fails. Here's your personal roadmap to wasting every dime you possibly can on redutrutide. I'll give you all the roadblocks so you can avoid them. Estrogen, estrogen, oral estrogen based hormone replacement therapy, HRT, and birth control pills, by the way, are a metabolic anchor. 2013 Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism was very blunt. Oral estrogen induces insulin resistance and promotes a pro-inflammatory state. So you're asking, I said this at the beginning, you're asking redutrutide to run 100 m dash while you're chaining a 100 pound weight to its ankle. The pharmacological antagonism is direct and powerful. If you are on oral estrogen and wondering why your results are less than mediocre, the problem isn't the peptide. The problem is all the other prescriptions in your cabinet, your funding a civil war inside your own body and redutrutide, I'm sorry to say, it's on the lousy side of this entire equation. Look at the bro science. Here's another one. This, I see this everywhere. You guys in your bro science doses are unreal. The mentality of if taking two milligrams is good, then four milligrams must be better is the kind of profound pharmacological literacy that gets people hurt. Listen to me, it gets people hurt. The side effects aren't bad on redutrutide. The idiots using them are making the side effects bad. Clinical trials exist to find therapeutic window. Bro science exists because people need to stroke their ego and their shills for people selling this stuff that had no business selling it because they know two things about them, Jack and shit and Jack left town. The dose range where efficacy is maximized and side effects are minimized. That's the therapeutic window just so you need, if you need a definition, efficacy is maximized, side effects minimized. That's where you need to live. 2023 lancet trial showed a very clear plateau, clear, clear as glass in dose responsive curve, just so you know what it is. Beyond a certain point, you don't get more weight loss. You get more nausea, more vomiting, in this order by the way, nausea first vomiting, high risk of pancreatitis, diarrhea, cramping. The sweet spot is not determined by some anonymous idiot on Reddit quoting their Jim Bro. It's determined by a multi-million dollar multi-phase clinical set of trials. Thinking that you know better is the height of arrogance and stupidity. More is not better. More is dangerous. And this goes for everything. Alcohol and seeds. You could pick something. It'll be like this. How about this one? Passivity. I'm giving you all the roadblocks. You have them and you check the box and you know what people are going to do is they're going to get really mad and go, but that's not me, bro. It just doesn't work for me. Wrong. You're just not willing to look at yourself. You're willing. You want to blame the peptide unless you bought something with rice powder in it because you bought it from some idiot online. That is no business selling it. That's why people buy it elite. We don't test locally with all these manufactured COAs that you guys are getting from local labs that you buy your results from. I go to a lab that actually guarantees the results and if not, they buy the whole thing. Nobody wants to write that check just so they make sure they're honest. Use genosex. This is the ultimate failure. Passivity. The belief that the injection is the substitute for action. Reddit True Tide is a powerful catalyst is the word. It's not a substitute. It's not going to build muscle for you. It's like taking testosterone, sitting on the couch and eating Doritos all day and going, why am I not jacked and why am I still unhealthy? Because you're stupid. You expected it to do the work that you're supposed to be doing. It's not going to make you drink water instead of soda. It's not going to force you to sleep eight hours or six hours a night. Regular cortisol, get sunlight in your eyes first thing when you wake up. It's not going to do any of that. It's going to optimize your metabolism, but it doesn't replace the fundamentals. The person who combines Reddit True Tide with resistance training, real food, real nutrition, stress management, grain environment makes this a staple part of their life. Godlike results. Period. The person who injects sits on a couch, listens to bro science is going to achieve mediocre at best. The drug opens the door. The peptide opens the door. You still have to walk through it, man. Listen, here's the uncomfortable truth. Reddit True Tide is a revelation, man. It's the most potent metabolic tool I think I've ever seen in my life. triple agonist key that will guarantee to unlock a healthier, more powerful, longer health span, longer lifespan, more vibrant life. It is so effective. I have yet to see something if I had to choose just three, and I know I've made posts on this, but this would probably be in those three. You got to understand though, this key is useless if the lock is corroded by, like I said yesterday, mitochondrial decay and blocked by the debris of corticosteroid use or if you are personally pouring battery acid of a poor diet, stupid decisions and drugs and antagonistic medications into the mechanism every single day and going, this doesn't work. The peptide sucks. I'm going to go back to semi-glute type. You should. Here's your sign. You're still going to do dumb things. It's not the molecule in the vial that you need to worry about. It's the idiot holding the syringe. You need to have the courage to look at your own life and go, where am I screwing this up? Where am I dumping sabotage into my own system and expecting it to come out of a vial? It's the discipline to partner the peptide with intelligent action. I'm giving you this so you actually have the answers. Reddit True Tide doesn't just give you a fighting chance. It gives you the answer. But the fight is still on you. It's not magic. It doesn't go, hey, man, I have a goliath in front of me. You still have to be David. You need five smooth stones. It doesn't just go, let me go get a David for you. You're waiting for some savior. You're the protagonist in your own health story. Reddit True Tide is just the best supporting actor that you can hire. You have to look at it this way. And if not, I don't know. I don't know how to help you. But it's probably the most effective thing I've ever seen in my life. Anyway, hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.