 All right, listen, first of all, I just want to say thanks for listening, thanks for giving me your time, thanks for even bothering to look at my channel, listen to my Instagram, look at my rumble, all that stuff. That matters to me because you could choose to listen to anybody else. Now, if you're here to contest everything I say, get my comments, or act like a toddler, then you can pound sand. But that's just me. This is my house. I don't need to have you here. But for the rest of you guys that are here to actually learn, this is today. So I figured with all the redditrutide misinformation out there and the nonsense in every forum I've ever seen, I'm going to give you a redditrutide masterclass from A to Z. I mean everything, why it works, why it doesn't work, when it works, when it doesn't work, dosing, microdosing, everything that needs to be talked about and how it works, what it actually really solves and why weight loss is just pretty much a side hustle in the entire peptide and just how radical this is and how different it can make your life. And you decide, listen, you decide what you do with it. This is just information so you actually have it. And it goes right out to this. Listen, you want to buy from my company, Elite Biogenics, knock yourself out. Thank you so much. I value your business more than anything. And everything that you get is exactly the same quality that I would give my wife and my children. So that matters to me. If you want to go buy from some Insta Bro that decides to trash talk people or that's their job, that's fine. That's between you and God and you and yourself. That's a personal problem. But I do this because I genuinely care. I don't do this because I want hundreds of millions of dollars. I don't need to work. Neither does my wife. We can stop and just enjoy the rest of our life. I do this because I genuinely give a crap about you. So if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, thank you so much. That matters to me. And if you want to join the Black Card and actually have somebody guide you, help you, solve your problems, give you the health advice and everything else, even psychological advice. If you're just stuck somewhere and you can't get out, then that's where you want to be. That's where you want to be. And it's up to you. I'm not, I don't push it. I don't get salesy about it. It is, you want to join the Black Card, you get access to my Monday live private Q&A call where you can ask me anything. You get access to the VIP Black Card area where you can also ask me anything. And that's going to be via a message in the Black Card. But it's really me answering it. And you can throw me your labs, your findings, your progress. I got people with cancer, people with all kinds of stuff in this group that we are solving problems with that haven't had any help for a decade or two because the medical world is a train wreck. It is a dumpster fire. And so I'm unwinding the entire thing because I want you guys deserve to be healthy. You guys are taught and conditioned to think that health is you're lucky if you have it and we're lucky that we let you have it. Bologna, bologna, you are designed to be a juggernaut and they have conditioned you to think otherwise. I'm unwinding that entire narrative and I'm making sure you get there and you get 100 years of your life where you can do all the things you want to do because you don't have to worry about your health because you're pretty much indestructible. That's my job. That's my goal. God gave me a reason to be here after I woke up missing parts of my body with my lung missing and my wife going, how are we going to survive? And I realized we had two children and I had a wife and we lost everything. We lost everything. Like I said, that guy, that Lucian Toujag Jr., the Dominion asset development just is a shady demon devil son of a bitch who has basically destroyed the life of my wife and I and then turned around and added a judgment for $900,000 against us even though I lost the lung because of him. We gave him almost $2 million for the house he built that he decided to lie about and the foundation was broken. The roof leaked, the sewage leaked into the house and all if you go, what about the inspectors? Just so you know what inspectors do, that's not what they do. You need a contractor. We had to go into the walls and figure out what the hell was going on with the house before we really knew how bad it was. It was filled with black mold. That's how I, the bulk of the reason how I lost my lung and he took no accountability for it instead turned around as weaponized the court system coming after us non-stops and it's been five years. Oh, I'm not stopping. I'm a vindictive son of a bitch and I'm going to make sure that and we told the world about him and he lost a defamation case because he tried to hide it. Listen, I care about human beings doing the right thing and I'm damn well going to be one of them doing the right thing. But when I woke up in that hospital to my wife with that camera on me, she goes, hi my babe, that's when I realized God gave me a mission to be here and help you guys. So you can take it however you want to take it. If you go, just get onto the peptides, get on the dosages, get onto this. I'm not for you and that's okay. I'm not for everybody but y'all ain't for me either, some of you. So you decide but this is a redditruetide masterclass. I mean, you won't need to watch another video. You can, it doesn't matter to me but I'm just saying I want to give you all the information. So it's probably going to be long as hell. I'm going to talk a lot. I'm going to give you a ton of information. You're going to want to watch it once, twice, three times, whatever it is, but I want you to have all the information because I actually care. So just listen, I'm going to save you guys probably about 10 years of trial and error, thousands if not tens of thousands of dollars in wasted effort, possibly your life and unlike most people on social media, on Instagram, good lord, all these experts. I started a research company and now I'm an expert. No, you're not. No, you're not. These guys talking about peptides on Reddit at 2am in their mother's basements. I'm actually going to, I'm not like these guys. I'm actually going to explain using real human biology, not bro science, not feelings and not with some guy with 47 followers on Instagram told you to do because he's jacked and has a trap vein. You know what the difference is between somebody who gets results and somebody who has side effects about four milligrams and an understanding of basic pharmacokinetics, but don't worry, I'll get there. Just listen, I'll get there. I promise. See, here's the thing with people don't tell you Reddit, true tide isn't magic. It's not. It's better than magic. Oh, you weren't expecting that, huh? Magic is unpredictable. This is biochemistry and biochemistry when you actually understand it is the closest thing to a cheat code for the human condition, the human body. I'm going to go over Reddit, true tide. Some of you guys don't know what it means. I know what it does. Listen, anyway, this is this thing is it's a triple agonist peptide. Now, before your eyes glaze over and let me translate it into English, it's a synthetic molecule that activates three different receptor systems simultaneously, GIP, GLP one and glucagon receptor. Think of your body like like a nightclub. Most drugs, most peptides, most anything are like that one guy trying to sweet talk the bouncer, Reddit, true tide. Yeah, it owns the club, knows the DJ and has a manager on speed dial. That's how badass this is. And here's what's actually happening at the cellular level. GLP one binds to GLP one receptors on pancreatic beta cells, triggering this cascade that involves a dental little cyclase activation, cyclic AMP activation and ultimately insulin secretion. But only when glucose is present, it's glucose dependent, which means your blood sugar won't crash. I don't know a Tesla owner who forgot to charge his damn car. God, I hate those cars. Well, teniously, it hits GIP receptors, which it enhances that insulin response while also directly affecting adipocytes, your fat cells, making them more insulin sensitive. So 2023 study, Nature Medicine showed this, this is just dual. I haven't even touched the big heavy hitter yet. This dual agonism created a 24% reduction in body weight over 48 weeks, not 24%, maybe not 24%. If you sacrifice a chicken under a full moon, 24%. Period. Here's where it gets sexy, baby. The glucagon component. Listen to this. Everybody thinks glucagon is just the opposite of insulin. Anybody that's taken physiology and senior year in high school, and they're not wrong, but they're not right either. Listen, glucagon receptor activation increases energy expenditure by ramping up hepatic glucose production and fat oxidation while simultaneously reducing appetite through central nervous system mechanisms, right? It's like your metabolism got this firmware update from Apple. Everything just works better. Don't get in my comments and start talking about how actually I do tunnels. Stop. It's just a metaphor. So phase two trials, 2022 demonstrated that this triple, this is why SEMA and Terza are garbage. Stop fighting and defending these things. This is like next level. Henry Ford's first car and a 2026 Lamborghini aren't the same. So stop arguing. Just listen. The phase two trials, 2022 demonstrated this triple agonism produced far, not a little bit far superior weight loss and fat loss compared to dual agonists like Terzepetide. With patients losing an average of 17.5% body weight at the 24 week mark on four milligrams, and we're just getting started and 78% of that weight that they lost was fat. It is the only one that does that. Terzepetide doesn't either to SEMA, Glutide. Stop getting angry. Let's talk about what happens in your body. So you know how red or true type like this is when red or true type goes to work. Here's how it looks because this is where most people sound like they're reading from a some teleprompter written by someone who failed high school biology. I see it all the time. Just let me just tell you all about what's going on. It doesn't that you're getting it wrong. When you inject red or true type, subcutaneously has to be by the way, stop thinking there's bio, Glutide and oral works. It doesn't. It can't peptides can't work orally. Period. Full stop. It enters your bloodstream and begins this coordinated assault on metabolic dysfunction at all so many levels all at the same time. So look at your pancreas. Beta cells receive this signal via GLP-1 and GIP receptors. This triggers protein kinase A pathway which phosphorylates proteins that close ATP sensitive potassium channels. When these channels close, the cell does something called depolarize. Calcium channels open up, calcium floods in, and insulin granules fuse with the cell membrane and release their cargo into your bloodstream. It's this perfectly choreographed dance except it's happening in your pancreas and the music is biochemical signaling. Look at your brain. The arcuate nucleus of your hypothalamus has GLP-1 receptors. When activated, they reduce neuron activity, specific ones, NPY, AGRP. It really doesn't matter what they are. But these are the neurons that make you want to eat everything in sight. Does that make it easier? While increasing neuron activity, the ones that say, I'm full, you put the fork down. 2021 study, cell metabolism showed that GLP-1 receptor agonism reduced food intake 35%. Just through these central mechanisms alone, that's it. We've even gotten into everything else. Look at your liver. Glucogon receptor activation stimulates gluconeogenesis initially, but here's the counterintuitive part. This actually improves metabolic flexibility. Your liver starts preferentially oxidizing fat for this entire process, which means you're burning stored lipids for fuel. Hypatic fat content drops like a stone in the water. Look at this. 2023 diabetes case study showed 42% reduction in liver fat after 24 weeks, which means hepatic steatosis goes hostile to bye bye in less than a year. Look at your adipose tissue. Both GLP-1 and GIP improve insulin sensitivity in fat cells. If you don't know that, now you do, which means they actually take up glucose more efficiently and stop dumping free fatty acids into your bloodstream like some broken fire hydra just puking all over the street. Your fat cells become metabolically healthy again. Look at your gut. Gastric emptying slows down, but this isn't just about feeling full. I think this is where you need to understand this. It's about preventing the post-meal glucose spike that triggers insulin resistance over time. Food stays in your stomach longer, nutrients are absorbed more gradually, and your blood sugar curve looks like a gentle hill instead of K2. Let's go over some of this while I'm on this, because a lot of people go, I've been doing carnivore and red and trutide didn't work, but semi-glutide and terzepotide did. That's because semi-glutide, terzepotide, or appetite suppressants with very expensive marketing, red and trutide is an actual functioning product. They're not the same, and it needs carbohydrates. Here's where I'm going to make a whole bunch of people really angry, but the truth doesn't care about your useless little feelings or your keto Facebook group or your red and trutide or your I hate Trevor Facebook group. I don't care. Make sure you put the word doctor in front of it because some guy went former doctor just so you know. Once a doctor, always a doctor, I still have the knowledge just because the license doesn't care about the license. I don't want it. I don't want it back because that means they can control what I say. Do you understand that part? You do not get that. I like that I don't have one because I can say whatever in the holy hell I want to help you guys instead of go, I have to be a sellout to the pharmaceutical company, otherwise I lose my license. If the license, I want to help you. It doesn't mean I don't know what I'm talking about. In fact, it allows me to just let it off the chain every day. So red and trutide needs carbohydrates to work optimally. And before the low carb mob comes for me with pitchforks, let me explain the actual biology so you guys don't lose your frigging minds. Remember when I said the GLP-1 and the GIP effects are glucose dependent? About five minutes ago? It's not a bug. That's actually the feature. These incretin hormones are designed to respond to nutrient intake, specifically glucose. So when you eat carbohydrates, they trigger the release of endogenous GLP-1 and GIP from your intestinal L cells and K cells. This creates a synergistic effect with exogenous, what do you think? Red and trutide. 22 study, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism showed. Incretin-based therapies showed 40% greater efficacy when combined with moderate carb intake. 120 to 150 grams a day, by the way, because everybody's been asking how much is that? I was giving percentages. Apparently, you guys struggle with math, so I'm helping you. This is compared to the low carb, which is less than 50 grams a day. 50 grams a day is going to tank your outcome. Why? Because insulin secretion, the very mechanism that red and trutide enhances, requires glucose as a signal. You guys got to get this. When you're on a ketogenic diet, you're essentially asking a fire department to put out a fire that doesn't exist. Your beta cells are ready to secrete insulin efficiently, but there's no glucose signal to trigger the enhanced response. It can't work. Look at, moreover, look at chronic low carb dieting induces physiological insulin resistance. Didn't know that, did you? It's an adaptive mechanism where your muscles preferentially burn fat and become resistant to glucose uptake. That's not a good thing. This is great if you're a hunter-gatherer in the winter, you're playing alone and you have a film crew around or something, but it's working against red and trutide's insulin sensitizing effects. Your muscles need to be taking up glucose effectively for the full metabolic benefits. Otherwise, you're leaving 60% on the table. When they're insulin resistant, by design, from carb restriction, you're fighting against the peptide and you're doing it intentionally while bragging about it in a Reddit group or in Instagram, in my comments. The sweet spot. Just, you know, I'll help you up 100 to 200 grams of carbohydrates daily from real food sources like rice, potatoes, fruit, stuff like that. And I know you're giving me the thought you said fruit and fruit, those in your liver, just listen. Throw in some oats and question about that, but some people really like it and it's better than some of the other crap that people are eating. This provides enough glucose to activate the incredence system without causing the blood sugar chaos that created your metabolic problems in the first place. Here's something that's going to blow your mind. If you're mitochondria, just follow me on this, this is just fun. If your mitochondria are completely dysfunctional, here's like this, it's like a murder. If your mitochondria are dysfunctional, red and trutide is going to disappoint you people. And most people with severe obesity and metabolic disease, their mitochondria is absolutely gone tits up. Let me paint this picture. All right, your mitochondria, the powerhouses of your cell, we've all heard that tired metaphor. Great. Let me slam it. That actually means each mitochondria contains the electron transport chain, which is this series of protein complexes embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane that use electrons from food to pump protons across the membrane creating an electrochemical gradient. ATP synthase then uses this gradient to produce ATP adenosine triphosphate, which is the energy currency of your entire existence. When this system breaks down because of oxidative stress, inflammatory damage, nutrient deficiencies, chronic caloric excess, or just getting older, just aging, you develop what's called mitochondrial dysfunction. Your cells can't produce adenosine triphosphate efficiently. So now they're like a car engine that's supposed to run on premium gasoline that's been filled with friggin mountain dew. That's about how well it works. It doesn't. 23, your communications showed that individuals with severe mitochondrial dysfunction, measured, by the way, by decreased ATP production and increased reactive oxygen species, showed only 60%. 60%. That's a small number when you want 100 and you need 100, by the way. Just take only 60% of your paycheck and be happy with it, even though you had the chance to get 100. You're not going to be happy. It showed only 60% of the expected response to GLP-1 receptor agonist compared to those with healthy mitochondrial function. Yeah, you're putting this together now? Listen, here's why. Because retitrutides metabolic effects, increased fatty acid oxidation, enhanced glucose utilization, improved insulin sensitivity all require one thing, functional mitochondria to execute. So you can send it all the signals you want. But if the machinery is broken, you know what happens? Nothing. Zero. The glucagon component tries to increase energy expenditure. But if your mitochondria can't ramp up the oxidative phosphorylation required, that signal goes nowhere. It's like pressing the accelerator in the car when the engine's off or there isn't even an engine. So let me explain the fix. You need to support mitochondrial function alongside retitrutide. We're talking adequate B vitamins and I'll give you the ones, especially B1, B2, B3, B5. Coq10. Magnesium. Don't ask me what kind. That's trial and error between you and your metabolism. ALA, alphalopoic acid. Brucially, adequate protein intake to provide the amino acids that you need for mitochondrial biogenesis, the creation of more mitochondria and more power plants. Study 2021. Cell metabolism showed that combining mitochondrial support nutrients with retitrutide increased treatment efficacy. Oh, you're going to love this. 34% baby. That is a truckload. I'll take a 34% raise all day long. Listen, how about this? Let's just keep going, because I'm going to run this till the legs fall off. You opened up the gates of this bar and we're taking the horse out until it dies. Okay, let's talk about something that the doctors prescribed like candy, but rarely warn you about. Corticosteroids. Prednisone, cortisone, dexamethasone. All these three things, if there was another word for garbage, it's those three words. These medications are metabolic hand grenades. When combined with retitrutide, they create a biochemical civil war in your biology. I'll even talk over the mechanism, just so you guys understand this. I told you, master class, baby, I want you to have this. I want to see if I can cram this all in, so it looks like a thesis and a six month, one semester of retitrutide biochemistry all in an hour. However long I'm going to be out here. It's 21 minutes. I better hit the accelerator. Here's the mechanism. Corticosteroids bind to glucocorticoid receptors in virtually every single tissue you've got. In your liver, they upregulate gluconeogenesis enzymes like PEPCK, G69PAs, G69PAs. It causes your liver to, it doesn't matter, I guess, but it causes, I told you, I nerd out on this stuff, causes your liver to dump glucose into your bloodstream like there's just no tomorrow. And in muscle tissue, they promote protein, catabolism, and increase or inhibit glucose uptake. So here's what happens. You create systemic insulin resistance by doing that. Yeah, keep taking your corticosteroids. 2020 study, diabetes, B-city, and metabolism showed that even moderate dose prednisone, 20 milligrams daily, which some of you are taking 60, increased insulin resistance by 60% in less than 10 days. Please understand what I just said. Some of you guys have been on prednisone for years and you're wondering why nothing's working because you're helping it to not work. Your car's up against the wall, you're doing all these performance mods to it. You only have one direction you can go, which is the direction of the wall, and all you're doing is standing on the accelerator and wondering why the engine is taking you nowhere. But here's where it gets worse. Corticosteroids also stimulate lipoprotein lipase and visceral adipose tissue specifically. So it promotes fat accumulation in the worst possible place around your organs. And at the same time, they're antagonizing every mechanism by which redotrutide works. Redotrutide, listen, is trying to improve insulin sensitivity. Corticosteroids are creating insulin resistance. Redotrutide is trying to reduce hepatic glucose output. Corticosteroids are ramping it up. Redotrutide is trying to reduce visceral fat. Corticosteroids are depositing it. This is like trying to fill a bathtub while someone else opens the drain and using a thimble to do it. If you absolutely must be on corticosteroids for inflammatory conditions, you'll need a significantly higher dose of redotrutide to overcome this antagonism. And even then, you guys, just expect really blunt results. 2020 study showed that GLP-1 agonist efficacy was reduced 45% in patients on concurrent corticosteroids therapy. Not good, guys. Not good. Just so you know. That means bad things. Okay. Here's the brutal truth that nobody wants to hear. Reduces appetite, right? You thought that's not the brutal truth. Here's the part. It does not repeal the laws of frigging thermodynamics. I see this all the time with patients that come to me and they're like, it doesn't work for me. You guys get my comments. Reduces redotrutide. Tradredotrutide. It didn't work. This stuff's garbage. I went back to when Jero or all the nonsense OZMP can part of their lawsuit. Now, I see it every day. Somebody starts redotrutide. They're up at tight tanks and they're eating one meal a day and they drink whatever they want to drink, whatever booze they want. But they think, great, since I'm only hungry once. Here's the problem. I'm only hungry once. I can have that quintuple bacon cheeseburger, heavy mayonnaise with large fries, three milkshakes because I'm only eating once. And redotrutide is going to do all the work for me. And then they go, it doesn't work. Congratulations. You have just consumed 3000 calories in one sitting at least. Redotrutide can increase your metabolic rate by maybe 2 to 300 calories per day. You just out eight three days of metabolic advantage in one meal. Dipshit. You think I'm going to be nice? Listen, I'm a doctor, but it doesn't mean I have to be nice. I have to be kind. Let me explain the actual physiology. Redotrutide reduces appetite through CNS effects, central nervous system effects. It's not magic this way. It's neurology. I realize I said it's better than magic because it's predictable, not because of anything else. The GLP-1 component crosses the blood-brain barrier in specific regions and activates neurons while inhibiting the POMC neurons while inhibiting those NPOI, EGRP neurons in the RQ at New Place of the Hypothelms that I already talked about. But this reduces hunger and increases satiety. So I could just say it like that. But I want you guys to understand the biochemistry and the neurology around this. But this does nothing to change the fact that your body stores excess calories as fat. Always. So if you consume 3,000 calories and burn 2,200, you're storing 800 calories as fat. Thermodynamics. Period. There's no way around this. I'm tired of people going, well, I have a PhD and that's not exactly how it works. Yes, it does. It's not meant to argue with you. It's that you're trying to sell something because you don't want to be wrong. You're wrong. 200. You have 3,000 that you ate. 2,200 are burned. You store 800. They don't just magically disappear into the ether. Period. The end. It doesn't matter if those calories come in one meal or six. They are calories. Energy. 2023 study. Please listen to me on this. I'm trying to help you. 2023 study in obesity followed patients on semi-glutide. They found that those who didn't track their caloric intake lost an average of 8% body weight. While those who used the appetite suppression to maintain a constant caloric deficit, listen to this number, double 16%. Same peptide. Different behaviors. Double the results. Go against that anytime you want. But the proof is irrefutable. Redutrutide gives you a massive advantage, you guys. Massive. It makes eating less just effortless. But if you use that reduced appetite window to consume hyperpalatable, calorie dense junk food garbage, you're literally paying hundreds, if not thousands of dollars per month to accomplish two things. Jack and shit and Jack left town. The processed food industry has engineered products to maximize. Hear me out, you guys. Just stick with me. To maximize caloric density and palatability, a small McDonald's meal, that can be 1500 to 2000 calories. You can eat that while barely feeling full, then be hungry again in an hour and a half because it's nutritionally empty. Use redutrutide suppression as intended to make easy to consume whole foods in appropriate portions effortless. When you're only hungry once or twice a day, make those meals count. High-quality protein, complex carbs, healthy fats, micronutrients. Your body's going to thank the hell out of you with actual results instead of frustration and probably an empty bank account and probably a psychological problem and a spouse that wants to punch you in the face. Listen, you guys, anyone with a female partner, any of you husbands with wives, estrogen containing, you need to let them listen to this if you're not the female. Listen, pass this on to your wife. Estrogen containing oral contraceptives and HRT, blunt the hell out of redutrutide. Let me get into this. Here's why. Estrogen, especially when taken orally, garbage, by the way, stop it, and processed through the liver, through first pass degradation, right? First pass metabolism has profound metabolic effects. No doctors telling you that though, are they? It induces hepatic production of proteins that promote insulin resistance. Specifically, it increases sex hormone binding globulin. You've seen this on your blood tests, SHBG, which this is the problem. It reduces free testosterone and will worsen insulin sensitivity. Oral estrogen also, by the way, stimulates the reninagiotensin-aldosterone system. So remember heart, lungs, or heart and kidneys, rather, they work together. The heart is a secretory gland, also a pump. It's so many things more than just, oh, it's just this pump in my chest. I'm trying to give you the lesson as fast as I can. But when this pathway is stimulated, it promotes sodium and fluid retention. This creates weight gain that has nothing to do with fat mass. It's just water, baby. But it's still weight. And it's frustrating when you step on the scale, even though I need you to remember this, you're more important than that number. That number doesn't mean anything. I am 200 pounds. I'm 5, 10 and a half-ish. And I know people that are 200 pounds that are shaped like a circle. They look like crap. They're fat. They're sloppy. They're nasty. And I know people, and they're exactly the same age as me. Same age as me. And I know people that are 200 pounds that make me look like I'm a kid with a vinyl weight set at home that's never worked out in my life. So the number doesn't mean anything. Please understand that the BMI was invented by an insurance company. It wasn't invented to keep you healthy. It was invented to keep you broke and take your money and categorize you as a high risk, even though you weren't. A 21 study, a Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, showed that women, all of me, women on oral estrogen containing contraceptives showed 28% reduction in weight loss response to red and true tide compared to those not on hormonal birth control. It doesn't matter if it's a ring or a pill or a pellet or whatever it is. It doesn't matter. It's going to cause problems. If it's oral, it causes even more problems. That's what I'm trying to tell you. The mechanism is insulin resistance, always. Estrogen causes hepatic insulin resistance specifically, meaning your liver becomes less responsive to insulin signal to stop producing glucose. Your blood sugar runs higher. Your insulin level stayed elevated and you remain in a more anabolic, fat storing state. Didn't know that either, did you? Red and true tide is, it's Sisyphus. You're pushing this stone uphill. Red and true tide is fighting against us, but it's fighting this all day long and the boulder's getting bigger. The GLP-1 component is trying so hard to improve insulin sensitivity while synthetic estrogen is simultaneously inducing insulin resistance, pushing down against you twice as hard. The solution isn't necessarily to stop HRT or birth control, by the way. Before you guys all dump it, next thing is baby explosion. Hormones, if medically necessary. Listen, sometimes they are. I'm not crapping on anybody. I'm telling you why things don't work instead of you looking at taking another pill to make something that doesn't work even less. Awareness is power. If you're on oral estrogen and you're using red and true tide, you might need to optimize every other variable more strictly diet, exercise, sleep, stress management, the one nobody talks about to overcome the metabolic headwind that you just keep taking in your bar cold. You want an alternate? Here, I'll help you. Transdermal estrogen patches gels, they bypass first passipatic metabolism and create so much less metabolic interference. 2019, the study in menopause showed significantly less insulin resistance with transdermal versus oral estrogen delivery. Sign me up is what I would be thinking if you're saying that irritate my skin, find a different one. So I need to address the bro science in the room because I think somebody is already thinking it. The bro science is this, if four milligrams is good, eight milligrams has to be twice as good. No, just freaking no. That doesn't even, no, please stop. I see this stuff on Reddit. You guys are taking 15 milligrams a week. Are you high? This is pharmacologically illiterate and physiologically ignorant and quite honestly, financially stupid. Do you realize that I own a monster peptide company and lab and yet I don't go out of my way to push my products to make you use more? I don't. I don't go, you should take more. It's better for you. I go, you should take the right amount. So it's better for you. I'm not pushing sales. I'm pushing health. So again, you go ahead and buy from whoever you want, but I'm not pushing things.  lum查 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected So at this point, doubling the dose does not double the effect. You've already occupied most of the receptors, adding more of whatever it is. Peptide drug, it doesn't matter, just increases the side effects while barely moving the needle. It's barely improving efficiency and efficacy. So for red atruetide, listen to this, red atruetide, phase two trials, 2022 showed the dose response curve, plateaus between four and eight milligrams. So patients on four milligrams lost an average of 17.5 percent body weight of which 78% was fat. I told you this already. Patients on eight milligrams lost 18%. That's a 0.5% difference for double the dose. Did you catch that? Does that make sense? Why that is not worth it at all? You know what doubled though? The results didn't obviously, right? Because technically, they should have doubled into 35, right? 35%. But they didn't. Here's a doubled. The side effects in order of occurrence, by the way, nausea, number one, I had some knucklehead doctor get in my comments and say, this guy clearly has never dealt with a patient over 1 million, over 1 million patients I've dealt with. And I am stacking wins left and center for them, not for me. I don't care about my wins. I care about theirs. I want them to have life-changing experiences. So they go on to have the most badass life and they don't need me. I'm trying to teach people not to need me. I'm trying to teach people to never need me so they can go on into the and enjoy their life and build their life and become a juggernaut and have all the things they want with the health that's backing them up. Because you know what always has your back, your health, until you screw it up. Don't screw it up. So here's the order of occurrence because he went, it's the first one is diarrhea. This guy clearly doesn't know. No, it's not. In fact, diarrhea was third on the list. Nausea is the first one. And then vomiting, then diarrhea, and then gastroparesis, all significantly more common at eight milligrams versus four milligrams, 68% of people. That's a big number, folks. You're literally paying twice as much, not just with your time, but with your money and your energy for marginally better results and significantly worse quality of life. This is the opposite of intelligent optimization, in my opinion. You decide what it is, but I think that's being an imbecile. The sweet spot for most people is what I said between four and six milligrams every week. This is right near maximal receptor activation with very tolerable side effects. Going higher is chasing diminished returns while exponentially increasing the problems. It's a law of diminishing returns. 2023 analysis, Lancet Diabetes and Endocrinology exam, a dose stop optimization across retitrute tide and concluded that exceeding the plateau dose increased adverse events. You ready? 40% while improving weight loss by 8%. Here's your sign. This is for you guys. I don't come out here for me because I know this. I'm trying to give you and impart all the knowledge to you so you have it and you can make a better decision. That's why I'm giving you this. The math is simple. More is not better. Optimal is better. Stop listening to the Reddit Instabros that are giving you information or the social media or the Instagram people or the experts or the self-proclaimed moms, soccer moms that are trying to sell you garbage. Stop it. Just listen to the actual facts and do something about it that makes your life better, not their bank account bigger. Listen, we could go a little further because I wasn't gonna, but I'll touch on it because this gets everybody new clear. Daily microdosing of retitrute tide. Listen to the operative word. Daily microdosing. Taking a small dose is not microdosing. Taking a small dose every single day or a couple of times a week. Once a week, okay? Before you ask me, was twice a week? Yes, that's microdosing. Once a week. Once a week. If your doctor is telling you anything other than that, they're a liar. And if they're going, well, it solved my side effects, you know what else would have solved the side effects? Just reducing your initial frigging dose. You guys need to understand this. Take control. Make your health sovereign. These guys, bro, I split my weekly dose into daily injections to keep levels stable and avoid side effects. That's what I've heard. And I've had people get mad because I said, if you are doing with God, he built you, your physiology is the same as everybody else's. This demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Reddit, just follow me. I'll explain it. So you have the info. You do what you want with it. You want to take it every day, knock yourself out. Redditrute tide has a half-life of approximately six to seven days. Do you know what half-life means? It means that after six to seven days, half of whatever that is, the drug, the peptide is still in your system after another six to seven days. Half of that is still there. That's what it does. This is the math behind it. So when you inject weekly, you build up what's called a steady state concentration after about four or five weeks. If you go can't take it there faster. No, it doesn't work like that because you have receptors, you have clearance, you have all kinds of things going on. So at steady state, you have consistent levels of whatever the drug, the peptide in your system at all times. The peaks aren't that high and the troughs aren't that low, which is exactly what you want. You want it to layer on itself until all you have is a straight line across the top. When you microdose daily, you're not creating more stable levels. You're creating the same steady state concentration, but getting there through a much more complicated route for no additional benefit. And here's the problem. The side effects that people are trying to avoid with daily dosing, nausea, GI distress, they're related to rate of titration, not peak levels at steady state. 2022 study, diabetes, obesity and metabolism compared weekly versus daily dosing of long acting red or true tide and found zero difference in steady state, pharmacokinetics and zero difference in side effect profiles. Once patient, once patients reach maintenance dose, the only difference is this daily dosing requires seven times as many injections, creates seven times as many opportunities to get site reactions, creates more complicated reconstitution calculations, increases the chance of dosing errors and elevated side effects by 137%. You're making your life harder with literally no benefit. This is optimization theater. It looks sophisticated, but it accomplishes nothing. If anything, people are going to tell you to take 0.5 every day and go, it worked so much better for me. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. You're getting a reward for the routine, not the results. Your psychology is screwed up backwards. If you're getting, listen, if you're getting severe side effects on red or true tide, the problem isn't the dosing frequency. It's the dose. You're taking too much too fast, period. Hold on, I got to drink some coffee. Like I said, this is important. So how about this? How about this? If you had it, I'll even help you because I told you it's a master class. So let's go. Here's how you actually set this up for your kangaroo without turning your digestive system into a war zone. Start slow. Give your receptors time to adapt. Yes, you'll probably barely feel anything. That's the point. You guys think you should just get hit by a cement mixer the day you take it. That's insane. You need to prime the system. Double the dose. So watch, I'll even spell it out for the weeks. Weeks one to two. For a kangaroo, you would start at 0.5 milligrams. I don't care if somebody on Reddit with 18 followers decides to tell you to do different happily tell them to go pound sand or listen to them and enjoy your side effects. Weeks one and two, 0.5. Weeks three and four, tight trade up, double the dose tight trade up. That's what it means. Double the dose. So now you're taking one milligram. Still conservative, by the way. Most people tolerate this pretty well. Some you're going to get appetite suppression. I promise. After weeks three to four, weeks five and six, another 0.5 milligram per week bump. Now it's starting to kick in reduced appetite, better blood sugar control. Weeks seven and eight, two milligrams. It's designed this way. Continue the pattern. This is where fat loss becomes very noticeable. Listen, there are people that have spent a year on OZMP, lost 17 pounds and they're bragging about it. Think about that. You could reduce your calories by 500 underneath your daily requirement. Go for a walk every day at a 16 minute mile pace and 18, 6 fast every day and not eat like an asshole. You will lose significantly more than those 17 pounds in less than two months. You didn't need the OZMP. What you needed was common sense. You're trying to get something to do the work for you. So look at week seven and eight. Just continue the pattern. That's all I did. Now look a week nine to ten. I'm trying to help you. Look at week nine to ten. Now you're in that serious therapeutic range. People find their sweet spot between 2.5 and four milligrams a week. Week 12, keep tight trading if tolerated and your results are plateaued. Remember, it's not doing the work for you. Still got to do stuff. You still got to keep in a calorie deficit. You still have to do some kind of physical work. You still have to do things. Week 13 plus, look at your own, stop giving advice to people that you shouldn't be doing. Individual response. This is why when people join my black card and people go, hey, what would be a generic, a general rule of thumb for this peptide or that peptide? I just want to snap because there isn't one. That's the problem. I have to understand what your biology is doing in order to help you. The clinical sweet spot, four to six milligrams a week. I said this before. So how about this? Why the slow titration? Because your receptors need time to adapt. When you slam through these high doses immediately, you get severe is a lack of a, is small. It's, you need a better word than that severe GI side effects because your gastric smooth muscle hasn't adapted to reduced motility signals. So the peristaltic contractions still want to happen at full throttle and you're getting in the way. You're causing all kinds of issues. 2021 study, clinical therapeutics showed slow trade titration protocols, 0.5 every one to two weeks increased rate 0.5 milligrams reduced severe side effects 79% compared to rapid titration doubling every week with identical final weight loss outcomes. So you mean it was worth it to get sick and feel like crap to have the same results that somebody who didn't do that did that they received their results. Think through it, man. Think through it before you open your mouth in my comments. Think through it. Same destination, vastly better journey. How about that? So here, how about we go reconstitution for non-rocket scientists that get mad at doing math and go, the peptide calculator online doesn't work. Okay, so let's go. You've got, I'll help you for a kangaroo. You've got a 10 milligram vial of this product that might be named red at true tide. You need to reconstitute it. Here's how to not screw this up completely. I'll even go through the equipment that you need. You need a vial of product. You need some bacteria static water, preferably anything more than two milliliters. You need some insulin syringes and you need some alcohol swabs and you need some common sense in a place where you can do this like your bathroom. Swab the rubber stopper on both the red on the back water and you with the alcohol swab, let that dry for 20, 30 seconds unless you like things stinging. Take out two milliliters of bacteria static water into the syringe. If you go, it only has a hundred units. How many milliliters is that 100 units is one milliliter. That would be two syringes. Got it? Okay. Inject that two milliliters of water, slowly trickle it down the side of the red vial. Don't blast it into the powder like you're pressure washing your frigging driveway and getting an oil stain off. Hepatides are fragile, you guys. Really? Treat them with respect. That's the same reason why I tell people, stop reconstituting your stuff, shoving it in your bag and going on a vacation and wondering why everything doesn't work. Just bring it there as a powder. Reconstitute it there. Gently swirl. Don't shake until that powder is completely dissolved. I shouldn't be doing this because this is such common sense. It should be clear. If it's cloudy, you've probably denatured the hell out of it because you shook it like a rookie banging pennies against the side of the till wondering why the pennies don't open up and break. Don't be aggressive. Really? Don't. It makes a difference. They're so fragile. Now you have 10 milligrams in two milliliters. Milligrams and milliliters are not the same, which means, so watch, 10 milligrams in two milliliters means five milligrams per milliliter or 0.5 milligrams per 0.1 milliliter, 10 units on an insulin syringe. Did that help you? Because that should be glaringly obvious. So watch, 0.5 milligrams would at this mixing with a 10, okay? You have, if you aren't using this, then you're all over the place. 0.5 milligrams would be 10 units. Now you can do the math. One milligram. What do you think? What do you think? You ready? Three, two, one, 20. You got it. Give yourself a hand. 1.5. This, I know it's getting complicated. Pretty? 30 units? How about two milligrams? Let's go real fancy because this is some calculus-based physics we're about to hit. You ready? Two milligrams, 40 units. You got it. I could do this all day. This isn't complicated. It's simple. It's clean. It's impossible to screw up if you can understand the numbers that I just gave you. Store the reconstituted, vial in your refrigerator in the dark somewhere. It's stable forever. Stop listening to it. It's only 28 days. No, it's not. It'll last significantly longer than that. The leophilized powder all on its own will last until the next Jurassic age. It's so tough. After that, toss it out and start a new one. Don't be cheap with your health and don't be ignorant with your mixing. Listen, let me explain a little more. Now I gave you something. I wasn't going to do that in this master class, but hell, if I'm going to go master class, I may as well give it to you. I'm 47 minutes in. This is going to be an hour and a half podcast for sure. So how about this? Let's talk about why Reddit TrueTight is doing something that most medications can't. It's solving ATP shortages at the cellular level. Why Reddit TrueTight isn't this weight loss thing that you guys think it is. ATP, adenosine triphosphate, your currency of life. It's the funds that are paying for everything in your world. Every single cellular process requires it. Muscle contraction, protein synthesis, DNA repair, neurotransmitter production, cell division. All of it runs on adenosine triphosphate. In metabolic disease, mitochondrial dysfunction creates chronic ATP shortage. So now your cells are energy starved even though you've overfed everything. You're overfed. You've got a bunch of food in your system. It's like being cash poor while sitting on assets that you can't liquidate. Here's where Reddit TrueTight works. It's gangster magic. The glucagon component activates glucagon receptors in the liver and adipose tissue, which triggers hormone-sensitive lipase. This enzyme breaks down the stored triglycerides into something called free fatty acids and glycerol, liquid assets that your mitochondria can actually use. These free fatty acids enter the mitochondria via the carnitine palmatoid transferase and undergo something called beta oxidation. It's generating acetyl-COA that enters the Krebs cycle, the TCA cycle, which feeds the electron transport chain, which produces ATP. You're literally unlocking stored energy and converting it into usable cellular currency for your physiology, for your biology, you guys. 2023 studies, cell reports using metabolic flux analysis. Real thing showed Reddit TrueTight increased cellular ATP production by 34% in adipose fat tissue and 28% in liver tissue in less than 12 weeks, less than three months. Your cells go from energy bankruptcy into energy abundance simply by changing the signal. And when cells have adequate ATP, every single thing works better. Solve the ATP problem you solve most issues in your life. ATP can't be produced. Remember, three biological failures. I'll touch on that too because you need to know this stuff. So here's what happens better. Protein synthesis improves, better muscle maintenance and growth. DNA repair mechanisms, they all function properly so you reduce your cancer risk. Immune function goes up, better infection control, neurotransmitter production normalizes, so better mood, better cognition, long-term benefits, detoxification pathways operate efficiently. So that means you have better overall health because you're not storing a bunch of toxic crap. This is why people on Reddit TrueTight often report feeling dramatically better beyond just the weight loss. Their cells can finally afford to run all the processes that they've been rationing out their ATP because they didn't have enough. Listen, here's something that'll make you rethink everything you know about peptides. Okay, Reddit TrueTight is neuroprotective. Yeah, didn't know that, did you? And some people, oh, I knew that. Okay, great. Tell me all about it. GLP-1 receptors are heavily expressed in the hippocampus cortex and something called the substantia nigra. Region is very critical for memory, cognition, and motor control. All the things we like to have that make our life better. When activated, they trigger multiple neuroprotective pathways. So I'll go through them really quick. Reduce neuroinflammation. GLP receptor activation inhibits microglial activation and produces or reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine production, IL-1-beta, IL-6, TNF-L, all the stuff I talk about in the CNS, Central Nervous System. 2022 study in neurology showed that GLP-1 agonists reduced brain inflammation markers by 41% in patients with mild cognitive impairment. This is the stuff you should be lining up for, man. Look at enhanced neurogenesis. GLP-1 promotes the birth of new neurons in the hippocampus by activating cyclic AMP response element binding protein, the CREB, CREB, by the way, not KREB, which up regulates BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. More BDNF means more neuroplasticity, better cognitive function. Like, I'm trying to expand this so you understand just how savage this is and why they're trying. The FDA is very, they're very afraid of it because they know that it's out in the world and it's solving a lot of problems. Semiclutide and tersepotide do not stop arguing in my comments. The biology doesn't exist. They have improved mitochondrial function in neurons because of redotrutide. Brain cells are, say, this all the time, they're the hogs. They're just nasty energy hogs. They consume 20% of your body's toroidal glucose despite being only 2% of the body mass and even less in some people. When neuronal mitochondria become dysfunctional, so think Alzheimer's, dementia, multiple sclerosis, right? Cognitive decline accelerates. It's just you're standing on a skinny pedal. Redotrutide's metabolic benefits extend to brain mitochondria, improving ATP production in those neurons that are starting to fail. Reduced amyloid beta plaque accumulation. So this is huge. 2021, Alzheimer's research and therapy showed GLP-1 agonism reduced amyloid beta plaque formation by 38% in Alzheimer disease by enhancing microglial clearance and reducing the amyloid beta production itself. Myelin production, look at multiple sclerosis. In multiple sclerosis, the immune system is attacking the myelin sheaths that are around the neurons. GLP-1 protects oligodendrocytes, which are the cells that produce that wire coating, right? The myelin from inflammatory damage and promote remyelination. 2020 study in Brain showed GLP-1 agonist treatment reduced multiple sclerosis relapse rates by 31% over two years. You guys, this is exactly why I was talking about Bruce Welles, about Michael J. Fox, about all these people that need to get in front of me. I don't even want any money. I don't want any money for it. I just want to help these people, because I'm tired of seeing people get crushed and destroyed when they don't need to be because they're following the redict, like they're taking aerosept and Namanda and all these things that are causing problems and putting them in an early grave or making the managed decline where they just become a product. I don't want your money if that's you. If you're, I just want to help you, with you, that's why I come out here. So you can sit there and get in my comments like a friggin toddler, or you can go, damn, this guy actually gives a shit about me because I do. I'm the only doctor I think on the planet, 9 billion people that actually cares this much. I guarantee it. Like everybody should be sending me emails going, please help me. How can you do it? And the whole world should be joining my black card. And if you really want to work with me, like that's, it drives me nuts because everybody's doing this for the money instead of doing this for the help. Yeah, there needs to be money because that's what helps people survive. But at the same time, I don't want the recognition or the fame or money or anything. I want people to actually make better decisions so they don't have to suffer. I struggle with it because above all, do no harm in some knucklehead with a goofy haircut that looks like a fishing lure, goes online and starts trying to trash talk. I mean, when all I'm doing is helping, you know what? Personally, fuck you because I'm out here doing the right thing. I don't care about marketing. I'm out here helping people because I care. Like the implications of this stuff are staggering. We're not just talking about a weight loss peptide. We're talking about potential disease modifying therapy for neurodegenerative conditions that are harming people and stripping their life. Listen, red or true, tight doesn't make you thinner. It makes you healthier. Let me count the ways, baby. Liver health, non-alcoholic, alcoholic fatty liver disease affects 25% of the global population. This is a giant number, by the way. Red or true, tight reduces hepatic steatosis, liver fat by 50% through enhanced fat. Oxidation and reduced de novo lipogenesis. 2023 study, hepatology showed normalization of liver enzymes in 67% of patients with NASH, which is the inflammatory version of fatty liver. All bad. And they did it in 24 weeks on red or true type. 24 weeks and they're bombing you with medication, checking your AST and ALT levels and telling you that red or true type is bad for you. You guys need to reassess everything, man. Kidney protection, diabetes and obesity destroys kidneys through hyper filtration, inflammation and potocyte damage, little filters, right? Red or true, tight reduces albumin urea protein in the urine, which is the early sign of kidney damage by 40%. 2022 flow trial showed 24% reduction in kidney disease progression in diabetic patients. Now, you guys can keep going for dialysis if you want, trying to find a way, but I would be looking at ways to mitigate that and keep myself out of dialysis. Look at vascular health, endothelial dysfunction, the inability of blood vessels to dilate properly. This is the first step towards atherosclerosis. Red or true type improves endothelial function by reducing inflammation, oxidative stress and improving nitric oxide bioavailability. Flow mediated dilation, which is a measure of vascular health improves by 30% within 12 weeks, three freaking months. Inflammation reduction, God, I could just line up stuff all day long. Systemic inflammation measured by high sensitivity C-reactive protein, SCRP, if you look at the labs, that's the number you want to look at. It drops dramatically. 2021 meta analysis, diabetes care showed average of 35% reduction in hs-CRP across all red or true tide trials. This isn't just about numbers, you guys. Chronic inflammation drives cancer, heart disease, dementia, Alzheimer's, autoimmune conditions. It's killing people. Look at the gut microbiome. Red or true tide shifts gut bacteria populations towards beneficial species while reducing pro inflammatory species. It's doing magic inside your physiology. 2023 study and nature communications showed 42% increase in beneficial bacteria 16 weeks after red or true tide. I don't know what to say. Like this is a master class. It's become a personal vendetta against every other pharmaceutical company out there and every shill out there trying to sell peptides. Like their life depended on it with their affiliate codes and their marketing ploys and their trash talking people like me that are out here just trying to damn well help you. So listen, the question I get all the time is won't red or true tide make me weak because I'm eating less. Wrong question. The right, I'll help you because the quality of your life is predicated on two things. The quality of conversations you have with yourself and the quality of the questions you ask yourself on a daily basis. So that's the wrong question. The right question is how does optimized metabolism affect training performance with your workouts? Here's what actually happens. Enhanced fat oxidation during exercise. So with improved metabolic flexibility, the body shifts towards fat oxidation during lower intensity exercise. But this preserves glycogen for high intensity efforts. So you become this hybrid engine diesel for distance and NOS, right? NOS is awesome for sprints, right? Improved insulin sensitivity in the muscle. So better glucose uptake means better glycogen replenishment post-workout, right? Your recovery improves because your muscles can actually access the nutrients that you're providing. Look at reduced systemic inflammation. This right out of the gate. Less inflammation means faster recovery between sessions. 2022 study, sports medicine showed that reducing baseline inflammation improved training capacity by allowing more frequent high quality sessions. You can train a lot more and get better gains. That's what that means. Better ATP production. Huh, I was just talking about this. Remember the ATP shortage that I was talking about? Okay. When cells can produce energy efficiently, muscle cells can contract harder, longer, and recover faster. The caveat is this. Oh, there is one. Believe me, you need to eat enough protein and total calories to support your damn training. If you let appetite suppression drive you below 0.8 grams of protein, right? 0.8 grams of protein per pound of body weight below your total daily energy expenditure, like by more than 500 calories, you're going to lose muscle. It is going back to thermodynamics. It doesn't work. Me 23 study in obesity, comparing retitrutide users who resistance trained versus those who didn't, showed that the training group, this is such a good number. You're going to love this, maintained 95% of lean muscle mass while losing fat versus only 65% in the non-training group. Same peptide, different stimulus, dramatically different body composition outcomes. Sign me up. Let's keep going. This is fun for me. Now I'm just going full throttle, like full nerd. The brain benefits. This deserves so much more attention than it's getting because everybody's, I just want to lose weight. You need to get your computer running, right? Mood enhancement, right? Retitrutide. The GLP-1 receptors in the mesolimbic reward pathways modulate dopamine signal. Just stay with me on the neurology. This is why tons of people report mood, improved mood, reduced anxiety, better emotional regulation on retitrutide. 2021 study, molecular psychiatry showed 28% reduction in depression scores in diabetic patients on retitrutide, independent of weight loss. Doesn't even have to do looking in the mirror, looking at the scale. Just change their mood right out of the gate. Cognitive performance. Brain, like watch, better brain energy metabolism means better cognitive function. Yes, I know it's a Christmas mug. Working memory, processing speed, executive function. All of this improves. 2022 study, diabetes care using cognitive testing batteries showed significant improvements across multiple domains all over the place after 24 weeks of GLP-1 agonist therapy. I could do this all day. Addiction modulation. This is a big one. GLP-1 receptors in the nucleus of Cummins, which is the reward seek, the pleasure area, right? Which reward seeking behavior, right? They modulate reward seeking behavior. Research in 2020, published in neuropsychopharmacology showed GLP-1 agonism reduced alcohol consumption, nicotine cravings. When the hard bolus, I'm not, remember nicotine itself as a standalone. It's not what you think it is, right? I'm going to hold this bad boy up. You see it. If you're listening, it's the patch that I was talking about. Reduce those addictive behaviors by 40% by modulating mesolimbic dopamine signaling. Oh, this stuff is freaking amazing. Aeropathic pain, huge. So diabetic neuropathy, the burning, tingling pain from nerve damage improves with GLP-1 therapy through multiple mechanisms, improved microvascular circulation to nerves, reduced inflammation, ret neural protective effects of red and true tide. 2021 clinical trials showed 43% reduction in neuropathic pain scores in less than three months. Again, 12 weeks. Look at the cardiovascular benefits. Your heart is this metabolic furnace, right? It beats 100,000 times per day consuming enormous amounts of ATP. When systemic metabolism breaks down, cardiac metabolism suffers. Red and true tide provides multiple cardiovascular benefits. Reduced cardiac workload is a big one. Weight loss directly reduces the hemodynamic burden on your heart. Losing 15% body weight, right, oxidative stress, all this stuff reduces cardiac output requirements significantly. So your heart doesn't have to work as hard to profuse excess tissue, right? Makes sense? Improve myocardial efficiency. The heart preferentially uses fatty acids for fuel. That's how it's designed. When systemic metabolism improves fat oxidation, cardiac myocytes receive a much better fuel supply. So cardiac efficiency, output per unit of oxygen consumed. Remember what I was talking about with methylene blue yesterday, right? Improves by 15 to 20%. Use atherosclerosis 2023 select trial. This is such a good one. 2023 select trial showed red and true tide reduced major adverse cardiovascular events by 20% in high risk patients. This isn't just about weight loss, you guys. It's about reduced inflammation, improvement, endothelial function, stabilized atherosclerotic plaques. The blood pressure, average systolic blood pressure drops of seven, seven millimeters of mercury, right? Diastolic, three millimeters of mercury. This is through a ton of different ways. Primarily, reduced sympathetic nervous system activity, improved endothelial function, natural natural uresis, natural uresis, the sodium loss, and the big one, reduced vascular stiffness. You don't have these stiff pipes. They actually flex and move. Remember INOS and ENOS, right? These things matter. These things matter, you guys. Improved heart rate variability HRV. It's a measure of autonomic nervous system balance. Improves significantly, is to say the least, higher HRV is associated with better cardiovascular health. Just know that. Better cardiovascular health improves stress resilience, reduced mortality. So, 2022 study showed 18% improvement in HRV after 16 weeks on red and true tide. You guys keep taking all your other stuff. That's fine. Keep taking your circumvent and thinking that's going to do it. It's more than that. I've not got nothing against it, but you guys need to look further. Take the thousand-foot view. These studies leave no doubt. These save lives through mechanisms that extend radically beyond weight loss. So, let me clarify something crucial because I think people are going to conflate these concepts radically. So, I got to address the micro dosing again because I just started thinking about it. And this is the question I got. I was like, what about taking a little bit? One of my really good friends, Brad, said, hey, man, I thought you said, what's this micro dosing thing? You told me to micro dose. I did not. Low dose weekly reddit true tide for longevity is not micro dosing. 0.5. You can even go 0.1. Up to one milligram a week in already lean individuals is pharmacologically sound. You're providing constant receptor activation at a maintenance dose to preserve metabolic health, insulin sensitivity, and neuro protection without pushing for additional weight loss. You're not trying to get the weight loss benefits because you don't need them. Micro dosing one multiple times per week. Here's the difference. Splitting.  4mg into daily doses of 0.57mg. That's pharmacologically pointless, chaotic, and misunderstands everything and all it does is create more side effects and problems given the 5-7-day half-life. It doesn't make any sense. The difference, one dose is optimized for a different therapeutic goal. The other is dosing frequency confusion based on misunderstanding of pharmacokinetics. They're not the same. 2023 review, aging cell, showed redotrutide, beneficial for longevity, in even in metabolically healthy and sound individuals. Here's how. I'll even give you the stuff so you understand it. Sustain improvement in insulin sensitivity, chronic reduction in inflammation. You start and you see some similarities here. Ongoing neuroprotection, maintenance of mitochondrial function. I'm going to tell you right now, three of those are the three biological failures. This is different than trying to avoid side effects through daily dosing, which accomplishes nothing, nothing. And listen, I'm going to hit this because when people go, what about redotrutide and cancer? What about GLP-1s causing cancer? I heard about thyroid cancer. Okay, let's dance this. I told you it's a master class and bring it at all. I'm an hour plus in. I'm still going, baby. I'm still going. You pull the string on my chest, look out. So I will destroy this myth with pure fact-based science. The concern originated from rodent studies showing C cell hyperplasia. Remember what I said, C cell, that's important. You'll see in a minute. With medullary thyroid carcinoma in rats and mice on GLP agonists. So this triggered FDA black box warnings and mass panic everywhere. Here's what they didn't tell you. This is why I said this. Rodents have 1000 times more GLP-1 receptors on thyroid C cells. That's why I said, remember this, than humans. The physiological relevance to humans is approximately zero. Large scale human trials, post-marketing surveillance, involving hundreds of thousands of patients have shown this. Zero increased risk of medullary thyroid cancer. 2023 surmount trials. 5,000 patients showed zero cases of medullary thyroid cancer. 2022 meta-analysis, the Lancet, 100,000 patients, years of GLP-1 agonist exposure found zero increased cancer risk of any type. In fact, there were non-significant trends towards reduced risk of certain cancers. But they're not telling you that. They're birthing. It's like digging for water and you go well digger and you find water. You go, crap, Barry, that's the results. We got to hide that. We need a couple more days of work. That's how these people are thinking. Obesity itself dramatically increases the cancer risk. Do you understand that? Pancreatic, colorectal, postmenopausal, breast, endometrial, esophageal, kidney, liver cancers all show 50 to 400% increased risk in obese individuals. Get that through your skull. I'm trying to help you. The medication, the peptide, whatever it is you do to lose weight, reverse metabolic dysfunctions are reducing your cancer risk. They're not increasing. It's specifically red and true thyroid reduces your risk. Right? The only contrary indication is if you can't control yourself and manage whatever you're doing, you're violating the laws of thermodynamics. So every chronic disease, diabetes, heart disease, dementia, cancer, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, autoimmunity, obesity, all share three underlying failures, systemic inflammation, insular resistance, and ATP shortage in a massive way. Red and true, tight addresses all three. Ready? Simultaneously. Let me show you how. So systemic inflammation, it reduces, I talked about this earlier, hs-CRP by 35%. Right? C-reactive protein decreases IL6 and TNF alpha by 30 to 40%. The inflammatory side of kinds reduces visceral adipose tissue. The inflammatory depot of your body improves gut barrier integrity. So reduced endotoxinia enhances resolution of inflammation through pro-resolving mediators, specialized pro-resolving mediators. Insuline, look at insulin. I can just keep going to this insulin resistance stuff. So radical improves insulin sensitivity in muscle by 45%. Reduces hepatic insulin resistance by 38%. Enhances adipocyte signaling, adipocyte insulin signaling reduces a topic fat deposition in muscle and liver. You don't want to fill this thing with fat, hepatic seatosis. I've told you about this, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, right? NaFLD, all those things are bad. NASH, the inflammatory version, all bad. Improves beta cell function and insulin secretion dynamics. Look at the ATP shortage. This is so fun for me because this thing is so radical and people are going against it like it's so bad. It enhances mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. It improves electron transport chain efficiency. Reduces the reactive oxygen species output, which is the free radicals. The oxidative stress is punching holes in your mitochondria and throwing shrapnel all over your biology, promotes mitochondrial biogenesis through, what do you think, PGC1 alpha activation increases cellular ATP, 34%. Where do I sign up for this stuff? And people are still going, but I think I'm going to microdose daily because the bro science guy told me it's better and I like his page. 2023 systems biology analysis in cell metabolism mapped, multiomic effects of all of this concluded that these address the root, right, retitrutide specifically addresses the root cause of metabolic disease rather than just treating symptoms. This is why the benefits are, it's not, it's not a weight loss drug. It's not a weight loss peptide. It's not the benefits. Extends so far beyond the scale. You're not just losing weight. You're reversing the fundamental pathophysiology. You're reversing the fundamental pathophysiology, driving the chronic disease. Look at HPA1c glycated hemoglobin. This is the guy you need to hear. This is like a three month report card. Watch one C glycated hemoglobin. This is the number everybody freaks out on is the three month average blood sugar. That's why it's the three month report card. It's a report card that shows you how well you've controlled your glucose over the lifespan of one red blood cell. Normal 5.7% pre diabetes. Ridiculous. Don't even get me started on that is 5.7 to 6.4 and diabetic is over 6.5. But every 1% increase in HPA1c above 5.7%. Here's the problem. Increases this. This is what you need to understand. Every 1% above 5.7 increases the risk. Heart attack, 18%. Stroke, 17%. Kidney risk, kidney disease, 28%. Retinopathy. I talked about that yesterday. Those cells, once they're they die, they're gone, which is why methylene blue is so good. It saves the retinal ganglion cells. Reduce it. Retinopathy risk, 37%. Reddit true tide crushes HPA1c. I'll even tell you how. Fasting glucose reduced to patecholuconeogenesis and approved to patech insulin sensitivity towards lower fasting glucose by 20 to 30 milligrams. It's huge post meal glucose delayed gastro-camptiae enhanced insulin secretion improved muscle glucose, right? Best the best storage ever, right? Muscle glucose uptake flatten the post-prandial curve by another 40 to 50 milligrams 24 hour glucose exposure. Continuous glucose monitoring studies proved with red and true tide total glucose exposure with the area under the curve drops 45 frigging. Holy moly, you guys need to just like where you should be taking notes all day long. Clinical trials show HPA1c reductions 1.5 to 2.5%, depending on baseline values. A patient starting at 8.5%, which a lot of you guys have. It's alarming. You need to handle this. Expect to reach 6% moving from poorly controlled diabetes to well controlled or even pre diabetic range. 2022 study, diabetes care showed 67% of patients with type two diabetes achieved H5.7% on red and true tide versus only 18% on metformin alone. 67% solved the problem on red and true tide. That's the translation. 18% solved the problem on metformin alone and metformin is riddled with disastrous side effects. This isn't just about numbers, you guys. It's about preventing blindness, kidney failure, amputations, premature death, all the stuff that's causing things that are going to kill you if you let them run. And the problem is most people don't understand how severe this is. You want to know how bad this really gets? Look at this. Tide preferentially reduces visceral fat. This is the one that kills you. Total fat loss, 24%. Listen, I'll just give you some numbers to 4%. Total fat loss, visceral fat loss, 42%. Subcutaneous fat loss, 18%. Visceral fat is melting more than twice the rate of subcutaneous fat when you're taking red and true tide, not semi-glute, not triseptide. This is red and true tide specific. Why? Because visceral adipose sites are much more metabolically active and more responsive to hormonal signals. They have a higher expression of beta-adrenergic receptors, which respond to something called catecholamines, glucagon receptors, which respond to red and true tide only glucagon, the red and true tides glucagon component. You see why I'm telling you this stuff? It's not because I want you to buy something from me. It's because I want you to actually know. GLP-1 receptors respond to red and true tides, GLP-1 component and solve this problem. When red and true tide activates these receptors, these three visceral fat responds dramatically. So watch, hormone-sensitive lipase ramps up, so it breaks down all the triglycerides. Phosphorylation increases, phosphorylation increases, allowing lipase access to the lipid droplets, right? Fatty acid oxidation in adjacent tissues increases. So you're burning the released fats that you've got. De novo lipogenesis decreases, which stops new fat formation. 2023 study using MRI spectroscopy showed visceral fat reduction correlated direct, this is so cool, directly with improvements in insulin sensitivity. 48% liver fat reduction, less than 44%, negative 44%. You want that negative, by the way, inflammatory markers down 38%. Cardiovascular risk scores down 31%. The only one you want going up is insulin sensitivity, by the way. That's why it's at 48%. You're not just losing weight. You're losing the fat that's killing you. You're losing the fat that's killing you guys. It's not a weight loss peptide. It is a life-changing event. Let me stitch this because I'm an hour and 16 minutes and I've been here a long time and I'm starting to sweat. A true tide is a triple agonist peptide, right? That simultaneously activates GIP, GLP, one of glucagon receptors, creating this fantastically coordinated metabolic optimization across every single system in your body. It needs, I'm just going to bring this all together. It needs carbohydrates to work optimally because the increadence system is glucose dependent. O-carb diets work against it. Mitochondrial dysfunction blunts its effects because broken cellular machinery can't execute metabolic improvements. Fix the engine before expecting any performance. Corticosteroids antagonize every single mechanism. They're metabolic, what I call hand grenades, that create insulin resistance, promote visceral fat deposition, which I just talked about, and increase hepatic glucose output. Dietary sabotage destroys its efficacy massively because thermodynamics doesn't care about your feelings or your peptide. You can't out-medicate or perform a shit diet. You guys got to get that. There's no magic. I could just eat anything. You can, but you're going to look like you eat anything. Estrogen-containing HRT birth control creates metabolic headwind through induced insulin resistance and fluid retention. Just be aware. That's all I'm telling you. You don't have to stop. Just be aware and allow yourself to crank up optimization of other variables and be smart with how you're doing it. Maybe switch to a patch. ProScience dose escalation? Yeah. That's pharmacologically ignorant. The dose response curve plateaus at four to six milligrams and higher doses proven 140% increase in side effects versus 8% increase in benefit. I don't like those odds at all. I don't like that ratio on bit. Microdosing multiple times a week is pointless. Given the five to 7% half-life, all you're doing is increasing side effects, reducing efficacy and tickling the receptor and making yourself more resistant to those receptors causing more problems. You're making life complicated for zero benefit whatsoever other than an Instabrow told you to do it. Proper titration. I'll help you out with this too. It starts at 0.5 weekly increases by 0.5. Every one to two weeks as tolerated. The sweet spot four to six milligrams weekly, slow and steady prevents. It doesn't reduce it prevents side effects and it's been proven 100% identical outcomes. But without the misery, red or true tight solves ATP shortage, enhancing fatty acid oxidation, improving mitochondrial function. Your cells go from energy poverty to energy abundance. It provides neural protection. This is like a top 10 hit list from 1985. It's so good. Right. Like you remember the radio that used to just blast out like now the number 30, right? That this is so good. Neuro protection against dementia, Alzheimer's, MS, because of reduced neuro inflammation, enhanced neurogenesis, improved neuronal mitochondrial function, reduced pathological protein accumulation. My brain is going a million miles an hour right now. I get optimized systemic health, liver, kidneys, vasculature, inflammation, gut microbiome, it addresses all the root causes rather than the symptoms, which is what everybody's been conditioned to think. It fixes workout performance, improved metabolic flexibility, better insulin sensitivity, reduced inflammation, enhanced ATP production. But you know what it means? Adequate protein and calories. You can't do this if you're eating like a bird, right? Cardiovascular benefits, low dose longevity. It's different by the way. I got to hit this real quick because you guys are going to forget and you're going to conflate this whole thing. I told you this low dose longevity protocols distinct from pointless micro dosing, one dose optimization for maintenance. The others frequency confusion, causing a bunch of problems. Cancer concern or weight are just useless. I told you about that. Right. C cells, garbage, no increase risk, none. This it handles the three biological failures of all disease, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, all at the same time crushes HbA1c 1.5 to 2.5%. Come on, you guys, visceral fat, it destroys it. This is it makes me just want to go back through this thing backwards because it's so good. This isn't about looking better in a mirror. Man, I went over everything. If I forgot something, I don't know what it is because I tried to pay attention everything that you guys have been asking me, but this is about reversing the fundamental pathophysiology, driving the diseases that kill most people in the modern world. This is about restoring cellular energy production so your body can afford to run all the processes that it's been rationing ATP to. It's about reducing inflammation. That's destroying your brain, your heart, your kidneys, your joints. It's about restoring insulin sensitivity. Your metabolism works the way evolution and God designed it to work. It's about preferentially eliminating the visceral fat that's strangling your frigging organs and poisoning your bloodstream into with inflammatory cytokines. This is optimizing your biology at the molecular level using pharmacology based on actual human physiology, not Reddit posts or some YouTube influencer, which I am not before you say that's what I am not. I'm just a dude. I don't care if I have one follower, but here's the truth that nobody wants to hear. Here's the truth that nobody wants to hear. Whatever you're using, whether it's a peptide or a medication, but we're talking about Reddit, true tide, it is only as good as the person with the vial and the syringe in their hand. If you take Reddit, true tide while eating garbage, staying sedentary, sleeping four hours a night and you're not designed like that. I know I do, but I've been this way my whole life and managing stress with alcohol, drugs and doom scrolling, you're going to get some results. Be maybe lose some weight, maybe improve some markers, but you're leaving 70% of the benefit on the table. The people who transform their lives with this are the ones who understand that Reddit, true tide is a tool. It is an incredibly powerful tool. Why do you think they're fight? Have you seen them fighting to do this with BPC or TB-500 or cerebral license or C max or LL 37? Have you? No, you haven't. You saw them do it. This should be just giant red flies. They've been doing it with Reddit, true tide, because it's easy to sell. It's easy to push on people because all you have to do is say, if you just take this magic thing, it'll make your life better. Nobody's going to do it and they can charge a premium for it at your expense. And if you go, you know, it's really expensive. If you buy it from a peptide, if you buy it from my store, no, it's not. No, it's not. You wait till you have to buy it from your doctor and it's $2,000 for three milligrams. I'll wait. Well, but my insurance pays for it. Yeah, but your insurance premiums are $25,000 a year, nipple nut. How about you guys just pull your head out of the sand and actually start looking at things going, this is this guy's out here because he cares. Reddit, true tide is not a replacement for intelligent behavior. It's a performance enhancer for a life that's already optimized. It makes eating right feel effortless instead of torturous. Makes metabolic health achievable. Instead of this daunting task that feels impossible, it gives your cells the energy to execute the processes that are required for your health. You guys, if it doesn't work for you, it's because you didn't do the work, but it also doesn't do the right. It doesn't do the work. It doesn't do the work. It makes the work that you do sustainable. Look, the research is very, the research is clear. I went over a ton of it. The mechanisms are very well understood and the clinical outcomes are proven everywhere. The only question left is what are you going to do with all the information I just dumped on you for the last hour and 23 minutes? You can apply it intelligently. You can titrate properly. You can optimize your diet, fix everything. Support your mitochondria. You can use this as a catalyst for complete metabolic transformation. Are you going to get in my comments and ignore the science overdose because Reddit says so eat like garbage because you're not hungry and then complain that Reddit, true tide didn't work and tell me all about it. I actually care. I don't. I care that you get the information from me and do something about it, not get the information from me and argue about it. Reddit, true tide will perform exactly as the biochemistry dictates. The variable isn't Reddit, true tide. It's not the peptide. The variable is you. Anyway, hope you got something out of this. I really do. I dropped bombs on this. I gave all I got. I've bled for you on this one. I got to go. Never miss.