 all right, so reditrutide and cancer, and not reditrutide causing cancer, it doesn't, that's ridiculous, reditrutide versus cancer. And before anybody gets in my comments telling me it's caused by parasites and bacteria and toxins and all that, we know all this stuff, so save it. The problem isn't that, it's solving the issue once it's there. But reditrutide, this is why the pharmaceutical industry doesn't want you to know this information. I got nothing to gain. I don't care what Peter Adia, I don't care about him, I don't care about Gary Breck, I don't care about these guys because they're coming out pushing products endlessly. I'm not pushing products, it baggerates me because I had somebody say this and you guys making reaction videos about me is hilarious because I've actually seen over a million patients and I know people that have seen way more and I know people that have seen none, but the people that have never seen a patient are the ones that are trying to make reaction videos on the things that I talk about that works. And I have a community filled with people that have had nothing but positive results where they're like, holy smokes, my life is radically different because of listening to what you said. And that's the black card. And if you want to join the black card grant, I don't even market for it. You want to join the black card? Awesome. It's going to cost you, you know, at 10 grand and you're going to spend that for the year and you're going to get me, you're going to get my live Q&A that I do every single Monday at five and you get the VIP community and you can ask me questions and it takes me 24 to 72 hours sometimes to answer questions. Depending on the difficulty of the case or the magnitude of what you're asking me. And it's per person. It's not for your entire family. It's per person because if you go see a doctor, it's not for your family. It's for that person. If you go to a restaurant, you each pay for your food. And I think that's absolutely fair. And some people get really offended by that. They're like, that's so much money. I really don't think so. I really don't think so. My one on one is 250 grand. It's got a two month waiting list on it. And I take 20 people a year because I actually care and I know what I'm doing. So if you guys are making your little reaction videos or stealing my stuff like AI is nuts. You guys are stealing my stuff and putting some tiny little Asian over top and then pretending you're me. But my jokes are ridiculous. They're all mine because they're dumber than hell. And I have a certain syntax and I am me. But listen, I don't even care. I don't come out here to have this argument with a bunch of children going, I don't like what you said. I disagree. All you have to do is follow the money. All you have to do is follow the money. You look at these guys like the guys that that chemist guy that keeps taking my videos and trying to repost them and going, let me try and discredit this and let me try and discredit that. But you're watching him just read lines, right? There's nothing in front of me. And that's number one. But number two is what difference does it make? I don't know. And then you go buy it for me. Of course, that's the problem. I've never once said you want to buy from elite biogenics. Awesome. If you don't go buy somewhere, go to peptide sciences. I don't care where you go. I care that you have the information and it solves your problem. If you want to buy from my company, great. Thank you so much for supporting my company. I really mean something to me because it's the same thing that I would give my wife and my children. But I don't come out here and I'm not some shill and I actually give a crap about mankind. So all of the bitterness and victimization and hate and attacks that people are doing on each other all over the Internet is just you guys got to grow up. You guys got to grow up. Med school is nothing but in here this might sound like an attack, but it's nothing but a bunch of pharmaceutical reps now. Nobody knows how to solve a problem anymore. And you take it as an arrogant statement. I don't care. Nobody can keep up with me because I've been spending the last 30 years making sure that I know human biology and biochemistry and physiology because I care. I want you to have the information and then you do what you want with it. But to constantly steal my stuff, you're a toddler. To constantly make reaction videos about my stuff, you're a toddler. To get into my comments and I don't like what you're saying. You're using herty words. But you six grow up. This is stuff to help you and I do it for free, for free. So if you want to join the Black Card, great. Apply at unlockthecard.com. Send it to Mia and she'll get you all set up. She'll give you the wire information. It's the only way to take it. And if you want to ask a bunch more questions about it, send the wire information and just join. But other than that, let's hammer out this red and true Titan cancer thing. It's Monday. I mean, that kind of a mood. But the people running around going, it's a weight loss drug. Awesome. Next. What's the next thing on the list? The next latest and greatest thing. But that's not what red and true Titan is. That's it's you're not wrong, but you're missing the entire architecture of the peptide itself. Here's what it really is. It's a triple-incredent receptor agonist that mimics three of the most powerful hormones your body naturally produces. And I think you guys need to understand why this matters because watch when you let me break it down when you eat food, whatever it is, you can. And by the way, Gatorade, not diet, regular Gatorade is recognized as food. That's why it upsets your stomach half the time when you slam it like an idiot. Okay. So that's it's causing these hormones to release. But there's nothing there. But it's because of the carb content and the calorie content. Didn't know that either, did you? So when you eat food, three hormones are released from your gut, GLP one, GIP and glucagon. But these aren't these aren't just weight loss signals. They're survival signals. This is the chemical language that your body uses to say, Hey, man, we need to organize everything energy production, inflammatory levels, immune response, cellular repair. You guys literally everything. This is why I'm getting so annoyed at the soccer moms and their peptide businesses or people that are jumping in going, I have a peptide company. No, you don't. You sell out of your basement or you're ripping people off on poorly manufactured products with an US COA. By the way, if your COA is from an American company, it's garbage because they keep getting bought. I'll prove it. Listen, redditrutide walks in and it says, remember when you were 19 years old and every damn thing you had in your biology worked properly? Here's that conversation again. And this is where it gets wild. Nobody talks about this. Redditrutide doesn't just trigger weight loss. It triggers metabolic reorganization. It's solving the problem that you've been beating yourself up for the last 15 years. Think about this way. Your body's been running this broken operating system for 15, 20 years. Redditrutide isn't just coming up to windows and tapping the X's and closing applications. It's rebuilding and upgrading the entire hard drive of your biology. I want you to understand otocrinology because once you do, you'll realize why the pharmaceutical industry is so afraid that this information will get out that they're doing anything and everything. Like, I can't be bought. Pfizer's never going to be able to send me a billion dollars and I'm going to change my tune. Not a chance. I don't care how much money you give me because I value mankind because I care about human beings. I'm not doing this because I want you guys to be subscribers to manage decline or to buy from some pharmaceutical company or to buy from some peptide company. I do this so you actually have a great life. Listen, I have been on this planet for a long time and I almost lost my damn life. Yeah, I'm pissed off because I almost lost my life because of the medical world. And that's coming from a guy that's been a doctor for decades. So I don't, I'm tired of people just looking for reasons to, to stay. You guys want permission to stay where you are and what you're doing. You want it to work and you want to have all these reasons why it's not. You look up YouTube videos to find out, to approve and validate why what you're doing isn't working but you should still stay there. Bullshit. Bullshit. It makes me so angry. I don't get it. Brandy and I were talking about this. I really don't. Like it makes me just want to turn this off because and just kill all this and say you guys find it out yourself some other way and enjoy all the misinformation and screw your life up because I don't get it when I come out here and I give you things for free. And the two words that should be coming out of your mouth are thank you. Thank you. We were not raised the same. My dad would have beat your ass if you would have disrespected him when he gave you something and you insulted it. I don't get it. Like you guys, the pharmaceutical company is at war against peptides and you guys just keep looking for reasons to give them more ammunition instead of going, shit, this guy's, we need to protect this. We need to protect this guy. We need to take everything he's talking about right now and not steal it, share it with everybody so they actually get the information. Listen, when you activate GLP-1, GIP, glucagon simultaneously, this is the key part, not just individually, simultaneously. You're not triggering one pathway. You're triggering this integrated metabolic symphony that changes your entire health for the better if it's done properly. This is what happens in order. So you get the satiety signal, it kicks in your vagus nerve, which is the longest nerve in the human body. By the way, it literally runs from your brainstem to your gut, gets activated. Your brain receives this, hey, listen, buddy, put down the fork, you're satisfied, stop eating, you've had enough. But that's surface level crap for this peptide. It's for even the agonism that's going on. Now you get the pancreatic coordination. Your beta cells in your pancreas start producing insulin, but they do it smarter. Not more insulin, smarter insulin, not the insulin itself. Let me explain what that means. So insulin, because I don't think I'm explaining it right. insulin sensitivity improves because, well, here's why, because GLP-1 is present, your pancreatic beta cells literally work, they work better. They respond faster. They produce the right amount. They're not panicking anymore the way they've been because you've been eating all kinds of garbage and blaming the food processors. But here's the thing, and this is where every doctor I've ever seen and all the medical students are getting wrong. Your alpha cells, which produce glucagon, also start working properly. Glucagon is not just anti-insulin. Glucagon is the hormone that says, okay, listen, we got to burn all this stored energy and we damn well need to build a whole bunch of new proteins. Then, and here's the secret sauce, the mitochondria turn on. So when GIP is activated and really activated, it signals your cells to increase mitochondrial biogenesis, which is literally telling your cells, make more mitochondria. Hey, do you guys understand what that means? Your cells are getting more power plants, like more of them, more frequently, and they work better. Look at 2021, nature metabolism improved. Redutrutide increases mitochondrial content by 40% in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle. 40%? 40%. That's not a marginal improvement. That is like resurrection for your physiology. And then the inflammatory reset. Watch, here's where it gets really wild. These three receptors, when they're activated together, they don't just reduce inflammation. They reprogram your immune system to stop misidentifying your own tissue as the enemy. So when your GLP-1 receptors are activated, macrophages, which is your immune system's cleanup crew, right, they shift from pro-inflammatory M1 state to anti-inflammatory M2 state. 2022 or 2020 diabetes showed this unequivocally. It was, let me drink some more coffee. Like, irrefutable. And yet none of this is being talked about on social media because people are too busy trying to sell their product. Like I said, I don't care if you buy my product. The care that you have the information, you buy the right product. Here's what that means, by the way, that the switching phenotypes. That's what that means. M1 to M2. Plain English, your body stops looking at yourself as the enemy. So listen, let's talk about the metabolic damage because this is where it gets personal for like probably 80% of the population. Metabolic damage is not some vague concept. It is absolutely measurable and it's 100% reversible. Listen, when you've been dieting and starving or in chronic stress even for years, your body enters in what's called a state of metabolic suppression. So your sympathetic nervous system stays locked in overdrive. Your cortisol level stays cranked up. Your thyroid hormone production drops. Your mitochondria literally shrink and become ridiculously inefficient. And this happens because your body thinks it's in a famine. So your brain, specifically the hypothalamus, is freaking out screaming. We don't have energy. So save it. Slow down the metabolism. Hold on to fat and preserve all the resources we've got so we don't die. And then red or true tide walks in and slam dances that entire system and says, false alarm, resources are coming. Stand down. You're good to go. Let's go. Here's the physiology. So watch. Parasympathetic activation kicks in. So when GLP-1 receptors are activated in your brainstem, right back here, they literally shift your nervous system from fight, flight or freeze, the sympathetic to rest and digest parasympathetic. This takes days, not weeks. Your heart rate variability improves. Your cortisol starts normalizing and your body trusts you again. It trusts everything again. And then the hormone, the thyroid hormone becomes normal. So your pituitary gland stops being stingy with TCH, thyroid-stimulating hormone. So your thyroid, specifically the mitochondrial-rich thyroid follicular cells, start producing T3 and T4 again at normal optimal rates. Endocrinology showed red or true tide increases T4 to T3 conversion specifically in the tissues that need it the most. So it doesn't just do it. It does it in the right place at the right time at the right target organ. Leptin sensitivity gets restored. So leptin is the, I'm full hormone, but it's also your metabolism hormone. When you're leptin resistant, which happens after chronic dieting, which is why I explained that whole video, but why diets aren't working for you guys, your brain never gets the signal that you have energy so it keeps fighting to conserve. So red or true tide walks in and it reduces inflammation in your hypothalamus. The specific part that reads leptin, so four, six weeks, leptin sensitivity comes back. Your brain remembers that you've got resources and your metabolism doesn't slow down. It actually accelerates. And then the big one, baby, mitochondrial repair, resurrection, reintroduction, whatever the hell you want to call it. Your mitochondria are like little nuclear reactors. When you're in metabolic damage, they get lazy. They run at 30% capacity. They're damaged. They accumulate reactive oxygen species. ROS is faster than they can clear them out. So when red or true tide walks in specifically activating GLP one and GIP, they trigger something called AMPK, the metabolic master switch. We've talked about this with MOTC and AMPK says, amen, it's time to rebuild this entire thing. Maybe let's get to work. AMPK then activates something called PGC1-alpha triggers mitochondrial biogenesis and mitochondrial autophagy, which is clearing out all the broken ones. 2020 cell metabolism showed GLP one agonists increase mitochondrial density 45% and improve mitochondrial, excuse me, function by 60%. I just ate so sorry I'm burping like that. You guys do know that's not an improvement, right? That's a completely new lease on life. And yet people are going, it's just a weight loss peptide. Do you want to know why red or true tide works? I'll even touch on this. Why it works so much better than single path like therapies like tersepathyde or even dual or semi-glutide or dual like tersepathyde? Because disease doesn't exist in one damn pathway. Stop defending it because you took it and you don't like your feelings getting hurt because you're mad that you took something that there was something better that existed. That doesn't even make sense. That's like defending your piece of shit Honda in your driveway. I'm not saying Honda is bad because somebody else has a Bugatti and you're like, I think Bugatti's are ugly. Bugatti's are ugly. Shut up. You're missing the point. You're mad because you don't have it. Even if you hadn't sold it, I don't care. Stop defending things for nothing, for nothing. Disease is a pattern. Full stop. Obesity isn't a weight problem. Weight is a symptom. The real problem is that your body's energy management system is broken. But more than that, it's broken in three specific ways. Three biological failures literally cause every single chronic disease. And when I say every single one, all of them. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because I'm going to keep saying it until somebody gives me one. Because I've solved every disease because I care. I didn't solve them for me. I'm not like, hey, everybody pay attention to Dr. Trevor. I'm going to give a shit. Just stop stealing my stuff. At least give me credit for the work. You have no idea how much work I put into this stuff. All you knuckleheads out there stealing my stuff thing and then trying to send it off to your half ass peptide company that you're probably buying it from mine and just cranking up the price. You guys are at home with razor blades trying to scrape off the labels for all I know. I had somebody try and tell me they worked for my company. Hey, I worked for that company. Really? Cause I own that company and I don't recall ever having you on my payroll. I don't know. I'm really good friends with Travis. Travis? You mean Trevor? Yeah, yeah. The guy that makes these videos, the guy that's in the trap right now with you. No, it's not you, man. He would know who I am. That's the argument that I had. And I finally let you're an idiot. Block delete. Listen, three metabolic failures. Every single disease. Look at systemic inflammation. Red and true tide hammers the snot out of these. Inflammation isn't bad. Inflammation is how your body heals. But inflammation when it becomes systemic is what this means. It's everywhere all the time for years and years. It's like having a fire alarm that never stops screaming in your ear. Your immune system gives you the finger. It gets exhausted. Your tissues get damaged near DNA gets damaged. Systemic inflammation is measured by C-reactive protein, L six tumor necrosis factor alpha, like TNF alpha. These when these are elevated for years, just hear me out. Your body literally breaks down. Your arteries get damaged. Your joints get damaged. Your organs get damaged. It said it gives you the finger. Here's what red and true tide does. It comes in and solves it. GLP one and GIP activation reduces IL six interleukin six production by 50%. 2021 clinical endocrinology proved that. But more importantly, it shifts macrophages from pro inflammatory and one to anti inflammatory anti phenotype. So your immune system stops attacking and it starts protecting the way it's designed. There's no such thing as an autoimmune disorder. It's a symptom of a problem. And I'm not disrespecting people that have autoimmune symptoms. You don't have an autoimmune disorder. The body was never designed to attack itself. You need to find what's causing that fire, not go let's treat the autoimmune disease, which is what I was taught as a doctor. What people are taught now is I need to get my words out on Instagram. So everybody looks at me and gives me hearts and likes. I don't give a crap if you follow me or not. I don't care if you like my stuff or not. Just don't be a toddler and get in there and go, I don't like your herty words. You really mean you're like a toddler. Listen, this is for you. Not for me. I'm healthy. I'm trying to give that to you for free. I mean, that's some pissed off today. Look at insulin resistance. This is the thing nobody explains correctly, by the way. I've seen doctors. I've watched Adia. I've watched Brecca demolish this like an idiot bumping into walls trying to figure his way out in the dark. Your cells, here's the easiest. Your cells literally put earmuffs on and stop listening to insulin. Imagine that you're shouting at somebody and they just ignore you for so long that you lose your voice. That's what happens. insulin resistance starts in your mitochondria. When your mitochondria are damaged, it can't produce enough ATP. Your cells are overwhelmed. They stop accepting glucose and then they get defensive. Your pancreas responds by making more insulin. So you have more insulin in your blood, but your cells won't listen. So here's what happens. Wake gang, because insulin promotes fat storage, energy crashes. Your cells aren't getting any glucose. You got brain fog because your brain magically runs on glucose. You got hormonal chaos for the nicest way of saying it because too much insulin messes with. You're ready for this? Everything. And here's how Reddit True Tide solves this part of the equation. When it walks in, it activates receptors in your skeletal muscle and adipose tissue and they trigger translocation of the glucose transporters to the cell membrane. But that means your cells go, hey, whoa, the ears pick up and they go, wait, I can hear insulin again. But here's the secret. GIP is actually more powerful at insulin sensitizing in muscle tissue. Watch 2022 Nature Reviews and Necronology show that GIP agonism improves insulin stimulated glucose uptake by 60% in muscle. So here's the result. Just so you understand why this is important. Your pancreas doesn't have to work so hard and your insulin levels normalize and your cells start getting all the fuel that you needed again, baby. We're not done. Look at the ATP problem. This is where most people completely miss the point. ATP, adenosine triphosphate is literally the fundamental currency of everything in your body. Every single thing your body does, thinking, moving, healing, sex, walking, sleeping, working out, reproducing, detoxifying. Everything you've got requires ATP. The ossicles, the three of them in your ear going nuts on either side when you're listening to this, right? Your primary visual cortex in the back here firing away because you're watching this on YouTube. All of those require ATP. When your ATP depleted at the cellular level, every single thing you've got breaks. It's not metaphorically. Really, it breaks. Your mitochondria produce ATP through the ETC. Sounds like a bunch of acronyms, which it is. Adenosine triphosphate through the electron transport chain. This is the most important biochemical process in your entire body. And it's never taught properly. So let me break this down. The ETC, the electron transport chain in plain friggin English, your cells burn glucose and fat. This creates electrons. These electrons need to be transported down a chain of protein complexes. One, two, three and four. Inside your mitochondrial inner membrane. As electrons move down this chain, they release energy. That energy pumps protons across your mitochondrial membrane, creating what's called an electrical gradient. That gradient powers something basically complex five, the ATP synthase, which literally screws together ADP and a phosphate. Adenosine diphosphate and a phosphate screws them together makes ATP. It's like a dam water. The electrons fall downhill. That motion generates electricity called the proton gradient. And that electricity powers a turbine ATP synthase that produces electricity ATP. And when you're inflamed and insulin resistant, your mitochondria can't run this efficiently whatsoever. So your electron transport chain gets really slop. It gets sluggish. So your ATP production tanks, your cells get tired. When your cells get tired, here's the byproduct. You get tired. Here's how red or true tide handles this. When amp it activates amp K when it when amp K is activated, it triggers mitochondrial biogenesis. Your cells make more mitochondria. Each one runs the electron transport chain, more ET, right? It runs to separate one every time. More ETC chains, more ATP production, more energy everywhere. There's more though. You ready? GLP one signaling also reduces reactive oxygen species. So now you're producing less ROS is reactive oxygen species damage your electron transport chain components. So less ROS, less damage, less efficient ATP production, which is why you don't want those anywhere in your body. 20 diabetes care showed red or true tide increased ATP production in muscle by 55%. To me, that sounds like a big damn number. Let me let me say that again. 55%. It's not a supplement. It's not a supplement. It's not some magic NMN that you're taking that's going, it's the precursor in it slides into the Krebs cycle right here. And it's really great. No, it doesn't. First of all, NMN is useless. Oh, I'm sure somebody's going to get in my comments about doing like talking about great. Okay, great. Awesome. I drink coffee and it solves all my problems too. Apparently. No, it doesn't. Listen, here's where it gets really interesting with red or true tide, because this is where it becomes something people, most people don't really understand. And I want you to get this. So please stick with me. Your liver is the metabolic HQ of your entire body. It's not just about detox. I mean, though it does that, it's also you ready? Master glucose regulator, fat processor, immune coordinator, inflammation control center. When your liver is damaged, especially by the something called NAFLD non alcoholic fatty liver disease, everything goes to itself. Gone. Doesn't work. My dad died of end stage liver disease. So I don't take this lightly at all. So if you're going to go into my comments and make jokes, you know what you go right to hell? Because I miss my dad every day. He died 14 years ago and I love my dad. So I don't take this stuff lightly. That's why I do this. So when you come in here, yes, it ticks me off and you go here he goes on another rant. No, I just find it in the middle of the day. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not going to take this. I'm not everything stops working when your liver is trashed. Please listen to me. Cancer is no joke. If you guys saw my story, you saw everything that happened to me. It's not... You can't... Somebody, oh, it's made up. Get the fuck out of here. Are you out of your mind? I hated every second of my life when I was like that. I felt like a failure to my family and my kids and nightmare. When you're... So listen, your liver is... Yeah, that's the mood I meant today. Your liver is filled with mitochondria. It's just literally packed with these things. Thousands. When your liver cells accumulate fat, which is what an AFLD is, it's fat in the liver cells, the mitochondria get suffocated. It's the easiest way to explain it. They can't produce ATP and they can't coordinate your entire metabolism. More importantly, a damaged liver can't regulate insulin, can't clear inflammatory cytokines, and it can't control glucose production, which it's supposed to do. So your whole body becomes metabolically broken. Here's what redotruti does. This is why you guys got to get this and why you got to understand, big pharma is trying to get this out of your hands or charge you astronomically large amounts of money. Somebody said to me, they're, dude, your reda 60 is... I don't remember what it is on my site, 950 bucks for 60 milligrams. Dude, you have any idea how long that's going to last? You're insane. You're insane. It's less than 200 bucks for a 10. And that's going to last... If you're doing this for longevity, that's going to last you so long. I have people in my group that were spending $1,500 to $2,000 on one vial of redotruti from a longevity clinic. If you're a longevity clinic and you're ripping people off like that, yeah, you're a dick. My lab makes it, my warehouse ships it, and yeah, I think what we charge is fair. If you don't like it, don't buy it. It's okay. But I do know this. If you're ripping someone off because you know they're on their last leg and they're desperate, you're a garbage human being. So I come out here for free just to give you the answers. You do what you want. But here's why it's important to understand the truth, and why you need to get it. That big pharma does not want you to have this. Not at all. Even you're like, oh, I thought they approved it. Yeah, so they can fill it with all kinds of crap and charge you a ton of money for it. Not to solve your problems. It's to make them a bunch of money at your expense with the problems that they're causing because you keep listening. Stop listening. When GLP-1 activates in hepatic cells, the liver cells, here's what happens. You get reduced hepatic lipid accumulation. So your liver stops storing fat. 2021 hepatology showed redotrutide reduces hepatic fat content 50%, 5, 0. I wish this stuff would have been my dad was alive. I would have saved his ass. It improves mitochondrial function and hepatocytes. Your liver's mitochondria actually start working again in ATP production. It was vertical. It reduces hepatic inflammation. So your liver's resident immune cells, they're called cup for cells with a K, shift from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory. Journal of Hepatology 2020 showed this very precisely with GLP-1 agonist showing 45% reduction in hepatic IL-6 levels. Remember what I said, C-reactive protein, IL-6, TNF alpha, those are the markers that are looking at it. So it improves fibrosis or reverses, to be honest. It doesn't even improve it. This is so big because liver fibrosis will kill you. Remember, your liver regenerates every 150 days. The cells are just constantly doing this. This is such an active, I mean, 500 reactions every second. This is such an important organ. Don't screw with this thing. But this is also why the liver and cancer are married. So when inflammation resolves in your liver, your hepatic stellate cells stop producing collagen. Liver fibrosis actually goes the other direction. It reverses. 2019, gastroenterology showed that improving hepatic mitochondrial function reduced to hepatic fibrosis 60 friggin percent. This is why this matters for cancer, by the way. So your liver produces and clears growth factors. So when your liver is healthy, listen, it clears excess growth factors. It produces metabolic signals that tells your cells, listen, you're okay. You're okay, Ray. Don't grow randomly. You don't need to. It keeps a meter on it, puts a governor on it, and it regulates hormones, estrogen, testosterone, growth hormone, et cetera. So when your liver is damaged, these signals go berserk. So now growth becomes completely uncontrolled. Cancer cells start showing up all over your body, and your body can't clear them. Remember, your body has cancer all of the time. That's not what it's just a cell that's lost. It's become a mutated cell. 1% of all your cells are mutated cells. Your body turns over a billion cells every day. Your body gets rid of them. Self other. That's what your natural killer cells are looking for. The problem isn't that the problem is when the system isn't working, it can't do that. Which is why I'm so tired of people going, I had to do chemotherapy, save my grandma, save my pappy. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. And radiation and surgery, all these things, they're just, they're killing people. Good Lord, fix the liver and you fix the foundation of cancer prevention. The end. I just, I want to get off this podcast right now because I'm so irritated. Let me explain how to connect everything before I go. Cancer is not a disease that happens to you. Cancer is a disease that happens because of you, more specifically, only because of what happens inside your body and those three biological failures, my three biological failures. I'll give you the exact mechanism. This is exactly what I talked about in my Instagram post yesterday, just very short version. So when you have chronic systematic system, systemic inflammation, your immune system is literally just, it takes a jerry can, it just starts dumping gasoline on your fire. And you're like, what's water? It's going to go out just just raging blood, just a bit massive conflagration, right? Your cells are getting bombarded with inflammatory cytokines, IL6, TNF, alpha, IL1, beta, and these cytokines activate NFKappa B. So in your cells, so NFKappa B is a transcription factor. It's like a switch for genes. When NFKappa B is  is activated chronically. It turns on genes that promote cell proliferation. Listen to me, this, you might go, oh, that's a good thing. No, listen to me. Promotes cell proliferation, suppresses apoptosis, which is the programmed cell death, and it promotes angiogenesis. Two tumors, well, blood vessel growth. Two of the tumors. That's not a good thing, people. 2019 Nature Reviews Cancer proved this. Falcoel showed it. Showed that chronic NF-Capa B activation increases, increases pro-termerogenic gene expression by three times, and that 20% plus cancers are all directly linked to chronic inflammation. 20%. Listen, if there was a 20% chance that you're gonna get hit by a car every time you cross the street, most of you guys, I hope, would be smart enough to go, ooh, I might not take that chance. The mechanism is brutal. Constant inflammatory signaling literally tells your cells, it's okay to grow beyond your normal boundaries. That's the problem. And here's what Reddit True Tide does. When it activates the receptors, when it kicks on the agonism, they suppress NF-Capa B activation. 20 inflammation research studies showed that it reduces NF-Capa B nuclear translocation. Remember what I said, how it works, right? By 70 friggin', it turns off the, hey man, just grow all you want as random as you can signal. It turns that all off. Listen, I need to explain all of this, because otherwise I think I'm gonna leave a lot of information left to chance, and it's gonna cause a lot of confusion. Let me explain how insulin resistance causes cancer. And before you go, I thought, parasites, I thought, listen, your body's designed to get rid of all this stuff. So when your system is, this is where you need to be able to fit these pieces together as a puzzle. You can't go, I take this magic liquid and it causes cancer, wrong. This liquid in here, and I'm not talking about coffee, before somebody goes, oh, coffee's bad? No, coffee is friggin' amazing, by the way. It's the most studied performance enhancement on the planet, this and creatine. So stop thinking they're bad for you. Only an idiot is gonna go, caffeine is terrible. When I gave up coffee, my life became so much better. No, it didn't, no it didn't. You just started making new decisions and now your life is better. The coffee had nothing to do with it. The coffee was a crutch you were using to stay where you are. The end. When you start marrying systems together, if I drink this and it's some toxic poison, it makes my biology weak, which means it can't do its job. That's the problem. It's not that this caused it, it's that this made me weak, so everything proliferated in the negative. But you're not gonna hear doctors tell you that. You sure as hell they're not gonna hear Adia. They'll tell you to go buy his magic candy bars that he sells. Listen, when you're insulin resistant, you have very high circulating, it's a big old callus, look at that thing, man. High circulating insulin levels. And insulin doesn't just regulate glucose, it's growth hormone, activates IGF-1. So watch, high insulin, high IGF-1. Cancer cells go to a buffet. Cancer cells adore insulin, man. It's like me and my wife, she is like insulin. I love my wife. I'm just not cancer, that's all. I'm like a piece of cake. Like I just love my wife. That's what cancer cells are to insulin. And here's the problem. Cancer cells have more insulin receptors than any other normal cell in your biology. High insulin literally feeds cancer cells and tells them to grow. But when are you guys hearing this? You're not. Listen to this research. I'll blow your mind. 2018 Lancet study, Jim Anucci and all his colleagues show that they analyzed data from 3 million plus people who showed that high insulin levels are independently associated with increased cancer across eight different cancer types. Eight. I'll give you some just so you understand. Full-in cancer, 40% increase. Breast cancer, 45% increase. Prostate cancer, 45% increase risk. Pancreatic cancer, 50% increase risk. That is not correlation noise. That is a clear biochemical mechanism causing the problem. Here's the way it works. High insulin activates the P13K, AKTM, Tor pathway in cells. This is the cellular, grow it any cost kind of pathway. Cancer cells, they take this and they stand on the skinny pedal with that. They run with it, nonstop. Look, and I already talked about how red or true tide restores insulin sensitivity, right? See, 2022 nature reviews. But here's what happens when you restore insulin sensitivity. I talked about this earlier, about 20 minutes earlier. So I don't need to do it again. Get redundant. You guys will get bored in here. Probably bored enough already listening to me on my rant on a Monday. But here's what happens when you reduce it. Fasting insulin drops about 50%. Post-prandial, after eating, insulin spikes decrease dramatically. Cancer cells lose their favorite fuel and their favorite growth signal. And that pathway that I just, the end tour pathway that I talked about deactivates. 2020, clinical cancer research showed reducing fasting insulin levels by 40% reduced. Oh, this is gonna blow your mind. Cancer cell proliferation, 45%. You guys need to start looking at the numbers and understanding how this works. Listen, look at the ATP shortage. Here's how this causes cancer. I'm gonna just stitch this all together and then you do what you want with it. Here's the Warburg effect again, baby. Discovered 1924. Yes, I realized 1931 was a Nobel Prize. 1924, auto Warburg, man. Still the most important thing about cancer to this day. And yet nobody is researching the hell out of that. Normal cells much prefer aerobic metabolism. They use oxygen in their mitochondria to produce the ATP very efficiently. About 30 ATP per glucose molecule. That's, wait till you hear this flip side of this equation. You'll understand why that's a big number. When your cells are ATP depleted or they're beat up or they're metabolically destroyed or damaged or whatever, they switch to anaerobic metabolism, which is essentially fermentation, right? So they produce ATP significantly less efficiently to ATP per glucose molecule. So to understand your 28 loss, that's not good. But here's what happens. Anaerobic metabolism produces something called lactic acid. Obviously acidic. Your cells get stressed, your DNA gets stressed. When your DNA is stressed and your ATP is in the gutter, your cell has only two choices. Option A, I feel like the rock, right? You have option A, option B. What is option B? Pretty much the opposite of option A. Listen, the rundown is probably one of my favorite movies. I friggin' love Dwayne Johnson in that movie. I think DJ is an awesome dude. And what is it, Sean Williams Scott? We all know him as Stiffler, which is hilarious because he's branded for life. He's funny. Christopher Walken, refrigerator. It's such a good movie. Anyway, you gotta watch it. So they have these two options. Option A is repair the damage, which requires massive amounts of ATP. And option B, desperately fighting for survival with broken DNA, which requires significantly less ATP, but a broken cell that's under metabolic duress is always a cancer cell. It comes to cancer cell. It's inevitable. 2022 Nature Cell Biology showed tumor cells arise specifically, listen to this. Excuse me, specifically in regions of chronic hypoxia, which is low oxygen and low ATP availability. That's even better. More specifically, they found that tumor cells had 80%. 80% reduced mitochondrial ATP production compared to normal adjacent tissue. So it's not even someone else. This is adjacent to the very cells that are cancer cells. This is the past year effect. In reverse, your cells can't afford to repair themselves. So they mutate. Cancer is literally the result of ATP starvation. Who's told you that so far? Except Dr. T, if you think I don't care, I don't put this kind of time in for myself. I do it for you because I love you. And I love you enough to tell you the truth and help you. Listen, here's how Red Ritru Tide, and I talked about this earlier. So let me just explain real quick. 2020 Diabetes Care showed that the Red Ritru Tide increases ATP production in muscle cells, 55%. Remember, but here you need to understand what that means for cancer prevention. Watch, more ATP available. Cells can afford to repair their DNA. They can afford to maintain the apoptosis function, the programmed cell death. They can actually maintain it. They can turn it on and off when they need to. Cells don't need to switch to anaerobic metabolism. Cells stay normal when you have ATP. Here's the mechanism. Red Ritru Tide increases, this is such a cool one because you gotta hear this. Listen to me on this. Red Ritru Tide increases mitochondrial biogenesis. So more mitochondria, but it does more. It also improves mitochondrial function. So each mitochondria on itself works better. That's a two X effect, baby. Do you know how cool that is? Listen, let me connect this all very clearly, okay? Watch, and I'll just, I'll bring this home as quickly as I can because I'm looking at it's 44 minutes in. insulin resistance, no, systemic inflammation, NF-Kappa B activation. Cancer promotion genes get turned on. Red Ritru Tide comes in, reduces NF-Kappa B by 70%. You have insulin resistance, high IGF-1 signaling. Cancer cells have a feeding frenzy. It's like putting chum in the water for a shark. Red Ritru Tide comes in, reduces fasting insulin by 50%. You have an ATP shortage. You can't repair DNA along with all the other things. You pop those, all this stuff can't work, right? So cells mutate. Red Ritru Tide comes in, increases ATP production, 55%. You're fixing all three mechanisms at the same damn time. This isn't theoretical, by the way. This is actual biochemistry that they've shown. Watch, 2019, nature reviews, endocrinology, analyzing 47 different studies proved that addressing metabolic dysfunction, the specific ones that I talk about, inflammation, insulin resistance, mitochondrial failure prevents 60% of all cancers. Another way to say that is this. Most cancer is a metabolic disease, not a damn genetic disease. It's not in your genes and your mommy and daddy didn't give it to you. You need to look at the liver, by the way, before I button this up. It's like the linchpin of this entire thing. Because fixing the liver is crucial for cancer prevention. If your liver is screwed, you are gonna have problems. Your liver is the master regulator of all three metabolic failures. And most people won't talk about this either. When your liver is healthy and has good mitochondrial, great, epic, savage mitochondrial function, it clears excess estrogen. Estrogen excess, just so you know, promotes breast cancer, endometrial cancer, prostate cancer, didn't know that, guys, did ya? Healthy liver metabolizes estrogen. A sick liver lets it accumulate. It produces leptin sensitivity. Watch, so liver is the main site of leptin signaling. When your liver is inflamed, leptin resistance sets up camp and hangs out. Leptin resistance promotes cancer growth. 2018 obesity reviews showed leptin resistance increases cancer three times. You guys have to understand this. You guys cherry pick your research, looking for ways to support eating like an idiot and to support taking terrible things. I'm doing this so you actually have the answer, so you can just go, how do I make my biology virtually like a juggernaut? You wanna know what I do in the black card. I turn people into juggernauts and I build their body out of friggin' adamantium and vibranium. That's all I care about. I want you to be able to go home to your wife and your kids or your husband and your kids, or to your kids or your job or whatever it is, and you have the most epic son of a bitch life, F you to everybody else, trying to turn you off life that you possibly can. That's it. I have people dumping their medications left from center because they don't need them. Why would you not wanna do that? I'm just really trying to help you guys. Your liver regulates growth factors. Your liver produces and clears growth factors. I said this before. A damaged fatty liver full of inflammatory cells can't do this. Growth factors accumulate, cancer cells, what do you think they do? They exploit the shit out of this. It controls glucose metabolism. Healthy liver maintains glucose homeostasis, right? It maintains insulin sensitivities. NAFL, NAFLD, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, causes both insulin resistance and systemic hyperglycemia. Hyper, not hypo, hyper. High glucose feeds cancer cells. Remember the Warburg effect again? Just comes walking in all the time. 1924, you just can't get away from that guy because he was right. When red and true tide reverses hepatic steatosis by 50% and then reduces hepatic inflammation, it's not just fixing your liver. It's reestablishing the metabolic HQ that controls whether or not cancer even develops. 1921, hepatology showed that reversing NAFLD reduced hepatocellular carcinoma incidence, 70% over five years, five, it gets even better. It reduced all the other cancers as well. Colon, breast, prostate, pancreatic by 30%. Just that, that's literally just touching the surface. Here's why, because the liver doesn't just prevent liver cancer, it prevents all cancers by maintaining metabolic health. Your body is built for war and it's the most savage machine that exists. You've been taught that it's not. When's the last time you had to think about solving a cut? You didn't, fibrin, fibrinogen, vitamin K, all that stuff just did its job. You didn't have to think, did you? What about your bones repairing? What about all osteoblast activity? Did you ever have to think about that? No, you didn't, snapped the genesis. You never have to think about that. Your body is designed to heal, man. You're being taught that it's like, I need a drug and I need, and if you go, well, don't you need peptides? Peptides are just freaking signals. That's why they can't patent them. That's why they can't get around this and they are trying so hard to get in the way of that because it is taking a normal biological function that you are designed with and just tapping the lever going, hey man, you need to go back to where the way you were when you were 15, where it all worked perfectly. That's all it's doing. Listen, you can go through this all day. Listen, 2019, just listen to this for, just please listen. 2019, nature reviews endocrinology, comprehensive review is the best one I told you this, but they analyzed 47 separate studies and concluded that all, I can't, you guys gotta hear this again and again. Addressing all three metabolic biological failures, all my three biological failures, I'm the one that came up with this. 65% reduction in cancer incidence over 10 years. That's not maybe cancer, you guys. That's a statistical certainty. By the way, the elephant in the room where everybody's, I don't know about those, FDA though is Redditrutide Safe, zero published research studies showing adverse effects of redditrutide that resulted in any serious harm, zero. Not, we found some minor side effects, not some people experienced X and had to discontinue, zero serious adverse events, zero. You can't say that about anything else at all. Here's the thing that makes people very certain people, the people that are belching you for money, the people that are online on social media, making reaction videos to me, people are gonna turn off this heater, it's killing me in here and I'm already lit enough. People that are making reaction videos to my stuff, trying to challenge everything I say and everything I put out. Yet I'm not trying to sell you a thing. Where have I tried to sell you anything in this video? Hey, but if you buy right now, I'll give you a discount code and I don't. Go ahead. You think me putting a link to Elite Biogenics or applying for the black card makes me a salesman? No, you guys keep sending me emails asking me how to join. There you go. How do I work with you? There you go. That's how you wanna work with me? Apply at unlockthecard.com. Mia, my personal executive assistant will handle the whole damn thing and get you set up. The end. Where do I get it? Elite Biogenics. My company. There you go. I don't know what else to tell you, but this is what makes certain people, the people that are trying to steal my stuff or tell you that it's bad, not mine, just in general, and that peptides are unregulated and you should only buy from compounding pharmacies and they're very, very bad if you don't. You guys need to go pounds sand. Here's the problem. Red or true tide is cheap to make. It's highly effective. It addresses the root cause of almost every single damn disease and it's not being marketed as a cancer therapy, which means it's flying under the radar, baby. Cancer industry, 250 billion, give or take. Chemo, radiation, immunotherapy, surgery. Prevention would reduce that market, 80, 90%. Imagine if red or true tide became, just listen, follow me on this, it's just a type of thing. Imagine if red or true tide became standard care for metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes. If it truly prevents cancer at scale, it would eliminate the need for almost every cancer treatment. You know what that changes? The profit equation. Just think about it. Chemotherapy, 150K to 200K per patient, 1,000, 150,000 to 200,000. Radiation therapy, 50,000 to 100,000 minimum per patient. And if you go buy insurance coverage at all, sure. Dumbass, how much are you paying every month on your insurance premiums? Cancer immunotherapy, 100,000 to 200,000 minimum per year. Red or true tide, 500 per month, if that. One prevents cancer for five, six K a year. The other treats it once it shows up for a quarter million dollars per occurrence. The financial incentive is obvious. Follow the money. If you're going to take my videos and make reaction videos, look at who's making the reaction video. I'll help you. The number of reaction videos I've made, zero. I don't care. I don't care. I'm not gonna make a reaction video for somebody making reaction video about me. I just don't follow my money and follow their money and see where it leads. The mechanism is sound of all of this, whether it's read out or my master classes or the information they give you. And the research proves it. Look, let me give you a complete picture of what Reddit true tide does to cancer risk. Just look at the three biological failures. Look at that and then I'll let you out of class early and go play at recess, get your juice box, your high C, whatever it is people have now. Look at failure one, systemic inflammation, right? Causes 20% minimum, 25% of all cancers. Here's how NFCAP would be activation, pro-growth genes suppresses apoptosis, right? And the solution, red true tide walks in, reduces NFCAP would be activation by 70%. Proven, 2020, inflammation research. How about failure two? Do this all day, baby. insulin resistance, right? High insulin, high IGF, cancers have a field day, right? Causes 30% plus of all cancers. So here's how it feeds cancer cells, it activates the P13K, IKT, MTOR pathway, right? Red or true tide comes in and reduces insulin 60%. Hey, Eli Lilly is the one that actually proved that in 2023. The very people that are trying to make sure that you can't get it for less than $1,500 a vial. You guys think they're being altruistic? Look at the ATP shortage, failure three. Low mitochondrial ATP, high ROS, right? Reactive oxygen species punching holes in your cells in your DNA, 35% of all cancers. Here's how it works. Remember what I said, your DNA, your cells can't afford to prepare the DNA. They switch to the Warburg effect, right? Switch to anaerobic metabolism to ATP versus 30 for glucose molecule. And you accumulate all these mutations without the ability to sweep them off. Red or true tide comes in and increases ATP. Production 55% reduces reactive oxygen species by 50%. All proven, 2020 diabetes care, 2021 free radical biology have all proved this stuff. So you want the mathematical reality behind this? You want some numbers? Look at 20% of cancers prevented by fixing inflammation. 30% of cancers prevented by fixing insulin. 35% of cancers prevented by fixing the ATP shortage. 10% overlap between categories, if you wanna look at that. You wanna look at the total cancer prevention? You wanna do some friggin' math? 65% of all cancers? Solve those three. If you had a 65% increase in your paycheck, in your health, in your quality of your marriage, in your fitness, whatever it is, your business revenue, you guys would be all over it like white on rice. But you guys complain instead of going, wow, this guy gave me the answers. And once you read a true tide is a longevity peptide. Stop microdosing it. I don't care who makes a video about that and says, yes, you should. That doesn't follow by chem. That proves somebody who's never, dude, I've seen a million patients. I do this every day. So you can sit there and go, get all this science. I don't care how many PhDs you think you have. If you're challenging that, what are they selling? Not selling anything. I just want you to do it right. Just so you know that 65% pretty much matches the 2019 nature reviews and no chronology analysis showing that simultaneous metabolic intervention prevents 65% of all cancers. So just let the math speak for itself. I understand. The liver is the central organ in cancer prevention and you guys beat it up all day taking medications under the illusion that, you know, Lyrica or Aracept or Naminda or whatever it is, Rynvoke or whatever you guys are taking is making you healthy. It's not, you have to pull your head out of the sand and start looking around and realizing that. The information is here, but it's being suppressed. Your health is aching to work. And it's being shut down by the very things you keep running to and you don't feel well. Look at your liver is 3% about your body weight contains about 15% of your body's blood at any given moment. Just so you know, maybe you didn't know that. Everything that happens metabolically runs through. What do you think? That big brown organ that people have eaten when they were, uh, liver's nasty. Some of you guys like it, but every time my parents made liver it made me want to vomit. It's right up there with eggplant, garbage. But when your liver has good mitochondrial function and low-inferment, implement much. I'll just go, I'll give you a synopsis of this baby. Clear as hormones, healthy liver metabolizes estrogen very efficiently. Estrogen access promotes 40% of female cancers. Liver health equals a solid estrogen balance equals cancer prevention produces metabolic signals, right? The liver produces FGF 21 adipinectin. All these other metabolic hormones that tell cells that everything is okay, you're good. You don't have to do anything crazy. Just grow normally. Don't go nuts. Sick liver, liver can't do that. It controls your blood glucose massively. You guys think it's an insulin issue. It's a liver issue. High glucose is cancer fuel. It's like nitromethane for this thing. Healthy liver maintains glucose about 80 to 100 fasting is about the number you're looking for, by the way. A non-alcoholic fatty liver disease liver loses glucose control and allows hyperglycemia, which if you listen to anything in this podcast is like fuel, it feeds, it's here's the buffet baby. Go ahead, cancer cells go nuts. It clears growth factors, IGF-1, HDF, a parasite growth factor. All the other growth factors that need to be cleared by a healthy liver. This is important. This is how your metabolism works. A fatty inflamed liver can't do this. Growth factors accumulate and cancer cells go, oh, I'm gonna exploit the shit out of this now. 2021 hepatology showed 70% cancer reduction after non-alcoholic fatty liver disease reversal. It was, and it showed that it wasn't just about liver cancer. Listen to me. They showed it wasn't just about liver cancer. They showed it was about reestablishing the metabolic headquarters that controls whether cancer develops anywhere in your biology. When red and true tide reverses hepatic steatosis, it's not a side benefit. It is the foundation of cancer prevention. I don't get anything for this. This is just me giving you information. I need you to get this because it's irrefutable. Every time, let me just touch on this once more. And I know I'm just redundant as hell, but I want you guys to understand this. Every single chronic disease in biology, obesity, diabetes, heart disease, dementia, Alzheimer's, cancer, it doesn't matter what it is. They all share the same three root causes. Systemic inflammation, 20% of all cancers, by the way. insulin resistance, mitochondrial dysfunction rate, cellular glucose insensitivity, 30% of all cancers. ATP shortage, the electron transport chain, inefficiency equals an energy problem. 35% of all cancers. Red and true tide targets all three at the same time. I don't care what you do. I'm giving you a piece of information so you can have something to choose. I don't care if you want to rub some magic root on your eyeball because some shaman said you have to do that and you're in the Amazon. I'm giving you information so you can go, maybe I should try this. Because activating receptors, what red and true tide does, reduces inflammation, 50%, improves mitochondrial function, doors parasympathetic balance, increases mitochondrial biogenesis, 40%, restores insulin sensitivity, 60%, right? Nature reviews endocrinology, 2022 proved that. It boosts ATP production, 55%, 2020 diabetes care. I could do this all damn day. It mobilizes metabolic resources. It activates all the cellular cleanup, even autophagy. It triggers mitochondrial renovation. The evidence is irrefutable. The mathematical reality is this, cancer isn't magic, it's biochemistry. Bad biochemistry for long enough equals cancer. And that's why I get so worked up with this. The three biological failure model that I came up with explains 65%, honestly, I'm gonna go past the research, purely anecdotal and I'll just say it, explains 100% of all cancers, all human cancers. But 2019 nature reviews endocrinology and analyzed 47 separate studies and proved that it at least explains 65%. I think I'm bad, 1,000 baby. Because redditruetide reverses all three of those failures at the same time. It addresses the root cause of cancer. Here's the truth, they don't really want you to know. The greatest medicine isn't a pill, it's not chemotherapy, it's not radiation, it's not surgery, it's what prevents it. That's the greatest medicine. Restoring metabolic function, however you do it does exactly that. Whether it's reddit or motC or a great diet or going for a walk every day or having a great marriage and all the things that you need to do and not eating like an imbecile and not conducting yourself like a toddler and not spending your day in Instagram, hating on people that are doing life better than you or hating on people out here trying to freaking help you. Redditruetide doesn't just make you lose weight, it doesn't just improve your diabetes, it literally restores the three fundamental biological systems that determine whether your cells even become cancerous or not. It fixes systemic inflammation, stores insulin sensitivity and it pretty much resurrects your busted, tired, old mitochondria so you get some ATP. These aren't vague improvements, these are very specific, very measurable and they're documented improvements that directly correlate with cancer prevention across thousands and thousands of peer reviewed studies. I don't understand, this is for you. I've been through this hell, I've been through cancer, I've laid in a bed, looked at my wife and felt like a failure. I've had an oxygen machine burbling and bubbling away in our bedroom, the tube to the cannula was like 40 feet long. I'd have to hyperventilate before I went out to the gym and never missed a workout. I did that as my wife would run out down the tiles or down the slate tile with the machine and then plug it in and give me the cannula so I wouldn't pass out in the garage, my gym. You guys, honestly, if you're coming out here just to throw hate or shade or anything, you're ignorant. If you're coming out here to go, how do I better my life? I don't understand the former, I've been on the other side and I promise you this, you'll worry about everything and anything and you'll concern yourself with somebody's opinions and whether or not your post got enough likes and whether your mommy loved you enough or your daddy didn't spank you enough. Now you're an idiot, because we can all tell, by the way, just so you know, and you don't have a work ethic or you do or your business isn't making the money, whatever you think about, all these crazy problems and why you don't like what the herty words are that are being said on CNN or whatever until you get deathly ill and then you only have one problem, one, and you don't care about anything else other than getting better. I know, so maybe take what I'm telling you seriously because I'm giving you things that like, your health is, it improves when you stop treating symptoms and you start treating causes, you reverse everything. This is what happens when you understand that disease isn't random, it's the inevitable result of metabolic failure. This is what happens when you give your body the hormonal signals that say your metabolism is restored, it's okay, your cells are protected, you're gonna be all right, human body, you're gonna be all right, and your body believes you and it becomes true. That's what real health is, that's what being a real doctor is. When I see patients and clients, that's what I do. I make sure your biology believes you again. Anyway, I gotta go, never miss.