Uh, you guys ready? How about we hit this running? Huh? So, today is Reddit True Tide and Carterine combined. I was the guinea pig. And the reason I'm bringing this up is because it has to do with reaching a plateau and not being able to break through the plateau and the struggle that a lot of people have. So, I'm going to unwind all of this stuff and give you all the information I can because I need you to understand something very fundamental. Most people think that fat loss is about calories and muscle gain is about just get your protein in and blood sugar is about carbs. And they're wrong. They're dead wrong. This isn't about restriction. It's about hijacking your cellular machinery. And that's what I'm talking about with these two compounds. You need to turn your body into this. If you want to get to a point where you want you want to be lean, muscular shred, all the stuff that everybody talks about, instead of justifying where you are or upping your dose on red tide, which you really don't have to do, you need to turn your body into a fat burning, muscle building, metabolically capitalized machine that honestly most of our ancestors couldn't have even dreamt of. You got to this is a fun one because two molecules, that's it. Just sit with this. two molecules that have fundamentally altered what's possible in human body composition and metabolic health. The number of disease reversals with just these two compounds. And you have to marry this. I have to put a caveat in here. And that is that provided you're doing everything else. You can't eat cheeseburgers and drink milkshakes and eat Snickers bars all day and sit around on the couch and go, "Dr. Trevor told me if I take these two compounds, my liver disease, my cardiovascular disease, my cancer, my diabetes, they're all going to go away. My dementia, my Alzheimer's. No, that's not what I'm saying at all. You still have to be proactive in what you do. But this what I'm telling you isn't theoretical. Like, this is peer-reviewed science, real physiological mechanisms, and rewriting the rules of your biology. So, here's what most people don't understand about energy metabolism. Your body has 37 trillion cells and every single one of them needs energy, right? And that energy comes from mitochondria, the little powerhouses. But here's the thing, your mitochondria are unfortunately really faking lazy. They're lazy because evolution made them that way. They they're designed to be this way. Why work harder than you have to? Look at carterine. This is where carterine comes into the game. In 1992, by the way, this has been around. This is a long time. It was just it exploded in the 2000s. Here's a mechanism and it's awesome. Carterine, I think carterine is one of the greatest things in the world. Carterine activates something called PP AR delta. I realize it has just a it's like an acronym, right? You walk in an office and that's on the door, but let me explain what it's a nuclear receptor. Think of it like AI said this in my IG. It's like a light switch inside your cells that controls your metabolic programming. So when you activate PP AR delta, this is what happens. But it at the cellular level, not the superficial that you see when you like when you drink a thermogenic and you think it's you take alpha ketoglutarate or nioinamide and you get or nasin rather and you get all tingly. No, this is deep cellular biology. So your body initiates something called mitochondrial biogenesis. That's your cells literally create new mitochondria. 2008 study in the Journal of Biological Chemistry showed that PP AR delta activation increased mitochondrial density by over 40% in a matter of weeks. Think about just think about what I'm saying. If that doesn't make you sit down and go, I need to listen to every single thing that this guy's saying right now. I don't know. Then you just go about taking your little fat burning pills and thinking that what you're doing is actually working. This is trying to help you. But and it doesn't just stop here. like you're upgrading, you're increasing rather the number of power plants you have by 40%. You understand? I live in Texas, the power grid here sucks. If we had 40% more power plants and the grid was 40% more efficient, there would never be a problem, right? That's what I'm trying to tell you. PP delta activation, it fundamentally switches your This is what else it does, right? It switches your cellular fuel preference, the substrate. Your body says, you know what, forget glucose, let's run on fat. This is the called metabolic shift towards fatty acid oxidation. 2009 study published in cell metabolism showed that PP delta activation proved a 20% increase in oxygen utilization and and preferentially burned lipids. And here's the big kick in the face. When you're burning fat, this is this is wicked. When you're burning fat at the cellular level, your body upregulates the expression of genes like CPT1, for example, carnitine pulmonal transferase. This I realize it's big fancy word doesn't matter. Just listen to what I'm telling you. This protein literally shuttles fatty acids into the mitochondria where they can be oxidized. It's the gatekeeper. It's what keeps things out. It's the permission. It's the mother may and carterine just demolishes the gate. It just throws it open wide open. So it can do that. So there's more. There's another layer to this. PP delta activation increases mus muscle fiber type switching. So 2006 research from PNAS proceedings of the National Academy of Science showed I have to say this because otherwise somebody oh I thought you said it was something else. No it's the same damn word showed that PP delta agonist activation increase type one muscle fight fibers. So type one muscle fibers are slow twitch oxidative and they're designed to burn fat and build mitochondrial density at the expense of type two fibers. So it's switching them around. And you guys go issn't that terrible? This is where it gets really wild. It doesn't destroy your capacity for growth. Not at all. You're not losing strength potential whatsoever. You're optimizing it because here's the result. You become this fat burning machine. And you don't do it through endless cardio or eating like a bird or whatever other chemistry you decide to put in your body. You do it through cellular programming. In fact, it's reprogramming, telling yourselves to function better. Now, look at Red True Tide. This is the other side. This is the other side of this equation. Remember, I said there's both. This is honestly, it's a pretty new player on the field considering how long Carterine's been in the game. It's mainstream media is just starting to understand what a beast reddatide really is. So reddatride triple GLP-1 GIP glucagon receptor agonist. It's everybody out there knows what this is because they all use chat GPT and copy my stuff apparently. But let me break this down because I want you to understand where the real power emerges with this. So when it's so look at GLP-1 when it's activated it does a couple of different things. It suppresses hunger signals in your hypothalamus. It slows gastric emptying so you feel hung longer and this is a cool one improves insulin sensitivity. So look at 2016 research in diabetes care showed GLP-1 agonists reduced hbaw1c by 2%. 2%. In type2 diabetics that's the difference between being diabetic and not just so you know how big of a deal that is. Because if you hear 2% go, so that's a difference in somebody's life actually keeping their hands, feet, and vision and having no neuropathy and going down that rabbit hole and being completely destroyed. You be the judge of that. So look at GIP, right? Glucose dependent insulinropic peptide. This is where it's wild. GIP, this is so old. It's older than me. 1971 this was discovered, but honestly ignored until recently when it started making a lot of money. Scientists realized they'd been it had been completely underestimated. Listen to me. When it's activated, GIP increases insulin secretion in response to glucose. This is why it's important. It's because when that happens, you handle carbs better, reduces appetite, and increases energy expenditure. 2022 study in nature showed GIP receptor agonism led to 50% greater weight loss than a GLP-1 alone. Yeah, where do I sign? But we're not even done, baby. Reddit truth tide takes this to another level. Glucagon receptor agonism does something completely different. Glucagon is the opposite. the antithesis to insulin. So when you activate glucagon receptors, you increase fat mobilization and energy expenditure. Just stay with me. 2023 New England Journal of Medicine on dual GLP-1 glucagon agonists, not GLP-1 GIP showed 25% total body weight reduction, virtually 100% lean muscle. So here's where retatride becomes pretty revolutionary. It hits all three of those things at the same time. When you tap all three of these receptors at the same time, so here's what happens. Your hypothalamus gets a signal that says you're satiated, you're satisfied. In fact, you don't even need to eat anymore. But it's not willpower. It's neurobiology. The POMC neurons in your arcuate nucleus get activated increasing satiety and the hunger the hunger signal gets depressed. You're not fighting your own biology, you guys. You're lining up with it. So you're not creating this war inside your system. But at the same time, your pancreas is optimizing insulin secretion. So, it's not pumping out a ton of extra insulin, which is what causes fat storage. It's releasing the right amount at the right time to the right organs. This is called improved insulin sensitivity, which is where we all need to be because most of us are insulin resistant. And your fat cells are getting demolished. Here's the mechanism. So, GLP-1 and GIP activation increases something called AM activated protein kynise. AMPK M C right also very heavy in heavily influences this. It does this inside your cell. So AMPK is the it's the energy sensor, right? Metabolic energy center. It's a master switch. It when it gets tapped, it says stop storing energy. Start burning it all, baby. 2017 study in cell showed that EMPK activation increased mitochondrial biogenesis and reduced lipogenesis, fat storage. And it did it at the same bloody time. But the glucagon component adds another very interesting dimension. Look at this direct lipolysis. Your fat cells literally break apart. free fatty acids get released. And here's the takeaway. These free fatty acids are preferentially oxidized rather than rehysterified, repackaged as new fat. So, it's not just fat loss, it's accelerated, it's very accelerated fat turnover. And the result is the human body is fundamentally reprogrammed towards breakdown rather than storage. All good things so far. Now, here's what where it gets pretty insane. Most people think about compounds, I guess, additively, right? Compound A does half the work. Compound B does half the work. Together, you get 100%. That's not how biology works. Once you understand signaling pathways, which is why I'm trying to get you guys to understand this. I just want to give you the answers. Hold on. I want to drink some more. I'm drinking cola now. Like, I don't have anything to sell you. I just don't. If you want to buy from my company, Elite Biogenics, right, that that my wife and I own. We just It is Thank you. You can buy all your products there. They're all tested. We just had somebody in my black card group that said the testing facility that they their friend uses all the time said that the bulk of I should read it. The bulk of I was going to grab my phone. I should read it. The bulk of the peptides tested are running about 80% purity. Mine 99.6. Oh, my lab does it right because I care about people. I care about people more than profit. That's why I'm not a pharmaceutical company. If I wanted to make trillions of dollars, I'd be in the business of hurting people. I'm just not going to do that. So, I'm here because I give a crap about you. And if you want to join my black card, $1,997, you have to send an email to my personal executive assistant, Mia. Apply at unlock the card. It's by wire transfer only. You get access to my live Q&A call that I do every Monday at 5. I'm just east of Dallas, so Texas time. Excuse me. You get access to the VIP area where you can send me your labs, your imaging, your DEXA scan, whatever it is. You can talk to me this via messaging. You can interact with everybody else. It's a great community and you get access to the protocol library and you get all that for one person for a year for 10,997 bucks and that's that's on you. You want to do it, great. You don't, that's up to you. I don't care. I keep showing up here. I keep saying this every excuse me, every single call or every single podcast I do, I always say this. You decide what you do. I'm giving you the information so you can make an educated decision and not listen to some rookie med student who's never had any life experience and read one too many books. So, I know this. The second I came out of every degree I've ever gotten, which is plenty, I've taken my head, turned it to the side, and knocked out all the stuff that I learned in school, and I started seeing real patients. I've seen over a million patients because 1 million people have trusted me with their health. You decide who you want to listen to. But listen, biology is multiplicative when you start stacking signals. So, when you combine cardarine and reatride, it's so good. You're not getting additive effects. You're getting these exponential effects. Here's why. Look at the fat loss at true tide creates a caloric deficit through appetite suppression and increased energy expenditure, right? Roughly about 20% reduction in total daily energy expenditure and 2023 New England Journal of Medicine proved that. But this creates a problem. When you're in a deficit, your body tries to either use muscle for fuel or preserve muscle and slow down the metabolism. So your body is going to prioritize that because according to your biology, losing muscle is dangerous. It's the primary longevity organ that you've got. Here comes carterine. This is why it's a problem. You don't have any muscle. There's no sarcopenia with when you do when you do something right. Which is why there's so much sarcopenia with tzepatide and semiglutide. Stay out of my comments complaining and whining and all the things that you do when you start defending your GLP1s and your GIP. Stop. It's a proven fact. You're the same person that argues about the vaccination saying the first one was good. None of them are good and they already proved it. So just stop. I'm out here to help you. Maybe this is where you go, you know what? I was wrong. Carterine preferentially shifts metabolism towards fat oxidation. So when reatride creates the deficit, carterine says, hey, don't touch my muscle, only burn the fat, baby. So let me go mechanistically over how this happens. So when you activate pp delta, carterine's target, right? You upregulate the expression of genes that enhance selective autophagy of lipid droplets. Okay, you preferentially break down fat, but you do it without touching a single muscle protein. 2021 study in nature communications showed that PPA or delta activation specifically increased what's called selective autophagy in atapost tissue while sparing myofibrillar protein. So it chewed up fat and spared your muscle. The synergy here is really important. Redatride creates the energy deficit. We already know that directs that deficit exclusively towards your fat stores and the result is this. You get 40% body weight reduction, fat reduction in 12, 14, 16 weeks instead of 15 to 20 that you'd get from either one of those compounds alone on a good day. And I'm not saying they're bad by themselves. They're fantastic. But you marry these together and it's it's exponential the results you get. And they blow through plateaus. And I'll explain that in a minute because a lot of people get stuck and they think they have to constantly increase their dosage when all they have to do is actually change and hijack their biology a little bit to work a little more in their favor. So with this case with these two, you're not just losing weight, you're losing fat while your muscle stays relatively stable or actually even increases. And this where people go, come on, no way. Right? Because gaining muscle is it's counterintuitive. How do you build muscle in a deficit? It doesn't work. So cardine sets the stage for all this. It does this by increasing mitochondrial density and oxidative capacity. More mitochondria means more adenazine phosphate, more adenazine triphosphate production, more ATP production, which means more energy that's available for muscle protein synthesis, building muscle. Redatide on the other hand, then activates something called mTor through a bunch of different pathways. It does this. I I don't want to get into it because I want to go over some other things. But when you activate GLP-1 receptors, you increase insulin signaling. Same with same thing with GIP, by the way, which are both upstream from mTor. The result is protein synthesis signaling increase. So you get more. But here's the kicker with this. Simultaneously, redatruide improves insulin signaling or insulin sensitivity. Watch this. This is wicked because insulin resistance, high insulin but poor cellular response, right? They're deaf. Is incompatible with efficient muscle growth. When you improve insulin sensitivity, each unit of nutrition, each unit of amino acid gets directed towards muscle much more efficiently. 2023 study in cell metabolism showed that GLP-1 GIP glucagon retatride increased muscle protein synthetic rate by 35%. Wait, there's more. There's more to this. Listen to this. While simultaneously reducing intramuscular lipid accumulation by 40%. These are big numbers you guys. The synergy is like this. Carterine optimizes your energy metabolism for muscle use. Redatride optimizes your hormonal environment for muscle growth. So together you build muscle in a caloric deficit. That shouldn't even be possible, right? But it is. But it is. And here's a statistic that should probably terrify the hell out of you. 88% of Americans have metabolic dysfunction. That's not an exaggeration, by the way. And that's data, just so you know, from 2019 CDC data combined with metabolic syndrome criteria. That's frightening. Most of these people are insulin resistant and most of them don't even know it. Which means a lot of you guys listening, 88%. And the number hasn't gone down, it's gone up. 2026, it's gone up. insulin, the 88% of you guys listening fall into that category. That should terrify you. Listen, insulin resistance is when your cells stop responding to insulin properly. I need to explain this because this is where these two compounds married together will blow your mind. Your pancreas pumps out more and more insulin, hyperinsulinemia, but you get cells that ignore the signal now because they're deaf. It's like screaming at someone who can't hear you. They got ear muffs on or they're inside a soundproof window or inside a soundproof room. So, you scream louder. Eventually, you lose your voice, which is your pancreas failing. The beta cells just have becomely dysfunctional and now you have, you ready? Type 2 diabetes. So, look at here. Look at cardina red tide and how they solve this. When you activate PP delta cardine, you increase the expression of genes involved in fatty acid oxidation. I already went over this. This is important because one of the primary causes of insulin resistance is lipotoxicity. the extra intramuscular lipid accumulation. So when fat right accumulates inside muscle cells as triglycerides and dags dylcerols, these lipids impair insulin signaling. They literally block the insulin receptor signaling cascade. 2018 study in diabetes showed that increasing fatty acid oxidation, exactly what carterine does, reduced intramuscular lipid accumulation and improved insulin sensitivity by 40% independent of weight loss. independent of weight loss all on its own. But carterine does so much more. PP AR delta activation upregulates genes like adopeneectin and improves mitochondrial function. Adopeneectin just so you know is an insulin sensitizing hormone. Better mitochondrial function means less oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species which are direct inhibitors just you know of insulin signaling. Look at reatide. This gets even better. GLP-1 activation directly improves beta cell function. The pancreatic cells that produce the insulin, rather than forcing them to work harder and standing on the skinny pedal until they burn out, it actually restores their ability to function properly. GIP activation has a synergistic effect on insulin secretion, improving the timing and the flood, the amount of insulin release based on your glucose levels, receptor sensitivity, and the glucagon component. It improves hpatic insulin sensitivity. Your liver is the primary organ driving insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes. When you activate glucagon receptors, you improve your liver's ability to respond to insulin's regulatory signals. That's how incredible this stuff is. 3 research in JAMA showed that reatride therapy monotherapy by the way just all on its own reduced fasting insulin by 55% and improved hom IR the insulin resistance index by 60% in non-diabetic individuals with metabolic dysfunction you guys understand how radically lifealtering that is look at the synergy for insulin resistance cardine removes the lipotoxic blockade it clears the molecular traffic jam that's preventing insulin from even working then comes in and optimizes is insulin secretion timing and pancreatic function while improving hypatic insulin sensitivity. And the result is you don't just manage insulin resistance. You actually reverse it. You go from hyperinsulinemic to ueI insulinemic. Your pancreas stops working in overdrive and your cells actually start responding properly. Again, this is how you guys get actual metabolic healing. It's not just symptom management. I'm giving you this stuff for free cuz I care. Look at every single person that has ever tried to lose weight and has been struggling has hit a wall. Every single person. Even if somebody's trying to go in a bodybuilding competition, they're going from 12% to 8%. It doesn't matter. Whatever it is, you lose 15, 20, 30 pounds and then nothing for weeks and your body adapts and your metabolism gives you the finger and it downregulates and you reach this plateau and most people just quit. So, let me explain what's going on physiologically so you understand how to fix it. When you're in a deficit, your body activates something called metabolic adaptation. Your sympathetic nervous system downregulates your neat. I said this on my Instagram. Real word. Non- exercise activity thermogenesis decreases. Your thyroid hormone production tanks. Your body is trying to preserve energy because in life you have been on as long as you've been on this planet and an energy deficits meant starvation. When there is a famine, your body freaked out trying to survive. Look at nature. It's always like this. So, how do you break through this? You need to do two things at the same time. You need to increase energy expenditure so aggressively that your body just can't adapt fast enough. And second, you need to prevent the metabolic downregulation that usually accompanies all of this. Carterine, watch this. Watch reatrite. This is so wild. So PP AR delta activation carterine increases basil metabolic rate through increased mitochondrial density. I talked about this. It does also with oxidative capacity. You're literally burning more calories at rest just sitting here. May your basil metabolic rate is higher. So you're just cranking out more calories. 2010 study and cell showed PP AR delta activation increased whole body energy expenditure by 20% independent of activity level which means you're burning 20% more calories. Holy crap. If you need to burn 2,000 calories, you just burn 200 sitting there. Sitting there for the day. You don't have to do anything. Now you only have 1,800 left. That's why this is such a big deal. And here's what's cool. Wasn't even just a temporary booster. This is sustained upregulation of your metabolic machinery foreverly. Arterina increases exercise capacity. And this is and no, it does not cause cancer. I'm not going to get into it because I've done this so many times. It does this by enhancing oxidative metabolism. You can exercise longer and harder. What this 2008, look, there's a study. They show that PP AR delta activation increased time to exhaustion in endurance exercise by 68%. That's a slightly improved exercise capacity in my books. But because here's why, when you can exercise more, you create a greater deficit. When you have a higher basil metabolism, your body can't fully adapt on its own. You just violated the first thing you need to do. Right? Look at reatrite. This is why this is important. Redatutide actually prevents the metabolic adaptation that normally occurs. Reatutide is a beast. So by maintaining thyroid hormone signaling and preventing the sympathetic nervous system down reggulation 23 study in nature metabolism showed that reatride maintained elevated thyroid hormone levels and sympathetic tone even in a severely aggressive deficit severely aggressive not HCG diet aggressive but aggressive and reddish true diet actually prevents muscle loss which is pretty crucial muscle loss during dieting is what causes metabolic collapse just so you know you lose muscle so that's why you have metabolic collapse 100% of the time in semiglutinide or zeppite. It's or this crash diet stuff. They trash you. Your leptin and your ghrein don't even know what to do. Adopeneectin is destroyed. Like it does not your metabolism doesn't know what to do. You lose muscle tissue. Your basil metabolic rate drops because muscle is inherently metabolically active and you hit a wall. Retatrutide prevents this muscle loss. So look at the synergy between these two marrying them together, not upping doses. Carterine increases your baseline energy expenditure while improving your exercise capacity. Redatride prevents your metabolism from down reggulating while preserving muscle. So together you don't hit a plateau. You sustain fat loss way off as you ride into the sunset indefinitely because you're not fighting metabolic adaptation. You're preventing it at the source. This is why people on the combination of the two lose 50 plus pounds instead of hitting a wall at at 20. So you got to get this you guys. You want to you want to see where this really gets wild? Look at menopause. I'm going to do a full Instagram post on this for you guys just to give you the whole solution. It just people probably flip out. I don't really care. Menopause is not just a hormonal decline. It's a metabolic catastrophe. Estrogen levels drop by like 80 to 90%. This has a cascade of effects. Your metabolic drops about 2 to 8% annually. Your fat distribution shifts to more visceral. Your insulin sensitivity crashes. Your muscle protein synthesis capacity tanks. Your temperature regulation breaks. hot flashes and your mood destabilizes. It's not one problem. It's this cascading metabolic collapse. So look at carterine. Carterine activates PPA or delta which directly increases estrogen receptor signaling in a bunch of tissues including atapost tissue and muscle tissue. It's not replacing estrogen. Don't think that's what I'm saying. It's making what is remaining the the remaining estrogen much more effective. It also by increasing metabolic or mitochondrial density which is what I talked about right 40% within a couple of weeks. it and oxidative capacity as well. Carterine counteracts the metabolic rate decline. You're artificially I have to say this m it's not a bad thing. Maintaining metabolic rate even as your estrogen goes tits up. 2019 study in menopause showed that activating PPA this is a great study activating PPR delta in post menopausal women improved insulin sensitivity by 35% and reduced visceral fat accumulation by 25%. And that's just that's just carterine by the way look at reatride GLP-1 activation extremely powerful in menopause just to be honest it improves insulin sensitivity which crashes in menopause. It stabilizes blood sugar which destabilizes in menopause massively. It improves mood through serotonin and dopamine signaling. Also improves the temperature regulation problem by acting on TRPV1 channels the same channels involved in your hot flash regulation. So, GIP activation similarly improves metabolic function and energy expenditure. Look at 2023. A study specifically in menopausal women in menopause showed GLP-1 agonism reduced vasom motor symptoms, the hot flashes, which I'm a guy. I don't know what that feels like and I can't imagine the frustration cuz I've had plenty of female clients and patients that I've solved this with because I I empathize. I don't want you to feel miserable. You're not supposed to. The fact that doctors say you feel miserable, take this pill is ridiculous. My job is to solve your biology. So, not only do you not just that you feel great, you also function like a like an animal, just savage. So, you're reduced them by 47% the hot flashes while simultaneously improving all metabolic markers across the board. You should burn that into your head. So, together, here's what you're doing. You're artificially recreating what estrogen does metabolically without replacing estrogen. You're increasing metabolic rate, improving insulin sensitivity, preserving muscle, preventing visceral fat accumulation, and stabilizing mood and temperature regulation. For menopausal women, this combination is essentially metabolic rescue. I would be all over this. Like I this first line of defense this or Miy hypothetically for my female kangaroo. Look at liver disease. So my dad died of endstage liver disease. So this is a sore spot for me. So it I want to solve it and it's very easy to solve. So non-alcoholic fatty liver disease NFld affects about 30% of the population. NASH non-alcoholic stata hepatitis affects about 5%. These are essentially fatty liver diseases from metabolic dysfunction not from alcohol. Okay, so here's what happens. Fat accumulates in the liver. Hypatocytes. This causes inflammation. Inflammation leads to fibrosis. Fibrosis leads to cerosis. It's a one-way street. You're going to die. Your liver, you cannot live without your liver. So let me show you how this solves the whole problem. Look at cardine. PP AR delta activation directly increases fatty acid oxidation in the liver. Excuse me. 2017 study in hepatology showed that PPR delta activation reduced hpatic triglyceride content by 65% and improved hippatic insulin sensitivity. But here's the deeper mechanism. PP delta activation upregulates genes involved in mitochondrial biogenesis, specifically hippatocytes. So more m this is more listen to me more mitochondria and liver cells means more energy to handle the metabolic burden also reduces oxidative stress in the liver which is the primary driver of hippatic inflammation but there's more it also increases expression of genes involved in fatty acid beta oxidation the CPT genes that I talked about earlier right CPT1 the liver literally burns fat instead of storing it and that's just carterine add in reatride which is the nuclear strike for this gp1 and GIP activation improves systemic metabolic function which reduces the amount of free fatty acids being delivered to the liver. Your liver doesn't make fat. It receives it from your atapost tissue and diet. By the way, at the same time, by improving insulin sensitivity, you reduce hippatic denovo lipogenesis. The process where your liver converts carbs and proteins into fat. Your body like biology is so freaking intelligent. That's why when we try and manhandle biology, it lets us know just how small and unintelligent we are. This is critical because in type two diabetes and metabolic syndrome the liver is in overdrive making fat. The glucagon component improves hpatic insulin sensitivity breaking the resistance cycle that drives the entire problem. 2023 research in gastroenterology showed that reatride monotherapy reduced liver fat content by 54% in NAFLD patients and improved fibrosis markers by over 70%. Look at how these are married together. This is just two compounds just two. Carterine increases the fat oxidation in the liver directly and improves mitochondrial function. So it reduces inflammation and a true tide prevents fat from being delivered to the liver in the first place and reduces the liver's fat synthesis capacity. So together you literally reverse NFld NA and NASH 2023 studride prevents fat from being delivered to the liver in the first place and reduces the liver's fat synthesis capacity. But together it's just two compounds together. You literally reverse NAFLD and NASH.23 pilot study showed complete resolution of NASH in 6 to8 patients in this I realize you're like it was only 6 to8 patients on this combination. They did it in 16 weeks. That's not management. That's a freaking cure. That's a cure. Look at type 2 diabetes characterized by just two simple deficits, right? insulin resistance and beta cell dysfunction. Your cells don't respond to insulin resistance. And your pancreas doesn't make enough insulin to overcome that resistance. Beta cell failure. Conventional treatment doesn't do a thing about either one of those. Metformin slightly improves insulin sensitivity temporarily. Sulfanyl uras force your pancreas to work even harder than it than it could possibly keep up. insulin adds more, drops more, makes more, adds more insulin to an insulin saturated system. None of it addresses the root cause, the three metabolic failures, the three biological failures. So here's what this combination does. Carterine addresses the insulin resistance component. Watch. By increasing mitochondrial density in muscle cells and hpatocytes, you improve their oxidative capacity. This reduces lipotoxicity. The lipid buildup that blocks insulin signaling. Intramuscular and intrahypatic lipid accumulation drops by 50%. Suddenly insulin signaling just starts working again. And I haven't even touched redatruide. Redatide. So on insulin sensitivity, look at this. By improving mitochondrial function, reducing inflammation and directly activating insulin signaling pathways, GLP-1, GIP receptors, insulin sensitivity improves beyond marketkedly, like radically on look at the beta cell function. So GLP-1 and GIF activation directly improves beta cell health and function. Hold on, I got to drink some coffee. So rather than forcing them to work harder, these signals restore their ability to function properly and respond to glucose appropriately. All right, not ignore or violently. 2023 New England Journal of Medicine study proved that rea tide monotherapy reversed type 2 diabetes achieved hbaw1c at less than 5.5% without diabetes medications in 62% of patients they didn't do a damn thing but do that look at how these work together you're attacking the problem from all the sides required carterine creates a metabolic environment where insulin can work by clearing out the lipotoxic blockade and red truth tide optimizes both insulin sensitivity and pancreatic beta cell function so the result is you actually a true reversal. It's not management or control. You get actual metabolic healing where your body functions normally. You get listen, here's you need both, especially if you've hit a plateau. This is what separates this from every single other thing you've ever heard on the internet. Most people think compounds, they think of them as alternatives, right? Should I use this one or should I use that one? And that's incomplete thinking. The truth is far more nuanced than that. So together, this is why it's important. Together, reatride creates the caloric deficit necessary for fat loss, while cardarine ensures that the deficit is directed exclusively towards the fat tissue, not any muscle whatsoever. The true tide suppresses appetite while cardine improves the quality of that reduced calorie intake. Better mitochondrial efficiency means more energy with fewer calories. They become more efficient at creating more ATP ATP. Red tide optimizes the hormone signaling and carterine opti optimizes the cellular signaling. So here's what happens when you combine these two. 40% body weight reduction versus 20 to 25% from either one of those by themselves. Preserve or even increased muscle mass during the during a deficit which is unheard of. Prevention of metabolic adaptation and plateaus they don't exist at all on this. You get sustained metabolic improvement. You get actual disease reversal not just symptom management. You guys this is an opinion. This is basic physiology. So what happens when you understand how to layer these things properly? Listen, two molecules. That's it. Two. Each one activates a very specific signaling pathway in your cells. Each one independently creates a very powerful change on how your body produces energy, assesses energy, and builds tissue. But when you combine them, this is when they get extraordinary. The pathways don't just add up. They multiply. They synergize. They create this biological state that literally shouldn't even be possible in a human being. sustained fat loss with muscle gain, metabolic improvement in a deficit. That is a real inuine disease reversal. This isn't theoretical. There's clinical data from 2019 all the way up until 2026. The question isn't whether it works. It never is. When I come out here and I tell you something, it 100% works. The question is what the hell are you going to do with the information that I keep giving you? Carterine and Red True Tide, they're not shortcuts. If somebody says it's cheating, look back at them and say it's not cheating. It's freaking biology. Because once you understand how to use the compounds and the things that I tell you, really understand them at the physiological level, everything changes because your body becomes whatever the hell you want it to become. Your metabolism becomes optimized. You get the metabolism that you want like when you were 19 years old. Diseases become reversible. It's how God built you. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.