All right, you guys hear me? Okay, got my trusty Bedros Cool coffee mug. So, listen. Today, I'm going to go over Reddit True Tide. I know I've done a couple of these, but this one's really important because there's a lot of people out there that are saying, and I actually saw one guy and and I got nothing against him. I I got nothing against anybody that says anything that is adverse to what I'm saying. Just make sure that it's legit. But the the statement was, "Should you take Reddit True Tide long term?" And he said, "No." And then he said, "Should you take it forever?" and he said absolutely hell no. But that's that's ridiculous. The question you should be asking is why wouldn't you take it forever because it's not running the same model as managed decline. So, this entire podcast is about Reddit True Tide and should you take it forever and why wouldn't you take it forever? And it's all based on, listen, peer-reviewed biochemistry that completely dismantles everything that pharmaceutical companies have built their entire billion and trillion dollar empires on. I'll give you the most dangerous information that you can have. the truth about how your body actually works and how red a true tide exposes a system that is it's fundamentally built on lies and like the the research that I give you. It's not like that one. I don't want to say her name cuz I don't want to give her any more publicity that she doesn't deserve, but where she's always like it's some rat study out of Croatia, but you are a pharma shill that is bought by big pharma whether indirectly or directly. The the research I'm going to give you at Stanford, John John's Hopkins, Harvard, Karolinska Institute, the Mayo Clinic, thousands and thousands and thousands of published studies backing every single thing that I tell you. And I do it because I want you to have the stuff like here's the fundamental problem that nobody wants to discuss. Modern medicine treats disease as a medication deficiency rather than a biological failure. This isn't accidental. This is by design and I'm going to show you everything that proves it. So, you know what I say, right? I'll move my mic here a little bit just so you understand if you wonder what the hell I'm doing for a second. So, I I always tell you this, right? every chronic disease, everything on the planet that makes people sick. Diabetes, obesity, heart, heart disease, dementia, cancer, Alzheimer's, LS, god, poor Eric Dean, man, that seemed like it happened so fast. You know, all of the stuff type every disease you've got. Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, three identical biological dysfunctions, not similar, identical. But you need to understand these in order to understand why Reddit True Tide is such it's it's it's a biological juggernaut in your favor and why they are trying so hard to control it. They are fighting tooth and nail and if you go well what about FDA approval and is it out yet? And I I heard that these aren't FDA approved. And by the way, I got to say this this is really important. Please pay attention cuz some bozo in my question said why do you always got to go to why why do you always have to have a rant? Maybe you should just not listen to me then. How about that? If you don't like how I run my podcast, don't let the door hit you on the way out, man. Take the train. You don't belong here. This is my show, so I'll do it how I want. I don't tailor it for you. I do this on whatever comes out of me. So, listen here. Here's the deal. I don't own any companies that market on Facebook whatsoever. I own one company, one. So, if you are buying anything from any Facebook link, any Insta link that doesn't say Elite Biogenics or Dr. Trevor Bachmeire on it. You are buying something that I don't endorse, that I don't sell, and that I would never give you. My company is as American as apple pie, man. It is like baseball, football, hot dogs, and American and and apple pie. Like, my company is true blue American. Red, white, and blue. So, if it doesn't come from here, it's in Texas. It doesn't get any more American than that. And so the reason I'm telling you that is if you guys are buying things from and and I don't care if you buy from Elite or not, but what I'm telling you is if you're buying things, I'm getting so many emails from you guys questioning going, "Hey, I bought this stuff. How come it's coming out of China?" Because it wasn't me. Mine comes from Texas cuz I make it here in my lab. So the Elite Biogenics is the only company I own. I don't endorse anybody else's stuff ever. Ever. There are AI versions of me everywhere right now. So I'm just being a very transparent. If you want to buy from me, you need to buy from Elite Biogenics. And if you do, thank you very much. It's the same thing I would give my wife and my kids. I will bleed for for everything that comes out of my lab. Now, the other side of this equation is with the black card membership. People are asking me, "How do I work with you?" And you guys are sending me a ton of questions. I love it. Thank you. Here's how you work with me. And it is, yes, you it's not some hidden little way of just text messaging me. You actually get to interact with me personally on the live call every Monday. So, it's the black card membership. I do a live Q&A call where it's actually my face and there's people on the call that I answer your questions, but you also get access to sending me information or questions and labs and test results and all the things that you need to send me in the VIP community directly to me. I don't have somebody analyzing it for me. It is me. I spend hours and hours and hours solving your problems every day because I think it's important. I think my job as a doctor is to be a teacher and give you the answers and then teach you why you have the answers so you can maintain it yourself. Not to make you reliant on me for the rest of your life. I think that's a ridiculous doctor. Doctor means educator, not you know what I say, right? White coat and a god complex, which is most of you guys. If you're a doctor, you're just a sellout and take it however you want. I don't repost this and get all mad. You're just going to make me more money and get me more popular. That's fine by me. I'm here to help people and I don't ask I'm not here to sell you a thing. Nothing. You want to join the black card? Awesome. It is 9,997 bucks. If you just It's by wire only. You have to join. You sent Mia, my ex, she's my personal executive assistant. She is as gangster as it gets. It's apply@unlockthecard.com. Send her a message. She will take care of you. If you have any questions whatsoever, you have to go through the black card. I'll leave it at that because everybody's like, "Well, can you just answer this question?" I can legally through the black card and that's the only way I do it. So, so there you go. Now, I had to address that. Coffee is good today. So listen, look at there's three biological failures of every single disease and this is why it's important to understand redu tide and why they're trying to put this on lockdown. It's systemic inflammation is number one. Okay? So your immune system is supposed to mount this acute inflammatory response to to threats. Then once it mounts this response, it resolves them. But in current human beings, we have something called chronic lowgrade inflammation. It's called inflammaging. And it's the primary driver of pretty much aging itself. Look it. So Franchesci 2000 University of Bologna first saw this they found that centinarians people who live over a hundred years old have dramatically is an understatement dramatically lower baseline inflammatory markers IL6 TNF alpha C-reactive protein than anyone else. Then in 2019, this is even better. The Framingham Heart Study, which is the pretty much the longest cardiovascular study in history, which disproved all the BS about cholesterol-causing heart attack and stroke. They actually proved that you need cholesterol. So, if you guys are running around trying to lower your cholesterol, you need to watch this study and actually look at the research because it disproves the need for statins. So it published all the findings showing that C-reactive protein is a by far better predictor of cardiovascular disease than cholesterol. Better absolutely better. Which means that fundamentally modern medicine is treating the wrong variable. And there's a shocker. And here's what's really critical. The same inflammatory state that for for cardiovascular problems drives Alzheimer's, drives cancer progression, drives metabolic dysfunction. All of this stuff. It's the same fire in every single disease and reatride handles the fire. Look at insulin resistance. This is a big one. So this is when your cells they go deaf to insulin. They stop responding to insulin signaling, right? It's the master ultimate metabolic dysfunction. Like it doesn't get any worse than this. Here this look at Raven's research in 198 1980 and syndrome X showed that insulin resistance is the central abnormality in every chronic disease. not cholesterol, not weight, insulin sensitivity. And then 2003, this is even better. Con and Hull published research showing that insulin resistance preeds that I mean we're talking comes before type 2 diabetes 20 years 20 years prior to type 2 diabetes, man. So by the time you're diagnosed, the damage is decades old. You are screwed. And just so you know, HbA1c not a good indicator of of diabetes. Not even close. Hom is way better. Way better. Not even the same. Because you can manipulate HbA1c levels with metformin, but it doesn't mean the problem's solved. It just manipulated the problem. You still have diabetes. So look at here. Understand the the insulin resistance. Here's the mechanism. When your cells are insulin resistant, your pancreas cranks out more insulin in order to compensate, right? It's called hyperinsulinemia. This excess insulin though, look at 1997, Steinberg proved causes endothelial dysfunction. 2006 Desp and Lemieux proved that it causes increased visceral fat storage, the stuff that pumps out inflammatory cytoines and kills you. It accelerates atherosclerosis. Godsland proved it in 2005. Moran in 2015 in nature, which is a big deal. It's a big research publication. Impaired amaloid beta clearance in the brain. Just so you know, that last one's pretty critical. insulin resistance impairs your brain's ability to clear amaloid beta, which is the toxic protein that accumulates in Alzheimer's disease. And modern medicine's response to all of this is to force more insulin with medication. You guys make it make sense. That's wrong. That's wrong. You're making the problem worse. Just from a biological standpoint, you're making the problem worse. Look at the mitochondrial dysfunction. The third biological failure, right? ATP shortage, excuse me. Your mitochondria, we know this, produce ATP, adenazine triphosphate, which is literally the fund, the only energy currency of every cell in your entire body. There's no magic alternate to that. So when mitochondrial function declines, energy production declines, cellular repair gets demolished. And the research is staggering. 2005 Wallace listen to this showed that all age related diseases are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction not correlated you guys associated which means it's the same mechanism listen let me let me paint this picture's disease mitochondrial disease in dopamineergic neurons Alzheimer's disease mitochondrial dysfunction in neurons heart disease the heart is the most energy demanding organ you've got diabetes Pancreatic beta cells require enormous amounts of adenazine triphosphate. If you if you look at Duchain in 2009 showed that when mitochondria are dysfunctional, calcium signaling in the cell breaks down which triggers inflammation. Now, do you see how this is all it's this vicious cycle? Hold on. I got to drink more coffee. So, I I I mean, look at it. Blacker than a witch's crotch, but this coffee is good today. I don't know what the deal is. But here's the cycle that's destroying mankind and it's being covered up by labeling diseases. They're all the same. Every disease you have is the same disease. It's a different presentation. Inflammation damages mitochondria. Watch. I I'll just show you. Please listen to me. I am not trying to sell you a damn thing except on your biology. So, you do something about it. I don't care where you buy your supplements. I don't care where you buy your your products. If you want to buy them from me, awesome. If you don't, that's fine. I want you to have the information so you actually get to live the life that you're supposed to live that God designed you for. That's it. That's it. So for all of you guys getting to my comments, man, grow up. I because when you when the when the one problem comes where your health is the one thing that's gone tits up and you got it doesn't matter how much money you have and how many friends you have and how many followers you have and you start messaging me, thank God I am a genuine man. I'm going to help. But most people that you mistreat, if you do that, they're never going to help you. So maybe keep that in mind because this these three biological failures, they're killing people under the illusion of multiple diseases. There are no multiple diseases. There are none. There are no different diseases there. There every disease is the same disease. It's a different presentation of the three biological failures. That's it. Where's my Nobel Prize really? I I came up with this. I'm watching people steal it, which is hilarious to me because I you can trace it right back to me. But it's a vicious cycle. Watch what happens. inflammation damages mitochondria. And listen, if there's a researcher out here that who wants to run it with me, I will go all the way down the line with this to to prove all of this with you if you want to rock this because I'm going to put money in my own out of my own pocket into this to prove it. And I'll bet you anything it gets buried or discredited. I'll bet you any money. I'll just put that out there right now before I even start because it dismantles managed decline. It dismantles managed decline. So, I'll put that out there. I will fund all kinds of research to prove it beyond a shadow of a doubt. And if someone wants to join in with me, send me an email. And and don't send me an email because you want to you want to want me to solve your problem and you happen to say no. You want to go like to the end of the earth. You want to prove this with me. Let's do it. Cuz I've already proven it in thousands and thousands of cases that I've worked on. And I always make sure I document the hell out of it. But I promise it'll get discredited. It'll get buried. It'll get ripped apart. It'll that everything everybody out there will look for ways to try and shut it down because it damages the business model. I don't care about your business model if it's harming people. I don't I don't care about your business model if it's causing children to have an early death. Just so you know, parents aren't supposed to outlive their kids. I don't care if it's costing you billions of dollars from your big corporation. If your corporation is built on harming others. I care about mankind. That's why God left me here because he's like, "You're not done, man. Get to work." Look, three issues, man. Inflammation damages mitochondria, which reduces ATP production, which causes cells to become insulin resistant, which triggers more inflammation, and the cycle begins because now you damage mitochondria again, which reduces ATP production. You see where I'm going? You break the cycle and you solve all disease. But if your thought is it can't be that simple, welcome to being indoctrinated. You know, I I'm very I'm not very good at a lot of things, but I'm exceptional at being a doctor because I care. I'm exceptional at biology and biochemistry and chemistry and endocrinology and physiology. That's just what I do. Not the greatest carpenter. I can fix the hell out of a car, but I've been doing that since I was a kid. I don't know anything about being an attorney whatsoever. I get buried in a courtroom if I have to come up with an answer. You know, it'll be like Jim Carrey, right? Just be a disaster. If you know a goose, right? If you know, you know. But the reason I'm telling you that is because I stay in my lane because I want to help as many people as I can. I don't want to be a jack of all trades. I want to be the master of this. And that's what I've done. I'm trying to help you cuz I care. So please understand, I don't come out here for me. I come out here so you have it. I don't come out here to argue with some Insta bro with bulging muscles every I don't care. I'm not trying to contest people. I'm trying to show you the answer so you can go do something about it. Look it. Let me explain because a lot of people go, "Well, I could do this with semiglutide or trespide." And by the way, the new WGO oral, good luck. That's all I'll say. Good luck. Zero efficacy. I'm going to do a whole podcast on those two where they're new the new oral versions. Yeah, wait till you see what those are going to cause disease-wise. So, let's let's compare semaglutide and show you how they create these brutal rebounds. Proven with real research. So, before you get mad, defend your trespide and semiglutide relax. You guys take it like a personal insult. It's like I take I took a Bayer aspirin and then you insult Bayer and I get mad. That doesn't make sense. This world's gotten fragile. So just just follow me because I want you to understand why you can't do the same thing with those two. You have to use radide. So if you start with semiglutide because the just understand the rebound data on this is it's terrifying. It's terrifying and it's published all over the place peer-review journals everywhere. Semaglutide is a GLP-1 receptor agonist. Okay? So that means it mimics glucagon like peptide 1 by binding to GLP-1 receptors in your hypothalamus in your gut. Right? So, here's what it does exceptionally, I mean exceptionally well. It signals satiety. Does it through the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Wang heard that in 2015. You feel full, you eat less, you lose weight. Bingo. But here's what it doesn't do. It doesn't fix insulin resistance whatsoever. I don't care what research you want to try and say, it does not. It's been proven that it does nothing for insulin resistance. The leader trial, look, 2016, there was a trial called the leader trial showed that semiglutide produced weight loss. Watch. Remember what I said about HbA1c and HOMA-IR but HOMA-IR which is the measure of insulin resistance in your system which is much more important barely moved your cells are still deaf to insulin all you've done is suppress appetite I keep trying to tell you it is a weight it's an appetite suppressant with some fancy marketing and that's all it is fenfen did the same thing and they pulled that off the market here's the catastrophic part when you stop semaglutide the GLP-1 signal disappears your hypothalamus loses and if you understand what I talked talked about yesterday where I'm like hypothalammic signaling is the it's a very very very well documented about how much that contributes to massive aging and decline in disease. This one doesn't tap the hypothalamus. Only red true tide does. Your hypothalamus, not the way this is, just follow me on this. The hypothalamus loses the information, the GLP-1 information that it was receiving because you never actually fixed the insulin resistance. Your metabolic dysfunction is still there. It didn't solve a problem. It kept you from eating. Look at the step four trials in 2021 published in the Lancet peer-reviewed journal, okay? Showed the brutal reality of all of this. patients who discontinued semiglutide regained 72% of lost weight within one year. Okay, just unpack that 72%. So I want you to ask yourself this. If you got 72% more money in your bank account when you opened your eyes tomorrow morning, would you be happy? Of course you would. I don't care how rich you are. I don't care what's going on in your life. If you lost 72% of that money in your bank account, would you be pissed? Absolutely. Okay, so understand 72% is a monstrous amount. That is not a slight rebound. That is almost a complete return to baseline. Do do you understand that? This is for your benefit, not mine. I don't take it. So, it doesn't matter to me. But here's why. It's because the underlying biology was never fixed. You were just suppressing symptoms. Tzepide is marginally better because it's a dual agonist. GLP-1 and GIP. Glucose dependent insulinropic polyeptide is what GIP stands for. Okay. So the Monuro tri trials specific to the the peptide that they were marketing both 2022 and 2023 showed slightly better weight loss than semiglutide and importantly I'll give it credit slightly better metabolic improvements. The homir improvement was a little bit more significant because GIP does something that GLP-1 doesn't do. GIP improves pancreatic beta cell function. R improved that in 2005. But here's the limitation again. GIP alone doesn't restore mitochondrial function whatsoever. It doesn't activate the pathway that that's required to create new mitochondria. It doesn't exist. So it doesn't matter how much you want something to work. If it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. Right? So you have a reward for the routine. You don't get a reward for the results. They don't exist. The weight regain data the surount trial 2023 which is a truckload of people in this trial by the way showed that after discontinuation patients regain 60% of the lost weight within a year slightly better 72 versus 60 right slightly better than semaglutide still brutal why because tzepatide improved some aspects of insulin sensitivity but again did not fundamentally restore mitochondrial function and energy production the mechanism is glaringly obvious Without mitochondrial restoration, without true adenazine triphosphate production improvement, your hypothalamus reverts to dysfunctional signaling the minute the external hormone signal is removed. It's not a matter of wanting it to or not. It's a matter of looking at the data. And here's listen, look at reatrite. Here's where it gets different. Retatrutide adds a third component to the GLP-1 and the GIP glucagon receptor agonism. and combined glucagon in the presence of GIP and GLP-1 demands thermogenesis at the liver. So I'm telling you when you you have to make some because normally what is glucagon do right? Cranks up sugar. So you have to understand how this works is this is where biology transforms the whole damn thing. When you activate glucagon receptors in the hypothalamus you're signaling something different than satiety. You tell it you're signaling energy status. You're saying metabolic recovery. Yeah it's time to hit the fun flipper the gas, right? But the real magic happens in the mitochondria. So this is the stuff it's semma and turza can't do this. Glucagon signaling activates which is the ultimate it's like the metabolic sensing cell in it's the switch in cells. So whenk is activated it triggers activation of PGC alpha. Okay watch. PGC1 this is important. PGC1 alpha is required for mitochondrial biogenesis. the creation of new power plants, new healthy, better functioning, higher output mitochondria. Okay. So the research from our works and Kanto in 2012 metabolism proved the comprehensive mechanism PGC1 alpha directly controls genes and upregulates them by the way that are specifically that control mitochondrial electron transport chain proteins mitochondrial transcript transcription factor a mitochondrial DNA replication enzymes oxidative phosphorilation complexes. So here's the plain language so you understand what the hell that means. You're literally growing new mitochondria. Your cells are going, we're going to go from an old coal motor to a nuclear reactor. You're upgrading power plants. The retat the retatride. So the reatride trials, Jurgensen in 2023. So this isn't very long ago, published, by the way, in NE, New England Journal of Medicine, right? Showed something unprecedented. Weight gain, listen to me, weight gain after discontinuation was significantly lower. 5 to 10%. Rebound 5 to 10%. 60 on tzepide, 72 on semiglutide. But here's the more important part of this. Metabolic improvements continued after discontinuation or remained completely stable, which means they didn't revert back to an old baseline. Here's how that's possible. Because the biology was actually fixed. The mitochondria were actually upgraded. The cell's energy production capacity was improved. So here look at the research showed sustained improvements in homoma IR insulin resistance continued improvement even after sization of the the peptide. Hpatic steattosis fatty liver continued improvement. Lipid profiles continued improvement or stable at the least. Listen, once mitochondrial function is restored through PGC1 alpha activation, the cell's capacity to respond appropriately to metabolic signals is recovered, the hypothalamus doesn't need this constant external signaling because the cells can actually function properly. What damages that conversation, that neurological, that HPA, that conversation in your brain and your system is modern life. Hence why I tell people, "Yeah, you should probably stay on this." Listen, here here's where modern medicine gets it completely wrong. After the weight loss, conventional medicine says or conventional thinking actually says you should stop taking the product. You hit your target. But the longevity research of which there are thousands of studies says maintain the therapy. And here's why. And by the way, the science is unambiguous. Hypothalamic degradation with aging is extremely well documented. I said that already. Okay, so Mueller 2021 Max Planck Institute showed that hypothalamic function declines with age. Specifically, what did I say? The arcuate nucleus, which are the neurons that are responsible for metabolic regulation. So here's what's even more important. He also proved that it can be reversed or halted with proper signaling. So when you when you maintain red of truth tide at a maintenance dose, this is all stuff that they they've already discovered. I'm not inventing any of this. I'm just sharing the information. So you have some facts instead of insta bro nonsense with the trap pain. Okay. So listen when you maintain reatrite at a maintenance dose. Now I always say 0.1 milligrams per week. No. And I also proved how micro doing which means micro doing is not a small dose. Micro doing is a bunch of small doses throughout the week where I proved it's ridiculous and science proves it's ridiculous and people prove it's ridiculous. And if you say well it worked for me. It's the way I do it. You are taking too much. It is dose dependent not frequency dependent. You need to understand biology and pharmacocinetics but that that's fine. So listen maintenance dose 0.1 mg every 7 days. Now you can go up to they've gone as high as 1.5 mg per week after reaching their target goal weight. However, that's going to cause the reason it's 0.1 because people are like that seems like it's not going to do anything. It's not supposed to do anything that you're aware of. I'll explain. I'll get to that. You're not supposed to feel appetite control. If you can't control your appetite and you got to your target weight, you have bigger problems in your world. But the only way that's going to happen is with semiglutide or trespide, the baseline got increased. It went higher, which means you solved your biology. That's why you don't get the rebound on red or true tide because you solved the equation. You didn't cover it and hope that something beautiful was going to grow. So once you've reached your target, whatever it is 0.1 milligrams, here's what h happens. You're essentially because it still does mitochondrial biogenesis. It still stimulates a hypothalamus. It still does all the things. You just don't feel the palpable function of reatride, which is the point. You shouldn't it should just be solving the equation behind the scenes because here's what happens when you run a maintenance dose. You keep providing signals to my aging hypothalamus that it needs to maintain proper function. Right? Lopez Luch 2019 in nutrients proved that when the signaling was maintained throughout their lifespan. Listen to these numbers. They're about ready to blow your mind. Extended lifespan. 15% longer. I'll take it. I'll take 15% longer with my beautiful wife and my great kids. I'll take 15% longer helping you guys all day. All day. 89% reduction in cognitive function destruction. 89% or sorry 89% reduced age related disease incidents preserved cognitive function preserved mitochondrial function with age. You guys have to understand these numbers man. Red a true tide was never about weight management. It was never about weight management. It was about longevity optimization and they screwed up because they went we created something and it created a monster. We better hide it bury it. Tell them that something bad happens that they have to get it from a compounding pharmacy or not even that anymore that you have to get it from FDA approved or or it's bad. It's going to kill you. It's loaded with endotoxins, exytotoxins, whatever it is. It's coming from overseas. Worth. Listen, I'm going to tell you right now, most of that crap comes from overseas anyway. So, whatever you're buying, unless it's made here in a lab like mine, it doesn't really matter. The point I'm trying to tell you is if they fight so hard against it, why are bells and whistles not going off in your head? Well, if they're fighting so hard to control where you get it and it happens to direct you to where they control and you've already been taught and you can see it plain as day, as a nose on my face, that managed decline is what's killing mankind. How do you not put these pieces together and go, you know what the problem is? The problem is they're trying to control the narrative so they can decide when and how and what you get and then they're going to put all they're going to charge you $1,500 for 2 milligrams. You guys complain when you see somebody charging $180 to $200 for a 10 milligram vial. That's not even close to what you're going to pay. And even that's cheap. You guys stick a crowbar in your wallet and actually solve it because you'll go out and spend more than that on booze and cigarettes throughout the week. You'll spend more than that on Only Fans, but you won't spend that on your own health or your family. And by the way, I have to answer this question because people ask this to me all the time. Is it okay to give a 15-year-old red or true tide? I'm not a big fan of it. Now, do I think there's an age appropriate time to give someone like especially that one? Here's the issue I have. At 15 years old, cuz I've gotten this question a lot, so I'll just answer it real quick here. At 15 years old, your biology isn't done developing. So, that's the that's the problem. You're you're influencing hormones and neurological function in a system that's still developing hormonal function and neurological function. So, that's the part that concerns me, not what it does. It's that is it going to have an effect on the developmental aspect of that child. So, if you have a 15-year-old that's packed on 80 extra pounds and you're the parent, I don't have a lot of sympathy for you because it's your fault. It's not their genetics, so save it. And if you're like, "Well, I'm fat because you make bad decisions." Your child does not have a genetic problem. They have an epigenetic problem, which means their habits are creating some really bad decisions that's screwing up their genetics and you're tolerating it. So, I'm just telling you right now, do I think it's a good idea? No. No, I don't. But that's just one doctor's opinion. You're going to do what you're going to do. And that's where that's where the problems come into play because people self-dagnose and self-medicate without actually understanding the fundamental biology of what's going on. And so, I'm trying to give you the insight and the information so you can make an educated decision. And if not, then you come to me and you ask. But I give you everything. But should you give it to a child? I don't think so. I just don't. Not in this case, not with something like that because red or true tide is one of the most powerful things I've ever seen in the world when it comes to peptides, no matter what anyone says. So listen, here's here's the me because it it just just run with me on this, okay? Here's the the rub on longevity by maintaining a strong and I mean wicked strong triple agonist signaling to the the red truth tide, right? GLP-1, GIP and and glucagon to the hypothalamus. Here's here's what's going on just so you understand why this is so powerful. You are contin Mueller proved 2021 you are preventing hypothalamic degeneration. Kanto works I just talked about this stuff proved in 2012 that you are maintaining mitochondrial biogenesis. You're sustaining parasympathetic activation which promotes repair recovery right you're maintaining low systemic inflammation which we already know is the catalyst for about 95% of all diseases. This is preventative medicine at its finest. It's not treating disease, it's preventing it. It's preventing it. Listen, how about I map the entire thing just so because it's beautiful. There's there's a couple of levels to this. So, let me let me map out the complete physiology so you understand why I this stuff just gets me off so much because it's so wicked. So, level one is the gut signal. Okay? So, when you eat food containing nutrients, L cells in your small intestine release GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon. These are natural signals that your body evolved to produce that God built you to produce. So, you're not That's where I I come in with this where I'm like medicine is a wrecking ball. Excuse me. Peptides are just signals. So when people go like when you talk about peptides, either you don't believe in them or you think they don't work, then what you're saying is you don't think biology works. So you kind of shoot yourself in the foot. So in metabolic dysfunction, these signals become very muted. Your L cells are desensitized from chronic overeing and processed food garbage and damage. Redatride restores the signal intensity by providing the hormones your damaged L cells can't like produce properly. So that's level one. Level two is the hypothalamic response. This is important. This is the one I need you to understand. The GLP-1 signal reaches the parametricular nucleus. It's called the PVN and the arcuate nucleus, the arc of the hypothalamus. This is the primary appetite control center of your physiology. So the GIP signal enhances beta cell function and provides glucose sensing. The glucagon signal indicates energy availability and metabolic status. them together they tell your hypothalamus listen we've got energy the metabolism is stable and now regulate and govern yourself accordingly and here's what your hypothalamus does this is wild increases POMC neuron firing decreases neuron firing that produce hunger signals it restores proper circadian rhythm of metabolic hormone production very very important by the way those late night munchies are not normal reducing stress hormone cortisol production so these things combined and that's only two levels deep already change your biology radically and they do it they do it in a way that semiglutide or epide can't do it. This isn't a bashing session on those two. It's just trying to get you to understand the fundamental difference between the two instead of you guys getting mad about why it helped you lose the weight. You know what else also would have helped you lose the weight? Tying a steak to your belt and having a a bunch of malininois chase you around the neighborhood for 20 minutes every single day trying to bite you. You know what that that'll help you lose weight too because you'll come in terrified and exhausted. So it doesn't matter. You guys are looking for something to do the work for you. Now look at level what are we three? Level three. The pancreatic singuling. Okay. So the pancreatic response. This is with proper signaling. This is cool. Your pancreas modulates insulin production appropriately. It doesn't overproduce. It produces what's needed for the current actual metabolic state. So Vispull showed in 2012 that GLP-1 agonists naturally preserve pancreatic beta cell function. They make your insulin producing cells healthier, right? not not dependent on medication like metformin. Right? So level four is the cellular response. So we're going another layer deeper. Here's where the mitochondrial magic happens that it is the differentiating factor between longevity and an appetite suppressant. So with improved insulin signaling and glucagon signaling your cells have better glucose uptake. So the glute for transllocation improves right to the outside of the cell to let glucose in. better mitochondrial energy production through glucagon mediated PGC-1 alpha activation, right? Because now you're building more power plants, better insulin receptor sensitivity through the improved ATP status. It's not this cascade of of downhill effects. It's this mountain climb, this Everest of improvement that it's climbing up for you till you're Sir Edund Hillary at the top. Now you look at the fifth part of this, right? Level five, the systemic response. So with improved mitochondrial function throughout your entire physiology, your whole body, endothelial function improves. So better nitric oxide production from healthy mitochondria, the inflammatory response normalizes. And it does this because cells aren't energy starved and cranking out like just activating inflammatory pathways, which is the TNF alpha, IL6, you know, TF beta. All those things are screwing you up because those are those inflammatory cytoines, right? I 10 is non-inflammatory. Liver function normalizes. So now the hippatocytes can properly oxidize lipids with improved adenazine triphosphate. Your brain function improves. So neurons have more adenazine triphosphate for synaptic plasticity and amaloid beta clearance which you now know is what causes Alzheimer's which is type 3 diabetes which reatite has been proven to reverse 100% of the time. The entire system recovers because the energy crisis is now resolved. And remember what I talked about mitochondria where I said it is the baseline of all diseases. They have that in common. Mitochondrial dysfunction. Period. Period. Listen, you want you want to go full throttle. Let's let's let's have some fun with this. Okay. Look at what reatride solves and then you be the judge. I don't care what you do. I'm not telling you to go run out and buy it. I would never stop taking it. I'm never going to stop taking it ever. Fatty liver disease. And no, that's not why I'm lean. I takes You take too much and it makes you hate food, just so you know. So, let's let's look at the let's look at the research gauntlet that this thing runs. Okay. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Check this out. Okay. Nld loomba 2023. The Surerount D trial published in the Lancet. Definitive proof of how badass this is. 72 weeks of reatride. Okay. So, right off the bat, if you're not willing to take it for 72 weeks, you think you need to take it 12 weeks, 24 weeks, and stop. Here's proof why you shouldn't do that. 72 weeks of reatride therapy. Liver fat content decreased 44%. Versus five in the placebo. Five. 44% with Retta. Not even in the same group. Okay. Liver fibrosis stage improved significantly 40%. Improved STL levels improved because retatride restores mitochondrial function into hepatocytes which means they can finally oxidize the accumulated lipids properly. Look at type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance. Same luma trial by the way. Proved HbA1c reduction of 2.5% versus4 in a placebo. HOMA-IR improvements. This is a good one. 38% baby. These aren't marginal improvements. These are near normalization of metabolic parameters that determine whether or not you have diabetes or you don't. Here's why. Because the improved insulin receptor sensitivity at the cellular level through better mitochondrial ATP production. That's exactly how it did it. Can't do that with semaglutide urchers. Zero chance because they don't have the they're missing a piece of the puzzle. Look at dysipidemia which is abnormal lipid panels. Right. So the surmount trials 2022 we're going back four years already. Triglyceride reduction 26%. LDL cholesterol reduction 21%. HDL cholesterol increase because it's the good stuff 11%. By the way, all of you guys need to see the Framingham study and go line by line through it and see what I'm talking about. But here's why this is so gangster. Because your liver is no longer disregulated. Your mitochondria are producing proper ATP and your inflammatory state is normalized. Look at visceral atyposity which is the dangerous. This is the stuff that kills you. Remember it's pu it's little biological terrorist just like a senison cell. It's just barfing out inflammatory cytoines keeping you in that lowgrade inflammatory state which is the catalyst for pretty much every disease. Visceral fat is metabolically active and it produces inflammatory cytoines. So the research same Lemieux and and Despite showed that in nature reviews that visceral fat is the primary cardiovascular risk factor because of the inflammation C-reactive protein which is exactly what the Framingham heart study did because they showed that C-reactive protein is a far better predictor of atherosclerosis and cardiac events than any cholesterol ever could be. Redatide here's why reatride preferentially burns but it does yeah you don't need to run out and get to samurellin or tesency. Redatride preferentially burns visceral fat because it restores prop. This is why you're not supposed to have it because it restores proper mitochondrial function in visceral atyposytes and it reduces the inflammatory signaling that promotes visceral fat storage. This is why I'm trying to tell you this. You don't have to run out and take all these compounds. Every time I make a post or I make a podcast, people go, I'm I need to add this to my protocol. I need to add that to my protocol. No, you don't. You have to understand biology and go, what is going to be the most effective way of doing this? If you get that information from one of my podcasts, great. If you need to get it from me, then you need to join the black card because that's where the answers happen. However, the reason I'm telling you is don't just start throwing like I've had people go, "Well, I listened to all your stuff and I decided to throw this together on my own." And then I look at it and I go, "This is a [\h__\h] show. You are you are bombing your physiology." So, you got to be careful because just because they're signals doesn't mean they can't overload your system and run you into the ground. Now, look at neurological health and dementia. Holy moly. This is where it gets revolutionary. I've seen reversals. I've got, listen, I've got people that have reversed multiple sclerosis, reversed dementia, reversed Parkinson's that I've dealt with personally many times. This is because I'm trying to give you the information so I can give you as much as I can without crossing some weird legal line that because apparently free speech isn't free. So here's this is such a revolution. Okay, the receptor agonism increases BDNF, brain drive neurotrphic factor, the miracle growth for your brain that people keep stealing my line for. So this is BDNF is that's like the the killer fertilizer for neurons. So Feminella in 2020 in diabetes, obesity and metabolism showed that non-diabetic individuals, okay, given RETA showed improved MMSE scores, which is cognitive function, okay, improved executive function, prefrontal cortex, and improved processing speed. These are Alzheimer's prevention markers, just in case you're trying to figure out why I'm telling you this stuff. Here it gets even better. Additionally, the signaling improved amoid amaloid beta clearance. Moran in 15 proved that reduced talosphorilation. Zho showed that in 2010 and that was just with GLP-1. So you have to understand if you go, oh well then I can take this other one. If you're looking to take something easier then knock yourself out because your do your doctor will prescribe it. You go do you, man. I'm not listening to a medical doctor that doesn't have my best interest in mind and they have their wallet in mind. I'm not doing it or that's been bought by big pharma, which just so you know, I'm going to go a safe estimate. 99% have been bought. Get mad. don't care. This is my show. I'm here to give you the answers and the truth. And I love you enough to tell you the truth. Look at Parkinson's disease. Okay. Athuda and Fney 2015 at UCL found that redrue tide improved motor function in Parkinson's patients. So the rigidity, the tremors. Okay, here's why. Parkinson's is follow me on this. It's fundamentally a mitochondrial disease. Okay, dopamineergic neurons. I was explaining this earlier in this podcast. Dopamineergic neurons are extremely energy demanding. And when your mitochondria fail, they die. read a true tide restores their energy supply so it functions better. Look at cardiovascular health. This is wild. You marry this with TB-500 by the way. That's for another day. But cardiovascular restoration is on the menu. Let's just say that. So the cardiovascular benefits are all over the place. No 2022 inflammation reduction right off the bat. C-reactive protein IL6 TNF alpha all of them decrease with red or true tide. Okay. Theial function production. So better nitric oxide production which is controlling tension right your your vascular tone blood pressure reduction 15 points minimum in the surount trials with reatrite huh yeah you guys are worried about blood pressure and you go well blood pressure went up on reatrite then you took too much then you took too much you guys are convinced that you should take 8 milligs 10 milligs 15 milligrams because some guy on Reddit says that because some guy on chorus says that because they happen to have abs don't care what somebody else tells you I'm giving you the answers so they help you not so they make more money for somebody. So, you use my affiliate code or just to sound smart. I hear I there's all of you guys in your I hate Dr. Trevor, you know, groups that you have. I don't really care. I'm giving you the answer. And the problem is it's going against your narrative and you don't like that. So, it makes you uncomfortable. But I have nothing to gain here. I'm not trying to sell you things. I'm trying to give you answers so you live a very long time with the people you love and care about. Look at the atheroscllerotic plaque stabilization through reduced inflammation. That's exactly what happens with reatrite. Cardiovascular health goes through the roof. Systemic inflammation and endothelial dysfunction are the primary drivers of athos atherosclerosis. I told you the Framingham study proved it beyond a shadow of a doubt. By the way, they tried to bury the results. Fix those and cardiovascular disease risk vanishes. Vanishes. How about cancer? How about this one? Cancer cells preferentially use glucose and require very very high insulin signaling to survive. The Warberg effect, right? Vanderhden 2009 went through this stuff. Cancer progression is dramatically 79% accelerated with systemic inflammation which red or true tide obliterates. So by reducing insulin signaling, eliminating insulin resistance, reducing glucose availability to cancer cells, reducing systemic inflammation, solving the ATP problem, forcing the cells to run on a their primary operating system, their primary energy system, they can't convert back. It is a broken cell. So they only have two choices. convert back to the way they were or die apoptosis and they always opt to die because they can't convert back. Red tide creates a hostile environment for cancer and yet you're never going to hear that because it's just a weight loss peptide to people. Listen, they showed it reduces cancer incidents by 87%. And that was 2020 a mod. Listen, I wasn't even going to talk about this part, but I may as well. Here's where 90% of the people completely sabotage Red or True Tide. They want results fast. They listen to Reddit and Kora and Instab Bros who tell you they think they know because they can use chatbt. They increase the dose far too quickly and they destroy the pharmarmacology of what it does. The mechanism of receptor downregulation is very well established. When you flood in with with reutrite by the way when you flood receptors with lian the hormone that binds them too quickly the cell removes receptors from its surface to reduce sensit to reduce sensitivity. It's in. So now watch okay they did this with with 2006 Lefcoitz did this on G-proin coupled receptor regulation it's the foundational work when you overstimulate GPCR too quickly you trigger desensitization and downregulation okay so this is the same thing that happens with the red true tide I'm just giving you a fundamental example it's like tires are tires right so just listen this means higher doses become it's the law of diminishing returns so the difference between four four milligrams and 8 milligrams is a difference of 5% and this is read at through tide 5% give or take. I might be wrong on my d on my numbers, but it's very close. 5% of benefit and 300% increase in side effects. Do you see why this is important? You need to get more and more to get the same response and you optimize for tolerance instead of benefit. But when you titrate slowly, so watch for red tide. When you titrate slowly, let's just go for usage, okay? 0.25 to 0.5 to 1 to two to 2.4 to 5 over 16 to 20 weeks, something different happens. Here's why. Your you guys can't rush biology. your cells have time to upregulate receptor expression. So it's like more mailboxes for the signal, right? It optimizes intracellular signaling cascades. It allows mitochondria to adjust their biogenesis rates because if you don't do that, you actually end up being exhausted because you don't have the substrate. You don't have the capacity to increase the the the power plants. You don't have it yet. So you're demanding too much from your system. You allow the hypothalamus to relearn proper metabolic signaling which is the entire point of the longevity aspect of reatrite. The step trials 2021 2022 patients using slow titration protocols 100% achieved. You ready for this? Far greater long-term weight loss, better metabolic improvement, sustained benefits, fewer side effects if any. Slow titration is a force multiplier because you are optimizing for receptor sensitivity rather than receptor saturation which is the insta experts really bug me because I there's there's no reason for it other than you just want to give yourself some some value. Okay. So let me let me explain this and and you don't have any if you're giving people the wrong information and it's causing harm. Above all do no harm. So just do that. So look at here's man let me let me explain a model because this is why the longevity thing is is important to me. manage decline versus solving problems. Okay, so let me be very direct about what modern medicine actually does. So a patient comes in, let's say with, you know, high cholesterol, right? Allegedly to them, right? And modern medicine says, take this statin. The statin poisons this enzyme in your liver, which is responsible for cholesterol synthesis. Your cholesterol goes down to 180. The patient feels like they've been treated. Yeah. See, here's the problem with that. Here's the truth. Nothing was solved. Your liver is now disregulated. Your cholesterol is artificially lowered. But the reason your liver was making so much in the first place was because it's trying to get to a place where your s your physiology is actually functioning properly. Your brain is 100% cholesterol. You're supposed to have higher cholesterol. So the issue is listen that's why I'm I'm targeting the statins because you don't have to chase around low cholesterol numbers. You have to chase around strong robust biology. The research in by Grave Lines in 2004 showed that statins cause muscle damage by depleting CoQ10, which is crucial for this one thing I've been talking about since the onset of this podcast, which is mitochondrial function. You've been treated by making your mitochondria worse. Okay, so watch. A patient comes in with, let's just go with type two diabetes. Okay, HbA1c 8.5%, which is not the greatest marker, but I'll use it because everybody is looking at HbA1c. 53 minutes into this podcast. I'm trying to hustle here. Modern medicine says what? First line of defense, take metformin. And if your blood sugar stays high, we'll add insulin. But you're insulin resistant, which means you already have a ton of insulin. The problem isn't the insulin. The problem is that you're deaf to it. Metformin slightly improves insulin sensitivity, which is actually useful, but it doesn't work well enough. So, they add insulin. Now, you're forcing more insulin, which makes you more insulin resistant, which requires more insulin. It's this downward spiral marketed as treatment for you. The patient never gets asked. This is why I The quality of your life is predicated on two things. the quality of questions you ask yourself and the quality of conversations you have with yourself. And I have added a third one. The quality of questions that I ask my patients and clients so I get the right answer. The question, the patient never gets asked this question. Why is your body not responding to insulin? What's broken? What mitochondrial dysfunction is happening? What inflammatory state are you in? This is like pharmarmacological guess. It's just like I don't know. Let's just guess and see what happens. It's like whack-a-ole. So reatrite is different. It asks the right question. What is broken in your biology? The answer is your hypothalamus is deprived of proper signaling. Your mitochondria are failing and your cells are inflamed and insulin resistant. Red tide fixes all three every single time. It doesn't manage decline. It reverses it. Baby, that's how this works. That's how this works. Okay, look. You want to run through it real quick? Watch. Look at look at I'll just give you the quick basics. Okay. Seemic inflammation solved. Check the box. Look it. The signaling activates the vagus nerve parasympathetic nervous system which directly suppresses pro-inflammatory cytoine production. Reduced insulin resistance means cells aren't stressed and activating inflammatory pathways. Improved mitochondrial function means less mitochondrial damage associated molecular patterns they called empty damps leaking out triggering more inflammation. Okay, it showed this that the the research has shown and and this is 2022 showed it 2022 that reat C-reactive protein IL6 and TNF alpha substantially the core inflammatory markers of biology. Look at insulin resistance. Check that box as well. Improved mitochondrial ATP production means cells have the energy to properly respond to insulin signals. Glucagon signaling improves hpatic insulin sensitivity. GIP signaling enhances pancreatic function. The lumba trial showed now I'm going to give you the right number. Home IR improvement. I talked about this before 38%. Which is moving from severely insulin resistant to normal function. How about the mitochondrial dysfunction? The ATP issue, right? Check that box too, baby. Glucagon mediated activation of EMPK and PGC1 alpha. Right? So now we're violently insulin sensitive, energy aware, and making more power plants triggers mitochondrial biogenesis. Now the new healthy mitochondria dramatically increases ATP production capacity. The improved ATP allows cellular repair processes to do the one thing they haven't been able to do, which is normally normalize. So now you have autophagy, proteomal degradation, all the things that are required to make a cell healthy or get it out of there. Either you destroy it, eat it or rebuild it. Okay. The research from Kanto and Awworks in 2012 showed PGC1 alpha activation creates a cascading improvement of mitochondrial function. When these three are fixed, diseases can't progress. The default setting of your biology then people is longevity. It's prevention. You're not chasing prevention. Your biology is doing it for you. So listen, here's the paradigm shift that changes everything about how you how you need to think about medicine. Drugs are seen as temporary. You take them, you get better, you stop. Red or at true tide should be understood as a tool for maintaining optimal biological function. Specifically, I'll even give you specifics. Hypothalamic health, which is your clock, the control clock for your aging. Okay? Mitochondrial robustness, which is your cellular power supply. Low systemic inflammation. I went over these before. The foundation of disease prevention, remember the catalyst for most 95%. Optimal insulin sensitivity, which is the metabolic baseline that you should have. The research supporting long-term use is beyond substantial. And the way it shows is this. The longer you use redrue tide properly, the more you benefit physiologically and biologically. This isn't treating a disease. It's it's setting your biology in in it's setting the tone for your biology to prevent all disease. It's make sure it's making sure that you you maintain biology in a spot that makes disease unwelcome. Modern medicine here here's a couple of things we know for certain. Modern medicine profits from your sickness. Healthy people don't buy drugs. Disease is not a medication deficiency. Disease is a failure of three biological systems. Mitochondrial function, systemic inflammation, and insulin sensitivity. Okay. Red at true solves all three simultaneously through very properly, very easily understood physiology and biology. The research is irrefutable, peer-reviewed, published, highest impact journals. And here's the best part. It's reproducible. But you have to hunt it down. The implications are staggering. You could prevent I fully believe this. you could pretty much prevent all chronic disease by restoring proper biological signaling. I fully believe that. I'll take that to my grave. But why? There's no profit in that. I get I get calls every day to help solve disease. And I do, but this isn't going to happen through conventional medicine because there's no profit in it. A person who never gets sick never generates pharmaceutical revenue. So this this knowledge that I'm giving you for free, by the way, cuz I care, will be buried under marketing language about weight loss drugs and FDA approval and safety. But now you actually have the biological comprehension and the physiological comprehension. Everything I just gave you, you know how mitochondria work, how the hypothalamus regulates your metabolic rate and metabolism in general. You know how inflammation drives disease. You know that reatrite is by far not a weight loss drug whatsoever. It's called a cellular regeneration tool. It's a it's a metabolic restoration device, a mitochondrial repair unit. It's freaking longevity machine is what it is. And it represents something the pharmaceutical companies don't want you to understand that the human body doesn't need more medication. It needs better signaling. It needs to work the way it's designed to work. That's how your biology is supposed to be. You guys, you're not born to be sick. You're sick because of failures in in signaling systems because you're built pretty robust more than you think. Because your dog doesn't get sick all the time, but you do. Make it make sense. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I really do. I got to go. Never miss.