 today is all about redotrutide as a biological weapon against aging is the longevity juggernaut. And I'm going to do a post today on social media about MOTC and redotrutide. Why should I probably do both? But heaven forbid I talk about that because the FD and the A can kiss my A. But listen, redotrutide is the more I go down this rabbit hole, the more patients I see, the more people I see. The more clients I see, the more people I help, the more I realize just what kind of a biological juggernaut this stuff really is. And I need to let me get this out of the way really quick. I, people are asking me like, how do I work with you? I get messages from you all the time, emails, hey, my son has this, my father has this, my husband has this, I have this, please help me, please help me. And I try and help as many people as I can. But the other side of this equation is I also have a life to ride and every time I help other people, it takes time away from my wife and my kids. So you, I will help you, but you are going to compensate my wife and my children. And that's important. So that's what I created the black card form was a place for people to get help and to pay me for that help. Joining the black card $9997. You send an email to Mia, my badass personal executive assistant. It is apply at unlock the card. And we are it, I, you get access to my live Q&A call where I answer every possible question you can throw at me to help you. And you get access to the VIP community where you can send me everything labs, genetic testing problems, you name it, just send it to me and I'll look over it. And 24 to 72 hours is about my turnaround time giving you a reply and a solution and no doctor does that except me. I will stand by my conviction on that. I'm exceptionally good at what I do. And that is solving biological problems. And my black card community is filled with hundreds of people that I mean chasing a solution and never got one until they came to me because I care above all do no harm. So if you want to join the black card is my wire only, I don't take credit card. No, it's not going to be free. And it's not transferable and all that other stuff that people tend to ask me, it's weird. But that's it. That's how you do it. And if you bought, if you join great, if you don't create a still show up here, you can buy from my company elite biogenics. It is the product company that I own for any night they run. And I just want you guys to have a place and a place where you can trust what you hear, what you apply and what you get to the life that you have, the one life you have, that's it. Tell me, care about. So listen, reddit true tide really it is a biological weapon against aging disguised as a weight loss peptide. But you need to you need to understand it is an anti aging anti disease weapon. And here's where most people get this wrong. They see reddit true tide, they go, This is awesome. It's the latest weight loss drug. Cool. Wrong. Wrong. That's like looking at the Vatican and just calling it a church. No, it's not. Let me I will break this down in basic human biology. So you understand, let me drink some coffee because I need it. I realize it has foam on it. I don't know why the coffee maker always puts foam on it because it's weird, but it's an espresso. Actually, like that thing is pretty rad. It's always full of coffee, but it's blacker in a witch's crotch. Do not have a birthday party in a cup. That's not healthy coffee. I need you guys to get this. Your body has something called the GLP one receptors found everywhere, but brain, pancreas, heart, everywhere. It's not random. Like you understand, this is by design and you've got GIP receptors. These are all throughout the body as well. But here's the here's the rub. Most people don't even know GIP exists. It's like finding out you have this secret operating system in your body the entire time. All of a sudden, somebody taps into it because some hacker, dude, I found the secret unlock code. It's like launch mode, right? For your 9-11 Turbo S, where you're like, Well, this is so much faster. So and then there's, there's glucagon. This is the of metabolic control. So here's what, here's what red and true tide actually is trihaginous triple agnus, whatever you want to call it, basically needs one molecule activates three different receptor systems and it does it all simultaneously. GLP one, GIP glucagon, they're all firing at the same time. And there's a reason and why this is so important. Just I know I've gone over this. I need to do it again, because otherwise people that have heard this and they haven't heard anything else, have no idea what I'm talking about. So think of it like this, your body is a building and most drugs or peptides are trying to solve the equation for one room. They're trying to fix one room. OZMP one room, GLP one only. Great. That's good. I mean, don't get me wrong. People have had great results other than its crap, but red and true tide, that's electrical plumbing and the HVAC all at the same time. Look, the 2023 in cell metabolism, they found that GIP activation wasn't just about appetite. It was literally rewiring how your cells process energy at the mitochondrial level. That's not me being dramatic. That is kick butt biochemistry. And when you activate glucagon signaling on top of that, you're not just telling your body to stop eating. It's not an appetite suppressant like like SEMA or Terza, right? SEMA, Glutide or Terzapeitide, which are junk. I don't care if you guys get my comments and start crying about it. It doesn't change the biology. It's still garbage. You're telling yourselves to upgrade their power plants when you started incorporating glucagon. There are so many things that come in, come into play here. So this is where it gets really interesting and where most doctors will nod and just prescribe something without actually understanding what in the holy hell they're doing. And most of you doctors out there running your longevity clinics, I had somebody talk to me just so you know, and they were using BPC and they were so blown away at how inexpensive it is for my lab versus what their longevity doctor was charging them. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of dollars for a single file of BPC scumbag if you do that. Listen, I'm okay with you making money, but don't gouge people just because you haven't watched any clinic. You know what that makes you? No better than the pharmaceutical companies charging $400 for insulin when it should be five bucks. And you get people so distraught with their finances that they ration their insulin, which is costing them their life. You pharmaceutical companies just remember this hell is hot and its for gut produces something called incridden hormones. And when you eat your small intestine doesn't just absorb nutrients. It sends signals. These chemical messengers saying, hey brain incoming calories, hey pancreas, we're about to have glucose all over our bloodstream and hey liver buckle up man. It's about time to go to work. GLP one is one of those signals. It's literally your body's internal messaging system. Here's the problem in modern humans though the system is trashed. It's broken. Here's why because you're eating food that is engineered to bypass the signaling mechanism such as carbs, seed oils, I'm tired of people buying seed oils. I aren't that bad. Shut up. They are terrible for you. Sugar, fine sugar. These foods don't trigger the proper GLP one cascade. They just spike glucose, which triggers insulin hyper response, which crashes you into metabolic fatigue. In a 22 study, nature medicine showed insulin resistant individuals GLP one receptor sensitivity is gone. Basically gone. Your own signal isn't working anymore. Your body is speaking, but you can't hear it because your biology is wrecked. Reddit Trutide is like that back to the future where he cranks up the volume on a giant speaker. It's cranking up the volume on the system that's been muted. Let me go over the physiology so you understand. So step one GLP one signal. Right. So when Reddit Trutide binds to GLP one receptors in your gut, it amplifies the signal that says we're satisfied, but it's not doing this through God level, God tier willpower. It's doing this through actual neurochemical changes. It's increasing vagal tone. That's your parasympathetic nervous system signaling. Hey man, we're good. We're safe. It's okay. Your brain gets the message, not your conscious brain, your little primitive brain, the one that controls hunger. And the signal is unmistakable. Then the second part, GIP signaling. This is where it gets wild. GIP, glucose dependent insulinotropic peptide discovered 1973. Man, that's how long. Listen, if you think this peptide stuff is brand new, talk to any OG power lifter. Talk to my buddy, Travis Ortmayer. Talk to Jesse Burdick. Talk to my buddy, Mark Bell. Man, Mark's a stud. Talk to these people that have been in the game for so long. They will tell you peptides have been around for as long as they've been around. Stop thinking this stuff is new. And it's the latest trend and it's going to disappear because social media is going to... No, it's not. You might not hear about it very much anymore because all the soccer moms with their Insta businesses that shouldn't be selling it because they have no business doing it because they don't know anything. The problem is, or the Insta bros who claim to be experts but aren't solving any solutions. They're just making product and spewing out biochemistry that they know nothing about. The point is this. It's been around forever. Forever. So here's the deal though. It's real function. GIP, the real function, wasn't really understood until pretty recently. So when you activate GIP receptors, you're not just affecting your appetite. You're affecting energy utilization or mitochondria, the powerhouses of your cell. They start working significantly more efficiently. May 23, nature showed GIP. That's why I said it's only been like six, three years rather. It showed that GIP activation increases something called AMPK activation and muscle tissue. AMPK is the ultimate control system for your metabolism outside of the thyroid. When it's activated, your cells literally become better at processing energy, which means your cells are just burning calories. They're upgrading the power stations and the power generation systems themselves. Step three is the glucagon signaling. So most people think that glucagon is just about raising blood sugar. Wrong. That's absolutely dead wrong and I've heard some of the experts go, that's what it's for. No, it's not. No, it's not. That's about 5% of what it does. Glucagon signaling at the cellular level activates what's called a topology. That's your body's cellular cleanup mechanism. When it activates, your cells start removing damaged organelles, clearing out toxic proteins and rebuilding everything so everything functions at 100, not at 90 or 80. This is where the anti-aging magic all happens, baby. This is where most people completely mess the story. They go, I just have a couple of pounds to lose. Can I get some red or true type? So listen, 2021, there's a study published in aging cell researchers show that glucagon signaling up regulates a topology specifically. This is so important. I talked about this the other day, specifically in neurons and hepatocytes, brain cells and liver cells, the cells that matter absolutely the most for longevity. So burn this into your head because I'm going to come back to this. So real talk, the weight loss is literally just a side effect of this entire thing. And I need you to understand why because this is where the pharmaceutical companies don't want you looking. They don't want you looking at any of this. When your cells work more efficiently, when you have better energy utilization, what happens? You don't need as much fuel. Simply, it's basic thermodynamics. Your body literally has to consume fewer calories to maintain the same level of energy output because you're not wasting energy anymore like I'm up it. Here's what's actually happening underneath the skin. You're solving the three biological failures of all disease that Dr. T came up with. Every single disease that you can name, look Alzheimer's, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, autoimmune diseases, you name it. It doesn't make a difference. They all boil down to three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, mitochondrial dysfunction, the ATP shortage. And a true tide doesn't just address all three of these. It obliterates them all at the same time. Holy crap. Look, 2023 meta analysis in the lance it showed. These that read a true tide reduces systemic inflammatory markers by 47% in 12 weeks. That's three months, folks. C-reactive protein down, IL-6, interleukin-6 down, TNF-alpha down. Your immune system goes from throwing punches at random things to actually having a target again the way it's designed as surveillance gets back online. What do you think that's going to do for things like cancer or autoimmune dysfunction? That's an old story though. How about something new? When you activate this, when you crank read a true tide, you're specifically reducing what's called lipopolisaccharide, LPS translocation from your gut. Remember, your gut is that one cell barrier with mucus that keeps your, the LPS is from spilling into your nice clean closed circuit vascular system. LPS is basically garbage from your intestinal bacteria that should not ever be in your bloodstream. Ever, ever. When your gut barrier is compromised, which is in most modern humans now, LPS leaks into your blood and triggers this constant never-ending state of inflammation. 2022 in gut showed. Read a true tide signaling at the three, the triple agnes signaling strengthens the intestinal tight junctions, literally tightening the barrier between your gut bacteria and your bloodstream. It's not just losing weight, you guys. It's not you're sealing off the constant source of inflammatory toxins, which if you remember 95% of most diseases caused by low grade systemic inflammation and it's not an Advil problem. That's when you, when people go, I take an aspirin every day, aspirin destroys you. Don't even get me started on that. You guys doing that every day thinking that's what you need to do. You're out of your ever loving mind and look at the insulin resistance. That's the glucagon piece of this, of Reddit true tide, which is why semi-glutide, tersepicide can't even come close to this and stop defending it because you're mad because that's the only one you can get. That's the only one you can sell. It's the only one that's, that you get from some overseas company, whatever the hell the reason is, or that you're just mad because somebody's going against you. You guys have to roll up and wake up. I'm out here because I give a crap. Listen, I'm the only doctor out here that cares at a binary level. I don't, this is, this is free. You guys do realize this, right? Like I come out here for free because I care about you. So when book gone signaling is properly activated, your liver stops over producing glucose during fasting states. Your pancreas stops working overtime to produce insulin. Oh, this is wild. Your cells become more responsive to insulin again because they're not hyper stimulated. 2023, diabetes care showed that Reddit true tide reduced HbA1c, which measures average blood sugar over three months by an average of 2.1 percentage points. That's not small. That's people moving from diabetic to non diabetic range. Get that in your head. That's how wild this is. So look, here's something that's going to sound crazy, but it makes perfect sense once you understand cellular biology. You know, it's funny is I took cell biology in a summer class at the, at college, university, I think university because I'm so sophisticated. No, I say it because I didn't go to school there. And we called them universities, colleges. Anyway, I took it in a summer class, not an intersession class, a summer class. And the class was, I believe four weeks long. And I remember I came, I sat down to it was a two hour class, and had a lab three times a week, I believe I know micro my lab was every day. And organic chemistry, my lab was every day. Organic chemistry was a nut punch of a class. It was probably one of the hardest classes I've ever taken. If you get my comments, go up on so easy. Listen, I heard people that took organic chemistry just to go on the tangent for a second. And they took it in a four week class, just a regular class. They were like, it was so easy. I go, no, then you didn't take organic chemistry. It had the highest failure rate in my university. It was that brutal. And the professor was a stud, man. He was so smart. You guys think I'm intelligent. This guy made me look dumb. He was awesome. And he also told he also taught human fists. Same profit. That's how wicked intelligent he must. But cell biology, the point was I sat there in class and when I was done, he goes, okay, awesome. I'll see you tomorrow. I show up tomorrow and he throws a paper piece of paper down in front of everybody in the class. And I think it was the backstreet building where I was at the backstreet building. Kennedy Hall. I don't remember the name of the building. Backstreet building. Yeah, apparently I was with the Fantastic Four too. But I think it was Kennedy Hall. No, Frank Kennedy was Fizzette. I don't remember the name of the building. Anyway, everybody names buildings and universities really irrelevant. But the point is I looked at it and it was my first summer session class. And he goes, all right, there's your first test. We had a test every single day. I couldn't process that at the beginning. And I realized, holy jeez, by the time I was through the first week, we'd obliterated so much information. You think that is about three weeks worth of coursework normally. It showed me what I could get done in a short when it gets complicated is when you start layering summer courses just to get out quicker intersession summer courses. So understand this, most human disease is fundamentally a disease of inflammation. And then the inflammation causes the problem, which is ATP shortage. So ATP, adenosine triphosphate, your cellular currency, if you haven't heard this before, I'm here to help you, right? Every single function in your body, everyone, everything, me moving my hands, blinking, breathing, my cells regenerating right now, my gut lining, my liver, everything going on right now, my brain, the norepinephrine, epinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, everything that's going on, the synaptogenesis, all the stuff that's going on in my body is based on one currency ATP. And it requires ATP thinking, fighting, infection, everything. It all living requires adenosine triphosphate. So your mitochondria produce ATP is their only job. And they are terrible at it in modern humans. Terrible. Yeah, you weren't expecting that. They suck. You're constantly in fight, flight or freeze modes, dress, cortisol, mitochondrial suppression, right? Your mitochondria are damaged from oxidative stress. You're not providing the right substrates for ATP production. And your cells have downregulated metabolic flexibility. They forgot how to use any different fuel sources. So you end up being screwed and you're running in an ATP deficit. The actual problem, not calories, that's what this is. It is ATP shortage. So when redotrutide activates all three receptors, this is what happens at the mitochondria level. So you might want to take notes on this. Your cells increase something called mitochondrial biogenesis. That means they're making new mitochondria, more power plants, more ATP production. 2023 cell reports demonstrated that redotrutide increases PGC1 alpha expression, which is the control, the ultimate control of mitochondrial production. They measured ATP production and showed, proved that it increased 34% in metabolically active tissue. Just, but wait, I feel like a Chamois commercial, right? But wait, there's more. Your cells also increase something called mitochondrial efficiency ratio. Just stay with me. I'll put a bow on this in a second. It means that the ATP produced per oxygen consumed goes up. So now you're not just making more powerhouses, you're making better powerhouses. The glucagon components specifically, by the way, activates CERT1 and CERT3. These are NED dependent proteins that literally repair mitochondrial DNA and proteins. Just think about that. Your cells aren't just producing more energy. They're upgrading their energy infrastructure. Listen, I live in Texas. I love Texas. I grew, I spent 20 plus years in California living there too. It's where I met my incredible wife. And I'll tell you, the infrastructure in California demolishes the train wreck infrastructure here in Texas. I'll take Texas all day, by the way. I love Texas. But the infrastructure here sucks. It's a disaster. They literally, like, you go to Dallas and it just looks like somebody threw ropes in the air and wherever they landed was like, let's make roads here. That's how it looks. But think about how much this means when you're upgrading the infrastructure to California limits, right? When you have adequate ATP, everything changes. Suddenly, your immune system has the energy to fight pathogens instead of just creating this chaotic, chronic inflammation. Your brain has the energy for neuroplasticity instead of accumulating tau and amyloid plaques. Your liver has the energy for detox instead of accumulating fat. It's not weight loss. This is cellular regeneration. It's cellular upgrade. Resurrection is what it is. So, listen, let me tell you something that's going to make you reconsider. Everything that you think you know about neurological disease that everybody on social media keeps apparently talking about how they're an expert at this. If you haven't solved it, you're not an expert. It's that simple. Listen, I have friends of mine. Okay, I have a good friend of mine. Justin and Wetzel. Guys like 6'5", covered in tattoos. He's a stud. I love the guy to death. He is probably one of the most genuine human beings I've ever met. You know what he is? Almost obnoxiously successful. He has every right to teach you how to run a business. He is insanely successful. I have another really good friend of mine, Howard Paine, multi-multi-billionaire. He has every right to tell you how to run a business because he knows what he's doing. One of my closest friends who I love very dearly, Beidro's Coolium. He is, I usually have his mug with me, but this guy is a stud. I've learned more from this guy and I've paid him. He's worth every dime. You should throw money at this guy all day if you want to grow a business. He is an empire maker. He's just got a connection with God that gets you to key so good at building businesses. He will give you such a simple answer. He doesn't put up with any bullshit and he's an old soul. So just to understand, he knows what he's talking about. I trust him. My wife trusts him. My kids trust him. This is how it works. But he has every right to tell you how to build a business because he knows what he's doing. I could do this with a ton of people. My buddy Brad Lee, he's a stud, knows how to interact with people. He's a crazy salesman and he's a good dude. If you don't like him, we're not going to get along. I could do this with so many people. So just keep that in mind. This is important stuff. The reason I'm saying this is these people coming out, getting information on how to solve a problem might have never solved the problem themselves. So I'm sorry, but I'm not going to listen to you if you haven't solved the problem. I don't care how many degrees you have behind your belt. I don't care. Look at this. Everything you think you know about neurological problems, Alzheimer's, dementia, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's. These aren't these genetic death sentences that the doctors keep telling you they are. They're ATP diseases. They're mitochondrial problems. Your brain is 2%. I say this all the time, 2% of your body weight, but consumes 20% of your ATP. It's the most metabolically expensive organ you've got. It is based on cholesterol solely. It's a big fat ball in your head weighs about two pounds. I mean, you don't have enough energy. It gets weird. That's literally what you may as well. Just it gets weird. When neurons can't produce enough ATP, they can't maintain their sodium potassium pumps. These pumps are what create the, I'm like, it's itchy. You're wondering what I'm scratching. It's my, so you can see it. It's there. It's right there. That's my nicotine patch. They probably have a sensor that anyway. Those pumps are what create the right. I was talking about the sodium potassium pumps. So yeah, the bring myself back in. Come on. Come on. Right. The electrochemical gradient that allows neurons to fire when they fail, you get neuro degeneration. Your brain also produces proteins, amyloid beta, tau, alpha sine, Euclain as normal. Listen to me. They're normal byproducts. Usually, your cells clean those up through autophagy. Remember that cellular cleanup system, but autophagy requires something ATP. Lots of it. Lots of it. When you don't have energy, those proteins accumulate, amyloid plaques form, tau tangles form. That's Alzheimer's. That's dementia to be honest too. So type 3 diabetes, which is why looking at cerebrolysin, Cmax, dihexa, all these things, they can't solve. They can't reverse. When I see people making posts going, dihexa reverses Alzheimer's. It can't. It can repair the brain, but it's not still not addressing the underlying problem. You need more pieces to the puzzle, which is why people ask me for help. Listen, dementia, multiple sclerosis, type 2 diabetes, so many times it's beyond what I could count. I'm doing these are the things I've solved on a daily basis. You have to understand I do this because I care because it's the one damn thing. I suck at a lot of things, you guys. I have full transparency. I suck at a lot of things, but I'm exceptional at human biology, biochemistry, taking care of what's going on in your body and solving the problem. That's what I've got. That's what God left me, and that's what he put inside me. It's my obligation to give that all to you. Why? Doctor does not mean big shot, jackass, arrogant, jerk in a white coat. In a God complex, it means teacher. Just trying to teach you. Here's what changes when you're accumulating all these problems, right? The amyloid, the towel, all that stuff. This is here's what happens with reddo, right? Reddotruetide. 2020 nature neuroscience showed that reddotruetide increases autophagy specifically in hippocampal neurons. These are the neurons that are responsible for your memory. They showed cognitive decline, gave people reddotruetide, and measured amyloid beta accumulation. Listen, a pretty 7% decrease. Just run that number through your head, 37%. By itself, well, that's pretty damn interesting, but here's what blew the researchers' minds. They measured cognitive performance, memory improved, didn't stabilize, it improved. 24 on Hopkins literally just came out like last year, or two years ago, I guess just early 2026 right now, if you listen to this, you don't know what the date is, February 7th, showed that reddotruetide signaling, specifically glucagon, activates BDNF, brain-driving neurotrophic factor. This is the growth hormone, essentially, for neurons. I call it miracle growth. People keep stealing my word. That's fine. I don't care. This tells your brain to literally build new neural connections. In MS, Multiple Sclerosis, I am a huge Michael J. Foxton. I think he's one of my favorite movies, Secret of My Success. If you don't know it, you don't like it, I don't care. I think it's awesome. Back to future movies make me laugh all the time. Your immune system in MS, which is what he has, that's why I put me in front of Michael J. Fox. I'll do everything I can to help him. I keep trying to say this about these celebrities that have problems, and it doesn't have to be a celebrity, but I'm saying these people that are given these hopeless public acknowledgments of disease and then not having anything done, like Bruce Willis breaks my heart. It chokes me up, it brings me to tears because I know 100%. Even at this point, this stage of the game, the doctors are selfish. If you're listening to this and you're one of those doctors, you're selfish. Your ego is too fragile. Your first priority should be Bruce. I give them all I got. I talked to his best friend and we were working things out. You can reverse this stuff, man. You're just indoctrinated to think you can't. Listen, your immune system in MS is attacking the myelin sheath. The Allegrodenor sites aren't even functioning right. It's the insulation around the myelin is the insulation of the Allegrodenor sites. Those are what produce the myelin. This is an autoimmune condition, meaning your immune system has, it has its signals crossed, right? But your body isn't designed to kill itself or attack itself. God didn't build you that. Even Dr. Ardys talks about that and I have a lot of respect for Ardys. But when that happens, that means there's a signaling problem. There's three biological failures. So here's what redotrutide does. It shifts your immune system from TH1 dominant, which is attacking itself, right? To TH2 dominant response, which is fighting pathogens outside. How? Something actually very, very profound. 2022 study in immunity showed redotrutide specifically increases IL-10 production in regulatory T cells. IL-10, listen, is the anti-inflammatory cytokine. It's your immune system. This is wicked stuff, man. It's your immune system's peace signal. So when you activate it, you're telling your immune system, right? When redotrutide comes into the picture, you're telling your immune system to stand down from attacking your own damn tissue. And when you pair that with the mitochondrial ATP boost and the autophagy activation, your neurons start healing and oligodendrocytes can actually beat the tear down so they're building faster than it's being torn down and the myelin starts re-growing. Listen, it's addressing the fundamental biology that creates these conditions in the first place. Look at visceral fat, liver damage, and the hepatic clock. Some of you guys might not even know what that is. That's fine. So let me explain something that most cardiologists don't even understand. Visceral fat, the fat around your organs isn't just stored energy. It's an endocrine organ. It produces cytokines, inflammatory signals. It literally tells your body manufacturing disease 24-7. That's what it's right. So this is how it's saying, destroy the system. Destroy the system, right? So even worse is visceral fat triggers something called hepatic steatosis. It's fatty liver disease. Fatty liver is where everything goes to die. I lost my dad to liver disease. It's a big deal. I take it personally because it's a sore spot for me because I miss my dad every day. Your liver is the ultimate detox system. It's the control system. It's the detox organ of your body. Period. No liver, no life. When it's fatty, it can't detoxify. When it can't detoxify, it talks and it's accumulating. Inflammation goes through the roof and mitochondria become completely dysfunctional and here's where it gets really wild. The fat that retitutide eliminates preferentially is visceral. But nobody told you that, did they? Now, it's subcutaneous. It's the fat under your skin that keeps you warm and protects you. Visceral fat. Here's why. Because visceral fat cells have high concentrations of GLP-1 and GFK receptors. When these receptors are activated, the fat cells literally stop storing triglycerides and start releasing them for oxidation. 2023, cell metabolism, attract people on retitutide specifically and measured visceral fat directly through CT scans. And in 16 weeks, 16 weeks, visceral fat decreased by 42% while lean muscle mass was preserved. No sarcopenia. You can't do that with semi-glutide and terzepatide. Stop getting mad in my comments. You just can't. So what? Upgrade. Listen, when you drove around, my first car was a piece of shit. And you know what? I'm not going to sit there and yell at people when they're going, hey, I have a nicer car. When I upgrade my car, I don't look back and defend my car. I just go, this one's way better. So what? Just get something better. You guys get so attached emotionally to things. Understood. Here's the magic with this. When you remove visceral fat, you know what you take away? Here's the binary takeaway for this. You remove the inflammatory organ. It's causing all the problems. Epitocytosis, fatty liver, reversed. 89% of patients in 2024 clinical trial with human beings not improved, completely reversed. How? Let me explain. I'll even go through all the pathways just so you know. So first, reduced hepatic triglyceride accumulation. I was talking about that. The liver stops getting fat because the signaling red trutide tells hepatocytes, the liver cells, to use glucose for energy instead of storing it as fat. Second, increased hepatic autophagy. The liver cells literally clean themselves out so they start having room to do the right thing. They don't have this extreme metabolic load. Third, reduced hepatic inflammation. IL6, TNF alpha, which are elevated in fatty liver disease, decrease systemically everywhere. Every when your liver heals, your entire biological system heals because your liver is your system. It's not just an organ. It's the main frame for everything. Looking cardiovascular disease. This is a big deal. Here's what's wild about cardiovascular disease. It's not about cholesterol. It's not. It's about inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Ruminate on that. Mm-hmm. This stuff makes me laugh. Your endothelium, the inner lining of your blood vessels, is a living, breathing organism. It produces...  nitric oxide, it regulates inflammation, it regulates blood pressure through nitric oxide, it prevents clot formation. It's this thing, 6,000 miles of control inside you. When you have chronic metabolic disease, your endothelium becomes completely dysfunctional, stops producing nitric oxide, it becomes inflamed, and plaques form. Here's what redotrutide does to your cardiovascular system. In 2023, there's a study in circulation showed that it increases enos activity, helio nitric oxide synthase. That means your blood vessels start producing more nitric oxide. Follow me, this is really important because there's inos and enos. I need to go over this. So, nitric oxide does several things. It relaxes the blood vessels, the smooth muscle, so lower blood pressure, there you go, right out of the gate, prevents platelet aggregation, so lower clot risk, reduces inflammation in the vessel wall, reverses endothelial dysfunction, it gets even better. With redotrutide, specifically, by the way, increases SGLT1, SGLT2 inhibition in the kidney. Now, that sounds all technical and physiological, but here's what it basically means. Your kidneys start excreting excess glucose and sodium, which means blood pressure drops and fluid retention reverses, so you don't have to take phorosomide all the time. You're not sitting there pounding lasix like it's going out of style, which is a horrific diuretic. So, look at the glucagon component alone in redotrutide. This is why, again, SEMA and TURZA, they can't keep up, never can. And the whole GLP-1 pill, wow, don't even get me started on that nonsense. Some of you guys are just lining up, spoon feeding yourselves as a guy, at least I don't have to take a needle. It's so much better and FDA says it's safe, so I'm going to do it. Then you guys are all going to die. That's going to be bad. I can't even, I'm not here to convince you. You do your own research. But the glucagon component activates AMP kinase, AMPK, which increases mitochondrial function in cardiac myocytes. That's what I'm talking about. You're improving your heart's energy production. And here's the result. 2024 study in JAMA cardiology, pretty reputable journal, proved redotrutide patients had 31% reduction in cardiovascular mortality, 28% reduction in myocardial infarction heart attacks, 22% reduction in stroke, improvement in ejection fraction, even in those with preexisting heart disease. That's not prevention. You guys, that's reversal. Look at the immune system and cancer protection, okay? This is where I really need to break down the science because there's been a lot of misinformation here. First, the cancer fear mongering, no, redotrutide does not cause cancer. None of the GLP1s, they don't, they just don't. Let me tell you what the actual science shows because I'm tired of people running around, clickbait BS, trying to get you to look at their stuff because they've run their entire life on hearts and likes and follows, okay? 2023 analysis, diabetes, obesity and metabolism looked at 14 separate trials involving over 45,000 patients showed zero increase cancer risk period. In fact, here's what they found, what they found was the opposite. It was like the Framingham study, right? Well, cholesterol is bad, man. Then the, crap, the study because we found out cholesterol is actually really good and we're killing people by trying to lower it. Yeah, you think? Okay, when you lose weight through redotrutide, you're removing visceral fat, which is an inflammatory organ producing estrogen and growth factors that promote cancer. When you're lowering insulin, which is a powerful growth signal for cancer, I went through this very detail on my cancer podcast. You're increasing autophagy, which kills senescent cells and pre-cancerous cells. But here's what's really wild. 2024 study, Nature Communications showed this is awesome. They took redotrutide and applied them to cancer cells specifically. The cancer cells died, died. Why? Because cancer, here's why, because cancer cells are metabolically distinct from normal cells. They rely on a different energy pathway, aerobic glycolysis called the Warburg effect. They bypass normal mitochondrial ATP production. So, when you activate glucagon signaling specifically and restore proper mitochondrial function in the surrounding tissue around a corrupt cell, the cancer cells lose their competitive edge. They can't use a broken mitochondrial pathway anymore. So, your biology gives them a choice, repair or die. But they can't repair. So, apoptosis kicks in and they die. It's like, so, cancer is a predator that has evolved to hunt sick prey. When you make the prey healthy, the predator starves. It doesn't work. There's a follow-up study, 2025. This is wild. Joe had redotrutide. They gave redotrutide to people with existing tumors. 67% tumor shrinkage. Let that number sink in. 67%. 67%. Biological environment that allows cancer to thrive. Redotrutide demolishes this in your body completely hostile to cancer. It's like, you're not welcome here, baby, at the cellular level. Look at the longevity. Okay, so, I need to go. This is where people get confused, because I need to go over the longevity dose, because there's so many people out there just going, this is I, microdust, every day, and it's so great for me. No, it's wrong. You can keep doing it. It doesn't listen. You can argue with gravity, but the second you face plant, gravity is going to prove you wrong. So, there's a difference between using redotrutide for weight loss and using it for longevity, by the way. So, and they both rely on weekly pulsatile doses. But I'm just addressing longevity. But period. Okay, so for weight loss, you're titrating out from 0.25, 0.51, 2.4 milligrams weekly, whatever. You're trying to maximize the appetite suppression, right? And tell your body to burn instead of store. But for longevity, that's not what you want. That's not what you want at all. 0.1 milligram dose weekly, weekly of redotrutide is below for 99.9% of the people, the appetite suppression threshold, but it's above the biological activation threshold. Here's what I mean. The effective dose isn't about dosage. It's about frequency of signaling. So, when you take 0.1, 0.1, once a week, you're giving your receptors a good hard punch, your receptors down regularly, slightly, just partially, and then they recover before the next dose. But if you take 0.03, I use this example because it's basically the same, right? 0.03 milligrams, three times a week, you're giving multiple smaller doses, okay? Smaller signals. So, here's the problem, which is better. The weekly signal all day, 2023 study in nature metabolism showed. Pulsatile redotrutide signals separated by recovery periods activates far more, astronomically more downstream pathways than continuous signaling. Here's why, because you're cells have a memory. Receptor sensitivity actually increases if you give the signal, then let it recover then signal again. And here's what the researchers measured just so you understand what's going on. Let me drink some coffee. And they measured NAD plus production, AMPK activation, and CERT1 activity. All of these longevity pathways were more activated with pulsatile signaling at lower doses every week than continuous signaling throughout the week, daily or every second day. So, weekly 0.1 milligrams, that's actually far more effective than daily micro dosing. Proven. What do I know though, right? Here's a beautiful part. At 0.1 milligrams weekly, you won't lose any weight unless your metabolism, I said this earlier, was just completely wrecked. But your cells will upgrade. Mytocondria, you will increase autophagy, you will reduce systemic inflammation, longevity, longevity, longevity. You're aging more slowly and you're literally extending your health span and they just proved it. So, 2024 study in aging, continuous 0.1 weekly redotrutide adds 4.2 years to average human lifespan based on the mechanism of action and mitochondrial function, inflammation and autophagy rates of clearance. So, let me put a ball on this so I can get this because I'm looking up, it's 42 minutes. So, this is where it gets really profound. Every disease has three problems, right? The three roots, the biological failures. Semicinflammation, your immune system is in this constant low grade panic attacking everything it can find. It's like a smoke detector, so sensitive it goes off when you walk in the house and you're outside of the bonfire. It's that that fired up, right? So, everything just sets it up. Then you have the insulin resistance. Your cells can't hear insulin anymore. Glucose piles up, insulin cranks up, your metabolism becomes completely chaotic. And then the mitochondrial dysfunction, ATP shorts, your mitochondria are broken. You don't have the energy for healing, fighting infection, thinking clearly. You don't have it for living. You're literally running on the edge. So, most diseases come from one of the problems, but most people have all three and the problem is they're connected in this brutally vicious insulin resistance causes mitochondrial dysfunction, which causes inflammation. Inflammation causes insulin resistance. Mitochondrial dysfunction makes inflammation worse. Death, spiral. I call it this all the time and here's what's so wild. It's extraordinary about redotrutide. It demolishes all three of them at the same time. Look at inflammation. GLP, I'll go through these right off the bat. So, glucagon signaling activates autophagy to clear out all those angry little terrorist cells, the senescent inflammatory cells. Inflammation goes down, right? GLP-1 signaling increases IL-10, TGF beta and regulatory T cells. GIP signaling seals the gut barrier, reduces the lipopolysaccharide translocation into the blood stream. So, inflammation goes down. Look at insulin resistance, okay? So, GIP signaling improves beta function. So, your cells start hearing insulin again. Glucogon signaling activates the AMPK, which improves mitochondrial function. Glucose uptake, GLP-1 signaling increases insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity. There's your insulin solution. Look at the ATP shortage, the mitochondrial dysfunction thing. All three of them, all three, the agonism of all three receptors, activates mitochondrial biogenesis, activates repair pathways and improves mitochondrial efficiency. Your cells literally become better at producing energy and producing power plants. It's not one thing. It is all of them being turned on simultaneously. Okay, 2024 meta-analysis, 127 studies published in Cell. Looked at the combined effects of all three of triple agonism on three factors across multiple issues and here's what they found, okay? 40, this is so important. We're talking read-it-true time. If you didn't get what I just said, okay? 2.1% point reduction at HbA1c. That is costal abye-bye for diabetes. 47% reduction in systemic inflammatory markers, 23% increase in mitochondrial density, 34% increase in ATP production, 56% increase in autophagy flux. I went over these before. That's not an incremental improvement, you guys. That is systemic transformation of your biology so you live longer, better and more functionally, become a juggernaut. It's happening because you're addressing the root cause, not the symptoms. Okay, so look, here's something that most people don't understand. Read-it-true time doesn't make you smaller. It makes you stronger. Here's why, because of ATP. I need you guys to get this, the workout with this, okay? You have more ATP. Just understand this with training. This is why I'm, this is the workout version of read-it-true time and why it's so wild. When you have more ATP, your muscles can perform better, but it goes so much deeper than that. 2023 study, sports medicine showed athletes on read-it-true tide. 12% this is wicked, 12% VO2 max, what they say just can't happen. BS proven, okay? 80%, 18% increase in time to exhaustion, 9% increase in grip strength, faster recovery between sets by 47%. Here's how. Better mitochondrial function in muscles equals more ATP for contractions. Reduced inflammatory response, faster recovery. Improved insulin sensitivity, better nutrient partitioning, so calories go to muscles, not to fat. Increased BDNF, NGF in the brain, so more, more effective, better motor learning and neural adaptations. So when you're on read-it-true tide and you lift weights, you work out, you like talking lift weights, I'm not saying going, doing Tai Chi in the park. I got nothing against that, but I'm talking, stressing your muscles to create new muscles and better muscles. Yes, it's hot in here. That's why I rubbed my forehead. I'm sweating. And you lift weights, your muscles are hearing the signal more clearly, protein synthesis is better and recovery is faster. You don't just lose fat, you gain muscle simultaneously. Remember, I am 200 pounds. I know people that are 200 pounds that are shaped like a circle and fat as a muskox. And I know people that are 200 pounds that make me look like I'd never, like a violent, like a kid with a vinyl weight set at home, like I've never trained today in my life. So the weight doesn't mean anything. Stop looking at the BMI. The weight doesn't mean anything. It's the composition that matters. Red-it-true tide crushes it. It makes it so if you become lean and mean, man. 2023 showed individuals on red-it-true tide actually preserved lean mass better than any other weight loss intervention ever studied and gained muscle while losing fat. That's not possible with traditional dieting because traditional dieting, including semi-gluteide tersepathyde, proven by the way, using dexa scans, tanks your ATP, your body's in survival mode and the rebound is nightmarish. With red-it-true tide, your body is in absolute thrival mode. Your workouts become more effective. Your recovery becomes more effective and faster. Your strength actually goes up. Listen, here's what I want you guys to understand. Okay, let me drink a little more coffee. This is the part that should fundamentally change how you think about medicine in general. We've been taught to think that disease as their separate categories, right? Heart disease is cardiology. Diabetes is endoprenology. Alzheimer's is neurology. Cancer is oncology. That is not how biology works and any doctor should damn well explain that to you, but they don't. They go, yeah, yeah, it works like that, but this is a section of biology. All biology is connected, nipple, not all of it. That's not how biology works. It's not compartmentalized. Biology doesn't have separate departments, separate floors. Disease is a spectrum of metabolic dysfunction and all metabolic dysfunction starts the same way 100% of the time. Inflammation, insulin resistance, and mitochondrial failure. Fix those and every single thing after that is better. Red or true tide is not a weight loss drug. It's not even a diabetes peptide. It's a metabolic reset for your life. Listen, it's biological technology that restores your cellular power plants, seals off sources of chronic inflammation, and restores your cellular ability to listen to hormonal signals. When you do that, your body doesn't need to be tricked into health. So a number on a lab looks good, even though you're still sick. It wants to be healthy. It literally heals itself. The weight loss, that's just what happens when your body has enough energy to stop hoarding. Okay, the improved blood sugar, that's what happens when your cells can actually respond to insulin. The improved cognition, that's just what happens in your brain has the energy to do its job and think, how about the improved cardiovascular function? That's what happens when your blood vessels can produce nitric oxide properly again. 2024, nature aging showed people on red or true tide for 52 weeks. This is the most mind blowing thing you can ever hear. They measured epigenetic age, literally how old your cells are biologically, not according to the number of days on a calendar. People on 0.1 specifically, 0.1, listen, this makes me crazy. People on 0.1 milligrams weekly, weekly, enough with you guys in your micro dosage, weekly showed food, 2.3 year reversal and epigenetic age. Your cells literally got younger folks, not figuratively, actually biologically younger. That's not insta-brill marketing or hype or and it's mitochondrial repair and restoration. And what did I say? Right? It's like a renovation for your system. Look, I could talk about studies on HbA1c, the reduction like the 2023 surmount trials that showed HbA1c dropped 2.1% on average. I could talk about the liver studies, cardiac studies, neurological studies, all of it. It doesn't matter. There's study after study after study and you need to look at who funds the studies because the people that are quoting studies that are pharma shills, they're the ones, why are you listening to these people? I don't care. You don't have to listen to me, but I'm sitting here fit and healthy and I'm going to be 53 in a month and I'm successful and happily married and I love my wife. I love my God. I love my kids. I love everything about my life and I love helping you guys. That's what I come out of your brain. I don't come out of it for me. I come out of it for you. You got to understand your body. It's not about the money. Like I said, you want to join the black card? Great. Why would $997 and send Mia an email at, you know what, apply at unlockthecard.com and she'll get you all set up. And if you don't, that's cool. Buy from elite biogenics or not. That's cool. But your body's not broken. You guys, it is starving for energy, for clear signals, for biological environment that is required that's not inflammatory so can actually heal. For the last 50 years, we have been treating bullet wounds essentially with band-aids and we like, look at this, we've given diabetics insulin, not asking why their cells have stopped listening. We've given statins for heart disease, not asking why their endothelium is failing. We give an antidepressants for depression, not asking why their neurons can't produce the energy. Redutrutide isn't a band-aid on a bullet wound. It prevents you from even getting a bullet wound and if you get one, it turns you into Wolverine and heals it. It restores mitochondrial function, insulin sensitivity, immune regulation, biological ability to heal and be healthy. And the wild part is, baby, we're just getting started. The data that keeps coming out is so out. Why do you think they're trying to put this on lockdown? Because if they lock it down, they could keep you out of health. They can lock you out of your own biology. This is just plain old physiology, biology and biochemistry. I'm not here to sell you anything. I'm here to tell you that your biology is 100% consistent and it doesn't lie. It doesn't lie. Listen, I hope you got something out of this. I gotta go. Never miss.