 you know, I come out here every day and they give you all this stuff for free. So you guys can have a better life. And I still get some coconut in my comments, complaining and dropping hate and arguing, except nothing that I do is insta-bro backed. Everything I do, I've been a doctor for almost 30 friggin years. I, everything I do is science. I even quote the studies. Yes, I feel like having a Coke Zero, if you're listening on audio, that's what I'm drinking. It's gonna make me hiccup, I'm sure. So today, I just, this is gonna be real quick. I'm gonna see if I can shorten a lot of my podcasts. I don't know if you guys really like them longer or you like shorter podcasts, but I don't really care. It's my house. But I want to talk about redotrutide and carbohydrates because there's so much misinformation out there. And the insta-bros, I look through Reddit and I look through Quora and there's hate threads on me, which is hilarious to me because I give you the information for free to win and people still get mad. You guys are free and idiots. But here's the deal. So I'll explain redotrutide and carbs and why low carb and redotrutide is a terrible idea. It is, it demolishes the results. And if you go work for me, oh, I'll explain the science behind it. And then you just go ahead and argue with biology and physiology and real results that I've seen with well over a million patients. So we can go on this all day long. I'm still gonna win and I'm still right. You know what's funny about modern medicine? It's funny because we spend billions of dollars chasing cures, but we're all just really chasing our tails. Look at obesity. Here's a pill, even injection, even redotrutide or some good. It doesn't matter. Here's something. Diabetes, another pill, heart disease. You guessed it. Another pill. We're not fixing bodies. We're franchising all the failure. It's a lifetime subscription to symptoms suppression. I'm out here trying to change that. Like you guys know about this redotrutide. It's this molecular middle finger to the obesity self created by the way, nobody has accidentally eaten anything ever. You are not accidentally fat. Don't get mad in my comments because you'd want to tell me that the food manufacturers made you fat and that you have a sugar addiction. No, they didn't make you fat. There's no such thing as a sugar addiction because it has nothing to do with the nucleus accumbens. So we can get into this really hard. If you want to get into the neurology, I'm going to bury you because there's no such thing. You want something to explain away why you have no willpower for a Snickers bar because if I said, look at this Coke zero, I'm holding in my hand. If I say this Coke zero, I just I got to drink 10 of these a day. I don't I drink maybe one every couple of days. But if I have to drink this and I get all twitchy and Jones out for this thing, that is purely psychological. This is not addictive. Unless there's something addictive in this Coke zero, but it the caffeine is not going to make me twitchy. There's no sugar in this. So it can't be that. So it leaves unknown chemistry if I had to go down that road. But it doesn't trigger the way the brain gets triggered to be an addict. So you cannot have a sugar addiction. It's not possible. And we could spend a day on this. And I will just ruin people that say, that's not true. My doctor told me, then your doctor's a liar. And that's there's plenty of you guys out there that are doctors listening to this. And you guys are liars. But listen, the molecular middle finger is red and true tide. It gives it to the obesity epidemic that is self created and everyone and on top of that, not just obesity, every chronic disease that it's dragging behind it, like a bunch of tin cans on a getaway car or getting married, right? We have a lot of crap behind you. What a weird thing to do, by the way. But that's another talk. Red and true tide isn't hype. It's physiology on gear. So I will dissect it in the carbs and explain why you need them and how it's important and show you the studies. And you'll see why your doctor or your insta bro or your favorite influencers, low carb gospel is actually sabotaging the very tools that you need to win using red and true tide. This isn't feel good. This is truth that your body has been going, please just give me the friggin answer because everybody else is telling me stories. So look at the basics that nobody else bothers to explain how red and true tide really works. Forget the headlines and all the lawsuits and the class actions and the people saying it does this and semaglutide work better and turns up. Just stop red and true tide triple threat. It's easiest way to look at it. It can sing it can dance. It's fit. It's sexy. It's hot. It's got it all the synthetic peptide that hits three gut hormone receptors at the same time. GLP one GIP and glucagon. It's like giving your endocrine system a swap team instead of a hall monitor with a little gay pass. So I need to explain this because otherwise you're not going to understand why carbs are so important because they work. The only reason red and true tide works the way it does is because there are three agonists GLP or GLP one and GIP combined or what gets in the way of glucagon's primary mech mechanism of action and forces it to do something completely different. That's to your advantage. But it can only do that in the presence of carbohydrates. I'll explain. You'll see what I'm talking about. We're going to go down the biochemistry road real quick. GLP one glucagon like peptide ones. The satiety signal that your gut sends after eating and red and true tide binds to GLP one receptors in the hypothalamus and the brainstem and it slams the brakes on appetite slows gastric emptying so you feel full longer. But it's a lot deeper than that. And I think that's the problem. They see all these cute little memes and cute little posts but it's so much deeper than what you guys are posting and talking about in the pancreas it ramps up insulin secretion in a glucose dependent way, meaning it only kicks in listen when blood sugar is high preventing hypo glycemia 2023 phase two trials New England Journal of Medicine by Jastroboth showed participants losing 24.2% body weight of that body weight over 70% was fat not connective tissue or muscle fat over 48 weeks. That's not magic. That's biochemistry suppressing hyperphasia at the neurological level. That's just the first part of this. Look at GIP you have to understand this. Gastric inhibitory polypeptide. Okay, we used to think this was just a sugar sensor working the same way as amp K does for energy right it's not what it does. Red and true tide flips the script. GIP receptors in adipocytes and the liver enhance insulin sensitivity and promote fast storage when calories are in abundance. But in obesity, listen, this is the problem. It's the opposite. Red and true tides GIP agonism reduces visceral fat by improving lipid metabolism and it does this by a cyclic amp. He signaling C amp it increases lipoprotein lipase activity to break down the triglycerides all this stuff. 2021 in diabetes showed that the red and true tide increases energy expenditure by 10 to 15%. And it does this through something called brown adipose tissue activation. So when you add in GIP, you get targeted fat loss without the muscle wasting. But here's where the wild card comes in. Because we can go down the GIP GLP one route and stay there and everybody can argue about it. But you guys are missing the point. Glucogon, this is the counter regulatory hormone that screams burn it when energy dips. So red and true tides Glucogon agonism isn't reckless. It's you guys that are reckless, but it's not reckless. It's very strategic. It binds to receptors in the liver and muscle boosting gluconeogenesis, the conversion of amino acids and glycerol to glucose and lipolysis freeing fatty acids for fuel. Now you see where I'm going with this right this increases hepatic energy expenditure by well over 20%. Now do you see why this is different? We talked about 10 to 15% with a GIP. Now we're looking at well over 20% with glucagon 2022 cell metabolism, they prove this number by the way. So we're talking four years ago, they've known this. But here's the house twist of this entire thing. Glucogon prevents the metabolic slowdown that plagues caloric restriction. So without it, your body is way smarter than you think. Okay, your body adapts by tanking your basal metabolic rate, red and true tide stands on the skinny pedal in that realm. It doesn't make a difference. It still keeps the accelerator down. So synergistically, this triple action right creates this. It's like a metabolic vortex appetite down insulin up when needed. Fats mobilized energy expenditure cranked through the roof human physiology bends to it because it's mimicking and amplifying what your gut hormones already do 2023 Jasterboff trial confirmed it. Average weight loss is different. Just understand this is different. Average weight loss 17.5% at 24 weeks improvements in HBA one C dropping to non diabetic levels. You ready for this number in 80% of participants. The data doesn't lie. Instabros do instabros do fake science does people with soft little egos lie. Listen, I'm just giving you the bald faced facts. But here's the problem. The sacred cow that you guys need to chop up and actually do something with carbs. So your paleobros, your keto gurus, your doc that says you need to go low carbs preaching low carb is this holy grail I see it all over Instagram I see all of you guys talking about low carb for red and true type you guys are screwing this up so bad and listen for some it works short term but with red and true tide low carb that's like pouring a bunch of sand into your engine and cranking it over until everything seizes up it actively works against the mechanism that the peptide is designed by the engineers to do. It's just like micro dosing. And you guys got all but heard about that but the science is on my side bio or the bio chemical engineers designed it the way I am explaining it. So you guys get I had some lady get in my comments it was hilarious and she goes not everybody's biology is the same got it so your pyruvate and your TCA cycle and your ETC and your lipolysis they're different than what God built on the planet for every other damn human got it. That's the problem you guys are arguing against something going gravity doesn't work for you works for everybody else but it doesn't work for you that's a lie that is you trying to justify that you are screwing up and you want to you don't want to admit being wrong because you're pulling that thread because then you're going to get it. You realize you're the idiot that's in control of the puppet you're the puppet. So maybe just maybe pull your head out of the sand and actually just listen to the guy that comes out here because he gives a shit about you. I'm the doc that actually cares. Take it however you want it. I'm out here not. I don't need to be out here. I'm still out here with all the nonsense you guys throw at me. I'm still out here with all the stuff that I take from you guys. I still come out here and try and help you. Listen here's the deal. This is why low carbs works against it. Look at red and true tides glucagon agonism demands carbohydrate substrate. Glucagon doesn't just mobilize fat. Follow me. Excuse me. It ramps up something called gluconeogenesis in the liver pulling from muscle proteins and glycerol if carbs are scarce. We got this in a low carb state. Your glycogen stores are depleted. They're gone. The liver under glucagon whipping the hell out of it starts catapalizing muscle to maintain blood glucose. Hello sarcopenia. 2019 study in the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism. Rosenstock did this one. It was awesome. Glucagon agonists specifically red and true tide showed carbohydrate 40 to 45 percent by the way dietary percentage. Co administration preserved lean mass during weight loss reducing nitrogen loss by 40 percent without carbs. You're fueling a fire by the furniture in your own damn house. Make it make sense but the insta brows are right and that's fine if you guys want to listen to them but you're just choosing. Look at physiologically red and true tides GLP one and GIP effects thrive on glucose GLP one sensitizes beta cells to glucose it enhances something called first phase insulin release low carb means low glucose spikes so you under utilize that insulin boost. What why GIP amplifies insulin's anabolic effect on carbs promoting glycogen replenishment over fat oxidation. Why would you try and unwind that 2020 human trial human trial in obesity compared low carb versus balanced carb diets with red and true tide. The low carb group lost less total weight 8 percent versus 22 percent and more muscle by the way 35 percent of that what was lost was lean mass. Red and true tide you guys needs carbs to balance the glucagon driven catabolism directing energy towards fat while sparing protein this is in its design you're taking your biology and you're trying to man handle it and get it to do what some lines from an influencer telling you to do instead of what God wrote in your system. Look at biochemically think like Colossus just go right down to the basics glycologist red and true tide increases mitochondrial ATP a denizen triphosphate demand via uncoupling proteins I talked about this before in brown fat. Okay so carbs this is what I was saying about pyruvate carbs provide pyruvate which is the efficient gateway to the tri carboxylic acid TCA cycle right crebs cycle low carb forces reliance on ketones are 30 percent minimal less efficient per ATP yield by the way proven 2018 nature reviews and a chronology they prove that just so you know before somebody's like how do you know that's how I know you're handicapping the engine real research you guys real research I'm out here to help you get 40 45 percent this is where you want to be. Real research 45 to 50 percent 55 percent even carb percentage of your diet real research man 2023 phase two data implicitly supports this participants with moderate carbs their version of moderate carbs is 45 to 55 percent of their calories showed far not slight far superior outcomes low carb blunts reddit true tides edge it turns off the fact that it's a scalpel it's like a laser scalpel designed to work watch. This is this is why it's so important to me that you guys understand this it's not I don't have some personal interest in Eli Lilly or whoever else is going to try and manufacture this. I'm doing it because I want you guys to use it properly instead of blaming the peptide you look in the mirror and you go maybe I'm the idiot with the violin the strange and I'm doing it wrong because I listen to some Joe bodybuilder or some guy who thinks he's an expert because he's got big muscles. And gets on social media and can read chat GPT I'm a guy that understands neurology and biochemistry and physiology and human biology better than anyone else I've ever met because I give a shit so I'm giving you the answer so you have something to base it on so when your insta bro argues with you you go come here and just show them my video you can try and chat GPT your way out of this all day long it doesn't change biology. The reason it concerns me is because red a true tide the fat loss is the that's an accessory this thing shuts down freaking disease all of them. Why do you think they want to charge 1200 1500 $2000 a vial because they know that most people won't be able to do it. Could you imagine listen you can buy like I tell everybody you can join the black card and I'll give you all the deep dive on all this stuff and real information of the generic stuff that I have to put out here because there's weird laws in place that. I'll get censored and shut down and whatever else because if I give you anything those are just instructions look at labs anything I can't do that here so you join the black card. Still at last year's price you should probably jump in on that because I don't know how long I'm feeling motivated to do that because quite honestly people are pissing me off so I'm just going to sit there and I'll stay there until I feel like. Raising up to some outrageous price so I only have people that can afford that don't like it I don't care it's 10 grand 9997 bucks and you will get it. Maybe today's the last day to be honest it's not marketing I don't have any marketing this I don't put any ads out nothing. Maybe today's the last day but I'll tell you right now 25 grand is where it should be and it's where it is for everybody unless you listen to this and hear this how about that. And then you need to tell me where you heard it I want to know the minute the time stamp everything where you heard it because if I see it's not it I'm just going to call you a liar and send you a bill for 25 grand and then you decide whether it's worth it or not. But I'm going to tell you I have a guy in my group just so you know how bad ass this is listen I'll even read it. His name is Michael Stemms you need to and I know I violated HIPAA oh no listen to this I'm so proud or Michael I got the last name wrong so I'm going to leave it at that. Listen to what this is real this is him in my group you guys need to hear why people join the black card. Good morning everyone I feel motivated to share with the community today I've really struggled with my health especially the last 12 years I've tried everything to feel better I've seen dozens and dozens of doctors I've been a vegetarian a vegan try juice fast water fast dry fasting hell I even went to the Amazon jungle for 30 days. To do a diet and I was with a shaman in a tiny village with no running water no electricity in one meal a day lentils and plantains needless to say I've been desperate yesterday he just started with me this is the day after he just started in the black card by the way. Yesterday was my first day on the full protocol Dr. T gave me I am Dr. T by the way and it was the first time in 12 years that I had a day where I felt great. In fucking great my body didn't hurt I had a ton of energy I'm super focused and very motivated I sit here this morning and I still can hardly believe it. I know it's only one day and I have a long road to go but it's an awesome start so I needed to share. Thank you Dr. Trevor so much for helping me I appreciate you and all your hard work to help others and if you want to see it there I'll put it on here just so you guys can go you made that up nope. That's in my group I have dozens and a hundred of these at least so you decide whether you want to join the black card or not I do it because I care yep there's a price no I'm not doing it for free. In fact it's going to be more expensive because I want to help people that really want to help and so there you go you send it apply at. Unlock the card send an email there to get instructions on how to send the wire don't ask questions about your order or what it entails the black card is this just so you know pay attention to black card is this you get access to my live private. Q&A call I do every Monday evening you get the VIP community where I solve problems like this it's actually me every day I check every morning I go through everything if you send it at three o'clock in the afternoon I'm not looking at it till tomorrow. 24 to 72 hours is usually my turnaround time that's faster than any doctor on the planet and you get my protocol library but that doesn't really matter you have direct access to me you want to work with me. That's it you want to buy from elite by genetics you should. I'll tell you flat out because nobody does it like we do and everybody says that but I don't run specials and sales and affiliate codes and bulk orders and discounts and all that stuff I take care of my people because what's. Coming out of my labs my warehouses is what I will give my family because I trust them or because I trust what I have and I love my family which means if you buy it from me then that's what you're getting so you decide there's no gun to your head there's no marketing I'm not like but wait there's more give me your email and I'll market till you die nope. There's not but that's why I'm here so you can do all the things you want but that's why I come out here so you guys have the answer so if you want to argue about low carbs you can you're still wrong. Look at look at here listen look at chronic disease ask yourself this why does red or true tide have such a profound effect on chronic disease because obesity isn't the disease it's the accelerant it ignites systemic inflammation insulin resistance in the energy crisis that fuels everything from a thorough. Atherosclerosis to neuro degeneration to myocardial infarction to you name it PCOS red to true tide doesn't just melt that it rewires the metabolic chassis of your body look at start with numbers start with numbers. You want to look at this you want to really go down this road 2022 study in nature medicine Mueller showed red to true tide reduces I'll six and see I'll by the way interleukin just you know not I'll AI S. L. E. Okay and C. Reactive Protein C 50% in obese models 50 through red to true tide in its triple mediated anti inflammatory signaling and matter macrophages look at diabetes this is the one that's like freaking knockout red to true tide restores beta function beta cell function increases insulin secretion while glucagon curbs the hepatic glucose output also needs carbs by the way 2023 trial reported reported this home I. R. improvement 60% 6060 reversing insulin resistance biochemically this happens through that there's a bunch of different pathways that a KT if you really want to get into it enhances a glute for translocation to the muscle cells for glucose uptake so no more death cells and peripheral starvation of your system even neurologically it's so potent Alzheimer's type three diabetes brain insulin resistance red to true tide crosses the blood brain barrier reduces systemic inflammation improves hippocampal insulin signaling 2021 study in diabetes care showed 30% reduction in dementia risk red to true tide you guys is neural protective gold why do you think they're trying to bury it hide it patent it keep you from getting it because they price you out if you look at anything on that I saw you like but it's like $200 it's not 2000 red to true tide is beyond profound but why you guys are messing with it and trying to shut it down and make it work poorly with low carbs is beyond me it's an ecosystem repair chronic diseases aren't silos they're cascades from metabolic mayhem red to true tide douses every single problem at the source all of them every single one of them ties directly to the three biological failures root of every disease systemic inflammation insulin resistance ATP shortage obesity amplifies every single one and red to true tide dismantles all of them I mean that's how easy this really is listen this is it it's the irrefutable chain okay watch fix inflammation restore insulin sensitivity replenish energy turn on the ATP machine red to true tide doesn't treat disease it erases failures that are birthing all of them heart disease lesson less inflamed endothelium better insulin in vessels energized cardiomyocytes cancer holy moly marry this to SS and you are a cancer annihilating machine reduced IGF one from lower insulin curb chronic inflammatory response autoimmunity balance cytokines dialing down th cells I could do this all day you guys we've been lied to by every single medical professional out there and they look at me and go I'm the one that's telling all the stories and yet I'm the one with all the research going here's the proof I'll go toe to toe with any medical doctor because and you know what I've been a doc for a long time somebody called me a personal trainer the other day I went I don't really know what to make of that but I do know this I know some personal trainers personally who would scum most doctors in knowledge by far my bud Judd leanheart smarter than probably 99% of the doctors I've ever met he's so freakishly intelligent and he knows human biology he knows human anatomy he knows biomechanics he knows physiology like I look at that and I go he doesn't have a doctorate after his name you think because it says M.D. or D.C. or D.P.T. or P.H.D. or whatever it is after somebody's name that automatically grants them the ability to give you information because they know it no they don't I've said it before I'll say it again medical school is a trade school for pharmaceutical apps and most of the people in social media are shills for the pharmaceutical companies or banks for that matter but that's another conversation listen to me you guys have been lied to about low carbs when it comes to using this peptide that's whatever you want to take out of this is up to you it's aggravating that's why I'm saying it low carb zealotry ignores the nuance of how redotrutide is designed redotrutide is part of the protocol that your body is craving it's root level repair you guys this three biological failures are every single disease I'm right where's my Nobel Prize because those three biological failures you guys are fixable but you have to look at the science behind it and ditch all the dogma look at your metabolism and decide all right I'm going to do what actually works instead of what my insta-bro buddy did I don't know it's your move anyway I gotta go never miss