 so funny because right now it's, we have this winter storm here in Texas, I'm just east of Dallas, and I grew up and spent a lot of years in Winnipeg. I would walk to school kindergarten, I don't know, maybe half a mile, and I realized it's the upward uphill, broken glass, snow, but I did, I'd walk probably about a half mile to kindergarten and I was four years old, five. It's just normal, people here are freaking out, the whole town is locked down, everything. Nobody's out, the people are terrified, they were panicked buying, it's just a weird world, people are incredibly fragile. Anyway, I'm gonna solve dementia today, how about that? How about this, how about I just, I hate to use this word because no doctor anytime, anywhere, cured anybody of anything, but I'll give you the solution to dementia, and this isn't less, if you are late-stage, massive neuronal collapse, anything like that, then this is probably not for you, but if you are mild to moderate dementia, fully reversible, I'll tell you how to do it, line by line. No, I can't give you dosages because it's absolutely illegal because I'll get censored beyond recognition, which is completely ridiculous because I can tell you how much air is set to take and they'll be like, oh, okay, cool, great, you know why? Yeah, you know why, the Gestapo BS that we have to endure, we don't have to. Maybe all of you guys start fighting back, maybe all of you guys start saying we refuse to accept the FDA and Big Pharma as a governing body of our own biology when we know damn well that they're causing more harm than good. Maybe that's what we need to do, maybe start a movement, maybe I should go around to medical campuses, how about that? I'm being honest, I'm being very transparent. How about I go around to every medical campus in the entire United States? I just go on tour for an entire damn year. I bring my family, we get a giant freaky RV and have fun with it and go, my kids are, my daughter is 19 and my son is 16, he's homeschooled and we just go on tour and I explain how corrupt and disgusting the FDA and Big Pharma is and how they're killing people in the medical schools and how morally bankrupt they are and how they're just churning out pharmaceutical salesmen. Listen, doctors are, I have doctors in my black card group. So my black card group is very, it's one year, it's still on sale for 10 grand, you can wait and pay 25 if you want to, but it's still on sale for 10 grand, it's access to me directly, not on a phone, you get to message me and it's really me. I do a weekly live Zoom Q&A, private and I answer, I stay on the call for about two hours, it's every Monday, it's tomorrow, you get access to the protocol library, you get, it's just a great group and I have a bunch of doctors who join because they're tired of the medical world and these are like genuine people who give a crap about humanity because they want to make a difference. You know what I want? I want hundreds of thousands if not millions of people in the black card, not for the money, for I want all medical people to go out and become who you are supposed to be, above all do no harm and then help people solve their problems for all the people that are thinking about joining and this is if you've got an issue and you need help with it and no doctors have helped you, you join the black card. You want to learn more, you join the black card but I don't care, I don't come out here if you do or you don't but I'm telling you right now if you do and you want to join, apply at unlockthecard.com. Mia is my executive assistant, she is going to help you get through this and get it all set up. Might take a couple of days, don't freak out, everything is by wire transfer only, I refuse to take credit cards because that's another scam out there so I won't do it. I take crypto, I take credit, I take crypto and I take wire and that's it, that's the black card and if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, my company, awesome if you don't, totally awesome but I'm out here to help people because I genuinely give a crap but how about that, how about I just go around and I point out the massive corruption and flaw in big pharma and the medical industrial complex, how it doesn't want you healthy and when I come out here, why do I get censored when I give information that is 100% proven to cause health, not death and yet I can talk about all of the pharmaceuticals that are proven to cause death. Find me the studies where peptides and a healthy lifestyle cause death, find me the studies, there are none, 30, 40 plus years, find me the studies that prove high cholesterol causes death, there are none, the Framingham study demolished that narrative. Listen, I'm out here because I give a crap because I'm tired of them sweeping everything under the rug to keep you in the dark so I'm shining like, you know how you defeat the devil, just so you know, drag his horned ass into the light. That's what I'm doing baby, so I'm here to help you. So if you keep getting in my comments and chirping and crying and getting into little chat rooms and going, your I hate Dr. Trevor fan club or whatever the hell it is you do, you guys are screwed up psychologically, I'm here to help you. I don't ask you for money, I do this for free, almost every single day. So how about this, how about I just solve dementia, I give you all the stuff you need, if you need further help, you contact me, if not then I don't know, figure it out on your own, but I'm here to help you. Got it? All right, because I'm going to, this is the whole thing, I'll systematically dismantle everything that the medical establishment has told you about dementia, including you doctors, if you're listening, and I'll replace their fiction with actual biology. There's a shock, the kind that apparently they don't teach anymore in medical school because they're too busy memorizing prescription protocols. See, this is what it's infuriating to me about modern neurology. And trust me, there's a lot of things that are infuriating to me about modern medicine, modern neurology, and that's coming from a doctor. They're treating the most complex organ in the known universe, like a car with a bad carburetor, your brain, you're losing your memories. Here's a pill that does basically nothing. Good luck, that's not medicine, that is negligence, dressed up in a white coat and a God complex. But here's a beautiful thing about biology, you guys, it doesn't lie, it doesn't lie, the mechanisms are there, the pathways are clear, the solutions exist, baby, I keep showing up every day on social media, banging them out. If anything, you guys should blow up my account on social media as best as you can, blow up my rumble as much as you can, so you guys can keep getting this information. It's not a popularity contest, I'm not doing it because I want 10 million followers, I want 10 million followers because I want to be able to help 10 million people. You guys should be nonstop lining up to follow my Instagram, you should be nonstop lining up to subscribe to my YouTube so you guys get the information to my rumble, so you get it, this isn't a bit desperate plea for give me attention, like how am I not at a million subscribers for YouTube yet? 2 million, 5 million, 10 million, how is this not bigger than Mr. Beast? It's because it's not, and I got nothing against Mr. Beast, I'm just saying it's because I'm not entertaining, I'm giving you the facts. But what if all these facts help solve your problem and you don't have to be stuffed under some medical protocol that's actually killing you? So listen, for the next, I don't know how long I'm going to be here, I'm seven minutes in, I will tell you exactly, I will show you exactly what dementia really is and why everything that you've been told is completely backwards and how it actually works at the cellular level, and here's the big rub, how you can actually reverse it using real science, not pharmaceutical BS and fairy tales that they keep trying to sell you. And I'll tell you this, I'll even go even further and I'll introduce you to something that most scientists aren't going to tell you about, Dr. Bryant Artis is fantastically intelligent with this, I got nothing but respect for this guy, and that is Alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism, I have to say it like that. Here, I'll help you out in case you guys, if you're watching this on the, there it's this thing, right here, you see it, it looks like something you stick to your body and it slow drips a compound into you, I'm not going to say it because they keep censoring me, again, make it make sense. But that's the master regulator for cognitive restoration, so buckle up baby, this is going to be a bumpy friggin ride. First things first, how about we, how about we just define what the hell it is we're actually dealing with? Dementia is not a disease, I said yesterday, boy did I piss off all of you neurologists except I'm right, and all of you guys in the back freaking out, yes it is, my grandma died of it, my grandpa died of it, it's not a disease, it's a syndrome, it's a syndrome, it's a collective, it's a collection of symptoms resulting from a massive upstream metabolic failure. Alzheimer's, dementia counts for 60 to 80% of all of these problems when you get into the neuro, the neurocognitive decline, but the mechanism is universal, your brain is this biological supercomputer that would make Apple wet its pants, 86 billion neurons, do that math, you guys all talking about how many millions you earn, 86 billion and each neuron firing as fastest, like you can't even comprehend and it's forming a thousand to 10,000 synaptic connections, that's just, that's roughly 100 trillion synapses, that's more connections than there are stars in the entire milky freaking way, and this entire little three pound universe runs on approximately 20 watts of power, that's less than your phone charger, less than the thing that charges this thing up, while consuming about 20% of your organs oxygen and 25% of your glucose despite being only 2% of your body weight, huh weird, now when dementia hits, we see all of these pathological changes and yet they're not being addressed, beta amyloid plaques, extracellular protein aggregates, neurofibrillary tangles, intracellular tau protein aggregation, cells dying by the millions, connections severed, all like synaptic destruction, blood vessel devastation, so you have a cerebral vascular pathology, your brain is on fire 24 seven, chronic neuro inflammation, communication pathways are destroyed, white matter degradation, here's the question, nobody in mainstream medicine is asking, none of you doctors and I don't even respect you, I don't, what causes all these hallmarks, what's checking all the boxes, you're too busy looking at amyloid plaques and going, you better kill the plaques because I need to cure dementia or Alzheimer's, that's like seeing smoke and concluding that the smoke is what's causing the fire, the plaques aren't the disease, that is your brain's desperate cry and response to a metabolic nightmare, in fact just so you know 2018, science and translational medicine, I talked about this in my post yesterday, approved that beta amyloid, listen to this, I'll blow your mind, sky high, beta amyloid, it's actually an antimicrobial peptide, part of your brain's innate immune system and it's trying to protect you, not harm you, the plaques, I said this yesterday, the plaques of the firefighters, medicine's been trying to cure the fire and put it out by shooting the firefighters, that is absolute genius said nobody ever, here's where your brain is going to start hurting by the way and the best way, the biggest lie, modern neurology tells you is that dementia is a brain disease, wrong, wrong, dementia is a systemic whole body disease that happens to manifest, most obviously in your brain because your brain is the most metabolically vulnerable organ that you've got, let me paint the entire picture, let's go system by system, your gut, your intestinal microbiome produces neurotransmitters, serotonin, dopamine, GABA, etc, it regulates inflammation through the vagus nerve, when you have gut dysbiosis which about 70% of Americans have, you're producing lipopolysaccharides, LPS, bacterial toxins that cross your gut, goes through the leaky gut, crosses into your bloodstream, activates systemic inflammation and breaches your blood brain barrier, inflammation, boom and I'll tell you this, you look at 2017 scientific reports found dramatically altered gut microbiomes in Alzheimer's and dementia patients with specific bacterial strains correlating with amyloid burden, your gut literally controls the brain's inflammation, except what do they treat you with when you go in for Alzheimer's or dementia, they ain't treating you for a leaky gut, they're not, look at your liver, this is your body's detox headquarters, processing 500 plus metabolic functions every second, just non-stop, and when it becomes overloaded from alcohol or fructose, fructose, what is with you guys and fructose, medications, environmental toxins, it fails to clear AGE's, advanced glycation and products, inflammatory cytokines, neurotoxy metabolites, these accumulate, cross into the brain, cause direct oxidative damage to your neurons, what do you think happens then, look at your pancreas, when insulin resistance develops, I'm going to go hard into the pain on this one for you, type three diabetes baby, I already, you guys know where I'm going with this, your pancreas pumps out more and more insulin trying to overcome the resistance, it doesn't work because insulin degrading enzyme, IDE normally clears both insulin and beta amyloid, check that box, just pay attention, follow me, just stay with me on this one, so when all your IDE is busy with excess insulin, beta amyloid accumulates, 2003 American Journal of Pathology proved this competitive mechanism beyond a shadow of a doubt, your pancreatic dysfunction literally causes beta amyloid accumulation, look at your cardiovascular system, endothelial dysfunction, damage to blood vessel linings, reduces cerebral blood flow about 20 to 40%, so your brain is now starving for oxygen and nutrients and neurons suffocate, this was proven in 2016, nature communications showed vascular dysfunction, listen to this, vascular dysfunction appears years before amyloid accumulation, the blood vessel damage comes first, but they're not checking that either, and if you go because of high blood pressure or because of atherosclerosis or cholesterol, you need to be on statins, bullshit, bullshit, in fact statins cause brain fog, they do not repair brain fog, I can give you thousands of studies and probably 100,000 examples of people that I know personally, your skeletal muscle, this is your largest metabolic sink by the way for glucose, when muscle is lost through aging or inactivity or just a bunch of really stupid decisions, you lose your primary glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent mechanism, blood sugar rises, insulin resistance worsens, systemically, and in your brain baby, everything is connected, your brain is the canary in the coal mine, it's the first to die when systemic metabolism fails, it's not a brain problem, so how about, listen, let's get dirty, let's get super dirty with biochemistry, the real biochemistry, here's how it works, phase one, metabolic disaster, your mitochondrial catastrophe is what fuels this entire problem, this is where it begins, the powerhouses that produce ATP are called mitochondria, they do it through something called oxidative phosphorylation, each neuron contains a thousand to two thousand mitochondria because they are a bunch of energy whores, these mitochondria have ETCs in them, electron transport chains with five complexes, one, two, three, four, and five, big surprise, that pump protons and generate ATP via ATP synthase, when metabolic stress hits you on a hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, inflammation, toxins, complex one activity decreases about 40%, complex five drops by about 40 to 50%, and if you look at this biochemical, a biophysic actor, prove this like line by line, ATP production collapses, your neurons can't maintain the sodium potassium ATPase pump that keeps membrane potential alive, calcium homeostasis tanks, and neurons become hyper excitable, and then they die, that's just the first part, there's a bunch to this, look at the second part of this, brain insulin resistance, type three, I told you I was going to go hard into the paint on this, type three diabetes, this is critical, your brain has insulin receptors all over the place, especially in the hippocampus, which is your memory center, in the cortex, which is your thinking center, insulin in the brain does so much more than regulate glucose, it modulates synaptic plasticity, it regulates tau phosphorylation, activates all the survival pathways, it controls neurotransmitter, it does so much, so when insulin resistance develops, and I'm talking peripherally, not just in your brain, when it develops in your system, it doesn't just stay there, it invades your CNS brain, and then your brain glucose uptake measured in PET scan, they've shown this decreases 30% years before symptomatology appears, understand 2008 Journal of Alzheimer's disease coined the term type three diabetes for Alzheimer's, and they were right, your neurons are glucose starved, just aside from the fact that they're swimming around in this ocean with its water everywhere and not a drop to drink, right, it's the rhyme of the ancient mariner, you can't, they can't do anything about it, imagine dying of thirst in the middle of the friggin ocean, that's what it is, right, if you understand and all the boards doth shrink, right, I don't know if you know the rhyme of the ancient mariner, but anyway, the point is that you can't do anything about it, look at chronic neuroinflammation, what are we, three, third thing, systemic inflammation activates your brain's immune cells, they're called microglia, these are supposed to be helpful, just so you know, clearing debris and fighting infections and maintaining balance, homeostasis, chronic activation though, changes these things into little gestapo, little nasty monsters, so they shift now from M2 anti-inflammatory to M1 pro-inflammatory phenotypes and they release pro-inflammatory cytokines, what do you think they might be, TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-18, they produce reactive oxygen species, trigen species and here's the terrifying component to this entire thing, they start annihilating and eating your normal healthy synapses, listen, in 2016, neuron, they showed in dementia, microglia use complement mediated phagocytosis to consume synapses that aren't even damaged, they're just tagged for destruction baby by aberrant complement proteins, so your own immune system is eating up all of your memories, look at the protein misfolding problem that we've got under metabolic stress, this is the fourth thing, your protein quality control system, they all collapse, all of them, so heat shock proteins decline, the proteasome becomes impaired, autophagy regulated by mTOR, AMPK, its certuance, all breaks down, proteins miss full, tau becomes hyperphosphorylated, holy moly, 40, 50 plus different sites, aggregates, it aggregates into paired helical filaments and tangles, there's your problem, beta amyloid, which is normally soluble, oligomerizes into toxic species, just drill holes into all of your cell membranes, I'm not talking porphyrin rings, I'm talking holes that aren't supposed to be there, now these aggregates block axonal transport, the cellular highway that moves organelles and proteins from the cell body to the synapse of starved neurons die, again what's the end result of all of this, again, neurons die, neurons die, neurons die, look at the cerebrovascular issue that's going on, the destruction because of this, what are we, five endothelial cells lining the cerebral blood vessels become completely dysfunctional, nitric oxide which is the vasodilator decreases and endothelium 1, the vasoconstrictor increases, blood brain barrier tight junctions fail, inflammatory molecules flood the helens, cerebral blood flow decreases massively, Zlokovic in 2011, neuron, this is give this guy mad props for this, called this the two hit vascular hypothesis, vascular damage both initiates and accelerates the neuro degeneration and he was right spot on, in the last part of the neuronal death and the entire network just destroys, like it's overwhelmed by all of the stuff I just talked about, neurons die, apoptosis, necroptosis, feroptosis, but before they die, they lose their synaptic connections, watch this, you lose 50% of the synapses before symptoms even appear, by the time that you get the diagnosis you've lost massive cortical volume, the brain literally shrinks, this is dementia, this is what dementia is, it's not what they keep telling you, some multi-system metabolic nightmare for people, I will give you a unifying theory that explains everything and I'm right, where's my Nobel Prize, yeah I'm not kidding at all and some people go, this guy's so arrogant, I don't give a crap, I'm out here trying to help mankind, if you don't get it, I'm trying to save friggin humanity, every single cardiovascular, every single disease, diabetes, autoimmune, cardiovascular, cancer, neuro degenerative, it doesn't matter, three core biological failures every single time, you cannot argue with me because it's irrefutable, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, mitochondrial dysfunction, it is every single time, these three form a terrifying death triangle, each one causes the other two, they're synergistic, they're self-reinforcing and they're devastating to your entire biology, look at it, look at inflammation, so inflammation causes insulin resistance, listen I'll prove it, pro-inflammatory cytokines, activate stress kinases and these phosphorally insulin receptor substrate 1, IRS 1, at searing residues instead of tyrosine, blocking insulin signaling, listen 1996 science, prove this mechanism, inflammation literally caused insulin resistance at the molecular level, look insulin resistance causes mitochondrial dysfunction, insulin normally activates PGC1 alpha, it's the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis, it makes more of them, more power plants, right, so when insulin signaling fails, you don't make new mitochondria, the ones you have become old, weak, frail, pissed off and completely inefficient, 2002 diabetes proved insulin resistant humans, humans by the way, not rats or mice, have 30%, that's a huge number, give me 30% of your bank account, see if you're happy, give me 30% of your time on this planet, 30% of your oxygen, 30% of your relationship, 30% of your kids, your wife, your husband, your dog, you will be pissed off, the insulin resistant humans have 30% fewer mitochondria and muscle tissue and 40% less ETP production, that is a nightmare, now mitochondrial dysfunction, look it, here's where it spins back to the beginning, causes inflammation, when mitochondria fail, they leak the hemorrhage electrons, these electrons, excuse me, they react with oxygen to form ROSs, reactive oxygen species, superoxide, hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, the reactive oxygen species activate the NLRP3 inflammatory, I talked about this a lot, which processes pro IL-1 beta into active IL-1 beta, not the same, okay, but now this triggers systemic inflammation, 2011 nature, definitive proof of this entire thing, do you see this cycle, it's self perpetuating and it's a nightmare and you cannot escape unless you solve these three all at the same time, in dementia, all three failures are lead foot skinny pedal to the floor, look it, systemic inflammation, elevated C-reactive protein, IL-6, TNF-alpha in the blood, cerebrospinal fluid, insulin resistance, 30% reduction in brain glucose metabolism on PET scans, moving, ATP shortage, 50% reduction in mitochondrial ATP production, and you see what happens, ATP shortage goes right back up to inflammation, you see what's going on here, fix these three and you fix the damn disease, period, but you're not going to hear a doctor talk about this, here listen, here's the part that makes conventional neurologists, just their brains explode, dementia is reversible and it's been proven, I'm not, and listen, I said it at the beginning, not in late stages with massive atrophy or complete synaptic loss, don't sit there and try and argue the fringe because that's the weakest form of any argument, but early to moderate stages with aggressive metabolic overhaul and intervention, 100% reversible cognitive decline, I've seen it, it's been done repeatedly by the whale, Dr. Dale Bredesen's recode protocol in aging in Journal of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinsonism, it's just, it's documented reversal of over 100 patients, not slow decline, actual reversal, MCI patients returning to normal, early dementia patients return to work at full capacity, UCLA's follow-up, I talked about this in my Instagram post, 84% improvement, why does this work? Neuroplasticity and neurogenesis, and the stuff they tell you that is impossible, it's a lie, it is a lie, you guys are being lied to every single day, your brain retains the ability to form new neurons throughout your entire life, primarily in the hippocampus, Spalding, 2013 and Cell proved it, used carbon-14 dating from nuclear bomb tests to prove ongoing neurogenesis in adult humans, you generate about 700 new neurons per day in the hippocampus, if metabolic conditions actually are primed for it, when you restore proper metabolism, brain-derived neurotrophic factor increases, activating receptors on neural stem cells, promoting neurogenesis and synaptogenesis, new neurons, new connections, new memories, new function, new health, look at mitochondrial biogenesis, your brains can, your cells, never mind just your brain, your cells can build new mitochondria when given the right signal, PGC1 alpha activation triggered by exercise, fasting, AMPK activations, some specific compounds I'll get into in a second, drives vertical mitochondrial biogenesis, so new mitochondria produce more ATP, energy is restored and neurons recover and you keep going, look at the insulin sensitivity restoration, when you fix insulin resistance, dietary interventions, keto, time-respected fasting, specific compounds, all the stuff, glucose metabolism normalizes, 2012 archives of neurology showed, this is great, improved memory in dementia patients by directly bypassing peripheral insulin resistance and resetting the entire endocrine system, look at inflammation resolution, inflammation has an active resolution phase that is mediated by specialized pro-resolving mediators, they're called resolvins, tectons, erisins, they're all derived from something that most of you guys should probably be taking, which is omega-3 fatty acids, 2 to 4 grams per day by the way, you guys aren't taking it, I know it, you're like I should, I take krill oil, stop getting sucked into nonsense and stop taking flaxseed oil, if you get the fish burps suck it up, suck it up, your health is worth it, by the way these don't just turn off inflammation, they actively promote healing and tissue repair, the brain will always heal if you give it the right conditions, what they're doing is they're busy giving you conditions that ensure that the brain doesn't heal, here's something most doctors don't know by the way, the heart-brain connection is bi-directional, cardiovascular problems exist through dementia, cardiovascular disease increases dementia risk five-fold, but dementia also causes cardiovascular problems, look I'll spell it out, dementia damages the hypothalamus, brainstem nuclei, and autonomic centers, this causes, listen to me, this is important, this causes heart rate variability collapse, blood pressure dysregulation, cardiac arrhythmias, postural hypotension, the orthostatic, doesn't matter, all of them are bad, 2014 nature reviews neurology documented severe autonomic dysfunction in dementia and Alzheimer's, correlating with disease severity, the worse the dysfunction, the worse the disease, the worse the disease, the worse the dysfunction, you guys got to get this, look at the systemic inflammation that spills over into the system, inflammatory cytokines destroying the brain, don't stay there, they get into your system and start circulating, damaging endothelial cells throughout your entire body, promoting atherosclerosis and increasing cardiovascular events, myocardial infarctions, plaqueing, myocardial infarction, in other words, heart attack, you know what the number one sign is for a heart attack, it's called death, no I'm not kidding, not trying to be funny, look it, it dysregulates all your stress hormones, neurodegeneration disrupts the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, it causes chronic, look it up, chronic cortisol elevation, cortisol promotes cardiac remodeling, hypertension and arrhythmias, but nobody's looking at this, this is why dementia patients have dramatically increased rates of heart attacks, heart failure and sudden cardiac death, the diseases feed each other in this vicious cycle and nobody's paying attention to this, they're going how do we solve the plaqueing problem, look at the diabetes dementia connection, this is so strong, it's criminal not to be mainstream knowledge where everybody should know about this, all I'm seeing is all you influencers out here trying to sound smart, trying to help people, but you're not helping or talking about helping people, what you're doing is you're giving them affiliate codes and trying to sell them your bullshit, if I stuck you in a corner and I said please solve this problem, you wouldn't know what to do, it's not to brag on my ability, it's to rag on yours, because it's embarrassing, all you soccer moms pinching something this is how I take my blend, this is how I take my GHK-Cu, when I take to Samaral and this is what I, this is where you need to buy it, don't buy Reddit True Tide from that company, buy it from a compounding part which you can't anymore, can you, huh? The problem is you guys all want to be an expert because chat GPT told you you can, but you're not, do you know why I'm doing this, because I'm a doctor, I'm a doctor, the damn well gives a shit about the person, how many times do you hear me plug and try and get you to buy my stuff, I'll help you, zero, I don't, I don't, anyone can go out and talk about BPC, tell me how many things it's solving and why, listen, type 2 diabetes, this is so important and it bugs me, it gets me so aggravated, because even the doctors do this now, all you docs out there, just a bunch of pharmaceuticals, type 2 diabetes increases dementia risk by 50, you ready for this number? 50 to 100%, 2006 Lancet Neurology, prove this, look it, I'll even give you the mechanisms baby, AGE's Advanced Glication End Products, I talked about this, excess glucose non-enzymatically binds to proteins forming AGE's, these accumulate in the brain three times normal levels in dementia, huh, 1994 by the way is when they found this out, AGE's bind to RAGE, yes they are really called that, RAGE receptors on neurons and microglia, remember the microglia, little immune cells in your brain that go to war against you when they're all screwed up, because now you've triggered oxidative stress and inflammation, which is, there's another word for that, it's called neurotoxicity, the competitive insulin degrading enzyme, I talked about this and why the IDE's, it's not working properly, it's not doing its job, IDE breaks down both insulin and beta amyloid, remember, in diabetes, all the IDE is occupied with excess insulin, beta amyloid clearance fails, amyloid accumulates, guys see the connection why it's so important to understand biology, cerebromicrovascular disease, diabetes causes small vessel disease, microangiopathy throughout the brain, you get white matter lesions, silent strokes, reduced perfusion of the tissue, direct brain insulin resistance, peripheral insulin resistance doesn't stay in the peripheral, it spreads to the CNS, causes brain glucose, hypometabolism, synaptic destruction, this is why dementia at Alzheimer's specifically is type 3 diabetes, they're the same metabolic disease affecting different organs, when you move the location of the attack doesn't change what the disease is, now here you want to get into, I told you I would talk about the Alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism, okay, I'm not going to say the word, because I keep getting censored for telling people the truth, so it's a ligand gated ion channel expressed throughout the brain and all over immune cells, and let me explain why this is critical.  cognitiv enhancement, sorry, my moustache is going nuts. So on activation in the hippocampus, in the prefrontal cortex, here's what happens. When you tap this alpha-7 nicotinicacetylcholine receptor, yes, I'm very heated with this one because it bothers me, because I want you guys to have such a long, powerful, healthy life, and people keep getting in my frickin' way going, I wanna make sure that you can't help people, that's insane to me. So I count on all of you guys to spread me everywhere. Give it away. Stop stealing my stuff and claiming it's yours. Listen, I look pretty different. You guys that steal my stuff, a bunch of cowards. So on activation, on agonism of the receptor, yeah, where I went with that, long-term potentiation, the cellular basis of learning, synaptic plasticity, attention increases attention and working memory, increases processing speed. Listen, 2006, Neuropharmacology, comprehensive review of alpha-7 nicotinicacetylcholine receptor agonism, prove this. Line by line, and yet, how many times people go, yeah, but smoking's bad. I didn't say smoking or vaping, not at all. That's not even close. Nicotinic receptors on microglia and peripheral immune cells mediates the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathways. When it turns on, it inhibits NFKappa B. This is the direct control that prevents it. So when you do this, it prevents the production of TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-6. So you shut down the inflammation at the source. Elzeneforone, neurobiology of aging, showed that nicotinic receptor agonism, alpha-7, acetylcholine nicotinic receptor agonism, dramatically reduced neuroinflammation in dementia. Dramatically. How many of you guys have taken this and slapped it on somebody? You haven't. You haven't. You run to the doctor and do all kinds of stupid things. Yes, I'm a doctor, but listen, you do things that don't cause any benefit, they cause problems. Upon activation of this receptor, you increase BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. It's miracle, grow for your brain, activates all these survival pathways, reduces beta amyloid toxicity, prevents tau hyperphosphorylation, enhances autophagy. Listen, 2015, biochemical pharmacology showed protective effects against amyloid toxicity, but nobody talks about that. They're too busy trying to shove a drug into your body. I'm trying to help you. It enhances, and I haven't even changed. This is a master control for cognition, neuro-protection, inflammation, activating it is critical for dementia reversal, critical. So listen, how about we get into the tools and I explain exactly how this works, and I talk about how things like C-max and cerebrolysin and BPC, how this stuff all works together, actual compounds that fix the underlying biological. So let's start with C-max. And no, you can't spray it in your nose. Sub-Q is the only way you can do this for your kangaroo. You cannot spray it in your nose. I'll say it again. You cannot spray it in your nose. You can, you can do whatever the hell you want. It's got about a 10% bioavailability. If you do that, why would you do that? Because you're too scared of a needle, sack up. Soviet researchers develop this, and if you know anything about how Soviet does the research, it trumps anyway that Americans do it, because they don't mess around. They hunt for the research until they get the answers. Look it, here's the mechanism. Increases BDNF by two to five acts. 2014 journal of Molecular Neuroscience proved it. Enhances NGF, which is nerve growth factor, stabilizes enkephalins, which are endogenous opioids that modulate learning, improves cerebral blood flow by 25 to 30%. Enhances receptor function. 1997 neuroscience research communications showed neuroprotection in stroke. Subsequent studies demonstrate a cognitive enhancement in healthy subjects and MCI patients in dementia. Directly promotes neuronal survival, enhances synoptic plasticity, improves cerebral metabolism, and activates more nicotinic agonism. More nicotinic receptor agonism. More, are you crazy? Why would you not put this stuff in your body? Look at cerebral lysine. People hear this and they freak out. It's concentrated neurotrophic factors. It's the easiest way to explain it. Mimics, NGF, BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, all major neurotrophic factors, every single one of them. Reduces beta amyloid burden by 60%. They proved it in 2002. It is 2026, guys. That is 24 friggin' years ago. A biology of aging, they proved this 24 years ago. Decreases TAL-phosphorylation. You see where this is going? Promotes neurogenesis and synaptogenesis. Enhances the expression of this. You guys, you need to start taking me seriously instead of going, maybe I'll come by and watch this guy get all aggravated at the way modern medicine is, because I don't care about modern medicine. I care about your health and your life. Multiple randomized control trials. They showed this 2006 Journal of Neural Transmission 2015 European Journal of Neurology, all showed massive cognitive improvement by 47% in dementia patients with effect sizes superior to all approved drugs, all, every single one of them. In dementia specifically, it replaces deficient neurotrophic factors, supports neuroneal survivor, survival, enhances dendritic aberration, up regulates protective receptors. This stuff, I don't know where to go with this, other than to go, why are you not on this stuff? Look at retitrutide. Crosses blood brain barrier, activates in the hippocampus, enhances synaptic plasticity, reduces beta amyloid by 50%. By the way, this is 2011 Journal of Neuroscience, proved it again with retitrutide. Decreases TAL-phosphorylation, reduces neuroinflammation through NF-Capa B inhibition, which I already explained, improves brain insulin sensitivity, which is crucial. 2013 Neuropharmacology proved cognitive improvement in dementia and Alzheimer's with retitrutide, with triple receptor agonism. Dementia, by the way, I'll be very specific. It fixes the underlying insulin resistance, reduces neuroinflammation, promotes neuronal glucose utilization, reduces the pathological proteins, creates metabolic conditions to optimize exactly what nicotinic receptor agonism is going to further benefit you, your brain. I don't know if you guys are understanding this, but when you stack all this stuff together in a way that benefits you, it's better than listening to an InstaBro that tells you, I take all these before my fucking workout. Yes, that bugs me that much. I'm tired of you InstaExperts, InstaBros, InstaSoccerMoms, InstaBodyBuilders, thinking you're so smart tearing apart my videos, but you haven't helped a single human being. You're just a glorified friggin' trainer online. And if you take that as an insult, maybe it's because it's the truth. I'm out here trying to help people because I genuinely give a damn about mankind. I want nobody to suffer ever. I almost died four and a half years ago and almost left my wife and kids. I take this more serious than anybody out here because I want you to win. I don't want you to be stuffed full of drugs. I don't care if you buy from my company or join my black card. I frankly just don't give a shit. I care that you guys have the information to make an informed decision before you keep buying from all these knuckleheads on social media, whom magically created a peptide company, whom magically think they're experts because they can ask a question and chat GPT, who magically argue and tear apart my videos, thinking that they have any business doing it because they don't even know the first, they don't know they're asked from their elbow. And I'm doing this because I actually care and I do know the difference between my ass and my elbow. Look at MOTC, man. This thing is a machine. It's the nucleus during metabolic stress, activates AMPK, which is your master metabolic switch for lack of a better description, improves insulin sensitivity, 60%, 2015 cell metabolism, promotes mitochondrial biogenesis, cranks out more of them, enhances hippocampal neurogenesis, 2021 cell metabolism. Again, showed that, increases NAD plus levels, supports nicotinic receptor agonism. Why? Through improved cell energetics. It actually solves the problem and makes you more receptive to Alpha 7, acetylcholine nicotinic receptor agonism. Go figure. Yes, I said it all backwards. I did it on purpose. You want me to say it right? Alpha 7, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism there, just because it's, you guys are weird. You'd be like, I just said it backwards, it's not right. Listen, MOTC direct in Alzheimer's prove it, directly fixes ATP shortage, enhances insulin signaling in the neurons, promotes metabolic health systemically and centrally creates optimal conditions for the damn nicotine. I should just start saying, because you guys won't know what I'm talking about. What's this big long word you're saying? Look at copper, by the way, stop mixing it with things. I don't care how many people contest me on that. I'm still right. It doesn't matter how many, because you guys are selling it. It's hurting your feelings. It's making your ego, you get to hurt your words that you don't like. So what? Listen, modulates over 4,000 genes. Picard 2012, Biomed Research International proved that it increases antioxidant enzymes. Superoxide dismutase catalyzed, glued a thion, right? The number one antioxidant that you've got in your body that gets trashed when you take an NSAID, by the way, reduces inflammatory signaling, promotes angiogenesis, VEGF, it does it through VEGF just like VPC, enhances stem cell differentiation. So you know what it's gonna do? Modulates matrix metalloproteinases and enhances alpha seven nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism and expression through gene modulation. Bunch of big fancy words says it makes you better, stronger, faster and he'll like Wolverine. Reduces oxidative stress, modulates neuroinflammation, improves cerebrovascular function, supports neurogenesis, creates a permissive environment for everything else to work better. VPC-1, this stuff's gangster as hell. Angiogenesis, what I say with, through VEGF upregulation, enhances growth hormone receptor expression, by the way. So you become more sensitive and more receptive to growth hormone, IGF stabilizes cellular junction. So when I'm not talking just your gut, I'm talking the vascular system, I'm talking the blood brain barrier, modulates nitric oxide pathways, both reducing the excess nitric oxide and enhancing the beneficial nitric oxide. INOS and INOS, I talked about this a long time ago, crosses the blood brain barrier, 2018, current neuropharmacology, shows that it solves more brain problems than any of the drugs they've got on the planet. Neuro protection and traumatic brain injury models. Like this is the most, it repairs the blood brain damage, blood brain barrier damage in dementia, promotes cerebral angiogenesis. So you actually grow more cells, reduces neuro inflammation, supports synaptic regeneration, proves conditions for Alpha 7, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism act. Like this is the stuff you guys should be just, check out all kinds of notes on this stuff. How about SS-31? Yes, you have to take SS-31 either after or with MOTC, period. I'm tired of you guys arguing about that too. Doesn't matter, I'm right. I'm right because I care about you. I'm not right because I need to be right. I'm right because I'm telling you how to do this properly. This binds to cardiolipin, the phospholipin that's critical for the ETC to function electron transport chain because full holes, it's belching out reactive oxygen species. It reduces electron leak by about 60%, which then subsequently decreases reactive oxygen species production. It optimizes ATP synthesis from 60 to 70%. Basically preserves the mitochondrial membrane potential. SS-31 improved mitochondrial function so dramatically that they stopped doing tests and studies because they went, everybody needs to be on this, when they married it with MOTC. It fixes a core ATP shortage, which is a massive problem because if you remember the three systemic, the three biological failures, ATP shortage causes more inflammation. Now do you see why this is married? It reduces reactive oxygen species. I'll slow down a little bit so you get it. Reduces the reactive oxygen species at the source. It preserves rather than neuronal energy, creates this energetic state for your body to heal itself. That's how your body is designed. Listen, you need to look at the standard of care. How about that? There's a bunch of drugs, but there's three primary classes, FDA approved for dementia and Alzheimer's. Colon esterase inhibitors, the first one on the list, it's like aerosept, right? Galantamine, there's a bunch. Their theory, listen to this BS, their theory, acetylcholine decreases in dementia and Alzheimer's. You block acetylcholine esterase to increase it, right? Sounds logically not logical enough, except it doesn't make any sense according to biochemistry. Here's why it fails. It treats downstream symptoms, not the cause. So it's like you have loud music playing and you put something in your ears, but the music's still on. It's still damaging your environment. Acetylcholine decreases because neurons producing them, they're dying. So how does that make any sense? It doesn't stop the progression of the disease and the side effects, by the way. Masia, aurea, radicardia, 2006 Cochrane Database Meta-Analysis showed little to no benefit, by the way. But yet people are on aerosept all day long for dementia and they're on aerosept all day long for Alzheimer's. Make it make sense. NMDA receptor antagonist, Mammantine, NMDA, commercials for this stuff. So the theory is this, excess glutamate causes excitotoxicity block, NMDA, and you'll reduce it. Here's why it fails. Yet again, treats symptom, not cause. How does that work? Listen, excitotoxicity happens because neurons are energy depleted. I know it sounds counterintuitive, but that's exactly why it happens. It doesn't fix mitochondria, insulin resistance, or inflammation in any way, shape, or form. It dampens neuronal communication, which is harmful to learning. Aren't we trying to fix the brain? It doesn't stop the progression of the disease. Listen, if you're gonna, and I'll get to the third one in a minute, but if you're gonna keep throwing things at a disease and they don't do any good, but you keep marketing them anyway, what's the incentive? What's the incentive? Just ask, what's your, what, where's, why? If it's not solving the problem and it's provable and it's not solving the problem, what is the incentive to keep going? Follow the money. How about this one? This is my favorite, anti-ameloid monoclonal antibodies. Ameloid plaques, this is the theory. Ameloid plaques cause Alzheimer's or remove them with antibodies. And to mention, same thing. This is a catastrophic, this is a category five failure. I can't even, I could talk about this one all day. So yeah, it successfully removes plaques but produces minimal cognitive benefit. You ready for this one? Brain swelling, 15% of the people. Brain bleeding, 20% of the people. Costs about 30,000 bucks a year. Doesn't address inflammation, insulin resistance, or the ATP shortage. Removes protective antimicrobial peptides. Decades of research, billions and billions of dollars. Countless failed trials. All based on a fundamentally wrong hypothesis. They're treating consequences not causes. Listen, I wanna give you the whole reversal protocol. I really do, but I'm gonna get pulled down if I do. So I can't, which means you have to go to, and I don't care if you buy from me. I'm just saying I can't do it here. So get all mad if you want. But it is line by line in my Instagram. All you have to do is go get it. You literally have to go and type the message smoke in Instagram and it'll just, and it's to the letter. Write down the dosages for your damn kangaroo. That's how much I give a shit. So I'm not gonna go into all that. It goes through all this nutrition. It goes through everything. I just can't do it here because I get censored. And if you can't handle that, then that's between you and God. But listen, I'm gonna put a bow on this. So you actually understand this and I'll blow your mind one last time. Everything you've been told about dementia is a lie designed to sell you drugs that don't work. You're told it's genetic bullshit. It's 95% metabolic. You're told it's irreversible, early to moderate stages, 100% or the recode program proved it perfectly. Absolutely reversible. Told you amyloid causes it. Amyloid is protective response to the real damn problem. They told you nothing can be done. Everything can be done if you understand biology and physiology. Dementia is the ultimate expression of three biological failures that we've created through modern life and stupid decisions and listening to big pharma. Systemic inflammation, processed foods, chronic stress, gut dyspiosis, environmental toxins, sedentary living, taking too many medications, relying on big pharma, insulin resistance, chronic carbohydrate overload, metabolic inflexibility, muscle loss, sedentary lifestyle and a whole litany of stupid decisions. ATP shortage, mitochondrial damage, aging, toxins, lack of metabolic support and a whole lot of stupid decisions. I could do this all day long. These three create this death spiral in your brain, the most metabolically demanding, most vulnerable organ in your body. But here's what they don't want you to know, you guys. Your brain wants to friggin' heal. It is designed to heal. You make 700, remember that I said this at the beginning, you make 700 new neurons every single day. You can form new synapses at 80. You can restore function when you're given the right conditions and right things. I don't care where you get them. I'm just giving you the solution. I just can't say it here. Listen, the Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is the ultimate control switch, controlling cognition, inflammation, neuroprotection, activate it and you unlock this insane healing potential. The things I've described, the peptides I've described, they're not experimental, they're not. They're backed by decades of research. I literally spouted off, I don't know how many studies here and there's so many. Look it, I'll just go through them really quick. C-max, right? Increases BDNF, enhances blood flow and supports Alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonism. Rysaribrolysin provides this concentrated neurotrophic factors proven in clinical trials to reverse dementia and Alzheimer's, redotrutide, fixes the metabolic dysfunction right at its damn core. MOTC directly restores mitochondrial function. GHK-Cu is gonna modulate thousands and thousands of genes, but it's gonna move them all towards healing, not destruction. SS31 fixes the ATP production right at the source. Leaky punched holes, cardiolipid, the membrane that's full of holes, right? Each one targets a specific mechanism and together the synergistic and connective effects are completely transformative to your life. The research exists, the mechanisms are all over the place and the results are documented more than any commercial that you've seen on television because the documented results of every single mechanism or every single medication I've ever seen and I've read and I've gone down the rabbit hole on so many, thousands of them, they kill people. I'm sure that's gonna get me in trouble, but I don't care. Why is it that the truth is demonized? Mainstream medicine is about 30 to 40 years behind because they're trapped in a pharmaceutical model that requires patentable drugs for disease that they fundamentally misunderstand. They want this magic bullet when what we need is a comprehensive restoration of metabolic health. You guys, this isn't easy. If you think it's easy, that's the problem. It's very easy. I sell you this pill, this injection, this magic cream, that you rub on you, this suppository, you shove up your pooper. It doesn't matter. It's always something that, hey, give me the easy answer, Doc. If I don't have it, but can you give me something else? And they keep subscribing to that narrative because the public buys it because you guys just spoon it in all day long instead of going, you know what? Mama, I need to take hold of my health, become sovereign in my health and stop relying on a system that wants me sick and decrepit until I'm 85 years old because I am a product. I am a little factory pumping out revenue for them. That's it. Listen, everything you'll get is a complete transformation of how we approach brain health and metabolic health, human biology. That works. I've seen so many studies, you guys, all these mechanisms. I've personally had patients, I've been doing this for almost 30 years, who've regained what they were told was lost forever. 70-year-olds remembering their grandchildren's names, 75-year-olds returning to work because they want to, by the way, not because they have to, stop getting in my comments and go, they have to go back to work. MCI patients testing normal again and again, the irreversible is reversed, baby. So here's what I want you to understand. Dementia is not a death sentence. It's not, it's a metabolic disease, it's a metabolic disease with metabolic solutions. If we actually took the time to apply what we know and address the three core fundamental biological failures that I came up with and you used everything at your disposal, you can eliminate 70 to 80% of the dementia cases within one generation. It's not hyperbole, you guys, it's just plain old biology. Your brain is the most complex structure in the known universe. Three pounds of miracles running on about 20 watts, it's what I said, it can heal at 70, regrow at 80, and it can remember at frigate 90, but nobody's telling you that, if you give it what it needs, you will survive. The biology is as clear as water, the mechanisms are very well understood and the tools are everywhere. I don't care if you buy them from Elite, I don't care if you join the black card, I just know that they're available, make sure what you're getting is the reason I talk about Elite Biogenics, by the way, or that I go, listen, you should probably trust me, it's because I would give it to my wife and kids because I do, here's the problem, what's missing is the courage of all of you guys to actually do it and go against the white coat and give them the finger. Somebody's gotta stand up, don't they? Somebody has to get up and go forget it, I'm not listening to you because you're costing me my grandma, my grandpa, you're costing me my wife or my husband, why? Because you keep shoving them full of drugs, the things that don't work. Yes, it bothers me because I've lost people that I love and care about because they have been listening to the medical world all the way into the grave. Listen, bad people will cheer you all the way down the road to hell and you'll believe it. So how about you just go prove them wrong? You just prove prevention's possible, prove reversal is possible, prove that you're not freaking powerless. Listen, to me, every mind saved, every memory preserved, every grandparent that stays sharp, to me, that's a victory, man, that's a victory. Victory's compound, but you have to make noise about it. You expect the world to change around you and you go, I'm not gonna, I'll do it when everybody else does it. How about you do it? How about you do it right now? How about you take this and you spread around to everybody and you just actually do it? How about that? How about you, you know what, forget it, I'm not gonna listen to that guy while he gives me all these drugs and pills and lotions and potions and instead, I'm gonna actually do something. I'm gonna listen to this crazy doctor with a beard and a Spartan hat who actually gives a crap about me enough to come out here and give me real love. You know what real love is, by the way? I love you enough to tell you the truth about your biology. I love you enough to give you the information so you can make an informed decision. I don't care where you get it, I care that you get it. That's how we win, you guys, that's how we win. That's biology, that's power, that's your power. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I gotta go, never miss.