Friday night or uh Friday, I guess. Hardly night, 3:30, but date night tonight. So, I'm out here a little earlier. Knock this podcast out. But I've been getting a lot of messages from women asking, "Okay, listen. How is your wife so fit?" She's 46, right? And Brandy is, "Man, she is an animal. She is so strong." Like I said, I've watched her squat 285 for reps five. I know dudes that can't do that that are half her age, and she's not built like a giant tank. She's 118 lb, 120 lb, 5'2, and then just sexy as hell. Man, my wife is so sexy. I can just sit here and talk about her all day. My My wife is 20 years we've been together going on 21 years and she is my best friend and there is absolutely nothing I wouldn't do for Brandy. Nothing. She is everything and then some for me. And and it just makes me smile to even talk about her. Like I get excited to wake up every morning and excited to climb into bed at night. Like I just love being around Brandy and uh and we run all of our companies together, you know, when people go, "It's easy for you." No, it's not. We work 14, 15, sometimes 16 hour days together, but we actually really love working and we've got two kids and we've had like we've gone through all kinds of crazy [\h__\h] If you know my story, oh man, our life has been chaos. And honestly, we wouldn't have it any other way. But the question I get is, well, how is she so fit? There's a caveat in here and I have to be very transparent about this. My wife doesn't really take anything so you don't have to worry about like it's not like well of course she's taking gear. No, there is no enhancement in my wife whatsoever. Maybe TB and BPC for injuries and and that's about it. But nothing. I mean she is just a one of those savages, but she has been an athlete her entire life. So let me explain something about epigenetics before you guys go off the rails and go, "Wow." the stress and the environment that you put your body in determines what your body becomes along with the mindset you have that's going to like my my wife doesn't have an off switch. she will go until she finishes whatever it is she's doing and she will do it organized and perfectly and if she doesn't she will try it again until she gets it that way which is why she was a professional athlete and she had people throwing money at her because I mean she what's funny is if you know true story if you know uh Jillian Michaels right my wife was first in line for that job before Jillian Michaels my wife got offered that job to do that she would have been where Jillian Michaels is which I think is really great and you know how cool my wife is she was I was sick I was going through chemotherapy and she had we had just her had just gotten pregnant. We just found out and they still said, "No problem. We still want you." And she said, "Nope, I have to take care of my husband and I've got this baby and I need to do this because this is what I really want to do." And even talking about that, like she is an incredible woman, just so you understand, like we are all in on each other all the time and we have had so many things in our life and I'll never like I just love her to death and and I think that's the way it's supposed to be. But anyway, that's not what this podcast is about. I So, a lot of people ask, "Well, how's your wife so fit? What does she take? What's her secret?" Okay, so I have to be very transparent. Not really a lot, but that's not She is definitely the fringe because it's not normal just like us. Like, we train hours every day at least an hour. Not like I train all the time because it's where my that's my outlet and that's where I go and fight demons and I don't bring them into my house or into my life. I just throw them up at God and let him handle. But the question I've been getting is from women in general going, "Well, how do I become fit and lean and strong and how do I go from being 45 to how I was when I was 20?" And I actually thought about it and I actually talked to some of you guys, about 30 of you guys. We messaged back and forth. If you are one of the people that I messaged, thank you for giving me your time and your answers and your feedback and what you were really looking for and what you wanted to get out of whatever I was going to put together to help you. And it came down to and I did I built something that's so effective and so functional and and you can run it on repeat for the rest of your life and it's a game changer. But you need to and this is just all women. So for all of you guys if you're like I don't want to hear this. Well then you probably just don't want to. Maybe you should sit down with your wife and actually listen to it anyway. But you need to begin with with a fact that's as immutable as gravity. It's not a wish. It is a concrete biological fact. And that is the single universal biioarker of aging because that's always that's the question I got from or the answer I got from all 30 of you had the same response to this was I want to slow down aging. I want to mitigate aging. I want to stop the effects of aging in some way, shape or form. So listen, the single most universal biioarker of aging is not wrinkles. It's not. It is not gray hair. It is the catastrophic systemwide failure of your cellular energy production. Fix that and everything else gets fixed. Except what we're taught is fix the wrinkles, fix the fat, fix the weakness, fix the sleep problems, fix the menopause, fix the parmenopause, but you're not fixing the energy system that allows you to actually fix all those problems. Does that make sense? It's like you put all these performance parts on your car and you load it up and you put new turbos and new exhaust and downpipes and new rims and carboeramic brakes and all the stuff that you want to do. New transmission input output shaft. They're all billet it like the whole thing. Whatever it is you're doing in your vehicle, but you put zero gas in the tank. Pointless. And that's what these Insta gurus and influencers are telling you to do. Hey, I'll treat your wrinkles. I'll treat your eyesight. I'll treat But you're not treating the system that actually allows all of that to work. So, I'm going the other direction and I'll give you stuff that actually works. You know this if you've followed me at all for in the last decade. You know what I tell you works 100%. Everybody should be calling me because I I know damn well what I'm talking about and I actually come out here and give a [\h__\h] It's your energy prod. It's it's your mitochondria. These tiny 5V batteries that power every thought, every heartbeat, every cellular repair. They're all dying. They're all dying right now. And they become fewer and weaker and I'm telling you profoundly inefficient. And as much coffee as you can drink. Look at that. I know it looks like it has foam on it. It does. And it's just some little bit of bubbles, I guess. But it's blacker in a witch's crotch like every day. But you can drink all the coffee. It's not going to help this energy crisis that you have in your system. And yes, this also translates to men. But this is just specifically for women. This entire protocol. It's the root cause cause of every age related disease. I mean, every ounce of lost muscle, every fading memory, every brain fog, you know, all of it. It is. It's not gentle decline. It's a system level collapse. And and honestly, for for decades, and I've seen this because I'm 52. I've been around a little while. Every anti anti-aging strategy has not first and foremost exactly what I was just saying, addressed this fundamental energy deficit. It's been a voluntary act of self-d delusion. You're rearranging the deck chairs and the band in the Titanic as it's going down. Like, that's what's happening is you're doing all this [\h__\h] on the outside. You're not plugging the big hole. And and before you guys go into the whole it wasn't really the Titanic, it was the Britannic or whatever it was, not a tenfoil hat conversation. Just understand what I'm saying that every anti-aging strategy has not addressed the energy deficit, which means it is a delusion. It's not going to work. It might superficially work, but ultimately it's still the same problem. No gas in the tank. So this is I'm going to put an end to all of that. None of this is some motivation or get you all hyped up. And this isn't some life hack or biohack. This is for operational truth and a protocol. This isn't some podcast to make you feel good about yourself and your decisions and aging gracefully and all that. This is about getting in the way of the things that are happening to you so you can actually have a life that you want. See, part of it is that you are a human [\h__\h] being and you want something. So, if you want something and I can give you the answer, number one, I am duty bound to tell you that because I have the knowledge and if I don't, I'm a prick. And if I lie about it, then that's even worse. I'm a bigger prick. Well, I'm not going to do either one. I'm going to give you this biochemical offensive design that just for is put together for one single non-negotiable outcome. The the systemic and quantifiable reversal of cellular aging. That's what you need. And if I know how to do it, like I said, it's I'm duty bound to tell you that I'm not managing symptoms is the dumbest healthc care lie I I've ever seen. You don't manage symptoms or slow decline. you rewrite the underlying code of the system so the system can actually function better. So you need to use master levers that your body has mitochondrial pharmarmacology, peptide, excuse me, peptide signaling. You just to force your body to regenerate where it's got a staticky signal. And if someone says, "Well, that's not natural or authentic. I'm not for you." And that's okay. I ain't for everybody, son. I'm just not. It's not about optimization. I can't stand that word because it's a buzzword that's used incorrectly and it's a lie. This is reconstitution of your system. You need to come out of your own biological decay and actually have the life that you want. Because if you want it, why would if somebody if you want it and there's a possibility to do it and there's no horrible repercussions down the line. And if one person says cancer, you know what? Just find a a way to design an app where my hand comes out and smacks you in the mouth. Because the number of things that every single human being puts in their body or on their body or breathes or drinks or does whatever with puts against their skull when you guys sleep with your iPhone against your head plugged in. What the [\h__\h] are you doing? Are you insane? You guys need a meter and just to check to see what the level of EMF is coming off of that thing when second you plug it into charge. Don't do that, man. Keep that thing away from you. Don't rest it on your chest. Nobody needs growths in their chest. Take it from a guy that had a football taken out of his chest plus a lung. You don't want that. Okay, we good? Listen, there is a non-negotiable starting point to all of this. Modern, you need metabolic dominance of your own system. You should be dominating your own system. It's your own system. Modern human metabolism is this pathological dumpster fire right now. You are a sugar burning, insulin resistant, chronically inflamed organism by choice. Because your primary fuel source is glucose. That's part of how you're designed. But it is this dirty, you pump even more in just because somebody says, "Well, you should cuz it's got colors on it and it's delicious." Alcohol, sugar, cookies, all this stuff. Sugar, glucose is this dirty, inefficient fuel that just creates advanced glycation end products. They're called Ages and they they cross-link your tissues and and accelerate aging. It's the easiest way to explain this. That's all they do. So, your liver is your liver gets overwhelmed. Your pancreas is just it's tired, man. It's tired of cranking out insulin and digestive enzymes. Your number one priority is to become this fat adapted, metabolically flexible organism that needs to and I'm not going to tell you to eat some weird diet that's going to screw your system up. I'm telling you how to fix the problem. You have to be able to seamlessly switch like this from burning sugar to burning fat and creating this clean, sustainable, and honestly a much more abundant energy source. And the tool is what I've talked about before, right? A true tide. Forget everything you think you know about this compound from weight loss headlines. You need to stop all the the dumb ozamp lawsuits. This is not Ozan Peak. And just because it has one of the compounds in Ozan Peak in it doesn't mean it is like OMP cuz it's not. Ozmp causes gastrointestinal paralysis. It causes sarcopenia. It it's the things it does is astronomical because it only pulls one lever. Of course, it's going to cause problems because it's like taking your car and running it lean and wondering why the engine burns out because you didn't do it right. It went real fast at the beginning. Anyone that knows you run an engine lean, it cranks for a for a little bit and then it seizes and blows it up. Using it, listen, using Reddit True Tide for appetite suppression is like using a quantum computer as a as a freaking paperwe. This is a metabolic I've called it this before. It's like a wrecking ball, like a metabolic sledgehammer. GIP, GLP-1, glucagon, triple agonist. Its function is so precise and it hits all three level all three levers that are required to fix the problem. First listen systematic or system first listen systematically it annihilates visceral atapost tissue. You don't need tesencing can you? Yes, but you don't need it because tessensine works neurologically. This works systemically. This isn't about subcutaneous fat. This is the toxic inflammatory fat that encases all of your organs. your liver, your pancreas, your intestines, your [\h__\h] heart. That this the fat is an endocrine organ. Understand that fat is an endocrine organ itself. It is a factory for inflammatory side effects, TNF alpha, IL6, which drives systemic inflammation and insulin resistance, which you don't want. Redatruide doesn't come in and just have a conversation with the people at the factory. It dismantles the entire factory. So, it doesn't do it anymore. Then, it restores hpatic insulin sensitivity. It forces your liver to stop its pathological glucose dumping, eliminating that constant blood sugar spike that leads to metabolic chaos all the time. And then it gets even better. And then it actually cranks up it enhances pancreatic beta cell function and proliferation. So not just fixing the function, it also makes more of them. So it restores your body's innate precise ability to manage glucose, which is exactly what I was talking about flipping back and forth. It repairs the organ, not the symptom. Which is why most things fail. Most things fail that you are being sold by big pharma or influencers or insta bros or gurus or all these people that just want to smack for doing stupid things are causing you most of the problems if not all of the problems because you're not solving the real underlying issue. The results of just and this is just rand true tide. I haven't even gotten into this is this pristine insulin sensitive lowinflammatory metabolic environment that's just beautiful like your lipid panels normalize your your one C drops to normal levels this is a non-negotiable first step if you aren't willing to do this you may as well stop listening because none of everything that I build everything that I talk about everybody that I help the entire process is to build something that synergistically works not like you don't have a bunch segregated pieces that you hope work together. If they don't have a symbiotic relationship, they don't go. It's that simple. That's how you have that's why most people screw up human biology is because they're looking they're looking system by system instead of as a unit. And so that's why I think that's why I've been very successful because I'm very good at what I do. You can't build a beautiful skyscraper or a cathedral or whatever it is on a crappy bogggy swamp. Redatride is the drainage system. It is. It's the It powers the foundation. It's the structural steel. It's everything all at once. It does all of it. Drains the swamp and it fixes a foundation and it puts up all the new structures. So, it just works. It creates a perfect blank slate on which every single thing that you do after this is built. You have to take this. But then there's the next part. Call them pillars, call them levels, call them whatever. Let's call them pillars because it's fun. Now that you have this clean metabolic slate, now you need to install a new motor, new engine. The goal is to restore a very effective, potent anabolic, repairerative hormonal environment that you had when you were, let's say, 20. When we were 20, you could pretty much stab yourself and watch it heal. But there's more going on than that. So, if you think just BPC and TB-500, that's the answer to everything. It's not because if you don't have the engine to run it, if you don't have the the metabolic system to support it, none of it's going to work. You see how this is coming together? The key to this creating this this repairerative hormonal environment is growth hormone. But you need to be sophisticated about this. You don't bomb yourself, you guys, in your synthetic HGH that you're even if it's real, you're injecting this exogenous growth hormone. That is a blunt, crude, club stupid instrument. Exogenous HGH, let me be very transparent. I got nothing against it for short term to do certain things, but it is not what you want to do for increasing the quality of your life. It suppresses your body's own very exquisite pituitary feedback mechanism. So now, here's what happens. 100% insulin resistance and aberrantition growth. This is the dumb bomb that people drop on themselves because some instab bro goes, "Dude, just take GH. It's really good." No, no, it's not. There's a better way to do it. Use your own intelligent targeted approach is to use something called a secret specifically to samarellin and I pamelan and I'll tell you to do this in a second. I just want to take some goes right back to me talking in my cup like this. Once you get me started, look out. These peptides, they're not hormones. They're not. They're molecular keys and I talked about this before. It's like the lock, right? They bind to the growth hormone secreted receptors GHSRS on your pituitary and they trigger this natural pulsatile physiological release of your own endogenous internal growth hormone. This is the critical difference between drinking from a fire hose and drinking from this very perfectly curated alpine spring of nothing but clean water. One floods and damages the system and drowns everything and the other nourishes it perfectly. That's how you have to look at this. The physiological effects are beyond significant and honestly very well documented in dozens if not hundreds of research. Like we see reliable and a substantial surge in IGF-1 which is the whole point of this, right? The IGF-1 levels go up which this is the downstream mediator of GH's effects. Well, here's what happens. That triggers lipolysis which is the targeted breakdown of stubborn visceral and really obnoxious subcutaneous fat stores for fuel. So now it's using what you've been storing. Upregulation of collagen and elastin production at the fibroblast level, which is at the cellular level, which means it's rebuilding. Listen to this. This is how gangster this is. This is it's rebuilding skin thickness, elasticity, reducing wrinkles from the inside out. You see enhanced muscle protein synthesis, rebuilding lean mass, and it restores functional strength. So, you get all these things that actually happen from the inside out instead of trying to patch this thing from the outside in and wondering why the band-aid keeps falling off and it just costs you money, time, and you don't look any different. You sure as hell don't function any different. The most critically the most critical thing that I've seen with this, just personally, is a restoration of something called stage three and stage 4 NREM slowwave sleep, which is crucial for systematic repair. These are the deepest phases of sleep where glycogen is restored in the brain and the body's most significant natural pulses of growth hormone occur. Remember what I said? If I take growth hormone, doesn't matter if you take it at night, doesn't matter if you take it in the morning. It is a giant bolus, a huge shot of growth hormone which tells your pituitary to go double rainbows. I'm out. F off. When you optimize the release, you don't supplement. You're reactivating your innate youthful physiological process that's pretty much just been dampened by age, dumb decisions, and poor metabolic health as a result of those dumb decisions. This is the reboot command for your entire endocrine system. That's and please, I hope you're following along with this. This is I realize I'm 20 minutes in, but listen to me. This is important because people don't want to explain this stuff, so they just go take this. Trust me, bro. Now, now you need to So, now you've got an engine. You've got the metabolism. Now you need to fix the cellular energy and the signaling system inside. This is the core of the whole thing. The mitochondria, I said that at the very beginning. Those little nuclear reactors, these little.5 watt batteries, you have to move beyond support and into command. They need to just not be well, let me just give you a hug. We need to go here's the shield and here's the sword. Now go start doing things. So you have to attack this on two different and synergistic fronts. They have to work together. The first one is Miy. This is a no-brainer. it. This is probably one of the coolest things I've ever seen in my life. Next to reatride, which I have a couple of lifetime peptides that I will take for the rest of my life. And Matsi and Redatride are two of two of the ones that are on that list. This is a Matsi is a mitochondrial derived peptide. It's pretty much the second they found this, it pretty much redefined our understanding of the genome. That's how wild this is. It's encoded not in the nuclear DNA but in the mitochondrial DNA. So in the facto's DNA itself. And it acts as this master hormone regulator. It shuttles from the mitochondria to the nucleus to to tell it to dictate metabolic homeostasis and stress responses. And if just to explain what that means is that it it tells it what to do based on what's going on in the environment. The actions are so profound like it's it cranks up insulin sensitivity through this pretty unique pathway. Actually, it's independent of AMPK. It makes it probably one of the best things you can have against metabolic syndrome, which is one of the most profound or prolific things that I've seen with with clients that come to see me for help is metabolic syndrome, which is your system is just beating itself up and you're just aiding. You're trying to band-aid and cover it up. It increases exercise capacity so you can train longer, harder, and more efficiently. It's not cheating. Or if somebody goes, "Oh, well, it's cheating. It's like gear. It's not even close to gear. This is the energy system. This is three mile island and all three reactors are on. It cranks up physical endurance, optimizes fatty acid oxidation, glucose utilization and skeletal muscle. It promotes metabolic homeostasis from inside the cells power plant. It's not a request. It's not a request when it says it's doing this. It doesn't ask for your system to do this. It is a direct order from the mitochondri. That's why I called it a mitochondrial command center to the entire cell. Increase efficiency, increase resilience. Ow. That's what it's doing. That's how well this stuff works. And the sec the second one is NMN, nicotenomide monucleotide. I've talked about this before too. This is the rate limiting precursor to it's like a governor to NAD+. And honestly, I think it's the most critical co-enzyme in the entire human body because age related decline in NAD+ is not a symptom of aging. It's a primary mechanistic driver. So NAD+ is essential for three fundamental processes. One, it's the essential co-actor for the electron transport chain, the ETC, which I was talking about with methylene blue. It's the literal spark plug for mitochondrial energy, ATP, adenazine triphosphate production. Without it, the engine just sputters and dies. It doesn't work. And second, it is the sole fuel for a specific family of proteins, particularly certainly certins are the master regulators of of cellular health. It doesn't matter about getting into them. Just understand they're they're the guardians. They control DNA repair and inflammation, mitochondrial biogenesis, so more of them, and the longevity pathways that everybody's looking for when we're talking about anti-aging and kind of staving off the grim reaper coming at the end of our life. They're the guardians of the genome, which is what I was saying before. And they're starve without any deep they don't work. It can't there's nothing there. So if there's you see how this works, no energy, none of the systems work. But if this if the energy system doesn't have a driver, then that doesn't. So this is why you have to fix the baseline first. And it it really bugs me as you can tell when I see these insta bros come out and start blasting a bunch of information that they get on I don't know jackp probably and they don't know a [\h__\h] thing cuz they don't understand how systems work synergistically. So they're just pulling levers and they count on all of you guys. I want you guys listen whether you buy all this stuff I say it every time from Elite Biogenics or not that is irrelevant. I want you to have the information so you can actually make a decision. So if you're starving out, if you're starving out the system without NAD+, you need something that does that which is NMN. And I said there were three. The third is NAD+ is required for the function of PP enzymes which are critical for DNA repair. Remember you look at a pitilon fixes the tamirs, right? The aglet PP enzymes critical for DNA repair. So when you supplement NMN, it's not about boosting energy. Don't think you're going to take a spoonful of it and pow, you're ready to go. It is reversing the fundamental energy deficit of aging itself. So, I hope that makes sense cuz I kind of went full nerd there. Listen, 1,000 milligrams. Wait, I have to say this before I start telling you cuz I was just about ready to give you dosages. None of this is meant to treat, cure, triage, prescribe, diagnose, advise, or anything other than just be hypothetical, entertaining, and purely educational. Got it? Yeah, whatever. Right. 1,000 milligrams a day reliably and consistently increases NAD+ levels to over 40% in a week or two. Sign me up. I take NMN all the time. Just so you know. It's not a subtle shift. 40% is big. If you guys had a 40% raise in your salary, you guys would all go nuts. This is a It's like a molecular tidal wave. Just comes in and ms over your system in the right way. Turns back the molecular clock of the cells. It provides raw fuel for repair and for energy production and it it is it's like longevity gene activation. MC C and NMN are extremely synergistic because it's this onetwo punch. M C tells it gives a command, right? It gives that command for hyperefficiency of the mitochondrial DNA and NMN provides the raw molecular fuel, the NAD+ to execute that command at maximum capacity. So one gives the order and the other one goes, okay, here's the fuel to actually fulfill the order. except you still have a structure to repair. And I think this is where people get tripped up is they go, "Well, I'll start here and I'll skip the first three." You can you will get precisely two things. Jack and [\h__\h] and Jack left town. You need to a metabolic I'm trying to think of the best way to say this. A metabolic hormonal cellular system is it's functionally useless if the physical structure isn't there. It's like having the idea and the blueprint for a car and you build it, but you forget to put the rims on and the tank is still empty. It doesn't work. The muscularkeeletal system, the gut lining, man, you guys have beat the [\h__\h] out of your equipment. Most people have, but I mean, we're talking decades of micro trauma, inflammation, wear and tear. So, you need to target that very specifically with this awesome tag team, BPC-157 and TB-500. BPC-157 is the it's like a master signaling peptide. And I talk about this a lot because I it's one of my forever peptides. The mechanism of action is exceptionally broad in the human body. And if you say the word cancer, hand comes out, smacks you in the side of the mouth. Stop it. Not a chance. Not that's not how peptides work ever. It upregulates the expression of growth hormone receptors in this is why it's important. It upregulates expression of growth hormone receptors in damaged tissues. So it makes those areas much more responsive to the healing signals from what did we take closer to the beginning tamarellin and iipamelin induced growth hormone pulses. Do you see how now? Do you see how it works? Right? This makes it more susceptible to what's coming down the line. It accelerates the formation angioenesis, right? New blood vessels. It improves the blood flow to injured or hypoxic areas, hypoxic low oxygen areas, right? Things that have been damaged with low blood flow and low oxygen. It it signal it promotes healing and regeneration. tendons, ligaments, muscles, tissues, and the critical one, gut lining, which is what is the this is the wonder machine, your gut. Man, if you understood what this thing is actually doing, that what you eat, it turns into things that allow you to function, you would be blown away at the biochemistry going on in your body by systematically healing intestinal permeability. Here's how it does it. It systematically heals in intestinal permeability, leaky gut between the stomach and the intestines. So it eliminates a massive source of systemic inflammation, autoimmune activity or autoimmune reactivity because it keeps the lipopolysaccharides, those fragments, right? The LPS from getting through the tight junctions and hitting the bloodstream, hitting the the vascular system. It's coming from the sewage plant going right into your water supply, right? Basically, you don't want that. And then your immune system goes nuts. You have cytoine storms, all kinds of stuff. It doesn't mask the pain. It actually facilitates real comprehensive tissue regeneration. There's nothing like it. nothing. And no, it does not work orally ever. None of what I've told you, by the way, is going to work orally. And now you throw in TB-500. This is its this is the most ultimate dance partner it could ever have. It's a synthetic version of a of a protein that's naturally found in high concentrations in the healing tissues and cells anyway, which is thyus and beta 4. But the life inside your system is very short. So TB-500 is the fragment that has a long life inside your system. You need it for building new vessels, regulation of cell building proteins, specifically one actin because remember what I said it causes actin polymerization which is the fundamental structure, the fundamental cellular structure, a fundamental component of cellular structure and mobility. It is what allows cells to migrate and proliferate and then differentiate at the site of injury. It allows those fibroblasts to crawl into the injured area. But you have all these remember I said you have all these micro traumas. So think of think of it this way. BPC is the architect that draws out the blueprint and calls in the crew, right? Gets on the cell phone and starts calling people. And TB-500 is the is the general contractor that comes in and brings all the supplies, all the raw materials actin and directs the construction workers, the cells to build and execute, do all the things they're supposed to do. Does that make sense? So you put them together, man, this thing's like a regenerative dream team. Yeah, you want to be like, why don't I just take that? You can, but you're missing about 70%. They don't reduce inflammation by suppressing immune response. They do it by removing the reason for the inflammation, the underlying tissue damage, right? They do it by turning your body that's been beat up and plagued by old injuries and chronic pain and systemic inflammation and weaknesses and turning it into this resilient armored damage resistant and pretty much structurally sound fortress which is how you were when you remember the whole point of this is 20 years old. The last one is the cellular. It's like the the last one is the command center. This is you got to fix this thing because if this thing isn't working the system doesn't work. It is a a fundamentally rejuvenated body is completely useless. I need to drink some water cuz I'm thirsty. It's a worthless vessel without a very crystal clear, high energy driven and focused, which means no fog mind because otherwise it's it's a worthless system. It's just a vessel. It's not doing anything. I don't even know what that sounds like on a microphone, but I imagine it's probably pretty entertaining. In my opinion, this is the most powerful cognitive mitochondrial enhancer known to modern science science. Methylene blue. I talked about this the other day cuz man, I started taking methylene blue and my whole world got rocked at you're looking 15 to 30 millig every day split into two doses. It is unparalleled as a neuotropic and metabolic energizer. Yes, I talked about fennel paracetam hydroxide and alpha GPC and anorasetam and oxyracetam and nicotine. However, this is a single compound without a tolerance that bypasses the jam up in the etc the electron transport chain specifically between complex one and complex 4 where the traffic jam occurs. It works exclusively that's a little strong maybe not. It works in other areas too but primarily in mitochondria and it functions as an alternative electron carrier in the mitochondrial electron transfer chain like I said between complex one and complex 4. This thing is so ingenious that it bypasses any blockage that's there or dysfunctional pathway in the chain and it reduces that electron leakage and the drag in the electron transport chain at and honestly the subsequent generation of the ROS's the destructive the reactive oxygen species right and I'm not talking the group that I talked about yesterday but it also cranks up at you get just a big fat ATP yield so now not only are you fixing the proton gradient required right to manage the electron transport chain You're also reducing ROS's and you're cranking out more ATP, which is the energy you needed right at the very beginning. And it, by the way, 200%. That's how much it increases by up to 200%. It makes energy production cleaner and radically more efficient. But here's what's cool. In your brain, that is virtually an immediate upgrade to cerebral metabolism. So neuron neuronal fuel uh ATP adenazine triphosphate neuronal fuel right uh ATP adenazine triphosphate it's all of the sudden everywhere you just have nothing but access to it your system goes perfect I'm flooded with the fuel I need to function at the level I need so now the result is razor sharp focus and enhanced memory retention and perfect recall and even processing speed increases like you took your computer and you cooled it down and gave it a bunch of extra RAM never mind the fact that it's a antioxidant anti-inflammator atory specifically for neural tissue. So it protects the brain from the metabolic waste products of its own activity. So it turns out waste and then protects it from the waste but it's helping it turn out the waste because it's metabolizing more. Do you get it? Like it's making the engine run more, more efficiently, harder, faster, stronger, which is turning out more waste. That's just a byproduct of metabolism and metabolism, but it protects you from all that waste. Now ideally alpha GPC and I talked about this with fennel uh fennel paracetam hydroide because it's the fuel this because it gives it the choline necessary to make sure that there's a ample enough of the precursor material for the synthesis of acetylcholine right this is the just so you know acetylcholine is the key neurotransmitter to focus learning memory it doesn't just improve cognition you guys it upgrades the fundamental hardware of your brain's energy production and chemical signaling it turns the mind from this sputtering, flickering, poorly lit candle to it doesn't go to a bonfire. That's not what I'm going to say. It turns into a laser beam that like can destroy planets. It's like the Death Star. So, here's how you have to look at this because this isn't just a list of compounds. It is a fivewave attack on aging in the right sequence. Each wave amplifies, enables, it depends on the next. It is this cascade of biological commands. So here let me let me break it down so you actually understand how this works. You look at so let's just because waves is easy because that's how they flow through the system. Wave one retatride creates that insulin sensitive low inflammatory environment and shuts down all the noise of metabolic dysfunction. Wave two is hormonal that's tamerin and iipamearellin and it activates the body's own innate repair and rebuild hormone. So now they're able to work efficiently in this very clean environment created by wave 1. Wave three which is the cellular level. We're looking at mod C and NMN which give you the cellular level commands MO C and the raw molecular fuel NAD+ which comes from NMN for the energy production which supercharges the effect of wave 2. Then you look do you see how now this works together? Now wave 4 is structural. So we're looking BPC57 and um TB-500. So that executes the structural repair of all the damaged tissues and leverages the enhanced nutrient delivery and anabolic signals from all the previous waves, right? 1 2 and three. And then wave five is cognitive. So your sister, this is great. This you can see how this is exciting for me. Methylene blue and alpha GPC, which supercharges mitochondrial efficiency and cognitive functions. So it gives the mental clarity and energy to maintain the discipline required for the entire [\h__\h] thing. I should just drop the mic right here. That's how badass this is. That's why I go through these explanations so you actually understand. The protocol is demanding and it honestly requires timing and commitment and it is completely useless without non-negotiable lifestyle inputs. Change your foods up, crank up your protein, lowinflammatory diet, consistent, intense regimen of workouts and heavy lifting. Lift weights. You do not get bulky. My wife is not bulky. She is sexy as [\h__\h] and she lifts more weights than most dudes. Crank out, go for a walk every day, one mile at a 16 to 17 minute pace. Get on an air dime, get on a rower, go for a run, lift heavy weights, train, have a ton of sex. Take all the drugs out of your system and think about the peptides and the potential and the nutrition and the training. Those are all tools that you have to put together to mitigate the aging problem from the root out. That's the price. That's the price, you guys. The price is is extreme discipline. And honestly, it is a significant financial investment. If you are going, "Well, can I get it for like 50 bucks?" Get off my podcast. And I'm not asking for your money. Go buy it at the cheapest place you can find or some place that's untested. I I don't really care. I care that you have the information that you can go, "All right, this actually makes sense or I have no idea what this guy's talking about." In which case, then I need to do this again. But the the Well, joking aside, I'm not doing this again. But the point is that you have to look at your life and go watch. You come to the last year of your life and you know it's going to be the last year of your life and you're falling apart. There is no amount of money you would none. I don't care what you say right now. I don't care. I know because 4 years ago I sat in a hospital and texted my wife saying I'm not going to make it in the morning and there was no amount of money I wouldn't have paid to go I guarantee you that I get more life with that beautiful sexy amazing woman. There's no amount of money I wouldn't have paid. None. I would have taken everything and robbed every [\h__\h] bank I could just to make sure I get more time with that beautiful woman and have life and actually come out here and help people as much as I can. So don't tell me that it's not worth it if you go I can't spend a,000 bucks a month, 500. I have no idea what it cuz I haven't added it up cuz that's how literally I just put this together because it matters to me and I wanted to give you the information. It wouldn't matter. But if you go, "Well, it's $1,000 a month. I can't sustain that forever." Then you need to give up some [\h__\h] that's costing you time and money and your health. Because the price facing the price, listen, the price is facing the brutal reality that health and vitality are not given. They are taken. They're taken through knowledge and action and relentless execution. I am an example. You guys, please listen to me. I am a walking talking billboard. I say it every time for what actually works. The outcome of this is not feeling better. This is not. This is quantifiable biochemical rejuvenation. It is a measurable reduction in biological age through DNA methylation clocks. Like this is very real. It is the restoration of physical and cognitive function to a level that you haven't probably experienced in decades. And honestly, most people are going to hear this and go, I'm not going to do it. That's okay. You don't deserve it then if you have that attitude. And it's not to be a dick. said, "If you're looking for cheaper, you don't really want the result. You want the easy." I don't come out here and give you easy. I give you the truth. This is the reversal of the aging process at the cellular level. The end. It's science. You have the science. You have the tools. I nicknamed this thing the Phoenix Protocol. Why? Because you get to rise from the ashes again. And I thought it was pretty badass. So, this is the Phoenix Protocol, courtesy of the Spartan. It is It's like the old paradigm of aging, right? The old paradigm of aging as this passive inevitable decline is I honestly think it's gone with what's available to us right now. It is a choice. It is a difficult it is a conscious and an active choice. It is a decision that comes from you based on what you really want your goals to be. And if you go, I'm okay with falling apart and disintegrating in my life. And that is fine if that's what you want to do. But then you can't say anything when you get to the point where you realize how bad you've gotten and you did nothing and you have the opportunity to do it because now you have the information and the power to command your own damn biology. It is not theoretical. It's not. It is tangible and now it's in your hands. I have literally taken a [\h__\h] ton of time, just so you know, and 35 years of knowledge that I've been stacking in my head and non-stop doing it still and packed it all into this podcast to give you the answer so you have something that's going to help. The question is not can it be done. It is not. It is not. The question is now and forever. Do you have the will to execute and actually [\h__\h] do it? That's it. It's that simple. Choose. I got to go.