What's up? Good morning, crew. Tra Smashworks, you know the routine. Hey, it's Thursday. It's a thrilling Thursday, right? Um, we're going to be going over SI joints. Buddy of mine, Matt. Hey, this one's for you. You got uh and everyone else that's been sending me issues about about an SI joint. A lot of times the problem with the SI joint is actually probably 99% of the time the problem with the SI joint. You can see that the video is cutting off the top of my head so I have to sink down like a hobbit. Um is that there's a shear on the SI joint. It's not the SI joint itself. It's just the the joints getting irritated by irritated by all the tissue loading up the pelvis. So what happens is if you look you have these two big bones on the either side the anominant bones and then that sacrum sits like a wedge in the center and there's this little joint on either side the sacral iliac joint it's about part of it is sinovial and the other part is fibrous so it has some range of motion just not a ton but when you load up that joint remember these giant engines that we have the hips they are so strong so when they start to load up that uh that um pelvis and they load up that SI joint they put a shear here on it and they start to really really get it all inflamed and irritated and then you have an SI joint problem. Man, this the stuff they do to fix SI joints fix I'll use the air quotes for that cuz that's bunk is they'll go in there and they'll fuse it. I mean hell you're built with with mobile SI joints. Let's just fuse them up, right? I mean you don't need them, right? And and number two is they'll go in there and they'll start injecting things in there. They'll numb it. They'll hit you with some lidane cortisone. They'll do all kinds of stuff. They'll tell you you don't need to move. What do we know about moving? Yeah, emotion comes from motion. So, to feel good, you got to move. It's crazy to think otherwise. So, what we're going to do is we're going to take the shear off. Sorry, I'm taking the load off my knees because they freaking hurt. Um, I do all kinds of gnarly stuff. Just squats for days because of this shoulder. Um, but lots of squats. That's how it works. It's CrossFit. Somebody asked me one time, "When's leg day?" It's CrossFit. Every day is leg day. You do leg day all the time. So, back to the SI joint. What we're going to do is we're going to unload all the tissue surrounding that SI joint. So, it it unloads that shear. So, you're going to find we can treat the SI joint, we can treat treat the lumbar spine, we can work on all that kind of stuff, but until you unload that crazy crazy amount of torque and tension and shear on that SI joint, you're always going to have SI joint problems either come back or never leave in the first place. And then you're going to drop into a squat with like 565 on your back or you're going to do a snatch or you're anything that involves moving the pelvis. You're going to go for a run, walk, play. Doesn't really make a difference. You're going to load up that side joint. Even worse, it's going to hurt. So, first thing you're going to do is you're going to get in a rig like this. You can use a coffee table. You can use anything as long as it's wider um than you can get your legs. Does that make sense? So, I'll show you what I'm talking about. So, because you what you're going to do is you're going to unload the hamstrings and you're going to unload the adductors all at the same time. So, you're going to get in this position. So, easy. Now, there is a bolt in the floor. Just letting you know right here. It hurts. So, I'm not going to stay in this position very long. Just letting you know. But the key is it's not this. So, we can all do this. I mean, there's some people they can go almost into the perfect splits and lay flat on the floor. That's awesome. Badass. Good for you. I can't do that yet. But what I want you to do is I want you to take your shoulders square off to one side. If you notice, I'm holding the rig. It's just to hold myself up. So I'm And I'm also taking the weight off this damn bolt. I'll show you the bolt. It hurts. It's like this big. So you're going to take the foot, dorsif flex the foot. We're going to unload the adductors and the hamstrings all at the same time because they attach on that is isial tuberosity in the pelvis and they drag that pelvis down and put a already a ton of shear on that joint. So, you're just going to get real wide. You can grab the rig. If you can't grab the rig, grab your foot. And all you I want you squared away to the foot. So, this is not the stretch. So, you're going to square away to the foot. Shoulders squared to the foot. And all you're going to do is you're just going to reach forward. You're just going to grab the foot and you're going to hang out for how long? There's the two right there. Yeah. See, I'm being sneaky. Hang out. What you're going to do is you're going to And I don't want that foot rotated out like this. Keep that foot like this. So, you're going to grab the foot nice and wide. Hang out for two minutes. Do the same thing on the other side. That's number one. And I realize this is some stretching and we're not smashing stuff out. But there's not a lot to smash out when it comes to unloading tissue. There is one thing we're going to do. It's with this. It's pretty abysmal because we're basically going to rake across the um adductor and hamstring joint the the u interdigitation. the the the way the hamstrings they they kind of glue down these fibers that go into the uh go in with the uh with the adductors and they just it gets so ropey and gnarly and matted down in there. So, we're going to peel it away. As a matter of fact, we're going to do that right now. So, you're going to get on the bar. You like how I just walked around the bar? I haven't even worked out yet today. All right, so you're going to get the bar. It's going to be about mid thigh height. We We've seen this before where I basically have you start kicking away. This one's a little different. You're going to grab the bar like this. I don't want this bar coming off the J hooks. Don't put any weight on here. When you guys sent me a video, I had a bunch of weight on it. Dude, you want to impress me? Stand up with a weight. Make sure that's on there so I don't eat on the video. And I posted it anyway cuz it'd be funny as hell. But what you're going to do is you're going to grab onto the bar. You're going to go about mid uh mid um hamstring, mid adductor. You're going to find a ropey hot spot like right there. And all you're going to do is you're going to tack it down and you're going to slide off of it. So, you're basically tacking it down and just peeling it away. Oh, this is just abysmal. So, you're just sliding all the way up to the sitbone. Trust me. Watch your twins. Make sure you don't grind them on the bar. It'll hurt. And you're just going to do this until you feel that change happens. What you'll feel already is you'll feel that SI joint unloads in the back. That's number two. Number three, we're going to grab a band. You can see I got a purple band over there. It's right there. We're going to take the band, wrap around the waist. You guys have seen this one before, too. We need to unload those adductors, okay? Super important. So, we're going to take the band. This almost let go. That would have been a funny video. Imagine getting a rubber band right in the face like that on a video. I'd post that, too. We're going to get all the way. So, you're just going to shimmy slide all the way up against the wall and then you're just going to kick yourself up and let them peel away those adductors. Oh, you're just going to get up like this and you're just going to let the legs fall all the way out. And you're going to hang out here for how long? Yeah, baby. 2 minutes. Now, just to let you know, this is pretty diabolical because the band pulls you into a locked out position and drags the legs open, hitting the adductor. So, when you come out of this, I want you to bend the knees. Make sure the feet are dorsif flexed when you're doing this. And like I said, 2 minutes. When you come out of it, give your knees a little bit of a bend. Oh, and then roll yourself over. Make sure you don't get a mobility band in the forehead. And if you do, send me a video. I want to see it cuz that's funny. Last one. So, this one is going to hit a lot of the rotational components of that pelvis and we're just going to take that. Yeah. Let's make sure it doesn't fall over. I'll move back a little bit so we can see. So, what you're going to do is you're going to do the uh basic figure four, right? So, you're going to take one, get in this position. You're going to bend this to about 90°. And then I'm going to have you lay flat on your back. And all you're going to do is you're going to drop all the way over. So, you can stay like this if you want. If it's too much when you're laying down, I want this foot flat on the ground. The reason I have you laying on the ground is you're going to see what I'm talking about. I want those shoulders to stay because if I go like this, I have a good mobility in my hip rotation so my shoulders don't drag forward. But if you don't and it starts to peel your shoulder. If it tries to do this, then lay on the ground instead. Let gravity be your friend. So you're going to just take this and you're going to hang out like this for how long? Take a stab at it? 2 minutes. Yeah. The other variation is you're going to be like this still. Remember, we're both legs are at 90°. Now, I can't see you, so I I can see it through here, I guess. And then all you're going to do is make sure your shoulders are anchored to the floor. And then you're just gonna let yourself drop. Drop this hand out to keep your shoulder down. And then just hang out here. Two minutes. When you're done, come on back up. Do the other side. You got two sides. That's how you're going to unload everything. We got one more. I forgot to tell you about it. G. It's the most important one, too. We did everything on the posterior side. We got to do that anterior side. Last one. Dude, this one's sick. It's brand new. I guarantee you guys have never seen it before. This is the latest and greatest in mobility technology. I mean, this is so trick. Guaranteed. Never seen it before. Super new. So, listen. Tell your friends. It's called the couch stretch. You're just going to get up like Ted's laughing. So, you guys have all seen this before. This is going to stretch that rectus forous down the front. Hit that iliacis, that soaz. Remember, when you're doing the couch stretch, this is not the couch stretch. This is just going to jack everything up. I want you to hollow out. Suck in that belly button. Squeeze your butt as hard as you can. Good. Squeeze your butt, not your partner's butt. And then just hang out like this for how long? We're going to go 2 minutes. Screw the one minute rule. We're going to go 2 minutes. Go super long. Then switch sides. Do the same thing. All right. Cal stretch is going to unload the anterior portion of all that tissue. What you're going to find is that my camera skills are awesome and that you're going to have all that shear unloaded on that SI joint. do this every day, that SI joint starts to function a lot better. You take all the load off, it doesn't get beaten to death. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works. I see you guys tomorrow.