What is up, guys? Tra Smashworks over at Diablo, of course. Where else would I be, right? Hey, nice job on 16.2, everybody. Guess what's coming out tomorrow? 163. Yeah, we're all making predictions. I have no idea what it's going to be. It's going to be horrible. That's all I know. It's going to be awful. It's going to suck. It's going to be hard. Um, good luck to uh, Sean Ramirez, by the way. Hope you crush it. We're gonna be going over adductors, hamstrings. They join together. They have this uh, it's called an interdigitation. Big fancy word. Basically, all it means is they're glued together. So, they're not supposed to be. What happens is the adductors are going to pull the leg in and they're going to cause they're going to work on that knee and they're going to work on that pelvis. The hamstrings, they cross the knee too. Semimernosis, semiendinosis, biceps morris, the long head, not the short one. Remember that. And, uh, it's anatomy. You guys wouldn't care. part of it does. It's all you know crosses the knee. But when they start to get glued down, they can't slide past each other. You can't get into the bottom of this position without having to do this turning your feet out like that. You shouldn't have to turn your feet out that much. You should be able to have them at maybe 5 10° off center, but it makes the thrusters a little easier. And they're coming. We know that. Might even be squat snatches. Who knows? But you need to be able to get into this position. And those muscles have to allow for that. So you can play off the uh the spring in the bottom of the hamstring or the bottom of the squat with the hamstring when it drives you up uh out of the hole when you're doing your thrust or anything else for that matter. The other thing is it takes the shear away from that pelvis. Now that's a big one because the back of the pelvis, you have the SI joints, sacrum sits like a wedge in between the uh in between the anominant bones, the bones of the pelvis. But when you have the adductors and the and the hamstrings cranking on that isial tuberosity, your sitbone underneath, it's going to pull that backwards. It's going to pull it into a posterior pelvic tilt only on one side and it's going to shear on that SI joint which is only half sinovial which means only half the joint actually moves. The other half is pretty fixed. It's like a suture joint in your skull. It's fibrous joint. And uh and it's really going to crank down on that. It's going to destroy that completely. And then of course it's going to take the uh the head of the femur and wrap it up over that labreum and just grind it into a nice little you know tube of toothpaste. So we don't want to do that. So if you look got a 45, use a 45. You don't use a 45. I'm going to come to your house, make you do burpees for like an hour. So, use a 45 on either side. That's where you're going to trap your legs out. You're just going to do this. So, right now, you can just hang out like this if you want. But what we're going to be doing, take a band, fire it up against the rig. Get your feet on the outside of the weight. Wrap both hands through this thing. Now, if this is all you got, what I want is I want you nice and upright. You can see already I need some range of motion in this because there's people that do yoga, for example. example, uh, Britney Benadetto, who gave me heck for not following her. So, now I'm following you. So, she can lean all the way forward and probably touch her face on the ground. I can't do that. And if I do that, this will be the last video you guys ever see of me because I'm going to wind up in the ER. So, what you're going to do is you're going to pull yourself forward, tighten up that band, and you're going to let the band do the work. All you got to do is hang on for how long? 2 minutes. This is going to peel away the adductors and the hamstring and it's going to open up the hips. And you're just going to let it hang out like this. Now behind me somewhere, if he's still here, is a guy named Jim Albertson. PT student. Pretty sharp dude. Hell of an athlete. He knows exactly what I'm talking about. Hang out like this. That's going to open that up. How long? That's right. 2 minutes. I was just waiting for you guys to answer. See how many videos I get of you guys say 2 minutes. All right. That's number one. Number two, you want to grab Looking around for it. Oh, kettle bell. We're going to use this for two things. One, the iliacis on the front of the pelvis, comes off the pelvis, goes to the femur, joins up with that soaz, which we wound up smoking in all those toes to bar, jacking up the low back, causing a lot of low back pain. Iliacis does the same thing. It's going to wind up pulling on that pelvis, comes off the front in that uh in that fossil right there, and attaches on the femur, comes together. So, it's going to wind up torquing that femur in. It's going to wind up yanking on that pelvis a little, putting a gnarly shear on that low back. First though, we're gonna hit that adductor. All you got to do, use a heavy kettle bell because otherwise this one's going to get away on you. I really don't want to do this because it freaking hurts. Don't laugh at me, Jim. Good. So, you're going to get on it like this. You can see you're going to get right up into the groin. You know what I'm going to say? Watch the twig and giggleberries. You don't want to crush them. You have a very bad day. Don't blame me for it if you do it, though. All right. All right. Now, all you're going to do is you're going to hang out here and you're going to kick the leg in and out. Oh god, this is horrendous. So, you can see I'll get out of the way so you can see. Rest the adductor on there. If it's too light, put your hand on here. Trust me, the weight of your arm. I don't want to extend my leg right now. I really don't. So, I'm going to do it anyway. Oh god, that is horrendous. In and out. And you're going to work your way all the way down. You're going to find a hot spot like I just did. And it makes you just want to bring up a boot. Holy jeez. And then you're just going to grind back and forth. You can see I'm taking my leg right off the ground. And just let gravity be your friend. Hang out. Do this. Oh, until you make a change because change happens. When change happens, there's your profound statement for the day. Now, you're going to take this. You're going to hit that iliacis. All you're going to do is lay on it. So, I'll bring it over here. You're going to make sure this is going the same direction as the crease. Okay? So, there's a crease called the angular crease. Runs right here. It's basically if you bring up your leg, little crease right in here. You want to make sure this goes the same direction. Don't grind on the bone. There's a bone right here. The asis. Don't hit that. It's going to hurt. It's like hitting the funny bone except times 10. You get bruises. I don't know. Send me a picture. Okay. All right. So, you're going to lay on this just like that. You're going to bring the leg up. This gives you the mobility sweats. And right now, I can't see Jim, but I'm pretty sure he's laughing at me. Good. And you're just going to wag your leg back and forth. And I promise you, you're going to hit some grizzly spots in here. It's going to feel like a piece of gristle from a cheap steak. And you're just going to grind away on here until you feel that soften up. And this could take easily 2, three minutes. And just unglue that iliacis. You will find a lot more hip mobility just by doing these three things. Man, that is horrendous. So, we've just unglued the adductors. We've unglued the hamstrings. We put a little bit of mobility in there. Hit that iliacis. Now the hips work. Now the leg works. Now everything works. You can do thrusters all day long. Hey, I'm Trev. Smash Works 16.3 coming out tomorrow. Can't wait. I'll see you guys tomorrow.