Man, it's yet another day where I come out here and talk about something that I don't know, I just felt like talking about it. You know what's wild about this podcast is I don't even care if I have one subscriber or a 100 million subscribers. I'm not doing this for the attention. I'm doing it because I actually like doing this. It's fun for me. And if anything, this is like a video diary of my thoughts throughout the day. And the byproduct is like it or not, most of these thoughts will help you guys because I've probably made more mistakes than most of you guys and solved them. And so I come out here and I go, "Here, this is what you need to do." But you know what's weird is most people hate the solutions that they need the most. I can't even figure that. Like you ever notice that? That the people complaining the loudest about their problems are usually the ones that get furious when you hand them the exact solution, the exact remedy to whatever it is that's going on. Whatever malady they have, whether it is physical, it is financial, it is relationship, it doesn't matter that's going to fix it, they get furious. Like if you offered them the antidote to the poison that they're drinking, instead of saying thank you, they throw it back in your face and accuse you of insulting their taste in beverages or insulting their intellect. Make it make sense. Which like a lot of you guys, you guys are weird. Like I think opinions, I get it, are like [\h__\h] Everybody's got one. But I the the fact that you have an opinion doesn't mean that your opinion has any value. Some might some of you guys might listen to this and go, "Well, you have no value." Well, then don't listen. Like, I don't go and listen to other people's things and then go, "I hated it. Let me remind them of how much I hated it." Because if you hate on anything, just so you know, a good chance it's what you needed. Cuz if you stayed long enough to dislike it and it's not something you needed, you're an idiot. The problem's with you, not anybody else. Like, let me be clear. That reaction of you throwing the antidote back at somebody to whatever problem they are helping you solve, you throwing it at their face, that reaction isn't an accident. Like when people do that, if you're one of those people, oh, that's just how they are. It's just a defense mechanism, man. No, it's not. It's the psychological equivalent of building a house out of playing cards and and then attacking somebody, anybody who points out, hey, listen, just so you know, gust of wind, it's going to wipe out your whole [\h__\h] house. probably kill you and you get mad because they're trying to help you. That's where we are right now as a culture. Solutions are branded. They're they don't feel like it. They're branded as personal attacks. And gratitude is replaced by ego. And the truth, man, let me The truth is public enemy number one. When you tell somebody the truth, they look for reasons to discredit you because they don't like it because it points out how dumb they are for making those decisions and the fact that it is all their fault and that their excuses are gone. They're invalid. and now their identity, their little victim identity, they can't hold that up anymore. When someone offers you a real solution to a problem that you've been living with, it doesn't matter what it is. I have been doing this for a really long time. I have seen so many patients and blessed to take care of tons of people and even you guys sending me messages going, can you take me as a client? Yeah, because I actually give a crap about people. My mentorship, it's not some rahrh coaching mentorship where we get around and hug and talk about how much money we're going to make and then manifest it with a candle, maybe some Kenny G. That's not how this works. I actually come out here and go, I want to help you. And I get the cynicism and the skepticism. I do. But at the same time, when someone hands you a solution and their life is an example of the solution, maybe shut the hell up and actually listen because it's it's ignorant what people do. So when somebody offers you a solution to a problem that is in your world that you are living with right now currently your brain has two choices. That's it. Just two. Assimilate the new information which means as here's the problem. It means admitting you were wrong and then you have to restructure your beliefs incredibly uncomfortable and then doing the uncomfortable work required to change the whole effing thing or reject it entirely and then protect that fragile little psychological scaffolding that you've been using to avoid all the responsibility that you damn well know you should be using. But here's the thing, that whole assimilation thing I just said, that's painful and it's it amputates your ego and it requires something that people throw around that shouldn't throw it around because they don't even know the meaning of the word, which is humility. So when someone goes, "Oh, bro, you have a giant ego. You're as arrogant as it gets." I'm not arrogant at all. Arrogant is to talk about all the things that you're good at, tell everybody you don't need any help. Meanwhile, you know nothing about it and you need all the help. To know and not to do is not to know. That's Eric. Yeah. every athlete you've ever seen that performs really well that you admire. And if you go out, I don't admire any athletes, get off my show, then you're just probably not going to get along because you're looking for reasons to argue. That is exactly it. Pointing out the mistakes that you're making. I'm riddled with mistakes. So when my wife goes that you could fix that, I just listen. I go, "Oh yeah, actually you're right." But you fragile little egos, you guys get all upset. So that ego, that ego, well, bro, you have a big ego. You don't have any humility. I have plenty of humility. Everything I have inside me that I convey to you guys is a direct connection from God to you through me. That's it. It's not me. None of this is me. I am able to recall things and think of things and come up with solutions so fast and do things that I I I shouldn't be able to do. That's not me. That's God. I've survived and come out of things that I I shouldn't have survived. That's God. Whether you like it or not is irrelevant. I know what it is. So, I don't take any of this credit. Absolutely. I'm incredibly intelligent. Thanks to God. I'm incredibly fit. Thanks to God. I have an incredible marriage. Thanks to God. I have great kids. Thanks to God. It's not me. That's humility. And do I have an ego? You bet your ass. Except the problem is when you look at my ego, it's backed by something called a resume because I've actually done it. So that becomes a trigger to somebody who is as dumb as a fence post and is going around broadcasting their instant knowledge and bro science and trust me bro comments and realizes that they ain't that smart. So rejection that's the flip side. That's the easy part because it's comfortable. That's that mental Twinkie. So that's why you do it. So when someone says, "Hey man, you're broke because you spend more than you earn. Here's how to fix that." Or you're overweight because you eat like a pig and you take in more calories than you burn. Here's how to fix that. It doesn't feel like help. It feels like an assault because it threatens the narrative that you've been feeding yourself non-stop. That's not my fault. I'm the victim. It's genetics. It's society. It's got to be capitalism, the internet. Everybody's against me. My bank. It's the food industry. It's my upbringing. It's my parents. Doesn't matter. And if you've been clinging to that narrative for years, hearing the truth, it's not just uncomfortable. It is identity threatening. It's what I said at the very beginning. It's someone handing you a sledgehammer and saying, "All right, here you go demolish that safe little prison that you've built because it's crap." Like when I grew up, just so you know, it's wild because I come out here and I help. Whether you like it or not is irrelevant. When I make a post on social media and I go, "Do this, do this, do this. It'll help you." If you come in and you don't say if it is anything other than thank you, man, or here's some positive whatever, I don't need it for my soul. You do for yours. Because if you come out and you attack somebody for helping you, two words, [\h__\h] you. I hope your life burns to the ground because you're an a-hole. Like when I grew up, please and thank you were not optional. That was social currency. If you forgot them, someone, I don't know, maybe your parents, maybe a teacher, maybe life, maybe life itself reminded you, usually physically. Whack. Let's try that again. Here you go. Thank you. Yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, ma'am. No, ma'am. And now it's nothing but attitude and personal attacks on people trying to help you. If I come out here I I'll give you a great example. I come out and I go here's red at true tide puts semiglutide enters epatide to shame. Glutide enters epatide are pure trash. They are starvation and appetite control with branding. That's it. They do not make you lose fat. They make you lose weight. Not the same. So people that have used it don't like being told that because they were buying into whatever influencer or acupuncturist or whoever it is that sold them this stuff was telling them. And now it's challenging the belief that they were told even though deep down inside they were going, "Wow, I'm skinny, weak, and soft." And I don't know why. Here's why. Because 70% of everything you lost was tissue, not fat. Bone, muscle, glycogen, tendons, everything. Probably brain mass. I haven't looked into that, but I will now. get on a DEXA a scan, you'll see it. But instead of getting offended, go son of a [\h__\h] I need to change. I need to make a pivot hard now. But you guys don't. So when I come out and I go, Rea and Tur or uh Sema and Tur are garbage. And then I go, especially when compared to Reat Tide, which is as far as I can tell, and I've read a lot and dealt with a lot of clients on this, it's like a longevity peptide. And that's not what this is about. I'm just telling you. And to get insulted because someone goes, "Well, semiglutide works for some people is about as intelligent as going," oral peptides work for some people, bro. I've used them for myself. They made my elbow better in 5 months. Your elbow would have gotten better in 5 months anyway, dumbass. If it was really BPC or TB, it would have been better in 5 days. Bloodstream only. You cannot get an oral peptide to get past the boot camp that is your digestive system ever. Ever. Even once it hits that portal vein, man, it is over. Your liver is going to destroy its whole job is to turn everything into single little pieces that you can use. That's it. And most peptides can't even fit through an interosite. They're too big. The amino acid chains too long. So, they're not going to get through. And yet, watch. Here's why. You look at something like TB, 43 amino acids long. If it can't get through an interosite, which is the only way it gets into your bloodstream, just so we're clear, physiology, it bugs me because arguing with bro science going, "I've used it. It works, bro." You have a well doumented placebo. Show me the blood work. It did not work. 100% it did not work. It's just like biolut it's four levers instead of three. It's awesome. It's oral. Instantly went out the door. It's garbage. But if you have TB and it can't get through the interosite, but it just so you know, the receptor requires all three 43 amino acids in a very specific sequence to plug into the receptor to turn on actin and allow it to influence the system. So if it gets broken down in the gut and it can't come through and it has to be broken down to get through the interosite and you turn it into bone broth, it's going to reassemble itself when it gets to the other side. I used an example. I said that's like throwing a steak into a wood chipper and expecting a cow to come out of the other side. Never going to effing happen. But those are the arguments. Honestly, it makes some of you [\h__\h] get in the comments and you argue about that stuff because you can't stand being wrong. That's the problem. You have to get comfortable with being wrong when you're wrong and demanding that when you're right, you are damn well right. But you guys have that all screwed up. You guys are fighting for something because your belief says I'm right because it hurts my feelings if I admit that I'm wrong. But you're wrong. You're the same people that go, you know, gravity's an option. Every time I get in up in the morning, sometimes it doesn't work. Let me know how that works. Every time I knock you on your ass. I've been a doc for a long time. I've seen all kinds of things. None of that matters. I know people with a string of degrees after their name that have no common sense and couldn't apply any of that knowledge because all those degrees mean that you paid for an education. That's it. Because I know personal trainers or people that just like to sit and read that are more intelligent, much more wise than most doctors. And you know who gets mad at that? The doctors. I don't care if somebody's smarter than me. You know what I do? I shut up and I ask them questions. For some reason, that's gone. It goes back to the whole please and thank you. If you go into somebody's comments and you trash on them because they say something you don't like, maybe you should shut up and ask why don't you like it? Because if it challenges your pariting that you've been doing or your bros science logic or the fact that all of the sudden it's exposed that you don't know anything about what you're talking about, there's an opportunity right there to shut your mouth and get better and learn. You know what I don't know how to do? Make a billion dollars with a B. I have no idea. I think it's possible for me. In fact, I know it. I know it is. But I don't know how to get there yet. I just know the steps that I would take. But I need I talked to my buddy Howie Howard Payne. He's a billionaire, multi-billionaire. He's a great dude, man. Looks like Luke Wilson. And he is a billionaire. He's failed 39 businesses. He exited his company, Logic, for three half billion, give or take. Him and one other partner. That's a nice split, just so you know. But I ask him if I have questions about how to be I don't hate on him cuz he has a bunch of cool ass cars. Who cares? I think that's awesome. How he has $150 million mansion in Bokeh. Who cares? He knows how to do this better than me. So, if he gives advice and it comes to a and it's a business, I'm going to shut up and listen. I don't care what it is because he's better than I am. Same with my buddy Dan Martell. He is worth more money than me and he is very good at doing things online. Never mind the fact that he's a coder, but he is good at podcasts. He's good at content. He's good at AI. The guy is a very skilled businessman plus an exceptional business coach. Why would I not listen to a guy that's playing the game better than me? So, to get into somebody's comments like that and hate on them has nothing to do with them. It has to do with me being a [\h__\h] if I do that. It's my insecurity screaming, "Damn it, I'm wrong. Now I have to admit it." Instead of just going, "Thanks, man." I have never once, I've said this so many times, gone into anybody's comments and hated on anything cuz if I didn't like it, I just kept on going. That's called emotional maturity, but that's gone with please and thank yous. Like, we didn't confuse manners when I was a kid with oppression. We understood that gratitude is the that's the adhesive. That's the glue for all human interaction. And I'm not talking gratitude sitting there with your little charm bracelet and going over how grateful you are every day. No, no, no, no. I mean gratitude in general in human interaction. But now currency of gratitude that's inflated into massive worthlessness and more it's tolerated. That's the issue because you guys are all separated by a pane of glass. Imagine every time you open your mouth and you didn't say something that sounded a lot like please and thank you. When somebody hands you an answer, regardless whether you use it or not, by the way, if you were insulting and rude and attacked them and made them feel like they were attacking you and they punched you right in the mouth, most people would stop acting like that. But you guys have this little pane of glass. And even this comment, people, oh, I'd like to see you try, bro. Like, what the [\h__\h] is wrong with you guys? You guys, everything is an attack. instead of going, "Wow, if I actually shut up and listen to the people doing better than me, maybe I would be where I want to be instead of living in my b my mom's basement, you know, begging for hot dog money and hanging out at 7-Eleven." I don't understand. People think that entitlement is the new normal and everything is owed. Why say thank you when the world owes you solutions? That's the mindset. Yeah, it irritates me. You bet your ass I'm pissed off because I'm a 52-year-old grown man who is a father, a doctor, a husband, and a leader, and a business owner of multi-million dollar businesses that we had to build by hand after losing everything. And still every day we deal with crap because that's part of being a human being. I don't look at it as anything other than welcome to being alive. But I don't ever once go and try and demand that somebody owes me something or an apology because what they said was right and what I'm doing is wrong. That's like going, "Well, it's not what you said, it's how you say it." What are you, a girl? And if you go, "I I am a girl." Then act like a woman, not a six-year-old with pigtails. I mean, you think the world owes you a solution? I think here's why. Because gratitude isn't about obligation. Gratitude is the ultimate acknowledgement that you don't know everything and that somebody else, me or anybody else, just made you better. Oh, that's a horrible thing, right? That's the best thing. You know what social media does? Gives you answers. But the problem is it's firing answers at most of you guys so quickly that you don't assimilate them because you go, "I'm going to think about I'll do it tomorrow." You have one less day of life tomorrow. Just so you know. And whether you like it or not, without gratitude, you ain't growing, son. And without growth, you become exactly what we see online, a swarm of glass screen keyboard warriors with nothing to offer except bitterness and secondhand Google search arguments or chat GPT answers that make you sound like a muppet. Like all my knowledge is right here. I I should probably become well versed in chat GPT because AI ain't going anywhere. It's only going to get better. I like that I had to learn everything and I have some useless knowledge in my head, but I have lots of good stuff to help people as well. I think if you know something, it is your obligation to help somebody and share that knowledge. I really do. That's how the world becomes better. But somehow the desire, believe me, I've gotten off social media many times after looking at my comments and looked at Brandy and said, "You know what? [\h__\h] all of these guys. I come out here and I work. I put effort and time and energy to write something to help you or to do a video. And you go, I don't like how it made me feel. You sounded condescending. You made my feel. You hurt my feelings. You challenged my bro science. You're attacking me. How dare you? I'm going to get in the comments. I gave you the I gave you the answer to your problem, you dumbass. Right about that point, my big giant German father would have smacked me in the mouth for saying any of that cuz he gave me the answer. Social media has made cowards extremely brave because behind a screen you can spit venom at somebody all day long who could probably snap you in half or beat you so bad like I mean hit you with so many rights you'd beg for a left but it doesn't matter because you're 2,000 miles away behind a pane of glass and a VPN and all the other stuff you do. What's funny is I had somebody say that don't listen to this guy fake name fake fake account. I'm like that's my name. You could look me up. And the only reason I even had Smash Works, this is hilarious, is I was hanging out with my buddy Kiran Fitzgibbons. He owns a combat sports academy. Him and his wife Jessica, awesome people, by the way. Love these two. They've been married forever and they're legit. And he turns out fighters like nobody's business. And like Kevin Ross and Gaston and like there's so many people that come out of there. Berdick was training there, the powerliffter. Jesse is another great dude. Katie Hogan, awesome woman. They're very, they got great family. But I mean, this is the kind like these are the kind of people that he hung out with and just killers. All kinds of killers out of that. Here's what's wild. No disrespect in that gym. And if there's ever any disrespect, it's handled immediately. But we were standing there one day and he goes, "Hey, you on social media?" And I go, "Yeah, yeah, I got YouTube channel." And he laughed and he goes, "That's a social media, man. I didn't even know about Instagram or anything. I knew nothing about it." And he goes, "Give me your phone." And he goes, "What do you want your name to be?" And I used to talk about Smashing Tissue. And everybody's like, "Dude, this works. Smash works." That is how the name came about. That is it. Nothing fancy. Sorry. There's no epiphany. That was it. And I said, "But spell it with an RX at the end, which has become the most confusing thing for most people cuz most people spell it wrong." But the point is is I had that because I don't know. I just didn't want know what else to put. I don't have a fancy story about it. I just changed it to Trevor Bachmire cuz it's easy. I don't have to think. That's me. Problem solved. But I don't hide behind a glass pane either. Whether you go, "Oh, you are right now. Come to my house." Like this is why people spend hours typing dissertations in the comments section explaining why the person offering help who is right is wrong because of that little glass pane and their little fragile ego. Like imagine this offline. You're in a neighborhood and somebody builds this. It's real, right? Somebody builds this big beautiful home in your neighborhood. They invite you in. They give you a tour and they show you everything. Hey, look at this. This is awesome. They offer you the blueprint and they go, you know what? You don't It's free. want and you they had to pay 20, 30, 40 grand to have this all done, all the drawings done and engineered properly. And instead of saying, "You know what? Thanks. You light the house on fire because you didn't like the roof color." That's how ridiculous some of you numbnuts are. Oh, I'm sure this is going to piss somebody off. I'm still right. The fact that it pisses you off means I'm right. Like, that's the logic behind most social media comments. If you put it out there, it's fair game. That's what I've heard people say. Well, you put it out there, bro. It's fair game. Yeah. In the same way vandalism is fair game because you walked past the building. Come on. I mean, listen, if a solution makes you angry, it's because it just revealed how much your suffering is self-inflicted. And that stings. It pisses you off cuz you can no longer hide behind your well-curated and articulated excuses, your it's just not the right time or that doesn't work for people like me or I tried everything or you don't understand my unique situation. Whatever other BS you come up with, all those excuses are coping mechanisms. But when somebody when somebody a real actionable solution do this to get that they rip those away. I'll use Reddit true tide again. Yeah, but it's not FDA approved. It's not I heard it's in clinical trials. Why would you ever take that? I heard that's garbage. Why would you ever talk about that? That sounds terrible. What about all the side effects, bro? It's muscle wasting. Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong. Like all of that is garbage. Does it work? Absolutely. Absolutely. Does it cause muscle wasting? Zero. But semiglutide durepatide 100%. And yet the bumpkins will come out of the woodwork going. I have clients who didn't lose any muscle. Congratulations. You're full of [\h__\h] You're welcome. Aside from the fact that Red True Tide fixes hippocample neurons. I mean, I could go insulin sensitivity issues. It changes your entire operating system. I'm not going to go into it. Believe me, I just about did. I was like, I've talked about this so much. Seaglutide shuts down your appetite. So does drinking a giant glass of water and going for a run. Tzepide adds in a little bit of glucose control after a big meal. Great. Still didn't do anything. They're not longevity and they aren't weight loss peptides. They were a quick gimmick to get things onto them. Redatide is in is is in a world all on its own. But so is BPC-157 or TB-500 or lifting weights or drinking clean water or eating real food. All of those. But they all have someone coming out to insult it and attack it and go, "You're wrong. My blood type doesn't allow me to eat red meat." [\h__\h] You don't understand. And I have this genetic marker that says [\h__\h] Great. You might have the marker. It doesn't mean you can't do that. That is a very rare condition just so you know. So getting genetic testing I think is the most insane thing in the world because if you dig enough you're going to get dirty. And we are covered in a planet. Our planet is covered rather by human beings that have not shrunk in population. We have grown which means we know what we're doing. We're good. All those excuses you have are coping mechanisms because now you know that the real raw naked truth. Because when someone hands you a solution, if I go, "Here's how you make a million dollars a year. $115 an hour, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, that is a million- dollar business." $2,740 a day, 365 days a year, that is a million- dollar business. And the answer is like, well, [\h__\h] it's easy if used for you to say it. What am I going to sell for that? I don't know. Figure it out. Do you have a problem that you could solve for $115 every hour? Set it on automation in many chats. Put it up in a Shopify store or put it on your own dedicated website. Road, it's free. Many chats is not very expensive. Put a little chat flow in there. Get easy pay direct authorized.net real paydirect and set up a payment system. Make sure you use a code that's actually going to follow their terms of use so you don't get shut down. Get an LLC which takes you all of about two minutes online for free. do not pay for it or an EIN rather. Get an LLC. Go to Legal Zoom there. If somebody goes, "Oh, yeah, bro. That's way expensive." Okay. Go to Swift Filings. I don't know. There's a million places you can go. Get an LLC. Do it yourself and take 6 months to do it. I would just go there and do it because I can have it now. Pay the extra. Get the LLC. Make sure it's a two-member LLC so it's not just a glorified sole proprietorship, which nobody probably told you either. Set up an irrevocable trust with an attorney. Don't do it yourself because you're a cheap [\h__\h] and throw everything over the wall into that irrevocable trust. Make the trustee somebody other than yourself or your spouse or your kids and make sure it's somebody that you trust completely and give them signing power for that irrevocable trust. And now everything is behind a wall that keeps you safe. Now you've got now go to the bank, take your little articles of incorporation and all the stuff and open in your EIN and open up a bank account and now link your payment system, your mer merchant system, easy pay authorized, whatever it is you're using. Stripe. If you're so dumb, you shouldn't use Stripe. It's terrible. My opinion. I've had nothing but bad experiences with Stripe. Some people go, "I love Stripe." I just don't think so. They do their underwriting after they sign you up. I think that's shady. And it becomes a pain in the ass at the beginning. Trust me. But now you're connected and now you go online and you go, "Here's my product. It's going to cost this much." Set it on automation and just do nothing but talk about it. Figure out a mission statement. Go, what is wrong with what what's the problem I'm trying to solve? Who am I going to solve it for? Do they actually understand this solution? Have I actually created this solution? What are all the obstacles they've had to deal with? And what are all the things they've tried that haven't worked? And where are they currently? What is their dream result look like? What is my oneline offer? I help blank get blank without going through blank in this amount of time. The end. That's how easy this is. I literally just gave you a business blueprint and 95% of you guys just tuned out and went, "Oh, I tried it. It never worked." then quit complaining about being broke because if you think that you should get a million dollars a year starting tomorrow, you're an idiot. I'm trying to help you. Even that if that didn't prove I know what the hell I'm talking about. Like that was just off the top of my head. There's probably a bunch of things I could throw in there. Then you go through your content and what you don't need some weird content strategy. You need to talk about the [\h__\h] that you know really well and offer solutions non-stop. Give them everything. Give them all the answers. Charge them for how. That's how you do it. set it up on automation and eventually that little trickle turns into a waterfall and just keep showing up and giving answers. And if you get haters, tell them to go [\h__\h] themselves. Cuz if you're actually helping somebody and you're not a con, what are you worried about? If anyone's hating on you for giving them a solution, like if I give you a solution here, this is how you lose weight without any chemistry. Take your body weight in pounds and times it by 12. Eat that every day. That's your caloric load for the day. Take that same body weight in pounds, times it by 1.5. That's how much protein you should eat. Times that number by four. That gives you the calories. Subtract that from the first number. That is how much cal how many calories you have left to expend throughout the day. So if the total is 3,000, do not ever eat over 3,000 calories in the day. You will lose weight. It's that simple. You're welcome. Again, people hear that, well, you don't understand, though. I have a different metabolism. No, you don't. Thermodynamics doesn't change just for you, cupcake. But this is what I'm talking about. There is always an answer to refute the solution because it makes you go, I was wrong. I don't know what I think I know and what I tell everybody else I know. All my excuses are [\h__\h] and I have chosen to stay here. That's the problem. And your ego doesn't like it. So instead, you get in the comments like a fairy and start chirping away. Or you tell all your friends or you get on Reddit and make threads just to vent. But who are you venting about? You're venting about yourself, just so you know. Because that's the truth. You see that you could clearly change and you just won't. To avoid that feeling like a coward, you go full offense and you attack the messenger. I mean, psychologically, that's the easiest way to avoid the mirror, right? Because if you convince yourself the messenger is arrogant and wrong or mean or hurtful, you don't have to face the fact that you're scared of what comes next. Like, some of you guys hide behind degrees like they're medieval shields, man. I have a masters in this. I've been in the field for 20 years. So have I. And I've seen idiots that have been in the field for 20 years. If you're arguing in the comments section instead of fixing your own life from somebody that has given you a solution that you could do that is applicable to your situation, you just don't like it. That's why you're not doing it. All you're proving is that you are an educated idiot. Intelligence is not the accumulation of facts. I don't know if you guys have figured that out yet. It's the application of truth. A dumb person who acts on good information will beat the tar out of a smart person who resists it out of ego every single time. So bring it. And here's the part that's really going to make some of you guys foam at the mouth. The moment you reject truth because of who it came from instead of evaluating whether it's correct, you stop being intelligent because you're no longer reasoning. You're filtering reality through your fragile little identity. That's why people with PhDs can be broke as hell and miserable and unhealthy while high school sixth grade like high school dropouts, sixth grade educated people become millionaires and jacked and fulfilled and have the most epic life. and yet get hated on people with a string of degrees so long their monogram looks like an eye chart. Problems you, man. I don't care how many degrees you have. I care what you do. So should you. Like there's there's an entire economy built on people hating help. They don't just ignore it. They feed off it. And they feed off it destroying and eradicating it. Because what did I say yesterday? Mis misery loves company. And actually in 2025, I think misery loves the algorithm. Look at Instagram. It doesn't feed what's working. It feeds what's emotional. Negativity spreads faster than truth because it's easier to consume. Tearing down anybody takes 5 seconds and no thought and no courage. To be honest, there's no courage in tearing somebody down. Anytime I answer a comment with somebody that challenges my knowledge and I know I'm right and they come at me with arrogance and stupid bro science, you bet your ass I'm going to demolish you with real physiology and biology and endocrinology and neurology or business knowledge because I care enough to tell you the truth and demand that you know it. But it takes a ton of effort to do that. I could easily just get in the comments and go, "Yeah, well, [\h__\h] you." Building somebody up, that takes effort and skill and the risk of being wrong. And that's why your feed for the most part, mine included, is full of trolls and bunch of thinly veiled little [\h__\h] critics because they don't want to solve their problems. They want to export them into your life so you have to deal with them because then they're not alone. I mean, here's the most insane part. Listen to me, man. We live in the most resourcerich moment in time in history ever. I mean, you want to lose weight? There's a free workout and a nutrition plan about a 10-second search away. You want to get rich? There are more YouTube channels that will teach you more than an MBA or any master's degree in any other field or PhD or anything ever for free. You want a better relationship? There are books and podcasts and courses and YouTube again all designed to help you. You want to learn all about health and science? Non-stop. YouTube, YouTube, YouTube. But instead of using all that stuff, people argue whether they work. I don't think that's going to work, though. How do I know it works? What I know is what you're doing right now doesn't work. And neither do you. You don't work. That's the equivalent of starving next to a buffet because you're too busy debating the calorie count of the mashed potatoes sitting down at the end covered in that sneeze shield. I really I came out here just irritated because I care and it's it's insane. I It's probably the dad in me. It's the dad and the doctor in me that goes, "You know, I give a [\h__\h] about you and you're too ignorant to go, but yeah, I guess you do. You're too busy arguing to defend your little house of cards and go, well, yeah, but every if I admit you're right instead of arguing my point, then I have to admit that I've been wrong." People will argue so that they're right just to avoid changing their circumstances and admitting that they were wrong and what they've been doing this whether it's 20 years of making stupid decisions. Nope. I will go right to the grave. I will go down with my [\h__\h] because I'm that ignorant. That's how most people are. I don't even want people like that in my life. Like now I I actually go through my feed. Anytime I see negative, I just delete them and block them. I don't even engage anymore. Anytime somebody says anything in my content that I don't like that is not the truth before somebody goes, "Oh, see you don't like it." No, you're just a malicious prick. I just block and delete. I don't even I don't care because I realize it's like going to that buffet and realizing it's a buffet. You can pick whatever you want out of you want to eat dessert and put your face under the ice cream machine and just open the valve into your pie hole. Knock yourself out. They'll probably throw you out unless you're in Vegas and then they'll probably applaud or give you a reward. But the point is this, you don't have to take one of each. You're not at your table with your parents where they're like, "You better take some of that broccoli." You can just pick and choose the things you want in that case. So, make it make sense. Make it make sense. You choose to go down the negative road and you choose to be negative and you choose to stay where you are and you choose to complain and argue and go, "I'm right because I want to feel right even though inside my life isn't right and my whole world sucks." And then you start defending it to a point where you actually start to believe your own idiotic ideologies going, "Hey, listen. I love being broke and fat in this shitty marriage where we never have sex because you don't need sex to have a great marriage. You need to read the Bible." All of that stuff. I'm not just talking about sex. I'm talking about the Bible in general. It's like that lady on Bad Boys where she went, "You two [\h__\h] need Jesus." It's true. When somebody comes out and gives you a solution and you hate on the solution, the problem is it's exposing that you don't like it because it forces you to go, "Man, I've been a nipple nut for the last 2 3 4 10 20 years and I've been fighting to stay here and I've been arguing and coming up with validations and excuses about why my circumstance is different." But then somebody comes along who's had it worse than you, who went way further than you and you call them lucky. And then you put them on a pedestal for having the problem. I had a dude tell me, "Well, yeah, but I don't have a story where like I'm missing a lung and I went through cancer and I saw your story. You're all scrawny in a wheelchair on an oxygen machine. I don't have that. No wonder you're successful." What? So, the fact that I had to work even harder to get to where I am than you would have makes me make it make sense. I can't even get that out of my mouth because it's so ridiculous. So, listen, here's here's the correct response for all the adults in the room. When someone offers you a real solution that works, whether you like it or not is irrelevant. The correct response is thank you. You don't have to use it. Say thank you or just keep on going because you're an adult. You don't. You're at the buffet. Just you don't want to eat that. You don't have to sit there and yell at the person behind that sneeze shield about how shitty that broccoli covered in bacon bits is. Why do you have that? That's stupid. You know what that is? That's garbage. Those aren't even real bacon. I bet that is. That's probably bacon from last year. That's probably carved up casino chips. like whatever nonsense you guys come up with and you tell a story about how bacon killed your grandmother. Grow up and get some emotional maturity and actually fix your [\h__\h] life. Like the correct response to when somebody helps you on social media is thank you. And if you don't like the help but it will help you, the correct response is still thank you or shut up. Don't lecture them because you don't like how it made you feel or come up with a list of why it won't work for you or get in some defensive rant to protect your fragile little toddler ego. Just thank you. My most common comment on most people's p on most people's posts. Thanks, man. Because that thank you isn't about politeness. It's about accepting the truth that somebody somewhere just gave you their time, their energy, and their knowledge to make your life better for free. For free, you entitled [\h__\h] And if if you meet that with anything else, I don't care if you have five degrees or you dropped out in the fifth grade, you're not just wrong, you are choosing to be wrong. So stop choosing that. Shut up and start listening. And for the love of God, start saying thank you or move on. I got to go. Never miss.