You know, I got to tell you, one of the coolest things is that I get to have such awesome conversations with my wife. But we were talking today about just God versus science, right? There's no contest. like you're just not a you're not some cosmic accident. Even Stephen Hawking before he passed away. Pretty much the smartest man on the planet said the odds of everything coming together in precisely the right way timing everything impossible. and he was a devout atheist, which means you still have faith in something. But you're not here by accident. And some of you guys might hear this and go, "Oh, here we go. It's a God conversation." You have a creator. Listen, even if this is a simulation and you're in the Matrix and Neo is flying around somewhere, you still have a programmer. And I think that there's so much delusion from the indoctrination from day one. You're not here by accident. It's just not possible. You are not some highly evolved monkey who figured out how to tick tock and door dash and scroll through social media. You're not some stardust puff that got lucky. Like the idea that we are some giant cosmic mistake floating on a big wet rock that's spinning at some dizzying speeds through the cold dead empty void of the universe hoping for a purpose. Zero. That doesn't even make sense. You are made with design. There is purpose and design in there's intention behind a human being behind every creature. And I don't care, by the way, what Mrs. Jones, your ninth grade biology teacher said or what textbook he, she, they, it pulled out said about apes, you know, with a hunch and opposable thumbs. If just from a business, like I mean Brandy and I have started a bunch of businesses over the last four years and they're all fantastic. If evolution was a business pitch, I'd give you no money. And if someone goes, "Well, I just wouldn't ask you for money." That's an ignorant statement. Just ask yourself facts. The numbers don't add up. They don't. The timeline doesn't even make sense. And if the timeline doesn't make sense, then logic falls apart. Again, Stephen Hawking said, "The closer you approach a singularity, the more the laws of what we know to be true fall apart." So scientists go, "Well, then there's just some un unknown laws." Well, then that's faith in the unknown. Yeah, but we don't believe in God. Well, you have faith. You just have faith in science. And science is science is constantly evolving. It's const constantly changing. And you're taught that makes it valid. We don't know the answer yet. We just know that it's not this to disprove even climate change. Look at climate change. If you actually had to climate change is a ruse. The way that's being spun. It is a ruse. There's no carbon neutrality. That's like we have we have changed. We've actually gotten colder and now we're going up a degree. And they're going, "Hey, listen. We're going to cause catastrophe. We need to create carbon neutral. Everybody needs to magically be on some electric grid behind some electric control box that only certain few people get to control. You guys don't see what's going on here. You guys don't see that this is a this is a grab for control over the population. But climate change doesn't even make sense because if you ran this just as a dedicated experiment, like I've been involved in science for the last 35 years. If it's an experiment, where's the control rock? You cannot know a damn thing about the climate of this rock that we live on and use it as a data source to predict what's going to happen or to assess the results if you don't have a control. Huh? Randomized control trials are required for almost every form of research but not for climate change. Huh? And they will spin it and use all kinds of Remember what I said? If somebody is trying to give you complex information, they're trying to sell you their program, not the solution. What do you think's happening in the world right now? You know what's free? Local and national news. Everything else you have to pay for. You know why? I'll let you figure that. I mean, here, and this is the the the popular story, right? We started as apes. apes millions of years ago. All kinds of random mutations that and natural selection and that we evolved into this person sitting right here holding a coffee cup wearing a Richard Mill in front of a monitor in a studio that was built by men and a microphone. Does are you out of your mind? It's a disaster of logic and evidence. It's not even possible. So, here's my first question. Where are the steps? Where are they? Just I'll wait. where are the steps? And you know what is funny is people will argue a point because they don't want to deviate from the crowd, but they won't argue the science that's actually falling apart and go, "Wow, this actually really doesn't make sense." And they get mad. If you get emotional about defending your point, you don't have any valid answers and support for your point. You're just an emotional disaster. Where are the steps? Where are the steps? If you are trying to convince me that we evolved from apes to humans, show me the evolution in progress. Show me. Not some sketch in a book and not some simulation by AI, not a museum little diarama that's sitting there. Show me the transitional fossils. Show me the bridge. Show me the exact bridge. Because here here's the deal. Listen, if you just use real estate, if you were flipping a house, you could do this with a car, anything, and you said, "Okay, yeah, listen. I bought this shack over in this neighborhood for 20 grand and I'm turning around and I'm selling it now for 2 million." The first question I'm going to ask is, "Show me the receipts. Before and after does not mean a damn thing without all of the in between. Where's the money spent? Where's the work done? Where's the process?" And if your logic is, "Well, it doesn't matter. The end results are good." Try saying that to your teacher when you were in school and he or she or it goes, "Show me the work." You know how I know my 16-year-old son, who is almost obnoxiously intelligent because he's had no restrictions. By the way, every human being, I believe, is a genius up until about five. And then at 5 years old, we get indoctrinated so heavily that we are told that we should just in order to get along, we have to go along. And we're told what to believe, not to learn. And that any beliefs that are challenged result in punishment in some way, shape, or form or another. But you know what? He would come home, he would write the answer. He knew the answer. My son never cheats. He knew the answer. He just did the work in his head. And the teacher got mad. The teacher would give him a zero and go show the work. I don't believe you know this. How can I come up with the answer and look at it when I've never seen this question before? I give you the answer because I did the calculations in my head. I can't help that you, Mr. or Mrs. Teacher, are stupid and you can't keep up because you got what? Your C best and now you're qualified to be a teacher. Most teachers aren't qualified to teach themselves, let alone a class. When it comes to evolution, listen to me. When it comes to evolution, all we have is the before and the after. Ape man, we're supposed to just believe that the rest happened slowly enough that we can't track it. Come on. Listen, Darwin himself even called the problem he he called the problem of um missing link, right? There's missing links. 160 give or take years later. Still missing, man. So, you mean to tell me we're supposed to all believe that you can come up with all kinds of scientific things to design all kinds of stuff, but you can't figure out that one missing link. But you can clone a human being. You can do all kinds of stuff. You can save lives, create machines, make micro machines that fit on the head of a pin that can do things that couldn't have been done by entire teams of machinery 10 years ago. But you can't find this missing link and everybody is supposed to go, "Okay, those same people go follow the science. Give me a break. If this were a business, this is where I'd tell you to go f yourself." Or if you hired me as your coach, listen, your funnel's broken. You have no customer journey. You have a pitch and a big giant promise. massive promise. You got no delivery system. That's why you're broke. Where is the halfway man? These are questions. You know what's funny is I guarantee you people are going to get mad, probably throw some crappy rating on this, but none of this is an attack. These are questions, but you guys are so indoctrinated to go, "Well, don't ask questions." And you get into your little mobs and you cross your arms and you stomp your feet and you go, "I don't like that guy. He's an asshole." Why? Why? Why would you get angry at anybody? because they're challenging your beliefs when your beliefs aren't valid. That's like saying there's no right or wrong, there's only opinion. Uh, you know what? Ten Commandments disagrees. Where's the halfway man? Where is he? Where's the halfway man? The quarter man. Where is the 70% monkey, the 30% hybrid philosopher walking around inventing the wheel while still nibbling on a chunk of ice from the ice age? Where's that guy? Where? Like really, I want to know. Where? Here's a stat for you. Over 200 I think I just read this. Over quarter million 250,000 250,000 is a big number. Just so you know before you guys get all weird about numbers. 250,000 homminided fossils have been discovered. That's a lot. And yet we still don't have a clean chain of evidence from ape to man. What we have are a bunch of scattered parts that have now been conveniently labeled to fit the story that we already predetermined to be true. H try doing that in an evidentiary hearing in court. Beyond reasonable doubt, right? There's there is beyond reasonable doubt that any that is true. This is a biogenesis. statistically abiogenesis. This is the current theory that life came from non-life. Okay. So, if you can tell me, listen, this is somebody's going to take this as being sarcastic, but if you can take this cup right here, this coffee cup for all of you guys listening, and my watch, and you put them together at the right time, at the right moment, with the right energy, with all of the right stuff, you mean to tell me that there is some some catalyst, some specific point where these two things will merge and become life. I'll wait. The current theory is that life came from non-life. Dead matter, dust and particles and elements and all this somehow got shocked, maybe got a little wet and got lucky and boom, first cell. If you think that sounds made up, you're not wrong. Listen, just because somebody tells you it is doesn't mean it is. prove it. You know what I I use math in a lot of things. I use numbers because numbers don't care about your feelings. They don't care about anything, but this is and and when people go 1 plus 1 isn't really two. It's actually this weird convoluted. It's like common core. Don't if you guys support common core, great. It's the most ridiculous thing. And when people go, well, in the long run, it's actually better. No, it's not. I am wicked good at math. I never learned any common core. Just so you understand from a biological standpoint, the simplest functional cell needs about 300 proteins give or take. And each protein is made up of these chains of amino acids in a very very specific order. They're like number digits in a lock. You mess one up out of the 300 and change. One. Just one. The cell doesn't work at all. No light. Not even. Not partial. Zero. It's not like it kind of works. Nothing. Now try and just imagine trying to randomly assemble a working protein chain. No lab, no nothing. Not three, not a 100, all in a row in perfect sequence. Statistical probability is around 10. I wrote it down. 1 in 10 to 40,000. That's a one, just so you know, followed by 40,000 zeros. I I need to give you a point of reference just so you have context. There are only 10 to 80,000 atoms in the entire observable universe. 10 to the 80,000th power. Yeah. Okay. You have better odds of flipping a coin. Take all you stats wizards flipping a coin. Just flipping away and it landing heads. No manipulation for all of you outlier arguers. It landing head heads 10,000 times consecutive. Never going to happen. But here here's the here's the real punch. This is the nut punch. Even if you could even if you could randomly get one working protein, what's making the rest? Just go purely scientific. What's making the rest? What's reading the DNA? What is making the enzymes? What where's the energy? Where's the direction? You cannot build a machine with parts randomly flying through a junkyard or a box. You need instructions. You need no blueprint, no results. You can't make this stuff up and you guys just blindly follow this in. This will probably get either edited or censored or somebody's just going to throw a bunch of hate on it because you guys are just getting challenged. You should be okay with getting challenged. I tell my kids, challenge everything. If it doesn't make sense to you, challenge it until it makes sense or you find the real answer. In business, if something works perfectly and runs extremely efficiently, we call it engineered. You you don't look at a Tesla like none of you guys look at a Tesla and go huh well this must have happened by accident after a few lightning bolts hit Musk's scrapyard of random parts you go who built this and then you know who's the creator but when it comes to human body much more complex I mean it has more operating systems than your smartphone more computing power than all of the servers at Google and a regenerative engine inside every single cell, the furnace, the mitochondria. That's when we say, "Oh, that's just time plus chance, man. Time, just to be very clear, time and chance don't build operating systems. Ask any any programmer. They don't. Design does. We we live in this weird weird age where science is a religion and yet it mocks religion. Not listen not the method of inquiry that's legit. Like I eat data for breakfast. I love testing assumptions and measuring outcomes and finding out what works. I love doing stuff like that. I'm talking about the cult of science. the version that says we already know the truth and if you disagree you are anti-intellectual and then you get beat up on social media for it. But here's the problem. Science is only as good as the questions that it's allowed to ask. 9th grade told you that. And for the last oh 100 years hasn't been allowed to ask if there's a god. Isn't that weird? Why? Because I'll answer it for you. It's rhetorical. because they being science and all its members because they presupposed that there isn't one. That's like trying to figure out how a business failed. Like I own a branding and business building company that is very successful because I'm very good at what I do. Cuz I care. I want people to succeed. I don't care about selling you the program. I care about you leaving the program and going, "Wow, I made a million dollars in a year. How do I do that again?" But why? Because of the presupposition that there is no God. So you built everything on something that already cuts out part of the equation. That's like trying to figure out, this is why I said it about business. That's like trying to figure out how a business failed, but ruling out the possibility. This is why a lot of you guys buy cheap programs. Ruling out the possibility that leadership made any bad decisions. Good luck. Good luck with that. Most of the time when I see somebody come into my program and they ask me questions, especially when it's one-on-one. I'm the one usually asking the questions, leadership is the problem. Leadership is the solution. I mean, just talk about the settled science of the big. This has become as irrefutable as gravity, which is it it couldn't be any more wrong. The idea that the universe sprang from nothing. You've heard this so many times. In the beginning, there was nothing which exploded. What? Like I said, Stephen Hawking, right? Guy in the wheelchair, God rest his soul. Smart. I love reading his stuff. Stephen Hawking admitted that the law, it's what I said, the laws of physics break down at the singularity, the origin. Which means, here I'll translate that. That means the closer you get to the beginning of the universe, the less the rules we know right now make any sense. And the logic is that well we just don't know all the rules. So you have faith in a bunch of things that are unknown. What's the word I used? Faith. But you don't have faith in the Bible that has remained undefeated for a couple of thousand years. Einstein believed in Einstein. Einstein's a stud. You guys should read some of his stuff. Einstein believed in a cosmic order. He said it right from the start. And one of the most famous things he said is God does not play dice with the universe. If you know, you know. Like even even Tesla, right? And if you understand Tesla and this isn't tinfoil hatwearing stuff even if you look at the things that he invented and mysteriously things that went missing and the entire the entire doctrine of his science Nicola Tesla mocked materialist science and said something like the day that science starts to study non-physical things non-physical phenomena it's going to make more progress in a decade than in all of the previous centuries. These are the people that were the most brilliant minds of the universe or of our world. And yet we keep chasing this deadend materialism like it's gospel. You should challenge a lot more instead of going, "Well, I don't want to challenge because it's easier not to challenge." Maybe you want a better life, challenge everything. I mean, here's the truth. If your model of reality excludes intelligence, how can it explain intelligence? Really, how it can't. That's like trying to calculate the ROI but refusing to use revenue in the formula. You're always going to be wrong 100% of the time. Just so you know, in case you haven't figured that out. If life didn't come from non-life and we didn't crawl out of some primordial soup after winning the genetic lottery, then what? Then what? There has to be a creator. There has to be a creator. And the creator left us a message. Now, I I already know a bunch of you guys just went, "Oh, here we go." But why are you uncomfortable? Because you've been told that the Bible's just a myth. It's written by a bunch of goat herders, revised over centuries, and corrupted by power and kings, right? Okay. My dad was a was a preacher. I've been around theology and religion my entire life. Doesn't make me an expert in any. I do know a little. You know that the Bible is the most historically verified document in human history, all of mankind. We have over 25,000 ancient manuscripts. That is 10 times more than the Iliad and Odyssey combined. And unlike most old texts, the Bible wasn't rewritten every few centuries. And here's the best part. We can verify that today's Bible matches what was written 2,000 years ago. Dead Sea Scrolls prove that Isaiah today is nearly word for word identical to what was written before the time of Christ. And here's the wild part. The Bible isn't just consistent, it's prophetic. And yet it gets doubted. Over 300 at least over 300 prophecies about life like the life, the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ were fulfilled to the letter. Okay, there's a mathematician his name is Peter Stoner and he you need to read about this guy because it's I like reading stuff like this. So this guy Peter Stoner what he calculated the odds of just eight of these 300, right? these 300 prophecies that calculated the odds of just eight and he's a brilliant calculated the odds of just eight of these 300 prophecies being fulfilled by one man to be one in 10 to the 17th. So just to give you an idea, you guys, I live in Texas. Texas is a huge state. That would be like covering the state of Texas in something like silver, let's say. So big, but a couple of feet deep, the whole state covered with, let's say, two feet deep of silver dollars, marking one with a big red ax, blindfolding one person, and then having him find it on the first try. And that's only eight, by the way, of the 300. Just let that land. Please let this land. Challenge things. What do you got to lose? The friends that you have, then they aren't friends. If you aren't with people that challenge everything and go, "How do we make this bigger, better, more beautiful, more powerful, our life, their life, everybody's life. You're hanging around with the wrong people." Then you definitely need to be in my group. And if not, don't join cuz we'll toss you out anyway. Let me let me ask you a serious question. If the most unchanged just really this is a serious question. Ask yourself this and maybe you guys aren't listening anymore. I don't know. But the most unchanged, most verified, most prophetic, widely distributed book in the world says you were made in the image of God. Why is the world still trying to convince you that you came from some kind of sludge? I'll tell you why. This is going to be uncomfortable for most of you. Because if you're just this is why if you're just an then you can be controlled by one or controlled like one you have no soul no purpose you definitely have no rights and no higher authority to answer to makes it easy for other people. But if you were created, now you're a you can't be owned. Now you've got value and you answer to the creator, not the system. And that terrifies the people who built and are continuing to build the system. Every single person listening to this has a decision to make. You can go around all day for your entire every day for the rest of your life and just believe you're an accident. That you were formed by chaos and your life is just an unexpected byproduct of time and randomness. Huh? But if that's true, then nothing matters. Your work, not your suffering, not your pain, not your struggle, not your joy, not your happiness, not your dreams, not your goals, not any not your desires, nothing. It's just all dust. It doesn't matter. See, you have to put those all together. You can't cherrypick this stuff because then all of that doesn't matter because you are just an unexpected accident. Or you can believe that you were made. We're talking made, created, designed, chosen. And that changes everything because design by its very nature implies purpose. And purpose implies responsibility. And that's where you guys get all tripped up because you go, "Whoa, I don't want responsibility." You're not just here to consume, man. You're here to create and contribute and reflect the image of the one person that made you our God. You know what's wild is the world is starting to catch up because look at just listen around. Even the most maybe your algorithm is not showing you stuff but even the most hardened skeptics are starting to admit that the mathematical probability of a biogenesis is a joke. It's not possible because what people go is it can't be replicated but that doesn't mean it's not possible. But then why does that same logic not apply to everything else? The quality of your life is predicated on two things. The quality of conversations you have with yourself inside your own head and the quality of questions you ask yourself on a daily basis. You guys are asking terrible conversations, having terrible conversations with yourself and you wonder why your life is a dumpster fire. I can't be successful. That's a a bad statement. I have nobody in my corner. I'm all alone. Wrong statement. God's got you. What if this bad thing happens? What if this good thing happens? You guys are are having conversations in your head because you've been told to have negative conversations in your head. Your words matter. And you know what my wife always says? Be careful what you say because you're listening. Like the mathematical probability of the life that you have right now and even the universe, the world we live in, a biogenesis, life from nothing. The probability of that is is it's impossible. The fossil record is shaky. The universe shows signs of of tweaking and fine-tuning that is it's so extreme. It's either God or like I said at the beginning, a simulation. And if it's a simulation, I'll say it one more time. Well, then guess what? You still need a programmer. Agreed. So, if you open your eyes one day and pull something out of the back of your head and a tube out of your throat and all of the sudden you can fly by entering the matrix, they're still a programmer. You cannot get out of this with wishful thinking. Like, you're not off the hook just because your philosophy professor had whatever some girly ponytail in a whiteboard. And you can even I mean, I could go into quantum mechanics. I just have stuff to do. that the deeper you go into quantum mechanics or molecular biology or or astrophysics, the clearer this all becomes. This didn't happen on its own. You're not a fluke. You're like a fingerprint. And the book that has told us this from day one, Genesis to Revelation is still standing, still unchanged. And by the way, I said at the beginning, it's still undefeated. The Bible is undefeated from the beginning to the end. It is undefeated. Which means the things you're reading that are about to come to pass, you better get your [\h__\h] in order. And the things that you need to do, you better start doing. And the life that you are put here to lead, you better start leading. Like, listen, I'm not here to sell you a religion. I'm not I that's not my job. And that's not what I'm trying to do. I'm not a Bible thumper sitting here going, "You got to do this." I'm just here to tell you the truth. And there's no such thing as my truth or your truth. There is the truth. If evolution was a business idea, I would shut it down for lack of proof. There's no process. There's zero evidence and it's filled with statistical absurdities. So, if a biogenesis was the pitch, I'd say it's worse than lottery odds with no jackpot, by the way. Because if science, listen, if science tells you that everything came from nothing for no reason, then it's no longer science. It's a belief system that worships ignorance in a lab coat. You have to understand that even at its most basic definition, but if the Bible's right, and it is, then you're not a mistake. Why would you not want to brag on that? Why would you not want to take ownership of why would you not want to look at that and go, "The Bible is right and I'm not a mistake." Then you're not random. You're not meaningless. means your life has a a purpose. Your creator said you need to do this. Go do it. Like you are the intentional work of a creator who knew you before you were even formed, who numbered your days, who gave you breath, and who wrote the only book that still explains what this world is and where it's going. I'll tell you just personally, and this is this is just me. I'll take that kind of design over any mutation from sludge any day. I'll I'll eat that truth up all day because I'm going to tell you right now, me, I will 100% every day, every night, all day, no matter what, stake my life on a book that hasn't changed while everything else keeps falling apart. What are you going to do? It's your move. I got to go. Never miss.