Let's go. Let's go a toz on something. A lot of you guys have been pestering me for information on this one and how to go about it and explain it and whether it works and whether it's viable and all that stuff. So, let's go. I want you to do something for me. First of all, listen, this is important. I want you to think of think of the most valuable thing that you own right now. you I may actually own not I love my wife or something. No, the something you own. You actually own like real estate that you moan metaphorically like your house, your car, your stock, I don't know, your crypto, whatever. What is whatever it is, think about it. Yeah. All of that. Wrong. Wrong. Here's the most valuable thing you own. 3 lb of electrified ham inside your skull. That's it. And a lot of you guys are treating it like a rented mule. But let me explain why. and you're allowing a multi-billion dollar industry to slowly and methodically and very profitably put it out to pasture. These knuckleheads want to profit off of managed decline and they do it because they make sure that you are a terrible custodian of your own asset. Listen, the decay of your mind isn't a tragedy. It's not. You guys all go, "It's just what happens when you get older." No, it's not. It is a business plan and you are a willing customer. Period. And I'm not here to sell you some hope or like maybe this will help my problems. Hope is the opioid of the incompetent. Just to be very clear, I'm going to give you a biochemical wrecking ball to smash through all the stuff going on in your brain and solve a whole bunch of problems. CAX, you guys asked me about it, so I'm going to go right down the rabbit hole on this and give you all the information. But forget what you think about what you know about neuotropics like the caffeine right here, the atheonine, the mushroom dust that people at these insta bros and PhD imbecile sell and these rented docks that have their longevity clinics that are like this is magic. It's from the Himalayas. That is kids stuff BS. Play in the majors, man. Play in the pros. CAX is a synthetic heptaeptide. Here, let me translate what that really means. seven amino acids in a very specific, very brutal, very effective sequence. It's a fragment of ACT, adreninocorticotropic hormone. But we didn't copy it. We weaponized the heck out of it. We took the part that whispers maybe do better and engineered it to scream evolve. That's a big difference. Now listen, shut off the emotion. I'm gonna go into the machinery and explain where all of this happens and how it works and where most of the weak people are going to get left behind because they're going to get ticked off and get my comments and start chirping away about how salank or whatever it cerebral or all the things that they my my buddy's neurotropic new drink that he's selling is going to be the greatest. None of that works even close to this stuff. Listen, your brain's ability to just fundamental neurology, your brain's ability to learn, to remember, to adapt. None of this is magic. It is plumbing and electricity. Two very quantifiable, measurable concepts of your brain. It runs on two primary molecules, BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor, and NGF, nerve growth factor. But these aren't just chemicals. They are command and control signals for something called neuroplasticity. They're neuro. It's like your brain's ability to adapt and grow and create neural grooves. They're like the foreman of the construction site of your cognition. So more BDNF means more synaptic connections, stronger stronger neural pathways, faster signal transmission, which is important. CAX doesn't it doesn't just ask like a lot of compounds, right? They ask your brain to make something, right? CAX doesn't just ask your brain to make more BDNF. It doesn't suggest it quietly. It bypasses your lazy, complacent metabolic pathways and just goes straight to the source. It's very effective. Binds to melanoort receptors, specifically MC4 and MC3 receptors in something called the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex. It initiates a direct transcriptional upregulation of the genes that code for BDN. Now, you see where this is going, that code for BDNF and NGF. So, let me make this stupidly simple for everybody. You ready? It flips the DNA switch labeled build more brain to on full throttle all skinny the pedal right all gas no brakes but this is why it enhances memory it's not stimulating you which is where a lot of these things even things like even the neurotropics or heavy dose caffeine or even fennel paracetam hydroide or alphagpc or anorasetam or oxyraetam and all of these things rasetams are great they are very effective like the pow stack is insanely effective you will become become more intelligent 1%. But CAX is some next level stuff and there's you marry this to a couple of other compounds. Holy [\h__\h] you get smart but among other things because it's also neuroprotective. See, this is why it enhances your memory. It's not stimulating you. It's constructing the physical infrastructure for better memory structures, better memory palaces, right? This is why it improves focus. It's not doping your dopamine. It's laying down superighways for neural traffic. So signals don't get lost and neurogenesis which is the creation of new neurons. CAX upregulates the cat and signal pathway and the tra doesn't matter what they the transcription factors that come into play with this but it pushes neuro stem cells to differentiate into functional integrated neurons. It's not preventing loss, right? It's not getting in the way to prevent something from happening. It's actually manufacturing more progress, more gain. Radically different. I hope I hope this is making sense. But to understand the power of the tool, you need a diagnosis. You need to understand the three fundamental pathophysiological failures that are currently wrecking your brain, your body, your physiology, your life. This is the I call it the triad of disease. It's the triad in this case of cognitive collapse. So, if somebody is struggling with multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's, and I'll go over all of this, Alzheimer's, dementia, all of these cognitive decline issues, this is how you begin solving that problem. And I've gone over MS, I've gone over Parkinson's, I've gone over dementia, and I have countless, countless patients and clients that have reversal of problems, man. And what's wild is you doctors are so ignorant. I've been a doc for a long time. I don't care if somebody goes, "You lost your license, though." Doesn't mean I didn't go to freaking school and I don't know this stuff and you look it up, it was for paperwork. It's because some fat cockeyed woman in the board was gunning for me for a decade. By the way, her name's Christine. Look her up. She's a miserable human being. You know what people do on the AMA and the ACA and all that stuff. You know what they do? Those are the people that got bullied in school that now put themselves in a position that they don't know how to run anything. They don't know how to help a patient, but they want to bully all the people that do. And that's what they do. Because any doctor worth their salt knows that no board out there has the best interest of the patient in mind ever. Ever. They have their thumb on your head to make sure that you can't do what's required so you comply with big pharma and insurance. You can doubt me all you want, but any real doctor that understands what I'm talking about knows like you fill out a hika form and that what they allow, what they disallow is ridiculous. A hika is like the pink that you send in to get reimbursed for insurance. But yet, you know, Suzy, insurance agent on the other side of the call from the patient, follow me. This is what happens. And if you guys don't get this, then I don't know what I don't know how to help you because you should not let somebody with zero training give you advice on your health and tell you how many visits you can have, what procedures approved, what isn't, what medications are, what treatments aren't. How are you letting some muppet that makes 17 bucks an hour tell you what you need to do with your health to solve your equation? Do you know why I do what I do? Because I know I'm the best at this. I know for a fact because I've made it a point to become the best at this. Not arrogantly, because I like doing this so much that it keeps me awake at night that I want people to have the cure for whatever it is. So, I just give it to you. I don't even ask money for it. If you want to work with me, that's fine. Then, no, it's not one one-on-one. Sign up for the black card. It's 10 grand. What? You're going to spend more than that on your insurance premium and get absolutely nothing. And you know it. You know it. 97 bucks. You wire it. I don't take credit cards anymore. I don't take zel. I don't take anything. You know why? I'm not letting anybody have control over anything that comes into my life. So, I've said this before. The way you eliminate external influence that controls you is by demanding control of it yourself. And until you are in a position where you are the only one in control, you really don't have control, do you? You didn't solve the problem. But you're letting an insurance agent tell you, any doctor knows this. They will send back this is the treatment that's approved for this condition because this conforms to a little box that says this is what they're allowed to do, but it never works. Never. Ever. Has it worked? No. The black card is not working one-on-one with me, but it's direct access to me to ask me questions. My live call, ask me anything you want. The VIP community, 24 to 48 hours, I get back to you with real answers that solve problems. You know what? And no, I'm not going to let you in to test it out. You either wire $10,000, $9,99, which is still cheap, or you don't. And that's okay. And if you do, support atspartan armylelc.com. Send a message to Jessica or Amber. Both are my executive assistants, or Jen, which is my CFO, and they'll get you the wire information. I use Frostbank, and they'll get you all set up. Welcome. Welcome to the tribe. I'd love to have you. But I still come out here and give you the answers anyway. They're just significantly more detailed when we get into it together. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics and get all your research products there, knock yourself out. If you don't, then don't. Either way, I'm still giving you the answer. You want to go buy them from somebody else, I don't care. I don't have competitors because I just give out the stuff so you have the answer. Buy from my company, awesome. Don't still going to be okay. I'm going to survive and so are you. But I want you to really understand, man. Like, nobody wants you to be healthy. I honestly believe the way I do. It's a little frustrating to be honest. I've been a doctor a long time. And all of you doctors out there that are complying with big pharma and insurance companies and getting paid off and making sure they pay your little bills that you send them and you're a sellout. You can attack me all you want. I really don't care. You're still It doesn't change the fact that you're still a sellout and I'm not. Above all, do no harm. I actually care about every single ear that is listening to this right now. Whether you get it or not, whether you want to get in my comments and start chirping away because you own a wellness or you are a doc or you want to try and attack me or what, I just don't care. It's my obligation to step up and lead from the front and help you. I'm going to do that until God says you're done here, Trev. It's how I work. People call me the Spartan for a reason. My son started that, by the way. So, I'm always going to own that. I love that people call me that because my son started it. I think that's pretty savage. But let me explain this triad. In this case, it's of disease and they'll never tell you this. They'll never solve the problem. But I have so many people that have had these things like dementia and Parkinson's and all these things and Alzheimer's. We're on our way to reversing everything. And some doctor, oh, it's not possible. You can't. Then I guess all my clients and everybody that I work with, all my patient, they're all liars. All of them. Okay. I can't count the number type two the number of type 2 diabetes people that have had full reversal just hanging with me. Like I had one lady I just I love her to death. She's in my group and a lot of stuff she sends is private so I'm not going to give out her name and because I respect that. And she said, "Thank God. I'll never forget what she wrote." Finally, I feel like somebody actually hears what's going on with me and can help me. I'm so excited to be here. Do you know how much that means to me? Like you think I do this for me? I don't know. Maybe that's why a lot of social media is fundamentally broken. I believe that's another conversation. But these are answers because I care. I realize I'm 14 minutes in and somebody's going to whine about me going on a rant and go, "I like this guy so much better." Like that AI dude that keeps copying my stuff, which is hilarious, that Vietnamese fake person. I don't really care. There's only one me, so everybody knows what I sound like, what my syntax is, how my cadence is, how my what my conversation style is. So, you can you can spot me a mile away. The only thing I don't do too much anymore is drop fombs. And that's actually as a courtesy to people that listen to this with their kids. Believe me, I'm still cursing in my head. Why? Because I'm not frustrated about some of this stuff. Listen, you want an answer? I give you the answer that works. And I've got a stack of receipts behind me of nothing but results three decades deep. There are three fundamental problems that will cause and destroy your brain. So, I'll go over them and then explain how this works. Three failures. Failure one, and I these are just mine. Like I said, I should win a Nobel Prize for this. I really believe I should. I'll just give the money to some charity that I believe in, not the charity that takes it and spends it on some mansion. Yeah, if you know, someone that I get to see where the money goes. You have this inflammatory firestorm in your system. Your body's immune system is this very blunt instrument despite what you're being told. So chronic inflammation from the garbage you eat, the stress you cradle and the toxins you breathe and rub on and the the things that go through your system, the medications that you take that you don't need to take, the symptomatology that you keep chasing, one creates the other. Sends this constant flood of cytoines across the BBB, the bloodb brain barrier. These cytoines, IL1 beta, TNF alpha, IL6, they're neurotoxic. They hurt you. They disrupt synaptic plasticity. They inhibit long-term potentiation, which is the basis of memory, and they induce something called apoptosis, which is programmed cell death. Your brain is under friendly fire and collateral damage. It's getting all of the collateral damage, and you're not even wearing a helmet. You probably should. Here's your sign. Failure two is the famine. I talk about the energy famine all the time. Your brain is, for lack of a better description, an a glucose vampire. consumes 20%. Listen to what I just said. 20%, three pounds of electrified ham right here, consumes 20% of your body's energy for 2% of its mass. insulin is the key that lets glucose into cells. But when you develop systemic insulin resistance, thanks again to the standard American diet and big pharma's medication system and the managed decline, your brain cells begin to starve. Neurons can't store glucose at all. They need a constant bath, constant supply. No energy, no AP action potentials, no signaling. That's how it works. You follow? No energy, no action potential, no signaling, no polarization, repolarization of membranes, nothing. Silent neurons are dead neurons. Alzheimer's is literally being reclassified as type 3 diabetes. It is a starvation event. I can solve it. And yet for some reason like you guys should be flooding my emails going how please help me. And yet I see people all the time. I feel bad like for Michael J. Fox. I feel bad for gave Bruce Willis everything I've got. I feel bad for the doctors that get in the way because they're so ignorant and they're insecure. Their egos are so fragile that they're like, "No, I don't you dare do that. I'm the doctor." And they get in the way instead of thinking and remembering what in the hell they're there for, which is to help the damn patient. If somebody can do something better than me, I get out of the way. Please help them. If somebody could help my wife, my son, my daughter better than I can in a certain situation. You think I'm going to be so arrogant and have such a fragile ego that I go, "No, I'm going to do it." But that's what a lot of you doctors are doing. Listen, stop taking it as an insult. Start looking at yourself in the mirror and go, "Why did I start this job in the first place? Why did you start? Why'd you become a doctor? I know why I did. And I know what changed four years ago when I woke up in the hospital. I know what my mission is. I know what my calling is. And I think I need to change the one million people that I provide the cure to the answer to. I'm not curing anybody. I'm giving you the option to cure yourself. I'm just giving you all the answers to do it. I think it needs to be more than a million in the next 12 months. Just before this call, I spent 25, 30 minutes knocking out video answers that I put on Rumble for you guys because I can't put them anywhere else because I'll get banned or cancelled or have some knucklehead complain or report or whine or whatever because I'm stealing their thunder. I don't care about your thunder. I care about John Doe and Jane Doe getting the frigin answer so they don't have to suffer. So they don't have to deal with tonitis or Alzheimer's or type 2 diabetes or gout or arthritis or psoriasis or RA rheumatoid arthritis or whatever it is. How dare you as a doctor to to discredit, not even discredit, to attack somebody that wants to help someone. How fragile can you be? Listen, I can wrench on a car like nobody's business, but I'm not taking apart cuz I don't know it well enough. ES Motorsports or ES Motors, use them. Shark Works, use them. They're better. They're smarter. They know what they're doing more than me. Why would I just pretend? Am I getting in the way and go, "I'm so arrogant. My ego is so fragile." I don't care. I want the result. Do you want the result? If you want the result and your doctor's not providing it, fire your doctor. I didn't say come call me. I'm just saying fire your doctor and find somebody that will bleed for you, not someone that will tell you and sell you and push you into the next set of symptoms that they can treat you for. So type 3 diabetes is it shouldn't exist. And that's just failure two. How about failure three? I haven't even gotten into CAX yet and how savage this is and a whole protocol that you can look at for your kangaroo. The power plant meltdown. Remember ATP shortage, right? So adenazine triphosphate, which is the universal energy currency of our entire physiology. It's produced in mitochondria and with age and oxidative stress efficiency tanks. It just pl like it just off the cliff. So the ETC leaks, the electron transport chain just hemorrhages, right? You get increased ROS, which is reactive oxygen species, which in turn gives you a reduced ATP output. And you want a big fat chunky yield of ATP all the time so much that it's just dripping off you. Like people come by you and they're like, "Holy gez, I got more energy just because I touched your arm cuz you just smear ATP all over them." I realize it doesn't work like that before somebody goes, "It doesn't work like that. It's me giving you an expression, an understanding. That's how you should be. Your neurons become like cities in a blackout. The the pumps that maintain, listen, the pumps that maintain ion gradients fail. So, the mechanisms for repair and maintenance shut down. The lights go out one by one. Cax is the emergency response team for all three. Remember how I talked about M C and how savage it is handling the three metabolic failures, the three biological failures? CAX is a pretty damn close second. No, stop squirting it in your nose. By the way, nasal sprays are bunk. I already explained this. I went over this in an answer in a Q&A. It's on Rumble. I'm not going to do it again, but just understand it doesn't work. It's not designed the nasal membranes are not designed to transport in. It's not how it works. But here, let me explain how CAX works. So, it modulates a couple of signaling pathways. One of the main ones is NFCappa B, but it reduces the production of those pro-inflammatory cytoines. It essentially puts out the fire to be very simple about it. Energy famine, which is the second part, right? It enhances the expression and the sensitivity of glucose transporters, the glutes, but it does it in the brain specifically, which what did I just say about neurons? They can't store any of this stuff. So, you have to have sens you have to otherwise the problem is you don't absorb anything. You have no energy. Your system dies. What is a neuron that can't eat? That's a dead neuron. Right? It's what I just said. So, it improves insulin signaling. It forces food into those starving cells that are in the famine and the ATP shortage. It upregulates mitochondrial biogenesis via the PGC1 alpha pathway. And it enhances antioxidant defense systems like glutathione production. We know all about this when it comes to taking Tylenol because it depletes your glutathione. It repairs the power plants and provides backup generators cuz biogenesis it's making more. Remember my universal signal for nuclear power plant? The cooling tower is making more mitochondria. It makes more nuclear reactors. It gives you more energy. It gives you a nice fat, juicy, sloppy, messy yield of ATP, which is what you want. Just drips off you. So, how about here? I'll apply the tool to the diseases that they told you. They told you they were incurable. Watch. I guarantee you guys be like, I thought that was incurable. Alzheimer's, amaloid plaques, towangles, symptoms. Yeah, the real that's it. So, Alzheimer's, amaloid plaques, tow tangles, symptoms. Those are symptoms. That's not the problem. That's a symptom. But what do they tell you? That's what you have. That's the problem. We have to get rid of those. Wrong. Wrong. The real problem is a failure of the brain's innate immune system, the micro ga to clear the debris, which is compounded by chronic inflammation and metabolic dysfunction. CAX enhances the non amalloidogenic pathway of EP processing. It reduces the production of these toxic peptides and it upregulates the neproly and other enzymes that degrade existing amaloid. It's a very targeted, very precise cleanup crew for your brain. That's just about a tenth of the required help for Alzheimer's to make it go away. How about dementia? The common endpoint of neuronal loss and synaptic failure. CAX's massive BDNF surge is the direct antidote. So watch BDNF activates TRKB receptors. It promotes neuronal survival via a couple of different pathways. It doesn't matter what they are, but it does this and then it prevents the big problem which is apoptosis. It strengthens synapses. It is quite literally the factor that keeps neurons alive and talking to each other. Again, these are basics. I've done a deep dive into Alzheimer's and dementia and multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's. I've gone full podcast on these, so watch those if you want more of an explanation. Multiple MS, multiple sclerosis. God, just the rigidity, the tremors, right? It's an autoimmune cluster bomb where TE-C cells attack the myelin sheath. But I explained why CAX is a potent amodulator. It doesn't suppress the immune system. It re-educates it. It goes, "Hey, you're doing this wrong. Do this instead." It gives it a degree. It shifts the cytoine profile from pro-inflammatory TH1, TH17 to regulatory, which is TH2 T-reg. calms the attack, but at the same time, it promotes a differentiation of oligodendrite progenitor cells. So, it rebuilds the myelin insulation around the freaking nerve. It's a ceasefire and a reconstruction project all at the same time. Yeah. You listening? Yeah, you should probably pay attention. Parkinson's the progressive annihilation god. And they give you L-dopa for this, which is 10 years later gives you a whole host of new problems and a whole new disease. You don't think they know that? Do they track this stuff? You guys are like, "Oh, they're tracking great whites." You think they that's what they're tracking? They're putting tags on fins and that's what's important. They're tracking you. This is the pro progressive annihilation of dopamineergic neurons in the substantia [\h__\h] CAX has proven massive neuroprotective effects on these specific neurons. It upregulates the expression of tyrosine hydroxilase, which is the rate limiting enzyme in what? Dopamine synthesis. Huh? You putting this together yet? It protects against the mitochondrial toxins and oxidative stress that are the very characters of the disease. It's a bodyguard for your dopamine factories. How long are you going to keep doing this? I'm looking at my watch if you're just listening to this on audio. Letting yourself get taken for a ride and lied to. And I'll get tons of people going, "Nah, that's not true." But I'm still right. The cold, very hard, and unfortunately very inconvenient truth is this. The global market for Alzheimer's drugs was 7.2 2 billion with a B in 2023. The total economic cost of dementia is estimated at over 1.3. You ready for this? If you're not sitting down, you might want to. 1.3 trillion annually. Trillion. This is not an industry that has a financial incentive for a cure, you guys. A cure is a one-time sale. Management is a recurring revenue stream. A cheap, non-toxic, highly effective peptide that regenerates neural tissue is their worst nightmare. Can it reverse damage? Yeah, absolutely. Here, I'll tell you. It does this by providing a massive sustained dose of neurotrphic support. CAX creates the permissive environment for axonal regeneration, synaptic sprouting, and true real neurogenesis. It doesn't manage symptoms. It changes the entire freaking hardware system. Hypothetically for my kangaroo experiment, four weeks on, two weeks off just because could you stay on it all the time? Always hesitant to answer that. I guess you could. I don't think it's a good idea. This you just want to prevent receptor down regulation, maintain efficacy. This isn't complicated, you guys. Just follow the recipe. But if you really want to unleash hell, I'll I'll help you out from A to Z. Just listen. You really want to unleash hell on cognitive decline, you don't use this just one tool. You use like wartthogs and a full tactical strike. I just come in. You ever see these planes? These things are freaking awesome. You need an entire blueprint of regen. So, you might want to stop your car and write this down. CMAX. This is the CEO. This is the leader of the band. It issues the orders and upregulates neurotrophic command signals. BDNF, NGF, what I went over before, right? Cerebro. This is the workforce. This is I guess military, right? So, we got fivestar general and we've got the army. Okay. So, the army is cerebral. This is a a peptide cocktail that is a direct infusion that just soaks you neurotrphic factors and building blocks. It executes the orders that Cax gives. So it's look at it as the it's the physical manpower. Does that make sense? Alpha GPC stuff's wild, by the way. It's like the ammo just keeps stuffing bullets in there, right? It's the premier choline source. It's the precursor to something called acetylcholine. You can't build new synapses and fuel neurotransmission without the raw material. This is it. Alpha GPC BPC57. This is the It's like the It's like the sick room when you're a kid, right? Just make sure everything's running. It's the the combat medic. It's the EMT full system healing peptide. Repairs gut lining, just so you know, is critically reducing systemic inflammation. That's what it does when you do that. Enhances angioenesis, which is blood flow, new vessels to deliver all of this is why, but you need to have the superighway to deliver all of these compounds and reduce the inflammation everywhere, not just in one spot. and GHK-Cu. This stuff's like neuronal armor. This is like an architect. It's a copper peptide that modulates 4,000 plus genes. Upregulates DNA repair, antioxidant production, tissue remodeling. It organizes the entire system. You need it all. This isn't a bunch of supplements you go to some health food store and get. You don't get these from your trainer or some yo-yo on YouTube who has a magic store that sells magic beans. This is like a spec ops mission for your brain. I I don't know. I don't I just don't find I don't fancy the idea of screwing around with this three lb piece of electrical meat here. I just don't I love being able to give you guys convey information just help you with all the things you need. Can't do that if this system isn't working right. Listen. And the most brutally empowering fact 2020 Lancet Commission on Dementia Prevention nailed it. More than 40% of dementia cases, listen to me, 40% is a big effing number of dementia cases are 100% attributable to 12 modifiable risk factors. Hypertension, smoking, depression, physical inactivity, diabetes. This isn't fate, you guys. It's negligence. And they're encouraging as big as beautiful. Go ahead and eat these crappy foods. Smoking is not that bad. Try vaping. It's better. No. The research is unequivocal. populations with low processed food intake, high physical activity, and constant cognitive engagement. By the way, you got to use this brain all the time have a fraction of the rates of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and multiple sclerosis. All three, by the way, Alzheimer's and dementia. Just put them in the same bed. It's the same person. These are not genetic inevitabilities. They're lifestyle diseases, and they're a product of the three biological failures, the three biological declines that I talk about. Just so you know, in the safety of CAX before somebody goes off the rails on this, it's irrefutable. Decades of clinical use in Russia for stroke, brain injury, vascular disorders. Zero. I'll say it again. Zero adverse events. Impeccable toxicological profile. It's one of the safest pharmarmacological agents ever developed for the brain. The data is published everywhere. It's in all kinds of journals. They just hope you're too lazy and too trusting and too brain fog to too stupid to go looking for it. and you're going to get busy looking up things on ChatGpt hoping that's going to give you the answer when ChatGpt lies to your frigin ass. The tools exist. The science is irrefutable. The only thing, please listen to me on this. The only thing between you and control, cognitive control, cognitive sovereignty, cognitive like self-worth is a story. It's a story sold to you by people who get rich on your decline telling you that you're powerless. It's a lie, man. It's a full lie. Your brain's not some passive victim that you just have to accept and when it goes down. It's a dynamic, very plastic organ waiting for the command that you give it to build. I just gave it to you, man. I take this very seriously. You got to think the question isn't whether or not this works, you guys. It's not. The problem is you're being inundated with drug commercials. And you ever listen to the side effects? Remember, there's no such thing as side effects. There are only effects. They're labeled as such. So, you don't pay attention. It's not about whether this works. Everything I give you works 100% of the time. The question is whether or not you're going to actually do it versus talk about it. Just have to have the will to do it. Me personally, there's nothing that would stop me from taking care of the people I love, including myself, having the tools at my disposal. Hope you got something out of this, you guys. I got to go. Never miss.