All right, smashers. Guess what? We're going to walk into our uh den of awesomeness. Our smash cave. Whatever you want to call it. Doesn't matter. One of the garages at my house. Whatever you want to decide to decide to call it is fine by me. We're going to be talking about shoulder impingement. So, uhoh, dirty lens. Let's do this. There we go. I'm still here. Don't worry. Oh, yeah. See, that's better. So, shoulder impingement. So, here's the deal. All right. Shoulder impingement. Basically, what happens is all the structures and you guys asked about shoulder impingements. So, that's what I'm going to be talking about. I'm going to move this over to this one. Why? Cuz I don't know. I like it better. That's it. That's my British. It's all I got. Australian British. All smashed together. Doors open. Why? Cuz it's freaking hot again today. It's awesome. So, shoulder impingement. The issue is your shoulders don't like being overhead under axial load. They just don't. So, this position, no matter what anyone says, your shoulders aren't designed to support a truckload of weight overhead. I'm not saying it's bad. I'm just saying that what happens is your shoulders don't really enjoy it. They're much they're much more versatile in moving in 360° in support this way and support in this position versus in support in this position. That's okay. We just want to make them stronger in this position for all the gymnastics movements, everything else we do. Now remember, when you're reaching overhead, if you have a shoulder impingement, there's no way in hell you're doing this. This kind of movement you take for granted. Trust me, being able to reach on top of your refrigerator, that's something you take for granted. So what you need to do is all the structures, especially the suppinatus tendon comes here, passes underneath basically a bony prominence. And as it passes underneath, there's a bersa and all kinds of tissue in here. There's there's a lot of mess in here. There's connective tissue, suppinatus tendon, there's the the corocoid, the acchromon, all this stuff comes in here. So the corocoid is deep in here, the AC joint. The acchromian is this little bird beak hook that comes up over here that your clavicle attaches to. And that's where that suppinatus tendon comes underneath. So as it comes underneath there and attaches on the lateral aspect of the humorris, what happens is as you abduct the arm, so remember the suppinatus does the first 15° of abduction. So this is about where your suppinatus stops working. Now it becomes lateral portion of the deltoid. So the issue with that is is that this movement that that impingement cripples everything else you do. And to be able to unload it requires unloading the other six muscles of the that attach from the scapula to the humorous. Remember there's seven muscles that anchor that scapula and the humorus together. And then there's muscles that anchor the scapula itself to the rib cage and allow it to float around. So the shoulder itself is kind of a joint that's not attached to anything. And the dilemma with that is it's really unstable. So you sacrifice stability for mobility. So in order to undo all that and get that shoulder overhead and moving the way it's supposed to with all the rotation, remember it's 360°. We need to be able to allow it to abduct completely without these kind of goofy movements. Like so for example, an upright row. There's a just to give you an idea of how bad that is for you. And I'm not. Listen, I'm going to have a bunch of controversy and a bunch of you cliche people are going to just sit here and [\h__\h] freak out. It's okay. I'm going to stop all the cliche [\h__\h] right now. Here's the deal. Upright rows, sumo deadlift high pulls, they're not the greatest thing for your shoulder. It just is what it is. Your shoulder is not designed to do this under a massive load. They're just it's not. There's something called the Hawkins impingement sign, which is essentially this, which checks for, if you heard what I said, impingement. Shoulder impingement. Don't do it. It's just that simple. So, you want to avoid stuff, put your shoulder in really healthy, good positions. So, we need to do two things. We need to create a gap in the in the between the uh the AC or the the uh the corocoid or the acchromian rather. Create a gap between the acchromian and that suppinatus tendon. And recentize, this is the part everybody misses. recentralize the head of the humorris in that glenoid fausa because what's happened is it started to ride up against this superior portion. So it's doing two things. It's irritating the labum which is in turn causing inflammation and the mechanics of the joint have lost their slide and glide. So they're not working the way they're supposed to. They're sitting up at the top and grinding away. So we need to unload that. So what we're going to do is we're going to I'm going to show you one mobility drill. That's it. one to unload that suppinatus and then four things to do that are going to help reset and retrain that uh that shoulder so you can get out of that impingement just like that. It's just that easy. So, hey, you ready to get started? Let's do this. So, number one is see I got this already prepped. Good. So, we take a barbell. Good. This is so dope. So, normally what I had you do is you get in front of the barbell and I've had you do this for the trap. Now, I went really low. I should have gone higher. This forcing me into a lunge. Now, I had you go into this position. I had you doing this stuff. That's not what this one is. This one is you're going to load it up. You're going to bring the arm up as far as you can. If you have a an impingement, this might be all you've got. You're going to load it up and then you're going to drop and come back. So, up. So, you're going to drop and come back. That's all you're going to do. You're going to do that for literally 2 minutes of work. So, really load in there. Turn the head away a little bit and then drop it and come back. Drop it, come back, drop it, come back while you're mashing away on that super spinatus tendon. That is the only mobility you're going to do. And this is only for a painful side. That's it. So, this isn't stuff you have to do on both sides of the shoulder. It's just stuff you have to do for that impingement. So, that's number one. Number two, let's go over here. Good. We got all kinds of fun stuff planned today. All right. Number two is called basically we'll do this. I'm still here. See? So number two, we'll use purple cuz it's easier to see. Is we're going to take a light band. So if you look, this is a half inch band. Halfinch band is about all you want to use. We're going to move this just a bit. So 1/2 inch band with this. You're going to be taking the band. I'm inside the band. I'm going to grab onto it. My whole motion shouldn't have worn a black shirt. My whole motion is going to be retracting the scapula and pushing my elbows down to the floor. So I'm just going to do and three sets of 10. So pull back, pull the scapula down. So it's not this this kind of elevated scapula position. It's just going to hijack your [\h__\h] Don't do that. So you're just going to screw up your your impingement. So don't do that. So you're going to be basically I'm about a foot apart and I'm pulling down. So I'm basically retract. I'm trying to squeeze a pencil between my shoulder blades. So I'll go from this side. So you're going to go down and then come back. Down and come back. Down and come back. I'll show you from this side too just so you can see what I'm doing. So you're coming down and then back. down and then back. Okay, that's that's kind of nar. All right, that's number one. Number two is we're going to do a double banded victory V. Now, this is you can call it whatever you want. Nobody invented the term, so it doesn't matter. Somebody gets all buttth hurt about what I'm calling it. I don't care. So, we want to see if we can pull this off without having this camera eat it. [clears throat] Do I have a good angle? This is the shittiest angle on earth. Good. Let's go like this. There. All right. So, we take this. So, I'm going to have my arms out like My camera skills are seriously slacking today. So, the band is on the rig. I'm going to have my arms, they're apart. I'm going to turn them thumb down just a little bit. And I'm going to pull towards my face. So, pull towards the face, turn up, press all the way out, pull towards the face, externally rotate, press all the way out. How many? Three sets. 10. That's number two. All right. Number three is a simple external rotation. I'm going to do it right here. Why? Cuz you can see and it's easy. We want to get through this super fast. So the band is on the if the band is at the same height as my head. I'm going to have the arm across the body. Humorous is parallel to the torso. And then you're just going to externally rotate. Some of this is already loaded up like crazy. So let's unload it a little bit. You want to use a light band for this. So if you have to go everything you got, don't do that. It's too light or too hard. So you're just going to hold the band, externally rotate, come all the way back, externally rotate, come all the way back. And again. So, you're working a muscle that anchors and centralizes the head of the humorris where it's supposed to be. That's important. That one. And then we've got one more. That's all we have to do. So, the last one, super simple. I'll use a purple band. [clears throat] Is you're just going to You don't have to do anything wide. You're just going to take the band in front of you, nice and light. So, the point is we want to retrain the scapula to hold that new position. So, all we're doing is we're going to take our hands. We're going to turn them out just a little bit. So, I'm about what, 15, 20°. And I'm going to come all the way apart and all the way back. Keeping the band loaded. All the way apart. All the way back. Keeping the band loaded. Three sets of 10. I'm going to show you the bonus cuz this is the one that's worked the best for most people. This is mansiz PVC pipe. So, we take the PVC pipe. If this is the impingement side, I'm going to grab this at shoulder height. This is important. And now I'm going to push this down into the floor. So I'm actively pressing down on the PVC. I realize you can't see that cuz there's no little weird, you know, video game kind of indicator gauge on here. So I'm going to push down on the PVC pipe. So I'm forcing the lats to engage and I'm forcing a little bit of the peck and I'm forcing shoulder stabilization. And then I'm going to step back and I'm going to keep pushing down the entire time until I feel this bind up. If I feel this pinch, that's as far as I go. And then I come all the way back. Three sets of 10. So ideally, you want to be able to come all the way down. If you can get to this position, your impingement husta bye-bye. And then come all the way back. And I'm pushing down the entire range of motion. So I'm pushing down on the PVC pipe all the way through back up to 90. And that's it. Hey, listen. I'm Tra Smash Works KICKING IT IN THE GARAGE. Taking care of you guys. Hey, listen. I'll check you guys out tomorrow. Peace out.