Man, it's been an awesome day today, huh? What are we like four o'clock? All right. Now, so what I've learned, and I've been saying this in my business community, I guess, for a long time, is that if social media goes down, do you still have a business? And the answer should be yes, cuz you should have emails and all kinds of contact information and other platforms and all that stuff. So, just to be very transparent, my Instagram went down. on it because I'm pretty sure it was I got spammed by a bunch of reports that I was violating community guidelines because it's because I've been talking about the same thing forever and I already know who did it and so do you. It was the jackass that sent out an email saying that apparently I manufactured being sick even though you could see me in a hospital with tubes coming out of me. But it's fake, right? But here's what's funny about it. It didn't slow me down one bit and I just I have other platforms, Rumble, Telegram. So, if you guys want all this stuff, just so you know, without any censoring, without any problems, never mind the fact that it's all over X2, I'm just going to keep posting. And all it did was make me noisier and more resolute. And I have such a kick-ass team. Buckle up to see what's about to happen. It's going to be awesome. And all it did was put me in a very good position. So, I think that there's always bad actors that screw everything up, right? But anyway, so today, last night, I actually loaded a a podcast and of all things, totally on my on my watch. I didn't turn it on. So I figured I didn't really like it anyway. It was a version of what I'm going to talk about right now, which is basically a Reddit True Tide guide book and uh including some M and Tamarellan. And I'll go over everything from A to Z. I told you I want you to have all the information and I'm I'm going to deliver all the time. I don't care if you buy from me. I don't care if you join my black card. I don't care if you go to Elite Biogenics and you buy. I say it every time and I'm going to keep saying it every time because it doesn't matter. What I care about is that you get the information to make an educated decision so you can do something with your life to be healthy instead of listening to these jack wagons that pedal lies and oral peptides that just can't possible. So for all of you guys that are saying you took orals and they worked, you have a placebo effect and you were experiencing the reward for the routine and no results for the actual peptide. The blood work will not lie. And I have a stack of research with blood work a mile high proving that orals that are being sold can't work. Period. Which means everything is a lie. You know, I took this I took social psychology in college and I remember uh the social psych teacher got us all drunk in class and then right at the very end of class he proved that what he gave everybody well he gave half the class right he was it was a controlled experiment half the class had regular just drank no alcohol or anything and the other had what they thought was alcohol looked smelled touched tasted like alcohol and it wasn't and mysteriously people acted drunk and he goes there that is exactly the problem so what happens is you expect an outcome. So you convince yourself that that's the outcome and then you go through the psychology of the outcome but the physiology doesn't follow. I'm not talking about placeos where you actually see chemistry change in in the in your biology. You're not you're not TB-500 orally does not do anything. Well, it does two things. Jack and [\h__\h] and Jack left town. BPC57 does pretty much nothing. Zero less than zero. Bioavailability zero. And if you go well it's made in the gut bro. You can argue your bro science is irrelevant. physiology, biochemistry, pharmacocinetics. They do not lie. So that's like saying gravity only works for some people. Oxygen is only required by some people. Yeah. People that are alive. So the point I'm trying to make is that I want you to have the information so you're not scammed by these people that don't know what they're doing that are charlatans trying to separate you from your money. I have not once asked you for money. Not once. You want to buy from me? Great. You don't? Okay. I don't care. I'm still out here. I mean, [\h__\h] my entire Instagram got nuked this morning at about 4:30 in the morning. I'm still here. That's not going to matter. I'm still making podcasts. I'm still making videos. I'm still putting things up. I just put them up somewhere else and I'm just going to build a monster community. So, you want to be part of a kick-ass monster community? Rumble, Telegram, same name. I'm not changing my name. I'm Dr. Trevor Bachmire. I am the [\h__\h] Spartan. Bring it. But the other thing is is I'm telling you all the I'm just giving away all the answers. I'm going to solve every health problem out there. Oh, I'm gonna piss off everybody because I'm giving away all the answers for free. Carrot, no proprietary blend, nothing. I'm just telling you how to do it because I genuinely care. So, do what you got to do. You want to follow me? You, great. You don't, great. I don't really care either way. I'm coming out here because the people that need my help have a place to go. But I I need you to think about something. So, the first thing about this is medical school. Why? This is a trip. The first thing they teach you in medical school is that patients lie. Really lie. And the first thing that you learn in clinic when or in practice when you have your own place, which I've had multiple, is that they lie to themselves most of all. Listen, the question I get almost the most and I started talking about this on on Instagram yesterday and it went nuclear. So I hope you guys get all the information here. Hope you guys come here and go, "Oh, this is what you were talking about yesterday on Instagram." Yeah, Reddit, True Tide, Matzi, and Tessa Merlin. Right. That's it. But that's I'm going to show you how this all works really well together. And by the way, this isn't medic. Don't say this just because some sensor is losing their mind right now. But we're free, right? Think about that. My Instagram gets nuked, but we're in a land of free speech. No, you're in a land of free speech until enough people don't like what you're saying and then they complain. So just keep that in mind. You guys know who it is. So it doesn't really And if it's not, it's somebody else like that. Like competitors are ruthless and they're shady and I'm just going to be too big to rig. Baby, buckle up. I promise. I promise. You can't stop a freight train on the tracks, man. Look out. So, I it doesn't bother me, but I want you guys to understand, you're getting information to change your life, and I get attacked for giving you information to change your life. Freedom, right? That's all. I'll just leave it at that. So, I have to say this. This isn't medical advice. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, triage, prescribe, whatever, advise, anything else. This is all hypothetical, theoretical, entertainment, and educational. And none of this is accurate. This is just all theory. It's all a bunch of noise. Just a bunch of hot air from a guy with a beard. If you know, you know. But I'm going to give you the answers anyway. So, here's this. You come to me with this question. This is the most common question I get on Instagram by far. And it's the only question that matters to you guys, but it's not the right question. Is what happens if I stop taking Reddit at True Tide? You know, honestly, that's a that's a child's question. And please don't get offended by it. It's just me making I'm just me. My dad always said, "Be you. Be the best at being you. Tell the truth. There's less to remember. And a short pencil is better than a long memory. and you can work half days your entire life. The first 12 or the last 12, take your pick. Don't be a dick. I got a bunch of good rules for my dad. He also said, "Never back down ever. If you believe in it, never back down and I won't." But asking what happens if I stop read a true tide is like a heart transplant patient asking if they can remove the new heart to see if their old one has grown back. That doesn't even make sense. Fundamentally misunderstands the nature of the intervention. Weight loss. That's like the applause sign for the metabolically illiterate. Listen, the scale that you stand on, please understand this. This, and I'll give you the guide book on how to run this so well that you don't run into all the side effects and the nonsense and you don't get duped into taking some oral or some cream or dropping some eye drops in your eye or pinching some powder and putting it under your tongue. I'm going to just give you this stuff. Is that cool? The scale is a carnival game. It's not a diagnostic to a di tool. I said it yesterday. I said, "If I can stand on the scale, I weigh just about 200 lb and I'm just shy of 5'11." And there could be people out there that are 5'11 and make me look like I've never picked up a weight in my life. And there are people that could be 5'11 and weigh the same as me, 200 lb, and they're the shape of a circle. Like I said, the scale is it's just carnival game. You're just throwing rings of bottles or darts of balloons or whatever it is. It's not a diagnostic tool. You can't. It measures the gravitational pole on your mass. And some of you guys have a big giant mass if you read between the lines. and get rid of the M. It tells you precisely nothing about the war zone, the chaos that's raging inside your cells. I don't care about the scale. I don't. I care about the autopsy report that you're writing with every single damn meal. You guys listen to me. Pull up the New England Journal of Medicine phase 2 data on Reddit True Tide. Ignore the morons that are cheering the weight column, right? That's the trailer. I'm going to show you the movie and it makes Avengers look boring. 86 and I've used this data before, but please listen. This is so important. 86% fatty liver reversal. Let me translate that from the medical jargon. We took an organ suffocating in its own fat. An organ that was 40% lipids by weight. A slab of fuagra. If you know, you know. And we made it a liver again. ALT and a enzymes. The screaming alarms of hippatic distress. The silence. You can't even hear them anymore. They're normalized. Your lab work looks pristine. Looks like it's out of a textbook. And Cif or 5.2%. 5.2. That's not good control. Just so you guys understand that that is metabolic obedience by your biology. That's the glycated hemoglobin, the rust on the machinery being scraped clean. Your blood can actually carry oxygen again instead of being this thick sludge running through your arteries and veins. The lipid panel, listen to me, LDL and triglycerides in freef fall HDL rising. That's what you have to burn into your skull. This isn't an improvement. This is full cardiovascular risk profile rewritten. You guys do understand this, right? With a peptide. I haven't even gotten into MSY and Tamarellin and what they do in combination with this is synergistic effects. We're not editing the document. We're burning it to ash and printing a new one on fireproof paper, etching it in steel. That's what your biology is doing. But you guys are missing the headline. The story isn't in your liver or in your blood. This is the best part of this entire thing. It's in your head. It's your hypothalamus. You guys got to understand this. I'm going to pick up this Coke Zero instead because it's more delicious. It's going to make me burp though. But look at that. That is just That's a pretty can Coke Zero. It's just so good. You guys can lose your mind and go, "How can you be talking about health and drinking co?" I don't know. I get all kinds of weird messages from you guys. Your hypothalamus isn't a brain part. It's it's the boss. It's a CEO of your entire metabolism. And in metabolic disease, the CEO is a drunk, delirious, incendiary idiot. just a bum setting fire to the whole building while screaming for more gasoline running down the halls with a bunch of matches and flaming rags. It's inflamed. Your hypothalamus, it's leptin resistant. The thermostat is completely shattered. So, it's screaming. It's like, "Please give me some heat. Give me some heat. Give me some heat." It's begging for it while the furnace is in the basement melting into a puddle of slop. So, here's how Reddit True Tide works. Because if you don't understand the med me mechanism of action and everybody thinks they do but they don't you're not going to understand why it's so important to in my opinion I told you it was going to make me burp in my opinion stay on it forever. It's a lifetime peptide to me hypothetically for my kangaroo experiment that I will be running hypothetically 0.1 millig just 0.1 millig every week that kangaroo gets that dosage every week. If this is for uh any for a kangaroo that's obese, diabetic, got fatty liver, steattosis, got any hypothalamus, hypothalamus, right? Hypothalamic issues. That's funny when I say you can't if you can't laugh at yourself, you can't laugh at anybody. Is it the hypothalamus, right? The uh hypothalamic issues, leptin resistance, dementia, Alzheimer's, type three diabetes. I'll get to that in a second. I would start that kangaroo that's got all these problems at 1 milligram a week and then I would titrate up one milligram a week until I get to the sweet spot which would be around 8 to 10 milligrams every week and I would take anywhere from 8 to 12 weeks to get there. Long titration is guaranteed success for your kangaroo. If you know what I'm talking about, if you send me a message going, "Okay, I don't get the kangaroo reference." Here's your sign. Now you get it. Now you even know dosages for your kangaroo. You're welcome. For longevity, for the kangaroo, 0.1 milligrams a week. For weight loss, fat loss. Let me back up fat loss cuz this ain't this ain't your daddy. Semaglutide and tzepide. Both are garbage, by the way. Or oral bioglutide. More garbage by the way. This is real. This is why they're desperately trying to scrape it from the market or patent it and lock it down because it does things that eliminate the necessity for a whole lot of pharmarmacology and a whole lot of medical doctors. Most of you medical doctors are scumbags anyway. And you know that. You know that. That's why you're so mad. That's why you're gunning for me because I'm poking holes in your entire life and I'm finally demanding that the real medical doctors are the ones that win, not the ones with the best funding. The ones with the best patient care. You want to know the secret to making a ton of money as a doctor? Care, care, care so much about your patients that you can't sleep at night cuz you just need them to be better. It bugs you that much. Just so you know, that's how I operate. I got a guy right now, his name's Rick. Stress me out. Great guy going through some stuff right now. He's in my group. And I'll tell you right now, I would bend over backwards for this guy. Any of anyone in my group to be honest, I'll bend over backwards for them. Do you know why? Because they joined my group and I give a [\h__\h] about the people. But even more importantly is he sent me a message, asked me for my help. Because he trusts me. It's my job to maintain that trust and never let that person down because I actually care. You got to look at like if they're selling you a bottle of oral peptides, they don't care about you. It's a lie. It is a bald-faced lie. If they aren't looking at it from a human biology perspective and go, "How is this going to help this person? Is this going to enhance their life or enhance my wallet?" I don't know. You just got to look at things like that. Red truth tide 0.1 milligrams for your kangaroo for longevity per week 1 milligram per week for your fat kangaroo with diabetes and Alzheimer's and dementia and then you titrate up for the fat kangaroo but the longevity kangaroo you just stay the same place those are the experiments you run you're welcome so red truth tide let me explain why this is such a big deal about dementia and everything else the red of true tide crosses the bloodb brain barrier so it doesn't just calm that crazy imbecile CEO running down ol setting things on fire doesn't calm him down. It fires him. It hires a new one. It restores hypothalamic leptin sensitivity but at the receptor level. So now the brain, this is why it's cool. The brain stops screaming starvation signals while the body I got to take that off. While the body drowns in energy. Now, do you see why this is a big deal? This is why the weight stays off when every other intervention fails. You're not masking the symptoms. You're rebooting and upgrading the entire OS, the entire operating system. So now think bigger, think bigger and think longer. We call Alzheimer's and I I classify Parkinson's and dementia in the same category because it's still neuronal death. Parkinson's is the death of neurons. So is dementia and so is Alzheimer's. All because they are starving to death surrounded by fuel. We can get into the exact mechanisms of action or maybe you can just trust me on this. So we call I'll just use Alzheimer's but we call these Alzheimer's specifically type three diabetes for a reason that should terrify you. Terrify you. Post-mortem brains show insulin resistance, glucose, hypom metabolism, and mitochondrial destruction and carnage. This should ter should terrify you so bad that you need to run out. I don't care where you buy it as long as it's real. I don't care where you get it as long as it's real and it's subq. If it is oral, throw it in the trash. I don't care how much you paid for it either. Hell, send it to me. I'll buy it back from you and send you one. That's how much I believe in what I'm telling you. Reddit truth. That should terrify you so bad. Those postmortem findings that they have because this is the issue. Redatride central action fixing that hypothalamic thermostat has staggering neurological ramifications. Staggering staggering. It improves insulin degrading enzyme function. It prevents amalloid beta plaque formation and buildup. The fibrillary tangles. It maintains neuronal glucose uptake. It prevents those tangles that I'm just fibrillary tangles, the towel tangles from strangling brain cells. The weight loss is the dirt kicking up from the earthquake that we're causing at the cellular level by taking this peptide. Please understand this you guys. This isn't for me. I am healthy. I'm strong. I am I am trying to impart all the wisdom I've got to get you to that same. And if you know I'm 52. I started this at 48. Completely screwed. Just look I I'd say look back on my Instagram, but you can't because it's shut down. But it's okay. I have all the videos anyway. That's smart. I also learned something really cool. when they when they trash your account, when they nuke your account on Instagram, they give you 30 days and they say, "Here, we'll send you a link so you can download all your videos. You guys might want to think about getting nuked so you can just find a way to download all your videos cuz I got a truckload of stuff on Instagram. What do you think I'm going to do? I'm just going to take all that and migrate it over to every other platform and blow it up cuz I want you guys to have the answers. I'm still going to do all the Q&As's. I'm just going to do them elsewhere. I just don't care. I'll go on Rumble. I'll answer questions every day, five to six a day. Throw me your health problems. I'll just give you answers. Go to Telegram. I'll do the same thing there. Go to YouTube. I got to be careful with YouTube. This is probably you watching this on YouTube because they get a little weird about it. You know, Discord is another place. Like, there's all these places you can go. Twitter. I'm going to go nuclear on on Twitter. X, right? Why? Because Elon lets me say what I want. I don't care about automation or many chats. I care that you guys get the [\h__\h] answer. Oh, I tried not to drop an F-bomb. Sometimes I just get a little irritated. I want you guys to have the information because nobody else is giving it to you. So, listen. Let's perform a little autopsy on the competition because I mentioned semiglutide tzepatide and I'll throw orals in there as well. Semaglutide is a single agonist, a very blunt, dull, worthless instrument with some fantastic marketing. Tzepide, it's a dual agonist. So, it's a slightly sharper club, but they're medieval medicine with some very incredible marketing. You look at Jamba, right? The studies in Jamba show like linear. There's so many studies, dozens and dozens of studies, 40% lean mass loss in every single case of semiglutide and trespatide. You know how much loss that you have on oral versions of any of those GLPS or GIPS or any of that? None. Cuz they don't do anything. But with semma and tursa, you're losing the very engine of your metabolism, muscle, the tissue that actually burns calories and regulates glucose. They create a bunch of additional nutritional deficiencies that leave people looking like survivors of a frigin famine. They completely ignore the glucagon axis, which is the very pathway that controls energy expenditure and liver function. They're winning a battle by burning the entire city to the ground. Just a rubble. Well, that's a great victory on a scale. So, you look at the scale like I'm losing weight. Yay. Except the problem is you're just you're losing weight. You're not losing fat. Redatide with its glucagon agonism preserves lean mass, increases energy expenditure by a whopping 20 to 25%. It doesn't win the battle. It ends the entire damn systemic war by forcing the enemy to surrender because it fixes the root cause. Listen, let me dumb this down here. Write it down to administrator/insurance agent level intelligence. Don't get mad. Don't get mad. I'll just explain this from A to Z cuz you guys need this. I'm about 20 minutes in. So I got stuff to do. I believe me I have a bunch of rebuilding to do. Redatide triple aagonist GLP-1 increases insulin presses glucagon. GIP. Yes it does. I know you guys are like wait doesn't have to hold on just this should right off the bat set off a bell in your head. LP1 increases insulin suppresses glucagon. So if you're taking a GLP-1 or a GLP-1 plus a GIP you're suppressing glucagon. I'll just let that land. But hey, what do I know about endocrinology? I'm just a big dumb idiot that knows more than most people and wants to share it with everybody. GLP-1, red or true type GLP-1, GIP and glucagon. So the GLP-1 increases insulin, suppresses glucagon. You need to understand the the mechanisms of action. GIP supercharges the beta cells, shunts in the pancreas, shunts fat to safer storage. Okay, but the glucagon, man, this is the money move. It torches energy, protects your liver. It's the entire overlord, the dictator of the metabolic rebuild. It's not a pill. It's a construction crew that comes in and rebuilds the entire thing from the rubble that you've created from a host of bad decisions and poor lifestyle choices and builds the monument that everybody looks at and goes, "How'd you do it? You're lucky." And that's just read a true tide. Now comes the fun part. Matzi and Tamarlin Mati. This is like a secret weapon, not a hormone. It's a message encoded in mitochondrial DNA that it marches into the cell's nucleus and activates EMPK, right? The energy sensor. This is the cool part. Research in nature shows it forced 30% increase in glucose uptake because it gets rid of glucose resistance, insulin resistance. It shoves glucose almost brutally makes you insulin sensitive. I said that yesterday. Makes you brutally insulin sensitive. You just like a vacuum for this stuff into the muscles, which is what you're supposed to be by the way before you go. Is that normal? Yes, it's normal. It's the quality control inspector that ensures every new piece of metabolic machinery we build operates every new mitochondrian, right? We build operates at 100% capacity. Without it, you are building a bunch of factories with broken robots inside trying to run the show. That's why you have Matsi Tamarellin. Oh, and don't worry, I'll I'll help you out with what your kangaroo should be taking, too. It's a GHR analog. Restores that pulsatile youthful rhythm of hormone, growth hormone secretion. It specifically targets visceral fat. 18% 18% loss of visceral fat. Visceral fat is the toxic waste dump for demolition. It destroys your system. It's this arsonist that spits out inflammatory cytoines and chokes off the life of your organs. You need to get rid of visceral fat. It's the anabolic tesamarlain is the anabolic counterbalance to this entire thing. Redatride m. It's the reason you don't end up skinny fat looking like a metabolically bankrupt melted candle. Like I'm trying to help you. Believe me, I'm trying to help you. Oh, but patients, they take this NASA level precision protocol that I just gave you. And treat it like a magic freaking eightball. Listen, I'll even go over that. I'll help you out. The four ways that patients screw this up in order of magnificent stupidity. Dosage impatience is the first one I see with everybody I speak with. Okay? So all studies that show long-term successful results like complete metabolic overhaul showed a 12week tit 12week titration schedule. I talked about that at the beginning. Take 12 weeks in your experiment with your kangaroo to go from 1 milligram a week. I don't care if you go I didn't feel it. I don't care. Stop being so faking impatient and actually just do this the right way so you get long-term benefits. 20 years from now, your operating system is just cranking and everybody's like, "How are you so jacked and fit and healthy and I'm on nine different drugs?" Because you didn't listen to Dr. Trevor. That's why you're healthy because you did. The person on all the drugs didn't listen to a damn thing that this old doctor right here told nothing. Then you should 12week titration schedule. You want the max dose by week two and you will get nauseated. You'll get stomach cramps. You'll get electrolyte deficiencies. You'll get spasms and diarrhea. You will complain. You will whine. This is Darwinism in action. It's like slamming a whole bottle of alcohol and then blaming the distillery for the hangover. That doesn't make sense. Kangaroo experiment gets 1 millig titrating up 1 milligram every week. So 1 to 2 to 3 to four to five. Keep going. If you can take a little more, you take a little more. But don't go from one to five. I did it. It was fine. Great. Then it wasn't real for the most part. If it was, then you're that enigma. Great. I still don't think it was smart. I think exercise apostasy is another one. Redatride creates muscle tissue that is begging, screaming. It's literally aching like it's it's in so much pain for glycogen. It wants it so bad. Like it's just a giant sponge and all those holes in the sponge are just they need to be filled with glycogen. Not using it is medical malpractice against your own dang body. Research in cell metabolism shows shows the combination increases glucose uptake by 300%. exercise and read a truth tide 300%. You're giving the keys to the 911 Turbo Sitting in my garage and you're pushing it because you think you should save gas. That's literally what you guys are doing. Hydration negligence is the next one. A GLP agonism makes you just dump sodium so bad. So bad. And here's what happens with dehydration that I think nobody tells you. It crushes mitochondrial function. You can't crank out ATP. So you fall into one of the three categories of biological failures that I talk about that are the premise that it's what all disease processes in mankind are predicated upon. insulin issues, inflammatory issues, TP issues. Put those together and you have a disease 100%. Studies show, and you can look these all up because I'm tired of quoting studies, but studies show proper hydration improves results by 40%. So let me get this straight. Back up. 300% increase if all you do is exercise. add another 40% if you actually hydrate yourself. This isn't wellness advice, just so you know. This is bio, this is a biomechanical or biochemical imperative. And then here's the best part, and I see you guys doing this all the time. Please listen to me. I'm not trying to be insulting, but please listen to me. Stop being an imbecile with this stuff. You guys have this martyr complex. I took it. Why can't I just eat a pizza and eat cookies all day? Because biology doesn't care about your feelings. The data is unequivocal. Combination therapy is 300 times more effective. Your choice should be 340. Actually, follow the protocol or enjoy being a very big old beautiful cautionary tale and the example of stupidity. I'm trying to tell you how to use this properly for your kangaroo experiment if you haven't figured this out without saying something that some sensor is going to lose their turd about. You wait till you see what I drop on rumble. Now, here's the deal. Here's how to fuel the entire system because you cannot run a jet engine on mud carbohydrates. Absolutely non-negotiable. Your new listen your new hyperinsulin sensitive muscles are what did I say? Sponges for glycogen. Sponges for it. Post-workout carb intake increases synthesis by 45%. This isn't a suggestion. It's not a suggestion. This is metabolic law. fats, which are the building blocks of every cell membrane and precursors to every hormone that makes you vibrant and powerful and strong and healthy. Interesting. Omega-3 drops inflammation another 25%. This is basic cellular biology. Just that I'm not done. How about protein? This is law. You screw this part up and nothing's going to work in your system whatsoever. I always say 1 to two grams of protein per pound of body weight. You decide what you want to do with it. You cannot eat too much protein to wreck your kidneys. It sure as hell is not trashing your testosterone levels. I don't care what some study said. And if you think that eggs are bad for you, we're not going to be friends. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition proved that one to two grams of protein is the threshold for maximizing muscle protein synthesis in a deficit. Deficit. Miss and you will go right back to achieving the melted candle phenotype. Skinny, weak, and metabolically pretty pathetic. So to come back to the question, what happens when I stop reatride doc? Come on, man. Dr. Trevor, what do what what what happens when I stop reatride? The question proves that you think this is a drug. It's not a drug. It's an education for your biology. One that you want to continue. Listen to me please. The mitochondrial biogenesis, the new power plants that we build are permanent if you don't shut off the power. the insulin sensitivity, the clear highways that we put down nice new concrete, paved them up for become your new baseline. If you dump if you don't dump trash on them, just listen to me. You don't throw fill them with garbage and and drive, you know, Bradley assault vehicles on them, they'll be fine. And that inflammatory disaster, systemic inflammation, remember the three biological failures that has been extinguished by Matzi, reatrin stays put out. It stays done if you stop playing with gasoline and matches. Cino 2 years 2-year data shows 90% of the benefits stick. Oh, there's a caveat here. You're waiting for it. For the patients who didn't go back to committing metabolic suicide, the other 10% are the control group. They're the control group that proves the point. This isn't dependency. It's competence. It's like learning to read and then asking what happens if you close the damn book. You don't forget how to read. You choose to remain ignorant. They're not the same. But listen, let me go a little further because so that's that's what happens if you stop. You keep everything. The question is, why would you stop? The chase for youth, right? The cup that Jesus drank out of all the weird things that you guys, the chalice, the fountain of youth, the magic cream, the filler, the injections, the Botox, the rubbing it on you in some weird way. All of those things, you are chasing something from the outside in hoping it does the work for you instead of going if my kangaroo simply just takes reatrite, ma, and into samurell. And you could stick with one red tide and you'll be fine. If you put those three together, number one, you become a fat annihilating, muscle building, glucose sensitivity, zero inflammation, ATP monster, and you function at the level of someone that is probably about 18 to 21 years old that's been an athlete for their entire life since they became since they were born. They just came out with a soccer ball or a hockey stick or something. But the choice is no longer about taking a peptide. the choices between practicing evidence-based metabolic medicine or continuing your current practice of slow, delicious, selfingratiating suicide. This is up to you. Oh, don't worry. I said I would help you out with the rest of it. I'm just keeping here till the end. The research about all of this stuff isn't new. It is etched in every single reputable medical journal on the planet, and you can just look them all up. The mechanisms are carved into the foundations and laws of biochemistry, just like oral peptides can't ever work. Biochemistry says they can't. The results are screaming from the lab reports of transformed lives for all of this stuff. I know. I see clients and patients every single day who have been handed pills and injections and hopelessness and devastation and diagnosis that are just destroying their life. And I see these people every single bloody day and change their life. I have so many people. Listen, I can pull this up off my phone right now. Watch. I'll just I'll prove it to you. I don't I don't need to. This isn't for anything other than just explaining this to you. Let's do this. This is fun for me. Let's go here. I'm going to pull this up. I'm keeping you on this. This is my podcast. Here we go. Watch this. This is great. Let's go there. I'm going to read exactly exactly what's going on because I want you to see what people are saying to me. So, this is I'm happy to report that following Dr. Bachmeire's advice has cured me of my type 2 diabetes. Both my A1c and overnight fasting numbers are well into the normal range. I am very appreciative of that result. Thank you so much for your help. That's right there. Right there. You can see it's right there. It's not meet up. I get these all the time. Listen, you don't have to listen to me. I don't care. I'm not chasing you down to be like, you have to come trust me. But I'm not out here to do anything other than help as many people as humanly possible. And I'm climbing up the mountain with or without you. I just want to take as many people to the top with me as I can. I told you I want to build my life so damn big, so huge, so monstrous. And I want to take every single human being with me under my wing with all the knowledge I've got, everything I've got, and bring you all the way to the top with me. Every goal, every dream, everything you've got, I want to take you all the way to the top with me. That is the only thing I want to do. You can take it however you want. You can get mad, you can get excited. That's up to you. You can go, you're really harsh, you're really intense, you're really abrasive. Or you can go, this guy pours everything he's got into his audience. I really do. The question isn't what happens if you stop. The question is why would you ever want to stop? Why would you want to stop something that is making you a more powerful human being? What why would you want to stop something that is offsetting the damage of the environment that we are breathing and drinking and eating the ecosystem that we are forced to live in? Listen, here's the bottom line for your experiment. I'll give it to you right from the top. If I'm running my kangaroo experiment and I'm doing it for longevity, 0.1 milligrams of redatruide for that little muscular kangaroo every single week, 2.5 mg of M C to start with every other day. 5 mg of MC every other day once that becomes comfortable for you. Believe me, some people get weird welts and allergic reactions to it. That's Oh, I'm not done yet. Tamarellin, 1 milligram every day. There you go. to Samarlan, eight weeks on, four weeks off. Matsi, lifetime peptide. Red a true tide, lifetime peptide for my kangaroo. For my hypothetical kangaroo experiment, cuz none of this is for a human. None of it. If you know, you know. There you go. That's the guide book. That's the playbook. If you're getting nauseated, small meals. If you're getting cramping, for the love of God, stop eating like an imbecile and just start actually doing something properly. Potassium, sodium, magnesium. Get them in. Get zinc in your system. This isn't hard. Exercise. Eat carbohydrates. Let your muscles soak up all that glycogen so they can crank up muscle. Get some water. Get some fiber if you have any kind of cramping or or bloating issues. There are so many ways to make this work for you. And so many people are too busy out there just trying to sell it to you. I don't care if you buy it for me or not. Go to Elite Biogenics or don't. I don't care. Doesn't matter to me. Buy the black card. Great. Awesome. I hope I can help everything you've got. Don't buy the black card. Okay. If you have questions, don't ask me a bunch of questions on my email or ask me for free stuff. It's driving me insane. If you want to join the black card and you just if you listen, if you want to join it and you just can't figure out how to use the link below, you can zel it to me. $5,997 bucks and you're in for the whole year. Or you can wait till it goes up to $25,000 buyin and two grand a month membership fees. That's up to you. I want to help you, but I'm not going to do it for very much longer at such a low price because my number one, my group is getting full. And number two is, you know what? I know how much I was willing to give up and how important time in my life is. If you think you're going to be cheap with your health and I don't want you around because you're the same person that's going to be expensive with your truck or your car or your jewelry, everything that you do in your life, you guys, is predicated on the thing that is listening to this podcast right now, your body. But I gave you the best playbook on earth right now. I know that. Hope you get something out of this. I really do. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.