What's up, Smash ninjas? Good morning. It is another awesome day. It's like a thrilling, super awesome Thursday. So, listen. We're going to be talking about uh well, two really important things. Um stability and mobility. That is strength. That's it. Bottom line. There's no ifs, ands, or buts. It's just the way it works. If your joints are stable, your joints are mobile, they're super strong. The problem is when you look at someone who's like five or six years old, they flop around like a puppy. They're super crazy mobile. They can do all kinds of gnarly stuff and then we get to be our age, 26, right? And uh the tissue gets a little gristly, a little ropey, stuff gets matted down from use, from playing hockey, from fighting, from, you know, military. It doesn't matter. whatever we're doing, all that stuff tends to beat us up and the tissues get all adhered together and they don't slide past each other. You lose that mobility. The joint integrity becomes compromised. Joint integrity becomes compromised. Mechanics aren't right. Mechanics aren't right. The joint starts to uh grind and decay and becomes this word called arth arthritis, which is uh it's not hereditary. That's like saying, you know what, bald tires on your car are hereditary. You know what they are? Maybe hereditary is in bad habits and that's about it, but it's not hereditary unless it's some kind of autoimmune issue. Arthritis just means wear and tear on a joint. You want to stop it, you want longevity, this is what you do. You have to regain a lot of your stability of the joint and you have to regain that mobility. You got to have that mobility. You got to be super super supple. We need supplitude. So, we're going to be talking about the shoulder. Yeah, it's another shoulder video. Listen, your shoulders, when you lose the function of the of the shoulder, when you lose the ability to do things with your shoulder and your range of motion overhead is like this because you can't get cookies above your fridge or whatever it is you're getting above your fridge if you keep baking up there. But if you can't get up there because your shoulder's so clamped down and so glued down, you know what? Quality of life super bad. So, we're going to open up the serratus. We're going to open up the terry's. We're going to regain a lot of then I'm going to show you how to get some stability. And this is super trippy. Sorry, it's like 1,000° in here. I uh you you guys almost got like a freaking shorts and shirtless video cuz it's like a 100 in here. It's so hot. Um and I just finished doing a workout. So killer workout by the way. Rowing kettle bell swings heavy 88. Like it. I'll post it. Maybe you guys will uh jump on it. Tell me how you did. You guys probably crushed me. And CrossFit games next week. Can't wait. Going to see like all my friends. I should be there. Only missed it by two points. I'll be there next year. So, uh, bottom line is we need to work on shoulder stability and shoulder mobility. So, we're going to open up all that tissue. Then, we're going to open up that pack and we're going to show you how to make it stable. Well, we meaning me. I'm going to show you how to make it stable. And all you got to do is take Yeah, it's my rule. 2 minutes. So, first one is you see I got a band back there. We need to be able to get that shoulder up and back. And the the problem is is people their overhead position is like this. So, I'll show you what I'm talking about. And I got to use my right arm because my left arm's a little bit questionable right now still. So, their overhead positions here and they're like, "Look at my overhead position. This is terrible." You need to be able to get your arm way back here without doing this, arching your back to go, "Yeah, my overhead's great." You need to be able to get the shoulder back behind the ear, the arm back behind the ear. And if you can't do that, here's how you do it. Super trick. So, you take a band. Doesn't have to be a super heavy band. This is like a 3/4 inch band. You're going to loop your elbow through it. All you're going to do is take the flat of your hand, put it behind your neck, just like this. You're going to let your elbow up like that. The band is going to drag you backwards. So, God, this is so sick. I love this one cuz it hurts so good. Oh god, hurts so good, baby. You're going to go like this. And all you're going to do is pull, take a good step forward. I'm going to go a little lower just so you can see what I'm doing. I have my hand here just because it feels comfortable. And you're going to let it drag your arm up and over. So, you see the band right here? Make it super fast. Band right here, hooked on the elbow. Bring the hand all up flat behind you. Take a step forward and let it drag you open. You're going to feel it peeling this tissue open. God, this is super super funky. How long do we hang out? 2 minutes. That's right. That's number one. Oh, that sucked. Number two. Yeah, we got to move this just a little bit. Told you. Mad camera skills. You guys have seen this one before. My glassman prayer. You're going to cinch up in a band. This is a 1in band, so I want you to use a heavier band. So, grabbing the band, double uh double hands, bring it all the way up. Charlie's Angels, right? Holding the gun, in case you didn't get that joke, older than I look. And all you're going to do is you're going to let yourself sink back like this. So, I know I'm kind of off camera right now. But arms are like this. I want the hands flat together because I want those elbows completely locked out. All you're going to do is shove your torso down between your shoulders and tuck your head. So, you're just going to go like this. How long do we hang out here? Two minutes, Bailey. And this is going to peel open those shoulders even more. Going to recover a lot of that overhead position. And then guess what? We're going to use that overhead position. Bet you guys don't see me sit very much, huh? I run around like a ping pong ball. Oh, I said a really bad word. Sorry. Cancel. Cancel. Cancel. Delete. Delete. Delete. I tried to say it really quiet, but just slipped out. So, what happens after you work out in the morning? You get a little crazy. So, now it's time to show you stability. So, we're going to do a handstand hold. Your job is to accumulate two minutes in that handstand hold. Now, you can either do it facing the wall or away from the wall. If you can't kick up, flip around, walk your way up facing the wall, hang out for 2 minutes. Don't wreck yourself trying to get to that 2 minutes with shaking and everything. Break it into bite-sized chunks if you have to, but get on the wall and if you can kick up, then kick up. Just make sure I don't want you all arched out. So, kick up, hang out there for 2 minutes. Screw those arms in really, really tight. Hang out for 2 minutes, come back down. That's going to work on stability and strength of that joint. Super important. Just get overhead, baby. I know I'm showing you my butt. Sorry. So, all you're going to do, get into your handstand stance. You're just going to kick up. You're going to point the toes. You're going to hang out like this for how long? Yeah. 2 minutes, baby. 2 minutes. Once we're done that, you got some kicking super strong shoulders. It's just that easy. So, open up the shoulders two different ways. Get up on the wall for 2 minutes. Everything's 2 minutes. I'm Trev Smash Works. This will clear out a ton of your shoulder issues. I promise you that. Give it a shot. Let me know what you think. Hey, have an awesome day. I'll see you guys tomorrow.