Oh, good morning, guys. Trab Smash Works. You look at the top of my head there for a second. We got Suzuko in the background right over here. You can't see her, but she's doing some gnarly overhead squats. Sorry about the sweat. Just rode a uh a 5K for fun. And uh we're going to go over some shoulder mobility. I had uh Jordan talk to me again about uh she's having some pinching and uh and some difficulty overhead. So uh we're going to help her out and we're going to help all the rest of you guys out as well. So if you look at the way the uh the shoulders uh movement is is designed is there's a lot of tissue that is incorporated into that shoulder movement because it comes off the scapula. So if that scapula remember I've gone over this right scapula is the shoulder shoulder is the scapula. So the terries, the lat, the uh the um serrus anterior, the subscap which is deep underneath here, all those muscles come into play when it comes into getting overhead. And if you're starting to pinch in here, you're starting to just have some really restricted overhead movement. You want to get those tissues to peel away and let that fascia slide the way it's supposed to. So that scapula can actually do this. Because if this is either side of the scapula, right, and left, remember we have up, down, side to side, and then we have the rotation. So, if that scapula needs to turn this way to let that fausa, which is the uh the top of the humorus, where that joint is, to let it angle up so we can recover that overhead motion, I'm going to show you how to do that. So, the first thing is what I'm going to do is we're going to take a band and we're going to take this camera. We're going to aim it this way. So, you can see right up here, we've got the rig. So, what we're going to do is we're going to take this I know this is far away, so I'm going to talk loud. You're going to take the band. You're going to go just below the elbows. So, it's going to force the elbows to lock out. This is probably the most painful, abysmal mobility there is. Your goal is to accumulate 2 minutes in this position, but it's going to peel away virtually every spot of tissue in the shoulder and force you into that overhead position. What I want you to do, though, when you're in that position, make sure you get that head through in front of this band. I don't want that head all tucked in. So, what you're going to be doing is, like I said, you're going to lock out the arms. You're going to be grabbing the rig like this. So, you're going to go as wide. I'm going to grab like this. You're going to go as wide as possible. And then just let yourself hang. Shove that head all the way through. And then just hang out here. Okay. Nice and tight, hollowed out position. When you're done, just drop off. Ideally, I'd like you to get off a box and just reach up and grab and go really, really wide. Um, I didn't have a box, so I didn't use one, so I just jumped up. So sometimes do as I say, not as I do. Um, so what I'm going to do is you're going to do that. You're going to hang out for 2 minutes. You're going to feel that all inside the terry's inside the lat. You'll even feel that serrus anterior really being pulled off the ribs. More importantly though, you're going to feel that shoulder come all the way back nice and tight without any pinch. If you feel a little discomfort, totally normal because you're actually pulling on that joint capsule that comes around the shoulder. And when you're externally rotating like that, you're winding up the fibers of that joint capsule into its most stable position. Remember, external rotation really stable, internal rotation really weak. So, we want to wind it up into that nice overhead position for things like uh well, anything we do overhead, we want to be stable so we can lock out the position. Okay. Also, remember you guys, when you're doing your uh your push presses and your push jerks, same thing. Really locked in. Keep those elbows in nice and tight all the way up like this. Don't flare out those elbows. This is not a good pressing movement because it puts a lot of strain on the shoulder. And if you're getting a lot of pain and discomfort in that shoulder, widen out your grip wider than you think it should be. Because instead of when you're really close, when you bring your arm up like this, if there's not enough room in this shoulder to allow for that head of the humorris to come all the way up, you're going to bang into the corocoid. This AC is not going to rotate the way it's supposed to a little bit with the clavicle. So, you're just going to hit like a bunch of train cars. Just bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, all the way up. So, widen out your grip a little bit. All of a sudden, you can get into this really nice tight overhead position. And the other thing is fire those traps. So when you're at the top, you're almost actively pressing that out, which is the way we're supposed to be, right? Active shoulders. So that's number one. Number two is, all right, check this out. I'm going to take this. We're going to put it right down there so you can see the ball. It's a similar movement. What you're going to do is you're going to take the same thing except this one's going to incorporate a lot of the thoracic spine so we can allow for a lot of mobility. Now, for someone like Jordan, for example, she's a gymnast, so a lot of mobility. However, this is still something that you need to do. So, you're gonna get on the ball. You're going to be grabbing this way instead of this way. So, you Yes, you are actually uh internally rotated. You're going to go all the way back. You're going to have one leg bent, the other knee straight, and you're just going to hang out like this all the way over the ball. And you're going to hang out like this for about 2 minutes. I'm not going to make you guys sit here and watch me for two minutes, but this one's going to hit a little bit of a different aspect because you're going to pull into the uh into the whole mobility. You're going to pull into the uh pec major and the pec minor up under here, which comes off those last two ribs and up onto the corocoid up in here. So, you're going to pull that too because if the corocoid is being yanked on, it's going to pull that scapula up and over the rib cage and it's going to cause that shoulder to impinge and cause a lot of restricted movement. So, that's number two. Remember, two minutes for both of these, right? Number three, and do these in order. You're going to take the peanut. We love this thing, right? Remember two lacrosse balls. Tape them together. So, the Terry's sits up high. The lat sits down a little lower. You're going to capture the terries. And sorry, I'm all sweaty. Hey, it's hot. It's California. So, we're going to be doing this while we're on the floor, but you're going to capture that Terry's and that lat in between the center of the two balls here so we can peel them apart the way they're supposed to be so they can slide cuz they move independently of one another. So, we're going to get on that. Oh god, this is so awful. This sucks. This is a Sunday morning. You're going to brace yourself like this. You're going to take your hand. You're going to do what I call a starfish. You're just going to bring your arm all the way up. Oh god, it's like I need to do this almost. See, Trev needs to do this stuff, too. You're going to come all the way back down, all the way up, and then find that hot spot. And all you're going to do is make sure that arm is externally rotated. You can see my palm's all the way up. And just grind away. And you're going to grind all the way down through that lat. And then again, through some ranges of motion. When you find a sticky spot, hit it. Do some circles, eight to 10 oscillations, come all the way back down, and then go even further. Your goal is to get all the way up. If you can see, my head is through my arm. Okay, that's the third one you're going to do. Do both sides. Even if one side hurts, do both sides. The last one is take a 53. No, this is not a 53. It's a 35. Actually, no, it's a 26. That's even more embarrassing. So, you're going to use a 53. Now, this most stable portion of that humorris in that glenoid faucet is in the posterior portion of the joint. Remember that? So, we want to wind it up and then let it sink into the back portion of the joint. So, you're going to let it sink into the posterior. So, you're going to grab the kettle bell. Use a kettle bell, not a dumbbell. Okay? Then, you're going to take it, you're going to lift it all the way up. And if you notice, kettle bells on the outside here. We're going to wind that up really tight. You're going to grab the elbow to stabilize it. You're going to get to the side a little bit and peel that scapula away. So, it allows space for that humorous to slide all the way into the back. And now, instead of, remember, we don't want to do this. You don't want active shoulders in this. You want to let that kettle bell just push that humorris all the way into the back of the joint. And you're going to hang out here. You ready for this? 3 minutes. So, you're just going to hang out here and let gravity do its job. And you'll start to feel that humorous slide into the back portion of the joint. So, you're just going to hang out here 3 minutes. When you're done, take the kettle bell, give it a shove, let it fall to the ground. Let gravity do the work. But what you're going to notice is your difference in distance between the two arms. Man, I only did that for a few seconds. See the difference? This one probably about an inch shorter than this one just because I let that head of the humorus approximate into the back of that glenoid fossa. Get the kettle bell out of the way. All right. So remember, hang off the rig externally rotated over the um wall bulb. Use a 20 or 30. The rest are like marshmallows. They're too soft. and uh hang out there for about two minutes. But this one's internally rotated. Push them apart so it locks out the elbows. Get on that peanut, fan out, and peel away the uh the tries and the lat so we can get some movement in there. Remember, we're hitting the pec major, pec minor, terries, lat subscap. And then you're going to take this as a final and you're going to let it shove the head of that humorus into the back of the socket. So that shoulder's nice and stable. This will help those overhead shoulders, get rid of all those uh pinches and pains, get you into super fast overhead position, let you do fight gone bad like this, and rip out, I don't know, 500 reps. Hey, I'm Trev Smash Works. I see you guys tomorrow.