Man, I'll tell you, this is so random, by the way, the opening of this podcast. I really don't even care. It's my show. But you guys ever see the the Last Action Hero with Arnold Schwarzenegger? I mean, you got to remember, I'm 52 and Arnold was a pretty much a household name for anybody that's my age. He was just the man, right? But I remember him doing I think it was Hamlet in the the last action here. They were showing Jack Slater and all these clips of movies he did and he to be or not to be. Not to be and he blows up something in the background. I don't know why this came through. I was watching it the other day and it was funny. But if you uh if you haven't seen it, you should watch it. Last action hero. Pretty good movie. You might think it's ridiculous. I don't care. Don't get my comments and tell me it was stupid. I thought it was dumb. Okay. I don't know. You probably think Hamlet is stupid, too. I really McBTH or whatever it is. So, I got a question and and I actually said it to my wife. I said, "Yeah, I think this would make a good podcast." And I think the problem is, you know, I'm always attacking the bro science. I'm always attacking the doctors that are mostly clowns. I got no respect for you doctors. I just don't. I am the doctor that is the anti-d doctor. And I'm going to just keep spreading the truth because I want people to have a great life. I'm going to give it all away. Listen, you want to join the black card? Great. You don't? That's fine. I'm not going to get in my DMs and answer a bunch of questions that you have because I don't have the time. You know where I have the time? My black card. You can join. I still have a couple of spots left. And you know what? I'll be very transparent. I opened up another 25 because I have been asked. Ask anybody that's in it. Don't take my word for it. I mean, just randomly search it. I have no idea. Ask somebody. It's worth the six grand. It's only going to be six grand for for this year. After that, 25,000, 2 grand a month because it's that big of a deal. You'll never get a doctor to answer the questions the way I do to help you out to make sure you understand it and give you the advice that's going to help you hypothetically for your kangaroo experiment. You know, because we don't tell you how to do anything if you know, you know, because all of this is not uh it's not to triage, advise, treat, prescribe, diagnose. It's all hypothetical, theoretical, entertaining, educational, and it's all manufactured [\h__\h] None of it's real. because I have to say that. But if I was working on the other side of being an MD, it would be, "Let me tell you all about this off label use for this drug." By the way, do not take it. If you are nursing, pregnant, planning on getting pregnant, breathing, living, have a heartbeat, have lungs, have feet, hands, eyes, ears, nose, have a family, don't have a family, walk on a planet that's governed by a force called gravity. Like, that's how ridiculous it is. because it will cause and then it's going to give you the laundry list of may cause immune suppression, ulcers, cancer, death, kidney cancer, liver cancer, eye cancer, throat cancer, face cancer, may cause hyper sensitivity to the sun where you can't even be under a bright light. Will cause birth defects even if you've never had any in you. Like that's how dumb it is. And yet I can come out and say that all day long and you guys will just scoop it all up like spoon feed it to yourselves. I'm going to go do it. Oh, it's so much more it's it's so much more practical and so much more effective than peptides, then a good nutrition plan, than actually working out, than SARMMS, than ser than testosterone, then incl I I could do this all day with just about everything else out there. Why? Because you've been so indoctrinated to think that the things that will help you won't help you, and the things that aren't helping you are helping you. And then you just sit there and shell out money to these [\h__\h] shills who own wellness and longevity clinics with MD after their name and a white coat who tell you that as long as you pay them every year on the money for the rest of your life, you will be healthy and have a long great life. [\h__\h] And if you're one of those doctors, [\h__\h] you. I'm going to burn your whole life down. I just take it however you want it. Take it as a threat. Take it however you want it. I don't really care. You should be terrified because if you understand anything about me, I never quit and I never miss. And I'm coming for all of you. You bro science. You insta gurus. You wann toe jackasses that keep trying to stitch my stuff and try and undermine me trying to challenge my knowledge. I'm so much smarter than you because I stay in my lane. I don't try and talk about things I don't know anything about. But this I know all about. The people that want to hurt people for profit. I have never done that. Never will do that because I actually give a [\h__\h] about people. Like I said yesterday, for all of you guys riding this wave with me, thank you. I love you that much. You have no idea. For everybody that's going against me, you should be terrified. Cuz I will not stop until I put you out of business and until I burn you to the ground and you compensate for all the people that you've hurt and lied to, [clears throat] mistreated, misdiagnosed, and pushed your pharmaceuticals on for an agenda. You know what a doctor is supposed to be? A teacher. You guys don't teach. You govern. You're tyrants. You're dictators. you'll call. I had a client, she refused chemotherapy and I told her, "Watch out, they're going to call you." And they did nonstop. Tried to guilt trip, gaslight emails, text messages, phone calls to do chemo, basically telling her that she's going to die and she's being selfish if she doesn't do it. Huh. Strange. She's still fit as [\h__\h] I mean, she is so fit. Holy [\h__\h] You should see her. She's older than me. She looks younger than me, but she's older than I am. And she is fit like a son of a [\h__\h] Yeah, but you guys, the rest of you, keep listening to the doctors that hound you until you take their drugs. Go ahead. I'm going to go ahead and drink this drug here in this cup. It's called coffee. Oh, it's so good. So, the podcast I always get started and then I just go off. Come on. That Arnold was pretty funny. We'll smash you, crush you. I mean, listen, I want you to think about your body cuz I think a lot of people are under the misconception that peptides are drugs and drugs are peptides and steroids and peptides are the same and all of that stuff. None of that's true. You don't cycle on and off of peptides like you do anabolic steroids. You don't. They're not even doing the same thing. In fact, testosterone, for the most part, you don't cycle on and off of either. That is ridiculous. It takes They said, remember the whole 8 weeks, 12 weeks on, 4 weeks off, take the Clomid, take Nolvex, take all it, like the old school, right? the uh anabolic reference guide that we all had that blue book, you know, scale up and then ramp back down like that works. The second you take your first injection of exogenous testosterone, just to let you know, you're instantly shut down. Your brain goes, "Okay, I don't have to make it." Boom. Let's go. And and just to be clear, this synthetic chemical that your body has never seen before that knows nothing about that mimics something penetrates the nucleus and your brain goes, you're like a terrorist. It's like a DDoS attack. it just like boom. It's not a bad thing in this case depending on what you're doing, but cycling on and off, it takes up to a year. Takes up to a up to a year to unwind the HPT axis problem. Nope. Cycling on and off is what idiots do. It is blast and cruise. Blast and cruise if you're going to do that or just stay on it if you're low. And you need to even know why you're low. Is it primary or secondary hypogonatism? What is it? Is it the testicles or it is a is it a management problem? Right? Is it a factory issue? Is the factory not producing or is it a management problem where the factory will work just fine but the management is going we just suck at giving orders and we suck at leading the machine like you have to know this stuff and there's so many instab bros out there you both and so many docs they just quick to give TRD they might not what if it's an enlomophane problem what if it's a management problem you guys don't ask you know what'll tell you you ready labs your labs will tell you and you guys should you know what here somebody send me a DM on social media do you want me to go over how to read your labs I mean from cover to cover. Don't give me fancy weird stuff and you guys running out and getting genetic testing all day or being suckered left, right, and center. It's unbelievable how dumb you guys are. You guys just fall for everything. You guys [\h__\h] in a box and send it somewhere and then get your DNA tested from that. The only time you ever want to do that is if you want to find out if you have a parasite and then go to send it to the one in Arizona that I talked about before. It's the only one I trust. The only one I trust. I don't care who else does it. I don't care if your local, you know, Cairo naturopath, wellness doc, MD, I don't care who does it. Send it. Ask for the kit. Put your poop in the box and send it out to them. They will tell you all about what's living and breathing inside of you. And some of you guys aren't going to like it. Just being honest. And then follow everything they tell you to take cuz they're smart. They know what they're doing. And if you have questions, ask me. You guys want me to teach you how to read labs? I'll teach you. That's fine. You just have to tell me. Somebody tell me cuz I'm not going to do an entire podcast and pull up a screen and go over labs and what really matters and what doesn't and what really mean what it really means and what it doesn't instead of fitting into some bell curve and going you're in a catastrophic area of your lab work. You need pills and potions and lotions otherwise you're going to die. No. For the most part, no. Anyway, your body's not a car when it comes to peptides or anything else. Your body's not a car, man. You don't put premium in it. This is where cycling makes me crazy. Oh, I'm sure some of you bodybuilding insta bros are just about ready to freak out. Okay, enjoy the fact that when you're 45, your dick doesn't work and your wife goes and hangs out with a mailman all the time who does. I don't know what to tell you. When you start getting sick all the time, when your bones go just they get so sketch and so weak, when your liver tanks, when your digestive system tanks, when your neurotransmitters go all over the place, when your cardiac function is just a disaster because you've been cycling on and off. That's not how to do it. And you've been doing it when you might not have even needed it. You ever think of that? I'm not talking about performance enhancement. If you want to crank for to become a world-class athlete, which before you guys go, "No, they're all natural." No, they're not. Who cares? Who cares? You guys are more tolerant about somebody doing rails of coke off of some [\h__\h] back than you are over some dude or some girl doing anabolic steroids. What is wrong with you guys? I can't even get my head around that. They're not even close to the same. One will kill you. The other one never going to kill you. Anabolic steroids don't kill people. You know what does? Rails a coke off of some hooker's back in a hotel in Vegas when you either get stabbed by the pimp the hooker or you die from cardiac arrest. You guys, the hypnosis of social conditioning is strong with some of you people. You don't put premium in your car for a few months and then drain the tank and run on fumes to reset the engine. That is not biology. That is biological insanity. And for the last 40 plus years at least, that's exactly what you've been told to do with performance enhancers. Well, I'm going to talk about peptides. I just need to get this out of the way. But it was like I was saying at the beginning, cycle on, cycle off. That is the biggest, most expensive, most healthdestroying lie ever sold to the pursuit of excellence. So, I'm going to dissect all of it because that makes no sense. This is like this is going to like you're going to look at doing that as medieval bloodletting. It's going to be so so obviously wrong. Let me let me explain this. You do not use peptides like you use steroids. Even the verb itself is wrong. It is a signal versus a synthetic hijacking. So, I'm going to go before you guys go. I thought you said you're Didn't you do a post on trend being longevity? Yeah, I said I answered a question first of all, you misinterpreting idiots who were like, "Oh, I thought you said trend is bad." Listen, I answered a question. Could it be? Absolutely. For sure. Most people won't do it right. and they only look at the negative aspects of it because people are taking 600 milligrams of it every damn week. Of course, you're going to have problems. You have rocks in your driveway. You know when they're a problem? When you put them in a slingshot and fire them at your skull, it's still just rocks. How you use it matters. Listen, anabolic steroids are a synthetic hijack. Testosterone cypionate, let's say, is this foreign molecule that your body has never seen. It's never seen it before. It doesn't have a specific receptor for it. It floats into the cell. It bypasses every natural regulatory checkpoint along the way and directly activates the androgen receptor. It is a what's called a forced action. So your genome looks at this thing and says, "I have no evolutionary precedent for this whatsoever. My only option, I guess, is to obey the signal and build some damn tissue, but in the process, I'm going to shut down production. The entire plant is going on vacation because it's redundant. And by the way, I'm also going to convert all this extra estrogen and DHT because I don't know what else to do with it. You're a terrorist who has taken over nuclear launch codes. That's what this is. You know what a peptide is? It is a biological signal. It's a sequence of amino acids. Your body is a sequence of amino acids. A peptide is this key. I It's the best way to explain. It's a key that fits into a lock. It doesn't force the door open. It knocks and then the door opens and it delivers a message. That's it. Think of it this way. Your endocrine system is the internet. Okay, this is the easy the internet. Your pituitary gland is the router. Growth hormone releasing hormone peptide like to samarellin goes into the router and says, "Hey, send out growth hormone signals." The router gets the message and then broadcasts it and the entire system the whole place that's getting the signal understands the protocol. steroid. This is why I said DDOS. A spare steroid is like a DDOS attack floods the network with so much traffic that the router crash crashes and the real messages can't get through. Before you go, you testosterone was bad. No, that's not what I'm saying. So, don't put words in my mouth. But this is why cycling peptides is a misnomer. You don't cycle BPC-157. You don't cycle KPV. You have a let's say KPV. You have a torn rotator cuff. That is four muscles. The sits muscles by the way. It's not a muscle. There's no muscle called the rotator cup. You guys, I have I gotten messages from you guys. Hey, I tore my rotator cup. How do I do rehab on the muscle? You know, your car has tires, right? Steering wheel. I I don't know how to help that cuz it bothers me. The ignorance is unbelievable. Because then when I point it out, people go, "You're calling me stupid." No, you are stupid cuz you're ignorant. You're choosing to be stupid because you're choosing to be ignorant. Common sense, man. Just common sense. Just read some books. It's all you got to do. Just read a couple of books. Let's say you got a torn rotator. Okay, you inject TB, BPC. I I would say BPC and KPB. Let's use that. KPB. Stick with the example. KPB. It's signals for anti-inflammatory. Use BPC signals for angioenesis, collagen synthesis, cellular repair. The tear heals, the job is done cuz you have your range of motion back. You stop the signal. You don't need it anymore. You don't stop because the calendar said you reached week eight. You stop because the biological outcome has been achieved. That's the difference. The goal is outcome oriented, not calendarreated. when it comes to peptides. So, listen, this is one of the most crucial concepts I can impart in your way is things that I call forever peptides. I have a bunch, but there's a few that matter that you don't take breaks on. You just stay on them. They're not things you take for 8 weeks. These are they're signals that address the fundamental deficiencies or processes that are critical for capitalizing on peak performance of of human biology. You don't cycle on and off breathing or drinking water or eating food. So that's why it's important to understand this GHK-Cu. I said it the other day. It's not a supplement. This is an epigenetic reset switch for you. It literally changes the expression of genes back to a youthful, vibrant, healthy profile. Turning this off is like saying, "You know what? I think I preferred it when my genes were expressing inflammatory cytoines and promoting fibrosis. That's not stupid or that's not just stupid. That's pathological. That's ignorant." Goes right back to not knowing your car has tires. EPC157, TB-500, the ultimate repair crew, right? If you have chronic systemic issues, leaky gut, system tendinopathies, the need for this signal might just be forever. It's not a cycle. It is a maintenance protocol for a broken system or a system that's chronically getting broken. I train very hard. Why would I not take BPC? And you know what people say? Well, no wonder you can tra No wonder you can train hard. You're taking BPC. Why the [\h__\h] would I not? Okay, let me get this straight. So, just to address this really quick, cuz I've had this from some of you muppets. So, let me get this straight. I train incredibly hard because I like to. I have nothing to prove. This is where I go to wrestle with demons and put them back in the [\h__\h] dirt so I can talk to God. So I can be a powerhouse for my family. So I can be a juggernaut. So I can be a force of nature. So I can come and tear down all the lies and charlatans and voodoo shamans and medical doctors that need to be torched, taught a lesson, all the instab bros and experts out there that aren't. So I have the strength to do it. So I can make sure my body is resilient, robust and I push myself and then I take compounds to heal. BPC, TB, copper, GHK-Cu, MO C, five amino. I take all these things and you guys go, "Well, yeah, no wonder. Of course you if I did that, I could train like that, too." But why wouldn't you? You train until you get injured and then you take a month off and complain that you're getting old. I train, I get injured, and I go, "How can I heal this faster?" And you go, "That's not being authentic." I think what you're doing is being [\h__\h] ignorant of what's available to you. The problem is not with the tools. It's with the idiot that's unwilling to pick them up. I've said it before. You have an opportunity. You're not doing it because then it calls you out because the problem isn't your injury. The problem is you're lazy and entitled. The problem is you're ignorant and choosing to be fat and sloppy and old and decrepit when you have a choice. But the choice comes married to one other thing. Work. You don't like that, do you? Because as soon as you get exposed to that is when all the noise comes out of your blowhole about how somebody isn't authentic because they're doing the things you're unwilling to do. But that's not really it, is it? It's because they're doing the work you're unwilling to do. If you have an opportunity to heal a system, you heal a system. Like M C another forever peptide encoded in your mitochondrial DNA, it is not whatsoever. It's you. It regulates metabolism and stress response and insulin sensitivity. And if your body isn't producing enough, you supplement it forever. It shoves glucose into your muscles. Handles your insulin resistance problems that you get from eating too many milk duds every day. Redatride five amino metabolic correctors. Readatruide tackles the insulin resistance and obesida obesity. GIP GLP-1 glucine receptors. We know all about this. I've talked about it so many times. Five amino. This is the NMT enzyme or five amino 1MQ blocks. The N&MT enzyme fundamentally altering how your cells use energy. You use these to achieve a metabolic state. Lean, powerful, efficient. Once you're there, lower the dose. But you don't abandon the mechanism that got you there. That doesn't make sense. I won the race. I'm not driving this car anymore. I park it and start using a horse. Listen, the underlying dysregulation often requires lifelong management. You should just understand that. Look at the world we live in. Except the world wants you sick and broken and in managed decline. Managed decline. Huh? You guys are going to get tired of hearing me say that because you shouldn't. Cuz until you do something about it, that's all you're going to hear. The parag shift is this. We are no longer seeking temporary states of performance. We are engineering a new permanent biological baseline. The goal is absolute exceptional health. Not big muscles, not a low body fat, not abs, not athletic ability. Those are all a byproduct of absolute exceptional health. We're talking a state that where every single system, cognitive, cardiovascular, immune, structural, is all operating at its genetic potential. Why would you not want to do that? You've been taught to think otherwise. That's why. So for any muppet out there that goes, "Yeah, but you're not being authentic." Okay. Except I'm being authentically a badass while you're being authentically a fat ass. You can choose to be broken. I choose to be healthy, strong, powerful, someone that my wife and kids can count on. Not someone that goes, "Can you take me to the doctor for my 30-day appointment every 30 days to mysteriously get, I don't know, another booster?" Yeah. Probably makes me racist, though, huh? He said booster. He said the rword racist. [\h__\h] off. Listen, peptides are the only tools on the planet that allow for such a precise system by system capitalization of exceptional ability. How about this? I'm going to handle the fear-mongering, too. The old tired tropes. What about toxicity, doc? There is none. None. You will not find one single study. Not one. There is no heptoxicity. Peptides are chains of amino acids. Your body breaks them down into wait for it. You ready? You ready? Amino acids. Remember back in the 80s and 90s you'd take those big giant horse pills and they were amino acids. Yeah, let that land. Amino acids are the the building blocks of protein. That's like worrying about the toxicity of a well-cooked delicious fillet. What? How is that toxic? If you go depends where you get it from, though. Okay, there's no arguing was stupid. Here's your sign. Do they cause cancer? No. This is probably it's got to be perhaps the most backward backwards accusation I've ever heard. Just look at GHK. I talked about it yesterday, but look at that just because it's fresh in my mind. Published research published like 2015 there was a study in the journal of biomeaterials and tissue engineering shows up reggulates tumor suppressor genes including a speci specific one called p-53. It doesn't cause cancer. What that means is I'll spell it out in English. It helps your body fight it. So if somebody's going through cancer, hypothetically, GHK-Cu should be the first line of defense in your damn body. Does it cause damage? Okay, let's see. Peptides, do they cause damage? signal for repair BPC57 100% shown that in most models protects against even the most powerful damage from NSAIDes in a way that it actually reverses the damage. Not just NSAIDs, alcohol, other toxins, most drugs, most chemicals, they don't cause damage, they're the cure for damage. You guys keep going against them. Knock yourself out. The only legitimate reason to pulse a peptide is to prevent major receptor desensitization. And this only applies to a very specific class. Very CJC. Here, I'll tell you what they are. Even I'll help you out. CJC1 1295 with DAC with DAC. It makes it last longer. That's why. Prime example, the drug affinity complex is what DAC stands for. Binds the peptide to something called albumin. You've heard of this. Creates this constant 24/7 trickle of the signal. The problem with that is it's unnatural. So, your body releases growth hormone and pulses normally. The constant signal causes the GH receptor to downregulate. So, what it means is it stops listening. You have to cycle this. I'll say it again. You have to cycle this. I pamearellin to samarellin and CJC without DAG. These are more pulsatile, but with frequent long-term use, you can still see desensitization. It's still going to cause problems. A protocol 5 days on, hypothetically, 2 days off or 3 months on, one month off. Let's just say that. I'll leave it at that. MK-677. So, if you don't remember, it's a ghrein. It's not a peptide, but still relevant. Follow me. It creates this constant elevation of growth hormone which leads to desensitization. Little bit of glucose intolerance with this one too. So you have to understand this is why understanding physiology and pharmarmacology practical biochemistry all matter and listening to these bro science muppets is what's causing you problems. Stop going on Reddit. Take my [\h__\h] and post it on reit. Watch everybody go nuts. They'll attack you. They'll attack me. You can. That's cuz I'm burning down your village. Cuz your village is filled with idiots. You're not the only one. You want to know what doesn't cause significant receptor desensitization? BPC-157, TB-500, GHK-Cu, MOC C, five amino, reatride. They all work on different pathways. Angioenesis, actin regulation, GLP, GIP, NNMT, mitochondrial membrane, AMPK. This is just not prone to rapid down regulation in in any of those. just not at all. The forever peptides, right, the ones I that I always talk about, GHKC, MONC C, they don't cause any of this. Their mechanisms don't rely on the specific receptor that gets tired in the same way. You have to understand again, go back to physiology. So, how about I contrast this a little bit with a very dated and very destructive practice of steroid cycling? Because somebody asked, are peptides like steroids? So, I may as well address both sides of the equation. The idea that you blast, and I said this at the beginning, blast and cruise. The idea that you blast 500 milligrams of testosterone for 12 weeks, then go to zero, hoping that your body will bounce back. It doesn't bounce back. It crawls back with the crap beat out of it. Bruised, broken, angry, pissed off, and confused at how to even operate. Listen, here's the physiological harm that is proven, by the way, by research proven. HPTA apoptosis, okay? Journal of Journal of Andrology demonstrated showed that anabolic steroid use induces apoptosis which is a programmed cell death in your latig cells. They're in your balls, guys. These are the factories in your testicles that make testosterone. You aren't turning them off. You are dismantling them for [\h__\h] parts. The cycle doesn't let them recover. It just stops active demolition for a few weeks. Each cycle does more permanent damage. So, you have to look at what you're doing. If you're going to start testosterone, blasting 500 milligrams every week ain't the way to do it. Unless you are going to go play some professional athletics and do some really gnarly stuff. If you're doing it just to get big for the beach or to try and get some girl back, number one, you look like an idiot on the beach cuz you look like a cartoon. And number two is the girl ain't coming back because now she's going to look at you and go, "Did your dick get smaller?" What happened to you? It's not what it does. Doesn't make your dick smaller, by the way. It makes your balls smaller. But I'll tell you this, when you go from being 180 to 270, you know what doesn't? your Johnson. It doesn't change size. So, it looks tiny. It's just perspective, man. I could do this all day. I don't know what John ain't that impressive anymore. Neuroendocrine whiplash, man. That happens like crazy. Your hypothalamus and pituitary are the master regulators of your system, right? So, when you flood the system with an exogenous hormone, we go, whatever it is, this case it's testosterone, they shut down. So, when you remove it, they're slow, man. They're beyond slow. Sluggish isn't even the right word to restart. So this creates this hormonal roller coaster of high estrogen, low testosterone, miserable, miserable neurotransmitter profiles. This is the postcycle therapy hell that a lot of you guys are accepting as normal. It's not normal. You get lipid cardiovascular damage. Excuse me. 1996. This is old. I remember reading this. American Journal of Cardiology shows cycling anabolic steroids causes dramatic rapid worsening of the lipid profile. And now listen, you already know how I feel about statins and high cholesterol because there's no such thing. But it skyrockets LDL into the rapid skyrocketing is the problem. It's not the skyrocketing. It's doing it right off the bat. It's the same reason why some people get sick and lose hair when they take reddit trutide or trespide because they're doing too much, too fast, too hard. Easy, baby. Easy. Get it warmed up. Get the engine purring a little bit and then go to town. But just give it a second. Give it a second. is so LDL skyrockets HDL plummets circulation another magazine circulation another another journal this is the issue leads to arter so circulation it's another journal it they showed that this leads to arterial plaque but not not for the reason that you're thinking it's not the cholesterol that leads to the plaquing it's the systemic inflammation that leads to the plaque remember what I told you I said systemic inflammation causes a reaction and I'm not going to get into it basically it fills your your endothelium get covered in velcro because they're trying to handle the inflammation that you're running so you dial down the inflammation and the insulin resistance that you've got. Magically, all that arterial plaquing goes away. Huh. Interesting. Listen to me though. You go back on your statins. Lipur wants to just calling you, isn't it? Hey, Mr. Jones, come take me. Don't worry. You'll die slowly, but we'll get you on 17 meds before you go and make a bunch of money before we end your life and nobody remembers you. How about Mr. Jones, you don't do that. You live a long, healthy life and make sure your kids, your grandkids, and everybody knows who the [\h__\h] you are. How about that? That would make me feel better. You're not cycling drugs. What you're doing is you're cycling. This is the why I'm telling you not to do this. You're cycling between arterial inflammation and slightly less arterial inflammation because you're never running the system properly. The entire premise is flawed. Listen, the only the only scenario where cycling massive dosages makes any sense what for whatsoever is for a competitive bodybuilder that wants to be three bills and they're 5'10" who needs to perform at superhuman levels or look like a cartoon or someone that is doing crazy feats of strength or athleticism. Okay, but even then onoff is still wrong. Still wrong. The correct model would be Blast and Cruz. Listen, I don't care. You know, I hope one of you guys takes this and stitches this and says you clearly don't know what you're talking about. Except I'm 52 and I am athletic as hell. So, you can get mad all you want. I don't walk around with no neck in a trap vein. And and I I just I don't understand why it's such a big deal except that there's so many fragile egos out there that when a guy like me comes out and goes, I will tell you exactly how your physiology is supposed to function because I give a [\h__\h] The people who never really gave a [\h__\h] panic. Y'all are like roaches when the lights come on, except you yell from the sides cuz you're afraid to come into the arena. Come on in. You think you're a gladiator. Come on. Yeah, I thought so. You can't because your model is flawed. Blast and cruise. And this is when it's required. So, you have this high dose, the blast, and then low dose, which is just your physiological replacement. Right? That's the cruise. But here's why. Because stopping and starting is a ridiculous practice that brutalizes your own physiology. It basically turns you into a weapon against yourself. You take your endocrine system, the system that governs your mood, your energy, your libido, your metabolism, how you function, and you put it through a [\h__\h] wood chipper, and you wonder why you feel like [\h__\h] You go from massive super physical or you super physiological signal to zero signal, and your body is left in a vacuum, which causes insane cortisol spikes, catabolic state that eats muscle that you just built, and hormonal environment that makes you feel like death. Cool. Sign me up. You know, the the research is is on my side, by the way, on this journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism that I cited earlier, by the way, shows the recovery is not four weeks, and I said this at the beginning. It's over a year, and it's often incomplete. You are trading short-term gains for a long-term endocrine dysfunction. The lie from 1985 says that you have to come off to be healthy. And the truth says, And the truth says that the most damaging thing you can do is a violent oscillation between extreme highs and absolute lows. It's not okay to do that. Your body doesn't like you for doing that. Let's have two worlds. Okay, so world, let me just let me go fast. World A, okay, this is the steroid world. built on synthetic hijacking and built on synthetic hijacking and forced actions and violent onoff cycling that causes latic cell apoptosis, cardiovascular dan damage and neuroendocrine whiplash. It just destroys the l head's going all over the place trying to figure out which direction it's going to go. World B, the peptide world built on biological signals, conversational requests, and outcomebased duration, not calendarbased duration. Peptides are the tool. Now listen, you can marry them together, but let me explain this first. The peptides are the tool for building a masterpiece of human biology long-term. Steroids are one lever, one single attribute pulled at the expense of all of the others. That's the problem. The future of capitalizing on human function isn't in better poisons. It's in smarter communication. It's not about getting bigger than the next guy. It's about being healthier than you were yesterday today. In every conceivable way, psychologically, cardiovascular, in your family, in your relation relationship to God, your business. I'm not just talking about physically. The future isn't just some weird distant dream where you're like, "Oh, one day we'll be able to do that. I saw it on Star Trek." Like, not something stupid like that. It's available right [\h__\h] now. You just have to take that broken old ass model that you keep picking up on Reddit and Corora and on dumb YouTube videos, not this one. This is the only one out here that's telling you the truth and start doing the things that allow you to be, what did I say yesterday? The CEO of your own biology, which is why I give you all the information. I'm not asking you for a dime. Join the black card. Don't join the black card. Buy from elite. Don't buy from elite. I don't care. I still show up. I am 290 plus episodes in. I don't miss because I give a [\h__\h] Like your body is waiting for you to start the right conversation, right? I mean, listen, how about I go into this? You want a blueprint? I'll I'll build it. Let's write. You're pulling this big lever test. Let's go right down. [\h__\h] Now you got me lit. Let's do it. So, let's just go. You pulled a huge lever. You're like, I'm on test. I want to take it all. Okay, great. You want to take fistfuls of Anadrol 50s and Winstrol V up the ass and all the stuff you want to do. Knock yourself out. I don't think it's smart. So, how about I just help you do it right so you don't do stupid things. You pulled that big lever testosterone. Here's a non-negotiable support system. It's not optional. This is the difference between building something beautiful like some the Novonstein in Germany, right? Looks like Cinderella's castle. If you've seen it, it's in a lot of movies. Or detonating an atom bomb. Here's the difference. I will give it all to you. Okay, scenario one. Let's go. Oh, let's [\h__\h] dance, man. Let's go. This is designed to do three. Let's go. Let's go. Three things. Protect your organs from super physiological stress. Enhance the anabolic signal. and maintain the foundational pillars of health and steroids actively under mine. Right? So, you're going to run this during hypothetically on your kangaroo, big muscular kangaroo with testosterone. So, SS31, this is your seat belt. Follow me. Testosterone, especially at really high doses, increases red blood cells, okay? The RBC count. Not just that, actually, blood pressure, left ventricle um hypertrophy. Woo! Listen, don't [\h__\h] with your heart. This is why we're going to get it to TB-500 as well. But left ventricular hypertrophy is a thickening of the heart muscle. That that's the one muscle you do not want to get bigger. More efficient? Yes. Bigger? No. Ever. So in the journal of American College of Cardiology showed SS31 directly targets the inner mitochondrial membrane of cardiammyioytes. So because of that it reduces oxidative stress and prevents pathological remodeling which means the heart doesn't do that doesn't get the thickening wall. You run this 5 days on, two days off, continuously the entire time. I'm giving you the answers to help you. So, if you're busy arguing in my comments, you should probably shut up and go, "This guy actually gives a [\h__\h] because I'm not making a damn dime off of you when I'm giving you this information. Find me any doctor that does this stuff for free." I'll wait. I'll just sit back and wait. You want me to finish this or you just want to be a dick in my comments? Yeah, I thought so. Shut up and let me finish and let me help you before you start arguing. MC C. So, SS31 and MC C put together are a fantastic combination to answer a question that I tend to get a lot. Should I do SS31 before I do MC? No, that is absolutely ridiculous. You do them at the same time, but you don't need one before you do the other. That doesn't even make sense. One is on the inner mitochondrial membrane. One works on AMPK. Cardiolipin prevents damage so you don't get reactive oxygen species. The that's the SS31. And then the M C which flips on AMPK and says make more, do more biogenesis, and do the whole ATP dance, right? Add it with throw methylene blue in there, too. I'm not talking about this. I'm just saying you don't take one without the other. Bro, it's at its finest. It drives me crazy. So Matsi mitochondrial derived peptide this is a master regulator of metabolic homeostasis the balance that your system has. So in cell metabolism in I don't know 2018 2019 [sighs] I I don't remember. So you can go look it up and quote me that I was wrong. For all I know it's 2022 but I think it was like 2018 2019 said it showed that Mott C treatment in mice prevented prevented age dependent and highfat induced insulin resistance. Where do I sign up? This ensures that the energy factories powering your growth are running very clean. How do I sign up for this? Never mind. Let's keep going. Let's keep This is fun for me. Let's keep going. This is why when you understand physiology, this [\h__\h] is awesome. I geek the hell out on this because I love it. You want to I'm a jacked fighting nerd. That's me. With calluses all over my hands. Like I not for some weird reason, you [\h__\h] pervert. So, let's keep going. 41 minutes in. All right. Now, you poked the bear. Now, you need to handle well, you need to have metabolic and hypatic regulators to make sure the system's running right. So, five amino 1 mq. You're forcing an anabolic state. This creates a massive, massive metabolic burden on your system. So five amino 1MQ blocks NNMT which forces the body into a much more efficient metabolic state. So it protectes it protects you ready liver function partitions nutrients towards muscle and not fat. Why would you not want to do that? Carterine PP A delta agonist. This stuff is so gangster. I I think everybody should take this at least four or five times a year anyway. But this PP delta agonist is crucial because it upregulates lipid metabolism and skeletal muscle or skeletal muscle mitochondria. And it acts as a as a shield for your cholesterol and lipid profiles against all of those negative impacts, those negative effects of the androgens. 5 days on, 2 days off. You know, part of me doesn't even want to give you these dosages because you guys just go, "Oh, you don't really have them. I didn't tell you how much to do." But you guys just abuse this stuff. Let's keep going. I said TB-500, BPC-157, anti- fibroic agents, systemic repair. Just in case you haven't figured it out, yes, testosterone helps you heal faster, but a lot of the tissues it doesn't work on. It didn't get the memo. Tendons, ligaments, your heart. TB-500 is the only peptide on the planet that has not reduced, reversed, and eliminated the fibrosis in the mioardium. So you run these things together like the trauma of heavy training combined with a pharmacological push for growth where your system just runs skinny pedal to the floor causes micro tears and inflammation. So these peptides come in and start scrubbing and cleaning up. It's like the construction crew that solves all the problems and then cleans up the mess. And it happens faster than any damage can accumulate. KCU copper. I've talked about this. This this is probably one of my favorite peptides. It's becoming one of my favorite ones. I just love it. It's so effective. And yeah, it stings a little bit. So what? Grab a set of balls. you'll be fine. Run this continuously, all the time, forever. This is your systemic anti-inflammatory and antirootic agent times 10. Counters the pro fibroic signaling that occurs when certain androgens get in your body. It keeps connective tissue supple. So you you don't reach overhead like this. If you're listening on audio, you have no idea what I'm doing. You actually take your arm and you bring it up like this. You can touch your ear to your bicep instead of going, I can't do it and I can't get my arm behind my back. Like I had a guy get in my office one time. This guy John, I won't let his I won't say his last name because it doesn't matter. But this guy John, he's a older dude and uh my staff used to call him Captain America. He's this really jacked older dude who think thought he was 22 years old. But I asked him to put his hand behind his back one time when I was doing an exam on him. And he looked behind me and he looked like this. He turned his head like this. He goes, "Are you [\h__\h] kidding me?" And he got to about here and that's all he could do. I don't know if you guys understand that that's really shitty for you. Joint degradation occurs because of poor mechanics or an injury. That's it. Fix your mechanics. Do you know why Donnie Thompson I love Donnie Thompson, by the way? If you don't know who he is, dude, this guy is such a He first of all, he's incredibly intelligent. He invented the fat pad, the fat bells, everything. Donnie is a stud. Yeah, you look him up. If you don't know who Donnie Thompson is, you need to look at look up this dude. [\h__\h] this guy is freakishly strong. Even to this day, I he was one of my first podcasts. We're talking six years ago, five, six years ago. But he's such a good dude and he's hyper intelligent. He knows what he's talking about. and he takes no [\h__\h] from people. I love him to death and I've been friends with him for a really long time. But [snorts] you want to talk about poor mechanics versus excellent mechanics? Yeah, he is a he is a behemoth when it comes to strength. But what's even cooler is the reason is because he knows how to lift good mechanics. He doesn't have a bunch of blowouts in him. You don't think he's injured? Of course, he's had tons of injuries. He's lifting,000 lbs. Like when the guy tells you that, "Yeah, I could feel my femurss bend." Holy [\h__\h] I've gotten under some weight, but what I've gotten under for a one rep max is not even a warm-up for him. It's so light, just a powerhouse. I remember when he was talking about squatting, probably one of the best cuz I said you've gotten under more weight than most like a Volkswagen on your back. Everybody's talking about these weirds like you remember that what's his name? That clown that thought he was a Kelly Starret, right? I was like, [\h__\h] I know his name. The Supple Leopard guy. He had some great things, but dude, that guy thought he was a rockstar. I'm like, you're not a rockstar. You know what you are? your physical therapist who knows a couple of things and is really good at marketing and really noisy about yourself. Good job, dude. He tried to be condescending to me one day and I went and my wife was there and went, "Oh, this guy has no idea who you're [\h__\h] with." And then I got bigger than he did. Go figure. Cuz I gave away more and I stopped bragging about how great I was and my way was the only way. But I remember that he used to talk about squatting toes forward only. Squat like me. If you don't squat like me, you're a loser. That's the kind of thing, right? And I remember asking Donnie one time. I said, "Listen, all these different ways of squatting, barefoot, toes out, toes in." Well, you know, whatever, sitting on a pole, whatever the hell you're doing. And he said, "You know what?" He goes, "The best advice I can give somebody is get your feet in a comfortable position." This is the best thing I've ever heard. And if you guys don't agree, argue with him because I'm going to tell you, I guarantee you, he's lifted more weight than you. In fact, I know it. That's why he's a world record holder. But you know what he said? He said, "Get your feet comfortable. Squat away from your knees." Which means your knees are going to go over your toes. By the way, the knees over toes guy, he's [\h__\h] smart. He knows damn well that's exactly this whole never let your knees go over your toes. Hm. It's a weird guy again. Who said that? Oh yeah, Kar. But the knees over toes guy. What does he say, dude? Of course. And that guy, that guy is it's like he's Gumby. You want to listen to somebody about PT? You want to listen to Squat University and you want to listen to Knees over toes guy. Both those guys have nothing but respect for those guys. Oh, [\h__\h] Those guys know their stuff. Aaron Horsch and I'm sorry, Knees Over Toes Guy. I don't I don't know his name offhand. Ben, I think I And don't quote me on that for all you're like. His name's Jason Dumbass. I I don't know offhand. And it's not to be a jerk. I just there's a lot of information rolling through my head. But both of those guys, they know their stuff. Period. It's not a matter of challenging anybody or just saying that they just know their stuff and I trust them. They actually give a crap about people. Aaron Aaron gives a crap. He cares about people. I You can see it in how he does everything. You can see it. So, I have nothing but respect for that guy. Nothing nothing but respect. That guy, he's built such an empire rightfully so. He deserves every ounce of success. Him and knees over toes. Both of those guys, they deserve so much success because they're helping people. [\h__\h] It drives me nuts with people like I'm in it for me. Okay, they come up with nonsense. This rudimentary nonsense that is just common sense that anyway just squat away from your knees and if your knees move forward it's okay. But he's basically saying keep the load from shearing your knees. That's where joint degradation comes from. Funky mechanics by listening to insta bros on Reddit who tell you that's the only way to do it. Yeah, but if it hurts when you do it like that, don't do it like that. You know, your body has the ability to tell you when you're doing stupid things. We've been taught to think we're supposed to do those stupid things anyway because we're told it's the right way. Which is why people lined up for a donut or a coffee to get a jab in the arm. Make it make sense. Neurological support, endocrinological support, they're all important when you're taking testosterone. Cerebral is probably my favorite go-to in it's uh I am Yeah, didn't know that. It's not subq, it's intramuscular. Keep that in mind. Do not do this subq. There's my free information. Hopefully I don't get [\h__\h] for that free country. But this is brain armor. The hormonal fluctuations and potential for neuroinflammation are very real and very dangerous. Rereoly TBI it's shown for traumatic brain injuries. Hides this flood of brain food like neotropic factors. Real ones not the kind that you get in a can you're like this is a neurotropic. I'm smarter. Look at me. I'm Bradley Cooper and I know everything. No you don't. It's not a clear magic pill you hit in your oven. But it protects cognitive function and your mood. No, steroids don't make you some raging monster either. That's not how they work. And kiss pepin. So cerebral and kiss pepin help a ton because while you're on cycle, this is you're fighting this losing battle, but it's like what it's doing is in you have this hot water heater, right? And let's say it's a gas hot water heater and you got the pilot light going on in the inside, right? At the bottom. Well, this keeps the pilot light lit. The hurricane's coming. It's testosterone. This keeps the pilot light lit so at least things can up and run normally. It tells your pituitary, "Hey, I'm still here. Remember, don't forget about me when this is over." Okay, that would that would be running non-stop. Never taking a break. Just running non-stop. No, no blast and cruise whatsoever. Or even if you do blast and cruise, right? You still stay on something. Let's go. Second situation would be you decide to just stop cold. Okay, I don't advise it hypothetically for you kangaroo, but this is now damage control and system rebooting because the goal is to force restart the HBTA axis, protect the acquired gains and restore your metabolic health so you don't turn into a melted candle inclinary tool for the entire thing. Selective estrogen receptor modulator. It's a serum. Blocks estro estrogen receptors in the hypothalamus. tricks your brain into thinking that testosterone is dangerously low. It forces it to release um GH. It forces it to release gonadotropen releasing hormone NRH. So this is cool because in I don't early 2000s there was a study in fertility and sterility. It showed the efficacy was insane in restoring gonadotropen levels. You run this aggressively as if your life depended on it, your balls depend on it cuz they do because it's fixing the management. Remember that the testies still make the product. The factory still works. It's just all the workers went away for the for the summer. This is a signal calling all the workers back. Management is saying, "Hey, listen. You're not going to get your bonus if you don't come back and work." So, it's a management problem. That's why I talk about primary and secondary hypogonatism. You have to know which one. Labs will tell you which one. Not in this case. This is if you stop altogether. Now, kiss pepin. So, now you add the direct signal between enclomophane blocking the negative feedback and kiss peptin directly stimulating G&RH release. You're hitting the system from two angles to jump start the pituitary which is the problem right now. You want to bridge the metabolic reset and the anabolic activity. So CJC-1295 NOAC you want to take this a lot in a pomearellin. This is non-negotiable in this in this case if you stopped altogether non-negotiable because you've just removed the primary anabolic driver of the system. If you do nothing you're going to lose every ounce of your gain. Stop with these guys going you keep like 70% you keep none of it. It's all gone. Why? Because your body is now catabolic. Cortisol is skyrocketed. testosterone is gone and the peptide stack that this is the one I'm talking about creates this very strong very pulsatile very natural GH release this is going to give you very powerful anabolic and lipolytic signal to preserve the muscle mass during this volatile hormonal transition research all supports this I don't open my mouth if I don't know what I'm talking about journal of clinical endocrinology metabolism showed that GH secretion aids cranks up helps nitrogen retention which means it's going going to help you keep everything and function properly. Redatride. This is a metabolic anchor that most of you guys aren't willing to take. If you take too much, you'll spend all day throwing up into a cup that looks similar to this. If you, that's why I tell everybody, start at 0.25 milligrams a week. You guys in your [\h__\h] micro doing, you don't understand pharmaccoinetics. And when somebody on Reddit, you guys, the stuff I see on Reddit, stop listening to these guys. Like, I don't get it. If I give you the information and you get mad at me, I didn't invent the pharmacology. I didn't invent your biochemistry. God did. 144 hours. That's a halflife. Make it make sense that you're filling a bathtub that the drain open with a thimble and wondering why it's never getting full. Micro doing even make sense. Just like the idiot doctor that said the most common side effect is diarrhea. No, it's not. 61% nausea. I don't know about you, but 61% is common. Just a thought. I hope you're listening to this cuz you're a [\h__\h] muppet. Cuz it made me realize and as soon as I tapped your account, man, I saw it. You have a wellness and longevity clinic and you can't get rid of true tide, but you can get semiglutide tepatide. So you got people to look your direction. Clever. Except I burned your eyes out when I had the facts come out. Go toeto toe with me, dude. It's not arrogant on my part. It's egotistical because I know I'm smarter than you are because I know what happens. I love the guy went clearly he's never dealt with a patient over 1 million. I said it before. Most people won't say that in their lifetime of being a doctor. By the way, mine are all documented. How about you? I don't let insurance companies decide who I get to see and who I don't. I just take care of people because I love them. But you do you, boo. You do you. Coming off of your cycle, your appetite is going to skyrocket. insulin sensitivity is going to tank. Redatride, the triple agonist, right? Glucagon, GLP-1, GP. This is the most powerful aid you can take whatsoever to prevent rapid fat gain, which is the most common and unfortunately demoralizing outcome when you stop your cycle. It keeps you in a caloric deficit without muscle loss. Smooths the transition if you want me to spell it out. You guys have to understand, I'm giving you this stuff because I want you to function properly. And then when you're done, the forever set of peptides, I wouldn't even think twice. GHK-Cu MC C. This is a bedrock for long-term health. Why? Because you have to think the system is designed. You're not running it. You're getting obliterated by pesticides, herbicides, like permines, and [\h__\h] that you have that you don't even know. You have a peel on fruit that you didn't you don't even know. You're take you're getting jabbed and poked and breathing stuff from the sky and drinking things that you never thought you would ever drink because you don't know. Please understand I'm giving you this information so you can do this right. If you're going to do it, at least I give you something. You can either say blast and cruise or you can stop alto together and go, I guess I'm going to start all over from square one. It's either or. I don't recommend the second one hypothetically for your kangaroo, but that's on you. Running the concurrent stack is preventative maintenance. It's preventative medicine. I hesitate to use that word. You're building on you're building the levies before the the flood, right? C31 protects the heart before hypertrophy sets in. Five amino 1MQ protects the liver and the metabolism during the assault phase in your It's cuz that's what it is. It might you might look really fit, but you're still putting a still assault in your system. The shutdown protocol is the emergency. It's like the EMS. It's trying to put out a fire after it's been started. The research is as clear as glass. The HBTA axis does not like being turned on and off. Lady cell apoptosis is very very real. Lipid damage is very very real. Systemic inflammatory problems very real. Velcro inside your vascular system very real. Solve the problems or just don't have them in the first place. Concurrent stack says I respect the complexity of this system and I will support it while I push the one level lever very hard. The shutdown protocol is a brutal, inefficient salvage operation. You have to decide what you're going to do. The smart money, the smart play, it's not on better salvage. It's on building an unsinkable ship and having it run. You ain't building the Titanic. You're building something significantly better from a James Bond movie. The choice is yours. One builds and the other hopes to save what's whatever's left. You know, I I think most people aren't going to tell you this because they want you to stay on some weird protocol. I don't care if you buy my [\h__\h] or not. I it doesn't matter to me. I care that your system functions well. I'm 52 and for the most part, I feel pretty damn badass. But that's by design, you guys. I'm missing a lung. I should feel like crap all the time. Yeah, it's hard to breathe. Sometimes I have these conversations, I get so worked up, I have to stop because of talking to you guys. I still come out here, though. But if you have an advantage over me by having two lungs and you're younger, why would you not take advantage of that fully and exploit it? None of this is theory. Everything I give you is protocol. This is the difference between actually knowing physiology and human biology and pharmacocinetics and biochemistry and understanding how the system works and people guessing because they parrot headlines, read words, and they have a chat GPT subscription. It's either you're going to hope or you're going to engineer. You take your pick. I don't know what to tell you. But I hope this gave you a ton of information. I've been on here for I looked an hour. It's a long time. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.