Man, so I've spent, just so you understand, I actually don't think you guys do. I'm going to talk about Slooh PP 332 again, but I'm going to go over Hey, you guys are going to freak out. I'm going to go over the subcutaneous injection version. So, let me let me explain something before you guys are all like, "Wait, wait, I thought you said transdermal." Yeah, transermal is easier. Slightly unpredictable, but it's easier. And oral is worthless. Worthless. I don't give a [\h__\h] what chemist online, that blue-haired useless idiot, that gorilla guy. I don't care. You cannot take it orally. I don't care who he is. Just I don't even want to get into a debate. Get on the mat with me and I'll just put you to sleep because I don't have time for stupidity. Ibebeiles in the world argue because they want to be right, not because they understand the concepts. So, I figured out a way. I did. I figured out a way on how to do this properly. I will explain this to you in practical biochemistry and pharmaccoinetics. So you understand because I really want you to understand cuz Slooh is the coolest thing you can put into your system and most people aren't going to do it cuz they either don't want to get a nitro glove and rub it on the inside of their their forearm or their thigh or wherever it is you're putting it or they're doing it wrong because they're listening to bro science imbeciles with expertise titles. I don't care about my title. I don't. But I do care that I will spend hours, days, weeks, months. I've spent 30 years learning information to make sure that I just have the right information and I just want to give it to you. I literally do. I just come out here and give it to you. So, you do whatever it is you got to do, but I'm going to give you the full playbook on Slooh PP332 in a way that nobody on the internet has done this. Nobody. I promise this is something you've never seen before. And it's not to get you to watch. I don't give a [\h__\h] This is going to be a long one. I'll probably be here 45 minutes to an hour because there's a lot of information to cover. It's like I'm standing in a in a classroom in college, god forbid, and cuz college is a [\h__\h] show. But yeah, I've gotten asked to speak at colleges now. Over the last two months, I've gotten at least a dozen if not it's probably more to come and speak and lecture in colleges and some pretty like prominent colleges and I turned them all down. I don't want any part of that woke crowd nonsense. Don't. If you are a woke college, I ain't coming to your school. I don't care how much you pay me. You could write me a check for $2 million. I'm not going to do it. As a matter of fact, I'll say this. You're going to sign a waiver that says I can say whatever the hell I want and you can't doctor up or manipulate or take snippets of my lecture and tweak it to make it suit your narrative. There you go. Then I'll take your check. Why? Because I care about the people that I'm talking to. If you're some college listening to me and you've sent me an email or a message or talk to Amber or anything, I care about the people that I talk to. I care about the information I give. So, if you are going to get me to come speak to your students or at your school or in your boardroom or wherever it is you want or your medical advisory board, which I've been offered a bunch as well, then you're going to do everything that I tell you to do and you're going to listen to everything I say and you are not going to manipulate it in any way whatsoever. And I will make sure that there are massive legal consequences if you do. Because this is the problem. People take something, they manipulate it, and they make it suit their own narrative. But then they use my name or somebody else's name as the resident expert, and they go, "Well, they said it though, so it's got to be true. Don't you dare manipulate what I say when I'm coming out here out of the goodness of my heart spending hours and hours of my day to help people." So there, that's my rant for the morning. But listen, I you want you guys want an edge, right? Slooh. PP332 is the edge. It is an edge. It's not just these idiots that call it exercise in a bottle. It's so much more than that, but it's this isn't a small edge. This is a massive, very undeniable and slightly unfair advantage. It's a kind that like it's the kind of thing that makes people look at you and go, "How the hell are you doing that?" Like, you want the kind of focus that makes it feel like time is slowing down. You look at Spider-Man when he sees Flash throwing punches at him and he just sits there and he looks at the arm as it goes past him and back. Like, that's how your brain is going to feel. It's the kind of mental stamina that leaves everyone else in the dust. And this is exactly what people don't talk about with slow with Slooh. It does a lot of things, but nobody talks about but nobody talks about the neurological benefits that this stuff has. Nobody. And nobody explains how to do it either. By the way, I have to say it right at the beginning because I'm going to go off on all kinds of things to do. This is not meant to treat, diagnose, cure, advise, instruct, teach, prescribe, solve. It is only hypothetical, theoretical. It's only entertainment. This is all theory. And this is all made up. If you know, you know. And for all you people that go to Elite Biogenics and freak out because it says not for human youth, you might want to review what the three-letter agency is that made you take all your boosters and stay the hell out of my way because I'll mow you down cuz I don't play with stupid people. Number one, and number two is if that's your fear, we don't need to get along because they're all like that. And the second it says for human use, that's when you should be worried. So listen, you guys are chasing the next level. Everybody is. And I started doing Slooh today this way just because I told you I am a guinea pig for myself. I can't tell you to do something if I'm not willing to do it. I've used it transdermally. Works great. I started injectable today. Let's find out. Let's find out. It's not going to hurt me. If anything, it's going to make me great. And it didn't feel like a hornet sting. And right there is where everybody went, "What?" Yeah. So, here's the brutal truth that most of you guys aren't going to face. You want Slooh P332, but you're about to fail. This is why you guys, you guys won't listen to this whole thing. You're going to take this very powerful, very precise, very fragile molecule and you're going to find some idiot on social media that says, "Just do this. It's really easy." As he's shaking his vial with bacteria, static water or taking oral versions of it and claiming all kinds of outlandish nonsense that physically isn't possible and biochemically can't work. And you're going to turn it into a couple of hundred little vile little paper weight. It's all it's going to be, nothing. because you're about to ignore the one thing that actually matters. The science. The real science. Not the follow the science BS from the muppets that tried to get you to take 17 boosters line up for donuts and give you a donut in exchange for your life. It's not a supplement. It's not a neurotropic that you choke down with your morning coffee. This is something that it's like a genomic tool. And if you don't handle this tool with respect, listen to me. If you don't, this is very real. Like I don't I'm as serious as a heart attack. If you do not handle this tool with respect, you don't get to complain when it doesn't work or worse, when it breaks in your damn hand. So, just pay attention to me because I'm coming out here cuz I care. So, let's get one thing very straight. Slooh PP 332 is not a stimulant. It doesn't amp you up and get you all jittery and hijack your adrenal system and then leave you crashing in this heap of horrific anxiety 3 4 hours later. So, what the hell is it then, Doc? What is it? It's a key. The best way to explain it is it's a key, but it's not some simple key. It's like a skeleton key. If you understand the concept of a skeleton key, it opens up everything. It's a skeleton key that unlocks a very single specific door inside your cells. It's the PP AR delta nuclear receptor. Now, listen, you guys might remember when I talk about the PP Delta agonist, it's cartery. Follow me on this because we're going to go down a rabbit hole of epic proportions. So, and by the way, if your eyes just glazed over, wake up. This is where the magic happens. This is to help you. The AR Delta isn't some minor little switch. It is the M. This is why I said it's a skeleton key. It is a master regulatory protein housed in the nucleus of your cells. The very core like the command center where your DNA lives, your genetic blueprint for you and everything that happens to you. So when Slooh P332 binds to PP delta, it doesn't make a suggested suggestion. It's not a whisper. It is a command. That's how peptides work. And trying to get this through everybody's head where a peptide is a very dedicated command. It's like a command. You send me a text message and it is like I am full manurian candidate. Like I have no decision. I have to just the command is drink your coffee and I just go okay. That's how specific the commands are. They are non you can't fight the command. It flips this master switch that tells your DNA to start reading from a very specific very high performance playbook. And the orders are very simple and brutal and extremely epic. I mean they're beautiful in the way they're created. So there's there's a couple of orders. So let me there's two to be specific. One is build more more nuclear reactors. Right? This is called mitochondrial biogenesis. Every single one of your cells, but especially your energy hungry neurons, brain, right? Just got it. When this goes into your system, they just got a mandate to construct more mitochondria. Maybe that's why I'm like this today. Mitochondria are your cellular power plants. They take fuel and turn it into adenazine triphosphate, ATP, which is the pure energy currency of your body. I talk about this a lot. More mitochondria equals exponentially more energy capacity. Not just more energy, the capacity to create more. Like we're not talking a 10% boost. We're talking a fundamental upgrade to your entire infrastructure. And then the second thing it does is it says switch to the good fuel. Your brain is a diesel engine. It's not a nitromethster. So it's designed to run on fatty acids and ketones. Very clean, very efficient, very high octane fuel. But most of you are running it on low grain sugary substrate. The gasoline that it uses, right? The glucose. So, I realize glucose, and I've talked about this too, glucose is the primary fuel source. It doesn't mean it's the best fuel source. PP delta activation massively upgrades the entire machinery for fatty acid oxidation and ketois. So, it programs your cells to seek out and efficiently burn the best possible fuel, which goes back to what I just said at the beginning of 2 minutes ago. This is why me is so profound and so sustainable on slooh people. Almost said SS31. No jitters, no crash and SS31 is not the same by the way. So don't get confused. Not even close. That works on the inner mitochondrial membrane and cardipin. So not even close to the same. But this is why the mental clarity is so explosive and so sustainable. You don't have this crash or shakiness or jitters. You just get this very deep and stable torrent of extremely clean consistent energy, mental energy. But there's more, not just mental, physical as well. But the result is this tidal wave of ATP floods your neurons. And I mean we're talking about focus, this laser focus that is so sharp that you can cut through the noise and the distraction like it is just this hot knife through butter, right? Like just old school. I'm 52. I use old examples. Your memory recall becomes instantaneous. Like you've got a Google server rack just installed in your skull. It's like chat GPT is just running a constant. No cra chat GPT is all full of lies. So let's back away from that cuz I that stuff is nonsense to It's just weird. I read books just easier cuz books are so far irrefutable in my opinion. It's not a book isn't trying to please me. Chat GPT is trying to please me. I'm not saying I'm against AI. I just books are I like books and they just I've worked with books my whole life. But this is a mental state that you might hit after a week of perfect keto, perfect sleep, perfect function, perfect exercise, perfect nutrition, all condensed into a daily, hourly, minute-by-minute reality. That's how cool this stuff is. But that's just the performance side. Here's the part that gets me really like this this stuff gets me off. This is the it's the armor that this gives you. Like the whole point of of your existence isn't just to exist. It's to armor yourself against the onslaught of everything coming at you, whether it's chemical or physical and still perform at peak levels. So, this is why this stuff is so radical. PPR, the activating the PP delta doesn't just make your brain faster, it makes it bulletproof. And if you remember, I talked about GHK-Cu copper being armor for your neurons. This it's got nothing on this. This stuff is next level. The same genetic command also tells your cells to ramp up production of your body's most powerful endogenous antioxidants cataloxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. Your cells you're instructing your cells to try to become their own defense force against against oxidative stress. the kind of damage that leads to neurodeenerative decline, physical decline, just so much decay, inflammation, neurodeeneration, like all the issues that come with this stuff that you're trying to not you're trying to mitigate this issue. It upregulates genes that prevent apoptosis, uh the programmed cell death. Makes your neurons much more resilient to exytoxicity, exytotoxins, which is the cellular damage, the carnage that's caused by overactivation from neurotransmitters like glutamate, which is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, which is cranked up by taking stupid chemicals into your system because you made dumb decisions like you had to drink seven monsters in a day. So, let me be perfectly clear. You're not just optimizing for today like these insta idiots. You are actively and genetically building a fortress against the cognitive decline of your future self of your birthdays. This is a long-term investment in the integrity of your own brain. And I told you yesterday, my brain is the thing that I am most protective of because it allows me to do all the other things and figure out how to do this stuff. Listen, it even it even influences the expression of something called BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor. BDNF isn't a neurotransmitter, by the way. It's a it's like brain food. It's fertilizer for your neurons. It promotes the growth of new brain cells, neurogenesis, and it strengthens the connections between them, which are called synapses. And it enhances neuroplasticity, which is your brain's ability to learn and adapt and rewire itself. The power that you have in this supercomput, you guys, is so monumental. So, let me let me explain the three things that this is going to work on. It it works on the energy supply, increases it, so more more power plants, mitochondria. It cranks up the fuel efficiency. So, it switches to diesel which is the fatty acid oxidation. Love my diesel truck. And it then then it and then it fortifies and upgrades the entire infrastructure which builds armor, the three antioxidants that I talked about. And it allows you to grow new hardware which is from the BDNF, the brain derived neurotrphic factor. This is why it's pretty much in a league of its own. It's not tweaking a single neurotransmitter. It's not it's not like testophensine where you know we're talking serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. It's not doing anything like that. it is or cerebral lyin or any of those and none of those are bad but it's not doing any of that it's re it's reprogramming the foundational operating system of your most important cells that's the potential that's the molecule that you're holding in that vial and if you don't get that then I'm not doing my job teaching you biochemistry because you need to understand how powerful this is you get this precious little vial of powder in your first insect baked into you by every mediocre YouTube guru Instagram imbecile is to grab bacteria static water here's where I'm going to go I will explain this from A to Z. Grab bacteria statatic water, inject it, and then you swirl the vial. You put it into that vial, and then you just swirl it because, oh, just do it gently cuz it's fragile. Yeah. And then you create this cloudy, hazy, particulate suspension. You've just made very expensive snow globes. That's what you've done. They're just snow globes. They're garbage. It's a $2 $300 paper weight. It's garbage. Here is here's why. Basic solvency physics. Listen, this one dude started to make this comment about Slooh PP332 and he tried to stitch me in his video. First of all, [\h__\h] you. You're an idiot. You're the dumbest blue-haired idiot I've ever seen in my life. And second of all, I don't care if you're the chief chemist of whatever company you're trying to pour yourself out to. You're trying to sell a product. You're not trying to help the humans. I'm doing it the other way around. I'm just trying to help people. Slooh P. You cannot mix it with water. You can't. It is not possible. Slooh PP 332 is hydrophobic. Its molecular structure repels water. It is like Moses and his [\h__\h] staff when he parts the Red Sea. He walks through, the water goes away. God goes, "No, water doesn't like this guy." That's how this is. It's like trying to dissolve a drop of oil in a glass of water. The likelihood of that happening is precisely zero. You're not creating a solution. You're creating a temporary, extremely useless suspension that will likely precipitate out completely. You failed. Not because the peptide is bad, not because the peptide is bad at all, because you didn't respect the chemistry. When you understand the chemistry, this stuff becomes very easy. And I'm not telling you to understand structural or any kind of chem that's going on. It's like, so I'm sure you guys are, okay, smart guy. The real pros use acetic acid. I've heard people say that. I got a message from somebody. We use acetic acid, bro. Bro, as soon as somebody calls me, bro, I've already lost respect for you. Fine. You get some glacial acetic acid. 10 maybe 20 microL. Go ahead. Go ahead. Then you add it to the powder. Go ahead. And it dissolves. Awesome. You feel like a genius, don't you? Some revolutionary pioneer. Is that it? Yeah. And then you top it off with bacteriaatic water and it looks clear, right? Victory. You did it. I showed you, doc. Yeah, wrong, dumbass. You've built a time bomb. Let's go back again to basic solveny physics. You built a time bomb first. The solution is inherently unstable. The peptide is held in a solution by a very fragile pH balance. A slight temperature change, a little bit of time, and it will precipitate out in the vial or infinitely worse, how about this? Inside your tissue after you inject it. You willing to take that risk by listening to some self-proclaimed scientist, some bro science with an affiliate code and a shaker cup? Some IFBB pro bodybuilder that loves to drop affiliate codes and act like he knows what he's talking about. Is that like I don't know. I'm asking. Is that where you want to go with this? Because if that's it, then you probably don't want to listen to me because I'm out here going, I'm going to slap you in the mouth if you make stupid decisions because I give a [\h__\h] not because I want to slap you in the mouth. So this is that's the first thing that happens when you do this. And second, listen. Second, pay very close attention here, you guys. Bacteria statatic water contains a preservative. It's usually just under 1% benzel alcohol. Its job is to kill microbes. That's it's important. A significant portion of the population has a extreme sensitivity or full-blown allergic reaction to benzyl alcohol. Just so you know what the reactions range from. Localized redness, some swelling, some itchiness, feels a little bit like a beasting, itching at the injection site to systemic responses like hives. Don't screw around with hives, by the way. Don't. That's your body telling you, "I don't like what you just put in me, and I'm mounting a full-on defense against it." Don't [\h__\h] with that. You get perorbital itching. You get itching in your throat. Don't screw with that. Call Jace. Jace is a company, J A S E, and order a couple of EpiPens and just leave them in your house and tell everybody in your house how to use them. I'm not saying it to scare you to be like, "Fuck, I'm not taking that stuff." It's not the peptide causing the problem. It's the benzyl alcohol. It's the acetic acid. This is why I'm trying to tell you this, but nobody tells you this stuff. They go, "I don't know. I took it. And it felt like a wasp sting cuz you did it wrong. Cuz you did it wrong. Here's the problem. You've created a solubility problem for an immunological problem. So now you're itchy, you're red, you're swollen. And congratulations, you've played yourself. There's one solvent, just one one only, period that can handle this molecule with the reliability that you need. It is dimethyl sulfoxide, DMSO. Old school for making paper. The stuff that I've talked about before that smells a little bit like cabbage and garlic had a baby. It is a universal solvent and it doesn't just dissolve. It annihilates any resistance. It is Listen, the molecular structure of this stuff. It allows This stuff is so radical, man. I This stuff is so cool. If you get chemistry, you know why I'm geeking out on this stuff. It allows it to solve both polar and non-polar compounds. It is the ultimate negotiator in chemistry. The protocol is non-negotiable. So, just follow me on this cuz I'm going to lay this out. So, you might want to grab a pen. If you take hypothetically for your kangaroo and your experiment, you take your 5 mg slooh PP3 vial like everything inside me wants to go which is sold conveniently at elite like I don't care. Yes, they're fives that we have but I don't give a [\h__\h] where you get it. You add 0.5 milliliters of DMSO draw it up into the syringe into the barrel. If you're like how do you do it? There's not a vial cap on it. Unscrew the dropper. Drop. Put it in. Swirl gently and watch every single speck of that powder vanish. Now you have a concentrated stock solution. Do not stop listening right now. Do not. You're going to have a bad day. Do not. 5 mg for.5 ml equals 10 mg per milliliter. That's the reason I'm explaining this is chemistry. Lock that into your brain. But you can't inject that because if you inject DMSO subcutaneously, it is a one-way ticket to [\h__\h] Burnsville population U. It's going to hurt. You feel like you got just struck by a bullet ant. It's not going to be h you're not going to be happy. I promise. And if you're like, I did it. It wasn't that bad. Then you didn't use DMSO or you're just a [\h__\h] robot. But I doubt the second one. It's going to cause a ton of local irritation, redness. It's going to burn. Dilute it. Why? You're not tougher for doing that. You're an impetent wind sock for doing that. Don't do that. So, we make it safer for administration. And here's how. This is the step that every Listen, right about now, if you stop listening or you're about ready to stop listening, right about now is where every single person on the internet gets this catastrophically backwards. They don't do any of what I'm about to tell you. They take their bacteria static water. Here, I'll tell you what they do. Cuz I've I've read this on Reddit forum so many times. You guys on Reddit are so [\h__\h] dumb because you just buy into something right away because it's on a headline. You parrot it to all your buddies like you're an expert instead of going, "Wait, does this follow chemistry? Does this follow pharmacocinetics, does this follow endocrinology? Does this make sense according to human biology? You don't question anything. It's because school has taught you to believe, not to learn. You know, my dad always told me before he passed away, when he was in school, when he was like, he was my teacher for a while, believe it or not. Boy, that was an experience and a half. When your dad knows your grades before you do, oh, that's not comfortable. But I love my dad. But you know what he said? I'll never forget it. He said, "School teaches you to learn how to learn." Never forget that. You guys might want to write that down. This is what everybody does on the internet. They take their bacteria statatic water. They might get that whole DMSO.5 into the vial DMSO. Then they draw up their bacteria statatic water and they usually about 2 milliters cuz I've seen this on Reddit and Kora and all your forarms forums and they blast it right into the vial containing the.5 milliliters of DMSO peptide solution and boom, instant precipitation, instant shock to the entire vial. You just rapidly change the solvent environment from this happy stable DMSO solution to this hostile aquous solution and the peptide shocked by the sudden change because chemistry doesn't like that for the most part crashes out of the solution. It turns cloudy and useless. Game's over. You wasted it. You can't undo that. The amount of effort it would take to undo that is ridiculous. If somebody goes, "Oh, no. It's easy. You just do this." No, you can't. No, you can't. Stop listening to these tweets. The correct method is like this. You need to reverse the titration. You add the peptide to the water. So it's like water and acid, acid and water. Only one direction works. The other one causes a lot of problems. You have to very slowly and gently acclimate it. So listen, here's the incredibly valuable, extremely sacred protocol and the only one that's going to work. If you think for a second that I'm coming out here because I want you to give me money, you're high. I'm tired of listening to people come into my messages going, "How do I do it? How do I do it? How do I do what do I do? and and I tried it and it doesn't work because you guys don't pay attention. I would be a mean teacher if I was your teacher. You guys would be like, "That guy is mean, man." Yeah, because I have an hour with you. You better [\h__\h] pay attention cuz the hour that I have with you equates to about 30 years of work that I put into my own brain for you. So, let's look at it that way. So, you get a new sterile empty vial before you ask. No, you can't use one that has BPC in it or anything like that. You can't mix peptides. You take a new one, order some, and if you have to use a used one, make sure it's cleaned out and it doesn't have anything weird in it. Use a new sterile empty vial. Inject two two milllers of bacteriaatic water into this brand new clean vial. Draw up the entire flip it upside down. Draw up the DMSO vial. Draw up the entire 0.5 milliliters of your DMSO pep peptide stock solution. Now, slowly take it out of the vial. Put it into the bacteriaatic water vial with the 2 mls. Very slowly, slowly, excruciatingly slowly, drop by drop down the side of the vial, add the DMSO solution to the vial of bacteriaatic water. Gently swirl the bacteriaatic water after every few drops. Yeah. Yeah. Not at the end. Leave the needle in it. It doesn't matter. It's tiny little It's a insulin syringe. You are gradually introducing the peptide to its brand new environment. It has to acclimate to its home. No shock, no precipitation. This works 100% of the time. So now when you're done, you have a total of 2.5 milliliters of a final solution. We doing the math, right? Follow me. Math is fun. So the total peptide 5 millig 5,000 micrograms if you had to go that direction. Final concentration. Lock this in. 5,000 microgram per 2.5 ml. 2,000 micrograms per ml. Milliliter. Milliliter and milligram are not the same. You guys pay attention. So the DMSO concentration let me explain this all.5 ml to 2.5 ml * 100 = 20%..5 / 2.5 * 100 = 20%. This is pretty much the upper limit of the comfort zone for most people, but it's tolerable for injection. It's going to be a little uncomfortable, but it's not bad. Not even close to DMSO. It'll be just kind of like, oh, I'm kind of aware. You don't need to know the math. I threw it in there in case anybody asks, by the way, but here's what I need you to understand. The solution is, man, I'm only 29 minutes in. I thought for sure I'd be an hour in teaching this biochemistry course, this chem course, I guess, not so much bio. It's a bit of both. This solution is stable. It's clear. And most of all, it's usable and injectable. So, watch. Pathetically, my dose for the kangaroo would be between 200 and 500 microgram per day. Every day. If you ask me, can I take it every other day? Can I take it every week? Do I have to do it? Stop asking me. I'm giving you the answer. Every day. There's no exception. Every day. Every day. Just want to ball up my fist and beat you to death sometimes. Every day. Can you want to say it with me? Every day. Okay. Stop. You cheap people. Can I take it every week instead cuz it's expensive? It's like this idiot. I don't know what is some kind of lawyer was like, "Why is it so expensive? [\h__\h] You suck as an attorney if you can't afford Slooh." No, I'm not kidding. You suck. I wouldn't want you at all. I would never give you any business because you suck at your job. You're not making any money. So 200 here's what you have. So remember what I said, 200 to 500. So let's start with a 200 microgram dose. 200 microgram dose is 0.1 milliliters. ML ml. Some of you got this on your forehead. 10 units on a standard insulin syringe. There's 100 total. I was going to bring one, but who knows if I get censored for showing you a needle, right? I believe I was just going to bring them from the house, but I was like, "Ah, [\h__\h] Maybe not." So, they're about this long. 10, 20, 30, 40, all the way up to 100. The 10 go to that 10 units. That is a 200 microgram dose mixed this way. If you mix it any other way, I have no idea what the hell you just put in you. A 500 microgram dose is 0.25 ml, which would be 25 units. We learning go up 20 30 halfway between. You guys watch uh The Mandalorian? This is the way. You're welcome. Okay. And if you want to go trans dder dermal, cuz some people like, I just rather it just I hate needles. You can. And listen, dermal is not bad at all. I I made a whole post on it and some of you guys went mental about it, but you went mental because some idiot bro science guru out there told you that you should use bacteria statatic water. It didn't even give you instructions. So, if you are buying from elite, just so we're clear, buy the DMSO with it, cuz you need it. And in fact, buy the bacteriaatic water with it cuz you need it. and buy the vials that we have now for sale to [\h__\h] help you because you need it. Nobody's playing this game like we are. Nobody. Do you know why I started this company with my buddy? Because Sean and I give a [\h__\h] about the human being or about mankind. So maybe just let Ashley come out here cuz we care. It's that simple, right? I would never have done business with anybody on this planet if they didn't have the same mindset as I do. The guy's like my little brother. Same mindset, same everything. [\h__\h] I wouldn't trade him as a best friend for anything. So just keep that in mind that we come out here to because we give a [\h__\h] and I come out here and tell you this stuff because I care. So you can take a drop of the pure DM DMSO solution. So you can even go back to what I just said. You have the vial with a.5 ml of DMSO solution, right? The 10 mg per ml, 5 milligs per half ml. It's just a ratio for numbers. You have 5 milligs in a half a milliliter. the concentration. You can take a nitro glove and you can take your needle and you can drop it on your wrist or on your forearm and you can rub it in with nitro gloves and the peptide will go through your skin clean as a whistle and it'll be fine as long as you don't have any other crap on you. No perfume, weird creams, no soap, no nothing. Nothing clean. Like you come out of the shower, you are dry, clean. Don't use some weird coconut oil, nothing. I told you my wife makes her own hand lotion. It's got shea butter in it and cocoa butter and I put I put DMSO on me forgetting. I totally forgot that I had the her lotion on. It's clean. You could eat it. I felt like crap forever. I don't know. I remember it was hours cuz it sucked all of that right into my bloodstream. So, just so you know, you couldn't inject shea butter or cocoa butter into your system. I found out I didn't inject it. It just was transermal. It's the same. The only struggle I have and and people were right where they're like, I don't know if anybody said it, but if you said, "How do we know the dosage we're getting?" You don't. The bioavailabilility could be 50%, could be 80%. So there's some factors like skin thickness and blood flow and humidity and how clean the site was. They all play a role in this. There are ways to maximize this, but it does work very well. The way I came up with to titrate the reverse titration 100 times better. Remember when you're going transdermal, you're measuring what you apply, not what you absorbed. So just keep that in mind. And I'm very transparent about this. Like I made the whole post. I'm not retracting it. I'm saying I actually evolved and made better. Why? Holy [\h__\h] Like the sign of a great leader is like I could do this even better. How do I do it? What do you think I've been thinking about for the last I don't know how many weeks? How to make this work? Because I have so many people asking me questions. The issue with transermal is sometimes you're kind it feels like a little bit like you're guessing your dose. That's the only thing. So this makes it it makes it all it makes it virtually impossible to optimize your dose and then replicate it. Can you? You're pretty close. The absorption rate is pretty good. Same time of day, same humidity, same all this stuff. All have you're ended up smelling like cabbage and garlic had a baby too. So it makes you a little bit stinky because your DMSO gets excreted in your breath and your skin and everything. If I had to choose now, if I had a choice between transder dermal and injectable the way I'm telling you how to do it, I would just do injectable. And I realize you guys are all like, "Didn't you just tell me to do transermal?" Yeah, because I didn't know a way to do this and I figured the [\h__\h] out. So maybe you should shut up and say thank you instead of going, "I've been suffering with DMSO injections and they suck so bad. It's like I'm tarantula hawks are stabbing me in the stomach. Or maybe you just go, "Thanks, man, for taking the time to put this together so we actually stop being in pain and we actually get the results." Just a thought, right? Daily. By the way, daily. 36 minutes. I'm still coming in under the hour, you guys. Here's why it's daily. Because the plasma halflife of the compound is incredibly short, about 2 to four hours. Cuz somebody asked me, "Why do I have to do it every day?" It clears your bloodstream very quickly, but its action is genomic. Remember, it's what I said. So, the effects aren't from the molecule itself floating around. And none of these are. Peptides don't work like that. They're from the commands that it's that have issu that it's issued, right? The new tro the new proteins being built, the new mitochondria being being assembled. That process all takes time. So a single dose issues a very very powerful 24 to 48 hour command. So the the reason it's daily is because a daily dose ensures that the command is the signal is constantly active. So it creates this very sustained plateauike state of enhanced cognitive and metabolic function. So you're not chasing this peak, you're raising your entire baseline. So you're taking the operating system and you're upgrading it and then you're taking the RAM and overclocking. You're doing all this stuff to make it work right. You can cycle it. I mean, it's kind of a common sense approach. I get asked that a lot. Should I cycle it 5 days on, 2 days off, 8 weeks on, 2 weeks off? I mean, let your body reset if you really want to. You don't have to. Not on this for your experiment. You can run your kangaroo on this stuff for the rest of your life. It's not going to cause any problems. There's your stack. There's your protocol. It's not sexy. It's not sexy at all to be honest. It's some work. You have to basically act like a little amateur chemist wherever you're doing this. It's not that complicated. Just pay attention to what I told you how to do. But it's meticulous and it demands respect for science and chemistry. It requires you to be the professional in your own experimentation instead of listening to bro science. Because the difference between an amateur, listen to me, the difference between an amateur and a pro isn't the cost of the peptide. It's not. It's the cost of the attention paid to the [\h__\h] process. It's the brutal, unglamorous respect for biochemistry. That's it. Because the the the world, listen to me, you guys, the world is drowning in easy and incredibly wrong answers. I see them everywhere. The only reason I started coming back to this healthcare and I went full like full send into this, if you guys haven't figured that out yet, like I have gone hard into the paint to make sure that you guys have the information, is because I'm so tired of seeing the wrong answers and all the imbeciles out there convincing you guys to do things that are going to harm you for their benefit. and their profit. I don't care if people get paid. I hope people get paid a ton of money. I think I deserve hundreds of millions of dollars. In fact, I know it. But I come out here with you guys in mind first, not me. I don't come out here going, "How can I get?" I go, "How can I give?" These people, they want the reward without the rigor, right? They want all the results without the work and the process. And that's the problem. So, I think I mean, I guess to come full circle, maybe I should explain a little bit about what your $200 I don't know how much. I don't I have no idea how much they are. your little vial is buying you at a cellular level. Maybe that's something that I should go over. I mean, I have 39 minutes. I feel like I should I'm at 39 minutes. It's not the marketing. It's not the Insta Bros and the Bro Science and the self-proclaimed experts. So, let me let me go over it real quick so you guys have this. Then you have all the information and this is probably the most comprehensive Slooh PP332 post on the internet. That way you have it all. Is that fair? Can we roll with that? You good? And some of you guys are nodding realizing this is a recording. So, you think this is about feeling focused? I think that's the problem. This is about alert or getting exercise in a bottle or all the things that you've heard about Slooh. It's not. It's about fundamentally rewriting your body's energy infrastructure. Slooh PP332 is not it's not a guest. It is the new CEO of your biology that just fired the old crew. So, let me I'll explain all the things it does because I just kind of focused on the neurological component, but it does. So, yes, it is like exercise in a bottle, but that's not it. So, that's why you need to understand it. It's only its one and only job is to do the same thing I said earlier. PP AR delta activation. So let's be very clear about what that is. PP delta is not some minor receptor. It's I said the nuclear hormone receptor which means it has a VIP pass. It's got the fast pass, right? Disneyland into the command center of your cells, the nucleus where your DNA lives and hangs out. So when when Slooh binds to this, it flips the switch that activates a very specific set of genetic blueprints that you already have. And it's not a suggestion. And it's like I told you, it's like the menurian candidate. You do this. Drink the coffee. Here you go. I have to do it. I don't have any say in the matter. And let me explain what the order says one more time cuz I think maybe you guys should get this. Turn on the mitochondrial biogenesis. Build more power plants and make sure that I am switching to diesel, which is using my the new preferred substrate, which is fat cells, right? And that's the first one. And I've gone over the details, so I don't need to go over it again. If you want to listen to it again, just go to the beginning of this podcast. And then neurop protection. This is the part that everybody misses and it's not about performance. It's the armor of the system. The activation of this turns on genes for the host of I can't stress this enough powerful endogenous antioxidant enzymes. And I said catalase SOD superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. And you're telling your cells to mass-roduce their own defense system. You pair these two together, right? forcing the system to make cells more they have a higher affinity for the fat as as a substrate and to only use that as a substrate which makes them much tougher and have a higher endurance rate and much more longevity oriented and then to armor your neurology your your nervous system your brain holy [\h__\h] why why would you you should be like where do I get it and how can I buy a thousand v vials of it how can I can I do anything can I like this should be the first and foremost thing that you should be looking at right No, because the net effects are always the same. More mitochondria, fatty acid oxidation, and antioxidants, antioxidant defense, plus the brain derived neurotrophic factors. So, it causes you to sprinkle fertilizer all over your brain to build more powerful neurons and better communication between neurons and then protect the neurons. This is why it's in a league of its own. That's why I'm trying to tell you this stuff is so fantastic. It's not it's not modulating any like a single neurotransmitter. It's reprogramming the entire foundational metabolism of the most important cells in your body, you guys. That's what you're paying for when you do this. That's what you're doing. Like, just to give you a very like that's why I wanted to kind of bring this full circle. That's what you're trying that's what you're building in your system is you are building a system where your engine can run physically. You have endurance for days. You can lift and run and walk and it is it makes you your endurance have almost no capacity. And if you're like, "Oh, is that why you can do this with only one lung?" No, I can do this with only one lung because I'm gritty as [\h__\h] and I've never quit. But if you look at if you go, well, why can't I just take carterine because it's not even in the same league. That's like saying, you know what? I found a Sprint Turbo, an old right, old shitty little Sprint Turbo and my 911 Turbo S and they're the same. Not even close. They're not even One is a car and one is a kids toy. So, just listen to me. The system is designed to receive instructions and act on those instructions. You are the system. But what people haven't explained about Slooh is that it makes you into the closest thing to a super soldier as possible. I'm not kidding. Like you're as close to Captain America taking this stuff as you possibly can be and it doesn't cost you your entire life. If anything, it's cost like if you mix this with Mott C, let's say hypothetically, and five amino 1MQ, which is going to be my follow-up tomorrow. That's my You want to know what my podcast is tomorrow? It is the exact layout for those three compounds put together and it is going to be a banger because it is the stack is unreal. The way I'm going to explain it so you guys understand what to do is going to be unreal. But and that's not a teaser. I just I'm going to tell you how to do it because I think you guys need all the information. Believe me, I'm trying to shuttle this out as fast as possible. But that this is what you're paying for. Not not with me with when you buy Slooh PP332. That's the potential that you're holding in a vial. So, don't [\h__\h] it up by mixing it wrong, listening to some idiot on social media that has no idea what they're doing and doesn't understand the concepts of practical biochemistry and pharmacocinetics because they don't. Anyway, I hope you guys got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.